
A potential mechanism that enables intellectual preservation in cognitively normal elderly that harbor beta-amyloid (A) pathology is heightened cerebral glucose metabolism. To investigate cross-sectional inter-relationships between A, glucose metabolism, and cognition, 81 subjects (mean age: 75  7 years) underwent [(11)C]Pittsburgh Compound-B and [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography scans and neuropsychological testing. They were divided into low-A (n = 53), intermediate-A (n = 13) and high-A (n = 15) groups as defined by their global cortical [(11)C]PIB retention. Glucose metabolism was assessed using a MetaROI mask that covers metabolically critical regions in Alzheimer's disease (AD) (i.e., posterior cingulate and bilateral angular and inferior temporal gyri). Previously validated factor scores for verbal and visual episodic memory, semantic memory, working memory, and executive functioning were used to evaluate cognitive performances. Greater A deposition in the precuneus was associated with higher metabolic activity (at trend level) and lower visual episodic memory scores. Glucose metabolism did not correlate with cognition across all subjects. However, heightened metabolic activity was associated with better verbal episodic memory performance in subjects with elevated amyloid levels. This preliminary study suggests that neural compensation, as a manifestation of brain reserve, enables elderly supposedly on the path to AD, at least temporarily, to preserve cognitive function.




An iterative parallel synthesis effort identified a PLD2 selective inhibitor, ML298 (PLD1 IC50 &gt; 20000 nM, PLD2 IC50 = 355 nM) and a dual PLD1/2 inhibitor, ML299 (PLD1 IC50 = 6 nM, PLD2 IC50 = 20 nM). SAR studies revealed that a small structural change (incorporation of a methyl group) increased PLD1 activity within this classically PLD2-preferring core and that the effect was enantiospecific. Both probes decreased invasive migration in U87-MG glioblastoma cells.
Insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) is an atypical zinc-metallopeptidase that degrades insulin and the amyloid -protein and is strongly implicated in the pathogenesis of diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. We recently developed the first effective inhibitors of IDE, peptide hydroxamates that, while highly potent and selective, are relatively large (MW &gt; 740) and difficult to synthesize. We present here a facile synthetic route that yields enantiomerically pure derivatives comparable in potency to the parent compounds. Through the generation of truncated variants, we identified a compound with significantly reduced size (MW = 455.5) that nonetheless retains good potency (ki = 78  11 nM) and selectivity for IDE. Notably, the potency of these inhibitors was found to vary as much as 60-fold in a substrate-specific manner, an unexpected finding for active site-directed inhibitors. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that potent, small-molecule IDE inhibitors can be developed that, in certain instances, can be highly substrate selective.
An experimental method has been developed to investigate the cellular responses to central nervous system (CNS) injury using the fruit-fly Drosophila. Understanding repair and regeneration in animals is a key question in biology. The damaged human CNS does not regenerate, and understanding how to promote the regeneration is one of main goals of medical neuroscience. The powerful genetic toolkit of Drosophila can be used to tackle the problem of CNS regeneration. A lesion to the CNS ventral nerve cord (VNC, equivalent to the vertebrate spinal cord) is applied manually with a tungsten needle. The VNC can subsequently be filmed in time-lapse using laser scanning confocal microscopy for up to 24 hr to follow the development of the lesion over time. Alternatively, it can be cultured, then fixed and stained using immunofluorescence to visualize neuron and glial cells with confocal microscopy. Using appropriate markers, changes in cell morphology and cell state as a result of injury can be visualized. With ImageJ and purposely developed plug-ins, quantitative and statistical analyses can be carried out to measure changes in wound size over time and the effects of injury in cell proliferation and cell death. These methods allow the analysis of large sample sizes. They can be combined with the powerful genetics of Drosophila to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying CNS regeneration and repair.
This study explored the age-related deterioration in stretch-shortening cycle (SSC) muscle power and concurrent force-velocity properties in women and men across the adult life span. A total of 315 participants (women: n=188; men: n=127) aged 18-81 years performed maximal countermovement jumps on an instrumented force plate. Maximal SSC leg extension power expressed per kg body mass (Ppeak) was greater in men than in women across the adult age span (P&lt;0.001); however, this gender difference was progressively reduced with increasing age, because men showed an 50% faster rate of decline in SSC power than women (P&lt;0.001). Velocity at peak power (VPpeak) was greater in men than in women (P&lt;0.001) but declined at a greater rate in men than in women (P=0.002). Vertical ground reaction force at peak power (FPpeak) was higher in men than in women in younger adults only (P&lt;0.001) and the age-related decline was steeper in men than in women (P&lt;0.001). Men demonstrated a steeper rate of decline in Ppeak than women with progressive aging. This novel finding emerged as a result of greater age-related losses in men for both force and velocity. Consequently, maximal SSC power production was observed to converge between genders when approaching old age.
A middle aged patient presented with acute ischemic stroke due to basilar artery occlusion. The patient clinically deteriorated despite intravenous thrombolysis and was referred for mechanical thrombectomy. The right vertebral artery was occluded and could not be accessed despite attempting various shaped catheters, even when a radial artery access was used. The left vertebral artery ended in the posterior inferior cerebellar artery. Eventually, ultrasound guided V3 segment vertebral artery direct puncture was successfully done and the procedure was completed. No access related complications were encountered. Direct cervical arterial puncture can be safely used by experienced operators as a last resort in acute stroke cases with difficult access.
Previous functional imaging studies have shown key roles of the dorsal anterior insula (dAI) and anterior midcingulate cortex (aMCC) in empathy for the suffering of others. The current study mapped structural covariance networks of these regions and assessed the relationship between networks and individual differences in empathic responding in 94 females. Individual differences in empathy were assessed through average state measures in response to a video task showing others' suffering, and through questionnaire-based trait measures of empathic concern. Overall, covariance patterns indicated that dAI and aMCC are principal hubs within prefrontal, temporolimbic, and midline structural covariance networks. Importantly, participants with high empathy state ratings showed increased covariance of dAI, but not aMCC, to prefrontal and limbic brain regions. This relationship was specific for empathy and could not be explained by individual differences in negative affect ratings. Regarding questionnaire-based empathic trait measures, we observed a similar, albeit weaker modulation of dAI covariance, confirming the robustness of our findings. Our analysis, thus, provides novel evidence for a specific contribution of frontolimbic structural covariance networks to individual differences in social emotions beyond negative affect.

Previous studies indicate that while transgenic mice with ATXN1[30Q]-D776-induced disease share pathological features caused by ATXN1[82Q] having an expanded polyglutamine tract, they fail to manifest the age-related progressive neurodegeneration seen in spinocerebellar ataxia type 1. The shared features include morphological alterations in climbing fiber (CF) innervation of Purkinje cells (PCs). To further investigate the ability of ataxin-1 (ATXN1) to impact CF/PC innervation, this study used morphological and functional approaches to examine CF/PC innervation during postnatal development in ATXN1[30Q]-D776 and ATXN1[82Q] cerebella. Notably, ATXN1[30Q]-D776 induced morphological alterations consistent with the development of the innervation of PCs by CFs being compromised, including a reduction of CF translocation along the PC dendritic tree, and decreased pruning of CF terminals from the PC soma. As previously shown for ATXN1[82Q], ATXN1[30Q]-D776 must enter the nucleus of PCs to induce these alterations. Experiments using conditional ATXN1[30Q]-D776 mice demonstrate that both the levels and specific timing of mutant ATXN1 expression are critical for alteration of the CF-PC synapse. Together these observations suggest that ATXN1, expressed exclusively in PCs, alters expression of a gene(s) in the postsynaptic PC that are critical for its innervation by CFs. To investigate whether ATXN1[30Q]-D776 curbs the progressive disease in ATXN1[82Q]-S776 mice, we crossed ATXN1[30Q]-D776 and ATXN1[82Q]-S776 mice and found that double transgenic mice developed progressive PC atrophy. Thus, the results also show that to develop progressive cerebellar degeneration requires expressing ATXN1 with an expanded polyglutamine tract.
Studies suggest that dopaminergic neurons report a unitary, global reward prediction error signal. However, learning in complex real-life tasks, in particular tasks that show hierarchical structure, requires multiple prediction errors that may coincide in time. We used functional neuroimaging to measure prediction error signals in humans performing such a hierarchical task involving simultaneous, uncorrelated prediction errors. Analysis of signals in a priori anatomical regions of interest in the ventral striatum and the ventral tegmental area indeed evidenced two simultaneous, but separable, prediction error signals corresponding to the two levels of hierarchy in the task. This result suggests that suitably designed tasks may reveal a more intricate pattern of firing in dopaminergic neurons. Moreover, the need for downstream separation of these signals implies possible limitations on the number of different task levels that we can learn about simultaneously.
Nonassociative and associative learning rules simultaneously modify neural circuits. However, it remains unclear how these forms of plasticity interact to produce conditioned responses. Here we integrate nonassociative and associative conditioning within a uniform model of olfactory learning in the honeybee. Honeybees show a fairly abrupt increase in response after a number of conditioning trials. The occurrence of this abrupt change takes many more trials after exposure to nonassociative trials than just using associative conditioning. We found that the interaction of unsupervised and supervised learning rules is critical for explaining latent inhibition phenomenon. Associative conditioning combined with the mutual inhibition between the output neurons produces an abrupt increase in performance despite smooth changes of the synaptic weights. The results show that an integrated set of learning rules implemented using fan-out connectivities together with neural inhibition can explain the broad range of experimental data on learning behaviors.
Descending propriospinal neurons (DPSN) are known to establish functional relays for supraspinal signals, and they display a greater growth response after injury than do the long projecting axons. However, their regenerative response is still deficient due to their failure to depart from growth supportive cellular transplants back into the host spinal cord, which contains numerous impediments to axon growth. Here we report the construction of a continuous growth-promoting pathway in adult rats, formed by grafted Schwann cells overexpressing glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). We demonstrate that such a growth-promoting pathway, extending from the axonal cut ends to the site of innervation in the distal spinal cord, promoted regeneration of DPSN axons through and beyond the lesion gap of a spinal cord hemisection. Within the distal host spinal cord, regenerated DPSN axons formed synapses with host neurons leading to the restoration of action potentials and partial recovery of function.
Task-evoked trial-by-trial variability is a ubiquitous property of neural responses, yet its functional role remains largely unclear. Recent work in nonhuman primates shows that the temporal structure of neural variability in several brain regions is task-related. For example, trial-by-trial variability in premotor cortex tracks motor preparation with increasingly consistent firing rates and thus a decline in variability before movement onset. However, whether noninvasive measures of the variability of population activity available from humans can similarly track the preparation of actions remains unknown. We tested this by using single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over primary motor cortex (M1) to measure corticospinal excitability (CSE) at different times during action preparation. First, we established the basic properties of intrinsic CSE variability at rest. Then, during the task, responses (left or right button presses) were either directly instructed (forced choice) or resulted from a value decision (choice). Before movement onset, we observed a temporally specific task-related decline in CSE variability contralateral to the responding hand. This decline was stronger in fast-response compared with slow-response trials, consistent with data in nonhuman primates. For the nonresponding hand, CSE variability also decreased, but only in choice trials, and earlier compared with the responding hand, possibly reflecting choice-specific suppression of unselected actions. These findings suggest that human CSE variability measured by TMS over M1 tracks the state of motor preparation, and may reflect the optimization of preparatory population activity. This provides novel avenues in humans to assess the dynamics of action preparation but also more complex processes, such as choice-to-action transformations.
-Amyloid (A) plaque deposition and neurodegeneration within temporoparietal and hippocampal regions may indicate increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study examined relationships between AD biomarkers of A and neurodegeneration as well as cognitive performance in cognitively normal older individuals. A burden was quantified in 72 normal older human subjects from the Berkeley Aging Cohort (BAC) using [(11)C] Pittsburgh compound B (PIB) positron emission tomography. In the same individuals, we measured hippocampal volume, as well as glucose metabolism and cortical thickness, which were extracted from a template of cortical AD-affected regions. The three functional and structural biomarkers were merged into a highly AD-sensitive multimodality biomarker reflecting neural integrity. In the normal older individuals, there was no association between elevated PIB uptake and either the single-modality or the multimodality neurodegenerative biomarkers. Lower neural integrity within the AD-affected regions and a control area (the visual cortex) was related to lower scores on memory and executive function tests; the same association was not found with PIB retention. The relationship between cognition and the multimodality AD biomarker was stronger in individuals with the highest PIB uptake. The findings indicate that neurodegeneration occurs within AD regions regardless of A deposition and accounts for worse cognition in cognitively normal older people. The impact of neural integrity on cognitive functions is, however, enhanced in the presence of high A burden for brain regions that are most affected in AD.
Sparse coding models of natural scenes can account for several physiological properties of primary visual cortex (V1), including the shapes of simple cell receptive fields (RFs) and the highly kurtotic firing rates of V1 neurons. Current spiking network models of pattern learning and sparse coding require direct inhibitory connections between the excitatory simple cells, in conflict with the physiological distinction between excitatory (glutamatergic) and inhibitory (GABAergic) neurons (Dale's Law). At the same time, the computational role of inhibitory neurons in cortical microcircuit function has yet to be fully explained. Here we show that adding a separate population of inhibitory neurons to a spiking model of V1 provides conformance to Dale's Law, proposes a computational role for at least one class of interneurons, and accounts for certain observed physiological properties in V1. When trained on natural images, this excitatory-inhibitory spiking circuit learns a sparse code with Gabor-like RFs as found in V1 using only local synaptic plasticity rules. The inhibitory neurons enable sparse code formation by suppressing predictable spikes, which actively decorrelates the excitatory population. The model predicts that only a small number of inhibitory cells is required relative to excitatory cells and that excitatory and inhibitory input should be correlated, in agreement with experimental findings in visual cortex. We also introduce a novel local learning rule that measures stimulus-dependent correlations between neurons to support &quot;explaining away&quot; mechanisms in neural coding.
Increasing evidence suggests that altered arginine metabolism contributes to cognitive decline during ageing. Agmatine, decarboxylated arginine, has a variety of pharmacological effects, including the modulation of behavioural function. A recent study demonstrated the beneficial effects of short-term agmatine treatment in aged rats. The present study investigated how intraperitoneal administration of agmatine (40mg/kg, once daily) over 4-6weeks affected behavioural function and neurochemistry in aged Sprague-Dawley rats. Aged rats treated with saline displayed significantly reduced exploratory activity in the open field, impaired spatial learning and memory in the water maze and object recognition memory relative to young rats. Prolonged agmatine treatment improved animals' performance in the reversal test of the water maze and object recognition memory test, and significantly suppressed age-related elevation in nitric oxide synthase activity in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. However, this prolonged supplementation was unable to improve exploratory activity and spatial reference learning and memory in aged rats. These findings further demonstrate that exogenous agmatine selectively improves behavioural function in aged rats.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) can be induced by electrical stimulation and gives rise to an increase in synaptic strength at the first relay. This phenomenon has been associated with learning and memory and also could be the origin of several pathological states elicited by an initial strong painful stimulus, such as some forms of neuropathic pain. We used high-frequency electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve in anesthetized rats to produce spinal LTP. To evaluate the effect of spinal LTP on the activity of neurons in the posterior triangular nucleus of the thalamus (PoT), we applied an electrical stimulation (40 stimuli; 1ms; 0.5Hz; 1.5mA) to cutaneous tissues at 10-min intervals during at least 3h. In the majority of cases, PoT cells did not respond to cutaneous stimulation before LTP, but 50min after LTP induction PoT cells progressively began responding to the cutaneous stimulation. Furthermore, after 3h of LTP induction, PoT neurons could respond to cutaneous stimulation applied to different paws. Interestingly, the conduction velocities for the receptive field responses from the paw to the PoT cells were compatible with those of A-fibers. Since PoT cells project to the insular cortex, the progressive increase in PoT activity and also the progressive unmasking of somatic receptive fields in response to LTP, place these cells in a key position to detect pain stimuli following central sensitization.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a neurotrophin (NT) known to participate in chronic somatic pain. A recent study has indicated that BDNF may participate in chronic cystitis at the peripheral level. However, the principal site of action for this NT is the central nervous system, most notably the spinal cord. The effects of centrally-acting BDNF on bladder function in normal animals and its central role during chronic cystitis are presently unknown. The present study was undertaken to clarify this issue. For that purpose, control non-inflamed animals were intrathecally injected with BDNF, after which bladder function was evaluated. This treatment caused short-lasting bladder hyperactivity; whereas chronic intrathecal administration of BDNF did not elicit this effect. Cutaneous sensitivity was assessed by mechanical allodynia as an internal control of BDNF action. To ascertain the role of BDNF in bladder inflammation, animals with cyclophosphamide-induced cystitis received intrathecal injections of either a general Trk receptor antagonist or a BDNF scavenger. Blockade of Trk receptors or BDNF sequestration notably improved bladder function. In addition, these treatments also reduced referred pain, typically observed in rats with chronic cystitis. Reduction of referred pain was accompanied by a decrease in the spinal levels of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) phosphorylation, a marker of increased sensory barrage in the lumbosacral spinal cord, and spinal BDNF expression. Results obtained here indicate that BDNF, acting at the spinal cord level, contributes to bladder hyperactivity and referred pain, important hallmarks of chronic cystitis. In addition, these data also support the development of BDNF modulators as putative therapeutic options for the treatment of chronic bladder inflammation.
Neonatal ventral hippocampus (NVH)-lesioned rats represent a neurodevelopmental impairment model of schizophrenia. Previous observations indicate that postpubertal NVH-lesioned rats exhibit impairments in prepulse inhibition (PPI), spontaneous locomotion and social interaction behavior. Here, we document the neurochemical basis of those defects. PPI impairment but not cognitive impairment was improved by acute risperidone treatment (0.30mg/kgi.p.). Immunohistochemical analyses using anti-autophosphorylated Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) antibody indicated significantly reduced CaMKII autophosphorylation, especially in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), striatum and hippocampal CA1 region, of NVH-lesioned rats relative to control animals. We also confirmed that reduced CaMKII autophoshorylation in the mPFC, striatum and hippocampal CA1 region causes decreased phosphorylation of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolpropionic acid-type glutamate receptor subunit 1 (GluR1) (Ser 831), a CaMKII substrate. Like CaMKII, PKC (Ser 657) autophosphorylation and NR1 (Ser 896) phosphorylation were decreased both in the mPFC and CA1 region. Interestingly, phosphorylation of DARPP-32 (Thr 34) was decreased in the mPFC but increased in the striatum and CA1 region of NVH-lesioned rats compared to controls. Risperidone treatment restored increased DARPP-32 phosphorylation in the striatum and CA1 regions of NVH-lesioned rats but did not rescue CaMKII and PKC autophosphorylation. Taken together, we find that impaired cognition observed in NVH-lesioned rats is associated with decreased CaMKII and PKC activities in memory-related brain regions, changes not rescued by risperidone treatment.
Seasonal affective disorder (SAD) is a major depressive disorder that recurs in the fall and winter when day-length gets short. It is well accepted that day-length is encoded by the principal circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), but very little is known about day-length encoding in diurnal mammals. The present study utilized the grass rat, Arvicanthis niloticus, to investigate how the circadian system responds to photoperiodic changes in a diurnal mammal that shows day-length-dependent mood changes. The animals were initially housed in equatorial day-length (12h, EP) followed by either long (16h, LP) or short (8h, SP) photoperiods. The LP animals showed an expansion of the peak phase of the PER1 and PER2 rhythm in the SCN as well as an extended behavioral active phase. In contrast, the SP animals did not show any compression of their active phase nor a change in the peak duration of PER1 or PER2 expression, compared to those in EP. The results suggest that the circadian system in the diurnal grass rats is less responsive when day-length gets short compared to when it gets longer. The depression-like behaviors were assessed using sweet solution preference (SSP) and forced swimming test (FST). Animals in the SP group showed decreased SSP and increased immobility time in FST as compared to the EP group, suggesting a depressive phenotype. The present study serves as the first step toward exploring the role that the circadian system plays in SAD using a diurnal rodent model.
We found that an enriched environment (EE) could delay the loss of myelinated fibers in the white matter of rats during normal aging. However, the reasons for the protective effects of EE on the myelinated fibers were unclear. In this present study, via the use of stereological methods, we quantitatively investigated the myelin sheaths and the axons of myelinated fibers in the white matter of rats reared in an EE or a standard environment (SE) during the aging process. The results showed that an EE induced significant increases in the lengths of myelinated fibers, the axon volumes and the myelin sheath volumes of aging rats when compared with SE rats and that the enrichment effects, with the exception of the axon volumes, were sex- and age-independent. The mean diameter of the myelinated fibers, the mean perimeter of the myelin sheaths and the mean thicknesses of the myelin sheaths were not significantly changed. The EE-induced increase in myelinated fibers was mostly observed in those of smaller diameter (&lt;1m) with thinner myelin sheaths (&lt;0.16m), which had an optimal axon-fiber ratio (g=0.61). Our results suggest that EE-induced an increase in myelinated fibers in the white matter of aging rats primarily due to marked remyelination and some ongoing myelination.
The ability to reweight visual and proprioceptive information is critical for maintaining postural stability in a dynamic environment. In this study, we examined whether visual anticipation of collision avoidance (AV) while standing could facilitate the down-weighting of altered proprioception in young and elderly adults. Twelve young (24.916.44years) and 12 elderly (74.86.42years) participants stood upright for 180s under two task conditions: (a) quiet stance (QS) and (b) standing while anticipating virtual objects to be avoided. In order to disrupt the accuracy of proprioceptive input participants were exposed to bilateral Achilles tendon vibration during the middle 60s of standing in both tasks. Visual field dependence was assessed using the Rod and Frame Test (RFT). Elderly demonstrated significantly higher visual field dependence compared to the young participants. Analysis of the normalized Root Mean Square (RMS) of the Center of Pressure velocity (dCoP) revealed that young participants immediately reduced the sway velocity variability induced by tendon vibration during the anticipation of collision AV compared to the QS task. In the elderly, however, the modulating influence of visual anticipation was delayed and became significant only in the last two time intervals of the vibration phase. These results suggest that volitionally shifting reliance on vision when anticipating a collision AV event facilitates the down-weighting of altered proprioception. Elderly adults seem to be unable to dynamically exploit visual anticipation in order to down weight the altered proprioception possibly as a result of their more permanent up-weighting of the visual modality. Sensory reweighting seems to be a more time consuming process in aging which may have important clinical implications for falling.
The present study was designed to determine the role of the kynurenine pathway (KP) in the mechanism of action of valproate (VPA). Therefore, we investigated changes in the concentrations of tryptophan (TRP), kynurenic acid (KYNA), and kynurenine (KYN) in the brain and plasma following VPA administration (50, 250 and 500mg/kg i.p.). The most important findings of our study were that VPA administration produced a progressive and strong increase in the central concentrations of KYNA, KYN and TRP. Simultaneously, the TRP level in plasma declined, while the peripheral increase of KYNA in plasma was weaker and occurred earlier than in the hippocampus. Bearing in mind that the observed effect may be a result of a strong VPA-induced displacement of TRP from its binding sites to plasma albumin, we checked the effect of ibuprofen (IBU) administration (a prototypic drug used to study drug binding to serum albumin) on the KP. We found that IBU evoked a similar pattern of change in the KP activity as VPA. These new findings indicate the existence of a mechanism that could stimulate the production of KYNA in the brain after VPA administration, and may partially contribute to the mechanisms of VPA action. The results of our experiment indicate that an increase in the brain's KYNA level may be achieved by TRP displacement from its binding site on plasma albumin with the administration of different drugs, including VPA, IBU, or short-chain fatty acids, with important clinical consequences.
Women may be more vulnerable to certain stress-related psychiatric illnesses than men due to differences in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis function. To investigate potential sex differences in forebrain regions associated with HPA axis activation in rats, these experiments utilized acute exposure to a psychological stressor. Male and female rats in various stages of the estrous cycle were exposed to 30min of restraint, producing a robust HPA axis hormonal response in all animals, the magnitude of which was significantly higher in female rats. Although both male and female animals displayed equivalent c-fos expression in many brain regions known to be involved in the detection of threatening stimuli, three regions had significantly higher expression in females: the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), the anteroventral division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTav), and the medial preoptic area (MPOA). Dual fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of neurons containing c-fos and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) mRNA in these regions revealed significantly more c-fos and CRF single-labeled neurons, as well as significantly more double-labeled neurons in females. Surprisingly, there was no effect of the estrous cycle on any measure analyzed, and an additional experiment revealed no demonstrable effect of estradiol replacement following ovariectomy on HPA axis hormone induction following stress. Taken together, these data suggest sex differences in HPA axis activation in response to perceived threat may be influenced by specific populations of CRF neurons in key stress-related brain regions, the BSTav, MPOA, and PVN, which may be independent of circulating sex steroids.
The cholinergic system plays important roles in neurotransmission in both the peripheral and central nervous systems. The cholinergic neurotransmitter acetylcholine is synthesized by choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and its action terminated by acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE). The predominance of AChE has focused much attention on understanding the relationship of this enzyme to ChAT-positive cholinergic neurons. However, there is ample evidence that BuChE also plays an important role in cholinergic regulation. To elucidate the relationship of BuChE to neural elements that are producing acetylcholine, the distribution of this enzyme was compared to that of ChAT in the mouse CNS. Brain tissues from 129S1/SvImJ mice were stained for BuChE and ChAT using histochemical, immunohistochemical and immunofluorescent techniques. Both BuChE and ChAT were found in neural elements throughout the CNS. BuChE staining with histochemistry and immunohistochemistry produced the same distribution of labeling throughout the brain and spinal cord. Immunofluorescent double labeling demonstrated that many nuclei in the medulla oblongata, as well as regions of the spinal cord, had neurons that contained both BuChE and ChAT. BuChE-positive neurons without ChAT were found in close proximity with ChAT-positive neuropil in areas such as the thalamus and amygdala. BuChE-positive neuropil was also found closely associated with ChAT-positive neurons, particularly in tegmental nuclei of the pons. These observations provide further neuroanatomical evidence of a role for BuChE in the regulation of acetylcholine levels in the CNS.
Infection during early neonatal period has been shown to cause lasting neurological disabilities and is associated with the subsequent impairment in development of learning and memory ability and anxiety-related behavior in adults. We have previously reported that neonatal lipopolysaccharide (LPS) exposure resulted in cognitive deficits in juvenile rats (P21); thus, the goal of the present study was to determine whether neonatal LPS exposure has long-lasting effects in adult rats. After an LPS (1mg/kg) intracerebral (i.c.) injection in postnatal day 5 (P5) Sprague-Dawley female rat pups, neurobehavioral tests were carried out on P21 and P22, P49 and P50 or P70 and P71 and brain injury was examined at 66days after LPS injection (P71). Our data indicate that neonatal LPS exposure resulted in learning deficits in the passive avoidance task, less anxiety-like (anxiolytic-like) responses in the elevated plus-maze task, reductions in the hippocampal volume and the number of neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN)+ cells, as well as axonal injury in the CA1 region of the middle dorsal hippocampus in P71 rats. Neonatal LPS exposure also resulted in sustained inflammatory responses in the P71 rat hippocampus, as indicated by an increased number of activated microglia and elevation of interleukin-1 content in the rat hippocampus. This study reveals that neonatal LPS exposure causes persistent injuries to the hippocampus and results in long-lasting learning disabilities, and these effects are related to the chronic inflammation in the rat hippocampus.

This study investigated the involvement of the adenosinergic system in antiallodynia induced by exercise in an animal model of complex regional pain syndrome type I (CRPS-I). Furthermore, we analyzed the role of the opioid receptors on exercise-induced analgesia. Ischemia/reperfusion (IR) mice, nonexercised and exercised, received intraperitoneal injections of caffeine (10mg/kg, a non selective adenosine receptor antagonist), 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX) (0.1mg/kg, a selective adenosine A receptor antagonist), ZM241385 (3mg/kg, a selective adenosine A receptor antagonist), adenosine deaminase inhibitor erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3nonyl) adenine [(EHNA), 5mg/kg, an adenosine deaminase inhibitor] or naloxone (1mg/kg, a nonselective opioid receptor antagonist). The results showed that high-intensity swimming exercise reduced mechanical allodynia in an animal model of CRPS-I in mice. The antiallodynic effect caused by exercise was reversed by pretreatment with caffeine, naloxone, DPCPX but it was not modified by ZM241385 treatment. In addition, treatment with EHNA, which suppresses the breakdown of adenosine to inosine, enhanced the pain-relieving effects of the high-intensity swimming exercise. This is the first report demonstrating that repeated sessions of high-intensity swimming exercise attenuate mechanical allodynia in an animal model of CRPS-I and that the mechanism involves endogenous adenosine and adenosine A receptors. This study supports the use of high-intensity exercise as an adjunct therapy for CRPS-I treatment.
The capability to integrate into degenerative environment, release neurotrophic cytokines, contrast oxidative stress and an inherent differentiation potential towards siteappropriate phenotypes are considered crucial for the use of stem cells in tissue repair and regeneration. Nave human chorial villi- (hCVCs) and amniotic fluid- (hAFCs) derived cells, whose properties and potentiality have not been extensively investigated, may represent two novel foetal cell sources for stem cell therapy. We previously described that long-term transplantation of hAFCs in the lateral ventricles of wobbler and healthy mice was feasible and safe. In the present study we examine the in vitro intrinsic stem potential of hCVCs and hAFCs for future therapeutic applications in neurodegenerative disorders. Presence of stem lineages was evaluated assessing the expression pattern of relevant candidate markers by flow cytometry, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunocytochemistry. Release of cytokines that may potentialy sustain endogenous neurogenesis and/or activate neuroprotective pathways was quantified by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs). We also performed an in vitro neurorescue assay, wherein a neuroblastoma cell line damaged by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) was treated with hCVC/hAFC-derived conditioned medium (CM). Nave hCVCs/hAFCs show a neurogenic/angiogenic predisposition. Both cell types express several specific neural stem/progenitor markers, such as nestin and connexin 43, and release significant amounts of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, as well as vascular endothelial growth factor. hCVC and hAFC populations comprise several interesting cell lineages, including mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and cells with neural-like phenotypes. Moreover, although CMs obtained from both cell cultures actively sustained metabolic activity in a 6-OHDA-induced Parkinson's disease (PD) cell model, only hCVC-derived CMs significantly reduced neurotoxin-induced apoptosis. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that nave hAFCs and hCVCs may enhance cell-recovery following neuronal damage through multiple rescue mechanisms, and may provide a suitable means of stem cell therapy for neurodegenerative disorders including PD.
With the exception of parturition and lactation, male California deer mice (Peromyscus californicus) exhibit the same parental responses toward offspring as conspecific females. A closely related species, Peromyscus maniculatus, however, rarely exhibits paternal responses. In the current study, a comparative species approach was used to assess paternal responses in both Peromyscus species with varying levels of paternal experience (biological fathers, pup-exposed virgins, and pup-nave virgins). Of special interest was the persistence of the males to direct their attention toward a distressed pup housed in a small enclosure (i.e., a barrier existed between males and pups). In addition to pup-directed responses, non-pup-directed responses such as grooming, resting and jumping were recorded. Subsequently, all animals' brains were assessed for fos-immunoreactivity (ir) in several areas previously associated with the paternal brain circuit. Overall, P. californicus exhibited more pup-directed responses as well as less fos-ir in brain areas involved in emotional integration and processing such as the insula and anterior cingulate. In addition to increased activation of emotional regulatory areas, P. maniculatus males, observed to direct their behavior away from the pup, exhibited higher fos-ir in the nucleus accumbens (involved in goal acquisition), perhaps due to a heightened motivation to avoid the pups. Interestingly, experience with pups altered the lateral septum and amygdala activation of P. maniculatus to levels similar to P. californicus biological fathers. Finally, fos-ir was increased in the medial preoptic area, involved in the maintenance of maternal behavior, in the biological fathers of both species. Thus, although biological predispositions toward pup-directed behaviors were observed in P. californicus males, evidence of a few shifts toward the paternal neural activation profile was apparent in P. maniculatus males. Specifically, modifications in fear responses and social processing may represent the cornerstones of the gradual shift from social tentativeness to social attentiveness in the presence of pups.
Understanding the origin of spontaneous otoacoustic emissions (SOAEs) in mammals has been a challenge for more than three decades. Right from the beginning two mutually exclusive concepts were explored. After 30 years this has now resulted in two well established but incompatible theories, the global standing-wave theory and the local oscillator theory. The outcome of this controversy will be important for our understanding of inner ear functions, because local tuned oscillators in the cochlea would indicate the possibility of frequency analysis via local resonance also in mammals. A previously unexploited opportunity to gain further information on this matter lies in the occasional cases of high-multiple SOAEs in human ears, which present a large number of adjacent small frequency intervals. Here, eight healthy ears of four subjects (12 to 32 SOAEs per ear) are compared with individually simulated ears where frequency spacing was random-generated by two different techniques. Further, a group of 1000 ears was simulated presenting a mean of 21.3 SOAEs per ear. The simulations indicate that the typical frequency spacing of human SOAEs may be due to random distribution of emitters along the cochlea plus a graded probability of mutual close-range suppression between adjacent emitters. It was found that the distribution of frequency intervals of SOAEs shows no above-chance probability of multiples of the preferred minimum distance (PMD) between SOAEs and that the size of PMD is related to SOAE density. The variation in size between adjacent small intervals is not significantly different in random-generated than in measured data. These three results are not in agreement with the global standing-wave theory but are in line with the local oscillator theory. In conclusion, the results are consistent with intrinsic tuning of cochlear outer hair cells.

Summary The large and optically clear embryos of the zebrafish provide an excellent model system in which to study the dynamic assembly of the essential contractile band components, actin and myosin, via double fluorescent labelling in combination with confocal microscopy. We report the rapid appearance (i.e. within &lt;2 min) of a restricted arc of F-actin patches along the prospective furrow plane in a central, apical region of the blastodisc cortex. These patches then fused with each other end-to-end forming multiple actin cables, which were subsequently bundled together forming an F-actin band. During this initial assembly phase, the F-actin-based structure did not elongate laterally, but was still restricted to an arc extending ~15 either side of the blastodisc apex. This initial assembly phase was then followed by an extension phase, where additional F-actin patches were added to each end of the original arc, thus extending it out to the edges of the blastodisc. The dynamics of phosphorylated myosin light chain 2 (MLC2) recruitment to this F-actin scaffold also reflect the two-phase nature of the contractile apparatus assembly. MLC2 was not associated with the initial F-actin arc, but MLC2 clusters were recruited and assembled into the extending ends of the band. We propose that the MLC2-free central region of the contractile apparatus acts to position and then extend the cleavage furrow in the correct plane, while the actomyosin ends alone generate the force required for furrow ingression. This biphasic assembly strategy may be required to successfully divide the early cells of large embryos.

Neuroscience is at a crossroads. Great effort is being invested into deciphering specific neural interactions and circuits. At the same time, there exist few general theories or principles that explain brain function. We attribute this disparity, in part, to limitations in current methodologies. Traditional neurophysiological approaches record the activities of one neuron or a few neurons at a time. Neurochemical approaches focus on single neurotransmitters. Yet, there is an increasing realization that neural circuits operate at emergent levels, where the interactions between hundreds or thousands of neurons, utilizing multiple chemical transmitters, generate functional states. Brains function at the nanoscale, so tools to study brains must ultimately operate at this scale, as well. Nanoscience and nanotechnology are poised to provide a rich toolkit of novel methods to explore brain function by enabling simultaneous measurement and manipulation of activity of thousands or even millions of neurons. We and others refer to this goal as the Brain Activity Mapping Project. In this Nano Focus, we discuss how recent developments in nanoscale analysis tools and in the design and synthesis of nanomaterials have generated optical, electrical, and chemical methods that can readily be adapted for use in neuroscience. These approaches represent exciting areas of technical development and research. Moreover, unique opportunities exist for nanoscientists, nanotechnologists, and other physical scientists and engineers to contribute to tackling the challenging problems involved in understanding the fundamentals of brain function.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of neurodegenerative dementia, affecting about 30 million people worldwide. Despite recent advances in understanding its molecular pathology, no mechanism-based drugs are currently available that can halt the progression of AD. Because amyloid--peptide (A), a primary component of senile plaques, is thought to be a central pathogenic culprit, several disease-modifying therapies are being developed, including inhibitors of A-producing proteases and immunotherapies with anti-A antibodies. Drug repositioning or repurposing is regarded as a complementary and reasonable approach to identify new drug candidates for AD. This commentary will discuss the clinical relevance of an attractive candidate compound reported in a recent paper by Hayes et al. (BMC Medicine 2013) as well as perspectives regarding the possible repositioning of oncology drugs for the treatment of AD. See related research article here http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/11/81.

A previously healthy 7-year-old Caucasian boy was hospitalised for evaluation of acute ataxia and failure to thrive, initially suspicious for an intracranial mass. Weight and body mass index were below the third percentile and he demonstrated loss of joint position and vibratory sense on examination. Laboratory studies revealed megaloblastic anaemia while an initial MRI of the brain showed no evidence of mass lesions or other abnormalities. A dietary history revealed the child subscribed to a restrictive vegan diet with little to no intake of animal products or other fortified foods. The child was diagnosed with presumed vitamin B12 deficiency and was treated with intramuscular B12 injections. Neurological symptoms resolved promptly within several days after starting therapy. This case underlines the importance of assessing nutritional status in the evaluation of neurological dysfunction in the pediatric patient.

Orientation signals, which are crucial to many aspects of visual function, are more complex and varied in the natural world than in the stimuli typically used for laboratory investigation. Gratings and lines have a single orientation, but in natural stimuli, local features have multiple orientations, and multiple orientations can occur even at the same location. Moreover, orientation cues can arise not only from pairwise spatial correlations, but from higher-order ones as well. To investigate these orientation cues and how they interact, we examined segmentation performance for visual textures in which the strengths of different kinds of orientation cues were varied independently, while controlling potential confounds such as differences in luminance statistics. Second-order cues (the kind present in gratings) at different orientations are largely processed independently: There is no cancellation of positive and negative signals at orientations that differ by 45. Third-order orientation cues are readily detected and interact only minimally with second-order cues. However, they combine across orientations in a different way: Positive and negative signals largely cancel if the orientations differ by 90. Two additional elements are superimposed on this picture. First, corners play a special role. When second-order orientation cues combine to produce corners, they provide a stronger signal for texture segregation than can be accounted for by their individual effects. Second, while the object versus background distinction does not influence processing of second-order orientation cues, this distinction influences the processing of third-order orientation cues.
Our recent studies demonstrate that perceptual learning can transfer completely to untrained retinal locations upon proper training procedures, which suggests perceptual learning being a high-level learning process occurring beyond the retinotopic visual areas. We propose that whether learning is location specific depends on the functional connections between high-level learning and the sensory inputs corresponding to the untrained retinal locations. These inputs may be suppressed by intensive training and focused (spatial) attention on the trained location to obstruct learning transfer. Here we present event-related potential (ERP) evidence that Vernier perceptual learning and its transfer are associated with P1 reduction and N1 enhancement. However, location specificity is only associated with N1 suppression corresponding to the untrained retinal location. These results are consistent with our proposal that the blockage of top-down influences or functional connections and the inhibition of visual inputs corresponding to untrained locations may contribute to location specificity in perceptual learning.


Homeostatic plasticity is characterized by compensatory changes in synaptic strength and intrinsic membrane properties in response to chronic changes in neuronal activity. Neonatal seizures are a naturally occurring source of neuronal overactivation and can lead to long-term epilepsy and cognitive deficits. Using a rodent model of hypoxia-induced neonatal seizures that results in a persistent increase in AMPA receptor (AMPAR) function in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, we aimed to determine whether there was any evidence of an opposing endogenous homeostatic antiepileptic response. Given that this model results in long-term epilepsy, we also examined mechanisms whereby this homeostasis fails. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from neurons in slices removed at intervals following seizure onset revealed an initial up-regulation of AMPAR function that was followed by a transient dynamic attenuation of this enhancement by 48-72 h, although AMPAR function was still increased compared with nonseizure control baseline. This secondary down-regulation of enhanced AMPAR function was coincident with a marked transient increase in expression and function of the Polo-like kinase 2 (PLK2), which has previously been implicated in homeostatic down-regulation of neuronal excitability in cell/slice culture models. The effects were transient and at 1 wk AMPAR function once again became up-regulated, simultaneous with a decrease in PLK2 expression and function. This negative regulation was mediated by subacute postseizure increases in mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). Application of the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin prevented post-hypoxic seizure impairment of homeostasis, suggesting that homeostatic plasticity mechanisms may be potentially modifiable therapeutic targets in epileptogenesis.
Learning and other cognitive tasks require integrating new experiences into context. In contrast to sensory-evoked synaptic plasticity, comparatively little is known of how synaptic plasticity may be regulated by intrinsic activity in the brain, much of which can involve nonclassical modes of neuronal firing and integration. Coherent high-frequency oscillations of electrical activity in CA1 hippocampal neurons [sharp-wave ripple complexes (SPW-Rs)] functionally couple neurons into transient ensembles. These oscillations occur during slow-wave sleep or at rest. Neurons that participate in SPW-Rs are distinguished from adjacent nonparticipating neurons by firing action potentials that are initiated ectopically in the distal region of axons and propagate antidromically to the cell body. This activity is facilitated by GABA(A)-mediated depolarization of axons and electrotonic coupling. The possible effects of antidromic firing on synaptic strength are unknown. We find that facilitation of spontaneous SPW-Rs in hippocampal slices by increasing gap-junction coupling or by GABA(A)-mediated axon depolarization resulted in a reduction of synaptic strength, and electrical stimulation of axons evoked a widespread, long-lasting synaptic depression. Unlike other forms of synaptic plasticity, this synaptic depression is not dependent upon synaptic input or glutamate receptor activation, but rather requires L-type calcium channel activation and functional gap junctions. Synaptic stimulation delivered after antidromic firing, which was otherwise too weak to induce synaptic potentiation, triggered a long-lasting increase in synaptic strength. Rescaling synaptic weights in subsets of neurons firing antidromically during SPW-Rs might contribute to memory consolidation by sharpening specificity of subsequent synaptic input and promoting incorporation of novel information.


In primates, different cortical areas send axons of different diameters into comparable tracts, notably the corpus callosum (Tomasi S, Caminiti R, Innocenti GM. 2012. Areal differences in diameter and length of corticofugal projections. Cereb Cortex. 22:1463-1472). We now explored if an area also sends axons of different diameters to different targets. We find that the parietal area PEc sends thicker axons to area 4 and 6, and thinner ones to the cingulate region (area 24). Areas 4 and 9, each sends axons of different diameters to the nucleus caudatus, to different levels of the internal capsule, and to the thalamus. The internal capsule receives the thickest axon, followed by thalamus and nucleus caudatus. The 2 areas (4 and 9) differ in the diameter and length of axons to corresponding targets. We calculated how diameter determines conduction velocity of the axons and together with pathway length determines transmission delays between different brain sites. We propose that projections from and within the cerebral cortex consist of a complex system of lines of communication with different geometrical and time computing properties.
Learning how to obtain rewards requires learning about their contexts and likely causes. How do long-term memory mechanisms balance the need to represent potential determinants of reward outcomes with the computational burden of an over-inclusive memory? One solution would be to enhance memory for salient events that occur during reward anticipation, because all such events are potential determinants of reward. We tested whether reward motivation enhances encoding of salient events like expectancy violations. During functional magnetic resonance imaging, participants performed a reaction-time task in which goal-irrelevant expectancy violations were encountered during states of high- or low-reward motivation. Motivation amplified hippocampal activation to and declarative memory for expectancy violations. Connectivity of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) with medial prefrontal, ventrolateral prefrontal, and visual cortices preceded and predicted this increase in hippocampal sensitivity. These findings elucidate a novel mechanism whereby reward motivation can enhance hippocampus-dependent memory: anticipatory VTA-cortical-hippocampal interactions. Further, the findings integrate literatures on dopaminergic neuromodulation of prefrontal function and hippocampus-dependent memory. We conclude that during reward motivation, VTA modulation induces distributed neural changes that amplify hippocampal signals and records of expectancy violations to improve predictions-a potentially unique contribution of the hippocampus to reward learning.
The gene encoding the collagen-tailed subunit (ColQ) of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) contains two distinct promoters that drive the production of two ColQ mRNAs, ColQ-1 and ColQ-1a, in slow- and fast-twitch muscles, respectively. ColQ-1a is expressed at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) in fast-twitch muscle, and this expression depends on trophic factors supplied by motor neurons signaling via a cAMP-dependent pathway in muscle. To further elucidate the molecular basis of ColQ-1a's synaptic expression, here we investigated the expression and localization of cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) at the synaptic and extra-synaptic regions of fast- and slow-twitch muscles from adult rats. The total amount of active, phosphorylated CREB (P-CREB) present in slow-twitch soleus muscle was higher than that in fast-twitch tibialis muscle, but P-CREB was predominantly expressed in the fast-twitch muscle at NMJs. In contrast, P-CREB was detected in both synaptic and extra-synaptic regions of slow-twitch muscle. These results reveal, for the first time, the differential distribution of P-CREB in fast- and slow-twitch muscles, which might support the crucial role of cAMP-dependent signaling in controlling the synapse-specific expression of ColQ-1a in fast-twitch muscles.
Cholinergic activity has been recognized as a major regulatory component of stress responses after traumatic brain injury (TBI). Centrally acting acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors are also being considered as potential therapeutic candidates against TBI mediated cognitive impairments. We have evaluated the expression of molecules involved in cholinergic and inflammatory pathways in various regions of brain after repeated blast exposures in mice. Isoflurane anesthetized C57BL/6J mice were restrained and placed in a prone position transverse to the direction of the shockwaves and exposed to three 20.6 psi blast overpressures with 1-30 min intervals. Brains were collected at the 6h time point after the last blast exposure and subjected to cDNA microarray and microRNA analysis. cDNA microarray analysis showed significant changes in the expression of cholinergic (muscarinic and nicotinic) and gammaaminobutyric acid and glutamate receptors in the midbrain region along with significant changes in multiple genes involved in inflammatory pathways in various regions of the brain. MicroRNA analysis of cerebellum revealed differential expression of miR-132 and 183, which are linked to cholinergic anti-inflammatory signaling, after blast exposure. Changes in the expression of myeloperoxidase in the cerebellum were confirmed by Western blotting. These results indicate that early pathologic progression of blast TBI involves dysregulation of cholinergic and inflammatory pathways related genes. Acute changes in molecules involved in the modulation of cholinergic and inflammatory pathways after blast TBI can cause long-term central and peripheral pathophysiological changes.
The neuropathologic mechanisms after exposure to lethal doses of nerve agent are complex and involve multiple biochemical pathways. Effective treatment requires drugs that can simultaneously protect by reversible binding to the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and blocking cascades of seizure related brain damage, inflammation, neuronal degeneration as well as promoting induction of neuroregeneration. [-]-Huperzine A ([-]-Hup A), is a naturally occurring potent reversible AChE inhibitor that penetrates the blood-brain barrier. It also has several neuroprotective effects including modification of beta-amyloid peptide, reduction of oxidative stress, anti-inflammatory, anti-apoptotic and induction and regulation of nerve growth factor. Toxicities at higher doses restrict the neuroporotective ability of [-]-Hup A for treatment. The synthetic stereoisomer, [+]-Hup A, is less toxic due to poor AChE inhibition and is suitable for both pre-/post-exposure treatments of nerve agent toxicity. [+]-Hup A block the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced seizure in rats, reduce excitatory amino acid induced neurotoxicity and also prevent soman induced toxicity with minimum performance decrement. Unique combinations of two stereo-isomers of Hup A may provide an excellent pre/post-treatment drug for the nerve agent induced seizure/status epilepticus. We investigated a combination of [+]-Hup A with a small dose of [-]-Hup A ([+] and [-]-Hup A) against soman toxicity. Our data showed that pretreatment with a combination [+] and [-]-Hup A significantly increased the survival rate and reduced behavioral abnormalities after exposure to 1.2  LD(50) soman compared to [+]-Hup A in guinea pigs. In addition, [+] and [-]-Hup A pretreatment inhibited the development of high power of EEG better than [+]-Hup A pretreatment alone. These data suggest that a combination of [+] and [-]-Hup A offers better protection than [+]-Hup A and serves as a potent medical countermeasure against lethal dose nerve agent toxicity in guinea pigs.
Hydrolysis of acetylcholine by acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is extremely rapid, with a second-order hydrolysis rate constant k(E) (often denoted k(cat)/K(M)) that approaches 10(8) M(-1) s(-1). AChE contains a deep active site gorge with two sites of ligand binding, an acylation site (or A-site) containing the catalytic triad at the base of the gorge and a peripheral site (or P-site) near the gorge entrance. The P-site is known to contribute to catalytic efficiency with acetylthiocholine (AcSCh) by transiently trapping the substrate in a low affinity complex on its way to the A-site, where a short-lived acyl enzyme intermediate is produced. Here we ask whether the P-site does more than simply trap the substrate but in fact selectively gates entry to the A-site to provide specificity for AcSCh (and acetylcholine) relative to the close structural analogs acetyl(homo)thiocholine (Ac-hSCh, which adds one additional methylene group to thiocholine) and acetyl(nor)thiocholine (Ac-nSCh, which deletes one methylene group from thiocholine). We synthesized Ac-hSCh and Ac-nSCh and overcame technical difficulties associated with instability of the northiocholine hydrolysis product. We then compared the catalytic parameters of these substrates with AChE to those of AcSCh. Values of k(E) for Ac-hSCh and Ac-nSCh were about 2% of that for AcSCh. The k(E) for AcSCh is close to the theoretical diffusion-controlled limit for the substrate association rate constant, but kE values for Ac-hSCh or Ac-nSCh are too low to be limited by diffusion control. However, analyses of kinetic solvent isotope effects and inhibition patterns for P-site inhibitors indicate that these two analogs also do not equilibrate with the A-site prior to the initial acylation step of catalysis. We propose that kE for these substrates is partially rate-limited by a gating step that involves the movement of bound substrate from the P-site to the A-site.

Diagnoses of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are increasingly being made in adulthood. However, assessments can fail to address the diverse range of problems that patients have experienced. The current study applied an early symptomatic syndromes eliciting neurodevelopmental clinical examinations (ESSENCE) framework to explore retrospectively reported childhood developmental and behavioral problems. It examined if adult ASD and ADHD patients would show problems outside those reflected in the respective diagnostic criteria, and also if these patient groups would show more extensive childhood problems than other psychiatric patients. Parents of adults with ADHD (n = 130), ASD (n = 57), coexisting ADHD and ASD (n = 38), and other psychiatric disorders (n = 56) reported on a range of childhood problems. Descriptions of the ADHD, ASD, and ADHD+ASD groups reflected greater impairment than descriptions for patients with other psychiatric disorders in most problem areas. Although differences were observed between ADHD and ASD patients in the core diagnostic areas, these syndromes also shared a number of childhood difficulties. The ESSENCE approach can assist in understanding the symptom history of adult ADHD and ASD patients and can be helpful to distinguish their childhood experiences from other psychiatric patients' experiences.
In the present experiment, cognitive control under stress was investigated using a real-life paradigm, namely an evaluation flight for military student pilots. The magnitude of cognitive interference on color-word, numerical and emotional Stroop paradigms was studied during a baseline recording and right before the test flight. Cardio-respiratory parameters were simultaneously assessed during rest and the performance of the Stroop tasks. Cognitive data suggested a different speed/accuracy trade-off under stress, and no modulation of the interference effect for color words or numerical stimuli. However, we observed a major increase in error rates for specific emotional stimuli related to the evaluation situation in the stress condition. The increase in cognitive interference from emotional stimuli, expressed as an increase in error rates, was correlated to the decreased cardiac reactivity to challenge in the stress situation. This relationship is discussed in the framework of Sanders' (1983) model of stress and performance. In terms of future research, this link warrants a fruitful lead to be followed for investigating the causal mechanism of performance decrements under the influence of stress.
Gastric emptying studies in mice have been limited by the inability to follow gastric emptying changes in the same animal since the most commonly used techniques require killing of the animals and postmortem recovery of the meal(1,2). This approach prevents longitudinal studies to determine changes in gastric emptying with age and progression of disease. The commonly used [(13)C]-octanoic acid breath test for humans(3) has been modified for use in mice(4-6) and rats(7) and we previously showed that this test is reliable and responsive to changes in gastric emptying in response to drugs and during diabetic disease progression(8). In this video presentation the principle and practical implementation of this modified test is explained. As in the previous study, NOD LtJ mice are used, a model of type 1 diabetes(9). A proportion of these mice develop the symptoms of gastroparesis, a complication of diabetes characterized by delayed gastric emptying without mechanical obstruction of the stomach(10). This paper demonstrates how to train the mice for testing, how to prepare the test meal and obtain 4 hr gastric emptying data and how to analyze the obtained data. The carbon isotope analyzer used in the present study is suitable for the automatic sampling of the air samples from up to 12 mice at the same time. This technique allows the longitudinal follow-up of gastric emptying from larger groups of mice with diabetes or other long-standing diseases.




Neurotrophins, such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), are believed to be genuine molecular mediators of neuronal growth and homeostatic synapse activity. However, levels of these neurotrophic factors decrease in different brain regions of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). Induction of astrocytic neurotrophin synthesis is a poorly understood phenomenon but represents a plausible therapeutic target because neuronal neurotrophin production is aberrant in AD and other neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we delineate that sodium phenylbutyrate (NaPB), a Food and Drug Administration-approved oral medication for hyperammonemia, induces astrocytic BDNF and NT-3 expression via the protein kinase C (PKC)-cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) pathway. NaPB treatment increased the direct association between PKC and CREB followed by phosphorylation of CREB (Ser(133)) and induction of DNA binding and transcriptional activation of CREB. Up-regulation of markers for synaptic function and plasticity in cultured hippocampal neurons by NaPB-treated astroglial supernatants and its abrogation by anti-TrkB blocking antibody suggest that NaPB-induced astroglial neurotrophins are functionally active. Moreover, oral administration of NaPB increased the levels of BDNF and NT-3 in the CNS and improved spatial learning and memory in a mouse model of AD. Our results highlight a novel neurotrophic property of NaPB that may be used to augment neurotrophins in the CNS and improve synaptic function in disease states such as AD.
In neurons, dynamic changes in the subcellular localization of histone deacetylases (HDACs) are thought to contribute to signal-regulated gene expression. Here we show that in mouse hippocampal neurons, synaptic activity-dependent nucleo-cytoplasmic shuttling is a common feature of all members of class IIa HDACs, which distinguishes them from other classes of HDACs. Nuclear calcium, a key regulator in neuronal gene expression, is required for the nuclear export of a subset of class IIa HDACs. We found that inhibition of nuclear calcium signaling using CaMBP4 or increasing the nuclear calcium buffering capacity by means of expression of a nuclear targeted version of parvalbumin (PV.NLS-mC) led to a build-up of HDAC4 and HDAC5 in the cell nucleus, which in the case of PV.NLS-mC can be reversed by nuclear calcium transients triggered by bursts of action potential firing. A similar nuclear accumulation of HDAC4 and HDAC5 was observed in vivo in the mouse hippocampus following stereotaxic delivery of recombinant adeno-associated viruses expressing either CaMBP4 or PV.NLS-mC. The modulation of HDAC4 activity either by RNA interference-mediated reduction of HDAC4 protein levels or by expression of a constitutively nuclear localized mutant of HDAC4 leads to changes in the mRNA levels of several nuclear calcium-regulated genes with known functions in acquired neuroprotection (atf3, serpinb2), memory consolidation (homer1, arc), and the development of chronic pain (ptgs2, c1qc). These results identify nuclear calcium as a regulator of nuclear export of HDAC4 and HDAC5. The reduction of nuclear localized HDACs represents a novel transcription-promoting pathway stimulated by nuclear calcium.
Activation of receptor tyrosine kinases leads to the formation of two different types of plasma membrane structures: peripheral ruffles and dorsal ruffles. Although the formation of both ruffle types requires activation of the small GTPase Rac, the difference in kinetics suggests that a distinct regulatory mechanism operates for their ruffle formation. DOCK1 and DOCK5 are atypical Rac activators and are both expressed in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs). We found that although PDGF-induced Rac activation and peripheral ruffle formation were coordinately regulated by DOCK1 and DOCK5 in MEFs, DOCK1 deficiency alone impaired dorsal ruffle formation in MEFs. Unlike DOCK5, DOCK1 bound to phosphatidic acid (PA) through the C-terminal polybasic amino acid cluster and was localized to dorsal ruffles. When this interaction was blocked, PDGF-induced dorsal ruffle formation was severely impaired. In addition, we show that phospholipase D, an enzyme that catalyzes PA synthesis, is required for PDGF-induced dorsal, but not peripheral, ruffle formation. These results indicate that the phospholipase D-PA axis selectively controls dorsal ruffle formation by regulating DOCK1 localization.
Introducing blur into the color components of a natural scene has very little effect on its percept, whereas blur introduced into the luminance component is very noticeable. Here we quantify the dominance of luminance information in blur detection and examine a number of potential causes. We show that the interaction between chromatic and luminance information is not explained by reduced acuity or spatial resolution limitations for chromatic cues, the effective contrast of the luminance cue, or chromatic and achromatic statistical regularities in the images. Regardless of the quality of chromatic information, the visual system gives primacy to luminance signals when determining edge location. In natural viewing, luminance information appears to be specialized for detecting object boundaries while chromatic information may be used to determine surface properties.
Inflammatory responses have been shown to modulate the pattern and degree of ischemic injury. Previously, we demonstrated that intracorpus callosum microinjection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS, a well-known endotoxin) markedly induced inflammatory responses confined to ipsilateral hemisphere and aggravated cerebral ischemic injury. Here we report that LPS injection increases the degree of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitotoxicity, one of major causes of cerebral ischemic injury. Intracorpus callosum microinjection of LPS 1 day prior to ischemic insults augmented intraneuronal Ca(2+) rise in rat brains subjected to transient occlusion of middle cerebral artery. Intraperitoneal administration of memantine, a NMDA receptor antagonist, reduced the LPS-enhanced calcium response as well as ischemic tissue damage. Western blot and immunohistochemistry data showed that the level of IL-1 was enhanced in LPS-injected rat brains, particularly in isolectin-B4 immunoreactive cells. Intraventricular microinjection of recombinant rat IL-1 aggravated cerebral ischemic injury, which was significantly reduced by memantine. Intraventricular injection of anti-IL-1 antibody significantly reduced the cerebral infarction aggravated by LPS preinjection. The results indicate that IL-1 released from isolectin-B4 immunoreactive cells enhanced excitotoxicity, consequently aggravating ischemic brain injury.





How we find what we are looking for in complex visual scenes is a seemingly simple ability that has taken half a century to unravel. The first study to use the term visual search showed that as the number of objects in a complex scene increases, observers' reaction times increase proportionally (Green &amp; Anderson, 1956). This observation suggests that our ability to process the objects in the scenes is limited in capacity. However, if it is known that the target will have a certain feature attribute, for example, that it will be red, then only an increase in the number of red items increases reaction time. This observation suggests that we can control which visual inputs receive the benefit of our limited capacity to recognize the objects, such as those defined by the color red, as the items we seek. The nature of the mechanisms that underlie these basic phenomena in the literature on visual search have been more difficult to definitively determine. In this paper, I discuss how electrophysiological methods have provided us with the necessary tools to understand the nature of the mechanisms that give rise to the effects observed in the first visual search paper. I begin by describing how recordings of event-related potentials from humans and nonhuman primates have shown us how attention is deployed to possible target items in complex visual scenes. Then, I will discuss how event-related potential experiments have allowed us to directly measure the memory representations that are used to guide these deployments of attention to items with target-defining features.


Hypothermia is a promising neuroprotective therapy that has been shown to reduce apoptosis after an ischemic insult. This study evaluated the effect of mild hypothermia on activated caspase-3 up to 1 week after the induction of a stroke. Endothelin-1 (Et-1) was used to elicit transient focal cerebral ischemia in rats. Twenty minutes after the ischemic insult, a state of mild hypothermia (33C) was imposed for a duration of 2h. The functional outcome, infarct volume and activated caspase-3 immunoreactivity (IR) were assessed at 8, 24 and 72h, and one week after the insult. During the experiment the cerebral blood flow (CBF) was measured via Laser Doppler Flowmetry. Hypothermia improved the neurological outcome at all of the time points studied compared to the normothermic group, and was associated with a reduction in infarct volume. In both groups, activated caspase-3 IR peaked 24h after the Et-1 induced insult and hypothermia significantly reduced the number of apoptotic cells at 8h, 24h and 1 week after ischemia. Furthermore, the hypothermic treatment did not affect the CBF in the Et-1 model. These findings indicate that in the Et-1 model, hypothermia exerts a long lasting effect on stroke-induced apoptosis.
The p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) is known to transduce the signal from some myelin-associated axon growth inhibitors, including Nogo and myelin-associated glycoprotein. As ephrin-B3, a member of the ephrin family, is also expressed in myelin and inhibits axon growth, the purpose of this study was to assess the possible involvement of p75NTR in ephrin-B3 signaling. Here, we report that p75NTR is required for the inhibitory effect of ephrin-B3 on neurite growth in vitro. While ephrin-B3 inhibited neurite elongation of embryonic cortical neurons, the neurons with p75NTR knockdown or with EphA4 knockdown were less sensitive to ephrin-B3. Although no direct interaction of p75NTR with ephrin-B3 was observed, Pep5, a peptide that specifically inhibits RhoA activation mediated by p75NTR, reduced the effect of ephrin-B3. Therefore, p75NTR functions as a signal transducer for ephrin-B3. Moreover, axonal regeneration in vivo was induced by Pep5 application after optic nerve crush injury in mice. Thus, Pep5 is a promising agent that contributes to axonal regeneration in the central nervous system.
Metacognitive training for patients with schizophrenia (MCT) is a novel form of psychotherapy that aims to promote insight into the relationship between metacognitive deficits and psychotic symptoms, especially delusions. MCT has been found to be effective in reducing the delusional conviction and other positive symptoms in patients with schizophrenia. However, we are not aware of any research in which MCT has been used specifically to manage treatment resistant schizophrenia patients. We report the case of a patient with treatment resistant schizophrenia who responded to MCT. Her persecutory and referential delusions improved with a course of 12 sessions of therapy. Further, the improvement in delusions had a positive impact on her psychosocial functioning. A follow-up after two months of therapy revealed sustained improvement.
Electronic transducers of neuronal cellular activity are important devices in neuroscience and neurology. Organic field-effect transistors (OFETs) offer tailored surface chemistry, mechanical flexibility, and high sensitivity to electrostatic potential changes at device interfaces. These properties make them attractive for interfacing electronics with neural cells and performing extracellular recordings and stimulation of neuronal network activity. In this work we operate pentacene ultra-thin film (9 nm thick) transistors with a liquid gate both as transducers and electrical stimulators of neuronal network activity. These devices are highly sensitive to small potential changes in cell medium and exhibit sufficient stability under standard cell culture conditions for nine days. We show that murine neural stem cells can be adhered on top of functional devices without the need for an additional layer of cell-adhesive molecules, and then differentiated into neuronal networks. OFET response is monitored during the different phases of the neuronal differentiation process up to nine days. Only when stem cells are differentiated into neurons, it is possible to measure electrical signals in the OFET current following the stimulation. Due to the large sensing area of our device, which accommodates from hundreds to thousands of interconnected neurons, the OFET electrical signals arise from the collective electrophysiological response of the neuronal population. The maximum extracellular potential change in the cleft region adjacent to the transistor surface amounts to 350 V. This demonstrates that pentacene ultra-thin film OFETs enable good cellular adhesion and efficient coupling of the ionic currents at the biological-organic semiconductor interface with the OFET current.
Lacosamide ((R)-1) is a recently marketed, first-in-class, antiepileptic drug. Patch-clamp electrophysiology studies are consistent with the notion that (R)-1 modulates voltage-gated Na(+) channel function by increasing and stabilizing the slow inactivation state without affecting fast inactivation. The molecular pathway(s) that regulate slow inactivation are poorly understood. Affinity baits are chemical reactive units, which when appended to a ligand (drug) can lead to irreversible, covalent modification of the receptor thus permitting drug binding site identification including, possibly, the site of ligand function. We describe, herein, the synthesis of four (R)-1 affinity baits, (R)-N-(4-isothiocyanatobiphenyl-4'-yl)methyl 2-acetamido-3-methoxypropionamide ((R)-8), (S)-N-(4-isothiocyanatobiphenyl-4'-yl)methyl 2-acetamido-3-methoxypropionamide ((S)-8), (R)-N-(3-isothiocyanatobiphenyl-4'-yl)methyl 2-acetamido-3-methoxypropionamide ((R)-9), and (R)-N-(3-acrylamidobiphenyl-4'-yl)methyl 2-acetamido-3-methoxypropionamide ((R)-10). The affinity bait compounds were designed to interact with the receptor(s) responsible for (R)-1-mediated slow inactivation. We show that (R)-8 and (R)-9 are potent inhibitors of Na(+) channel function and function by a pathway similar to that observed for (R)-1. We further demonstrate that (R)-8 function is stereospecific. The calculated IC50 values determined for Na(+) channel slow inactivation for (R)-1, (R)-8, and (R)-9 were 85.1, 0.1, and 0.2 M, respectively. Incubating (R)-9 with the neuronal-like CAD cells led to appreciable levels of Na(+) channel slow inactivation after cellular wash, and the level of slow inactivation only modestly decreased with further incubation and washing. Collectively, these findings have identified a promising structural template to investigate the voltage-gated Na(+) channel slow inactivation process.
Biomarkers which are indicative of acute physiological and emotional states are studied in a number of different areas in cognitive neuroscience. Currently, many cognitive studies are conducted based on programmed tasks followed by timed biofluid sampling, central laboratory processing, and followed by data analysis. In this work, we present a sensor platform capable of rapid biomarker detection specific for detecting neuropeptide orexin A, found in blood and saliva and known as an indicator of fatigue and cognitive performance. A peptide recognition element that selectively binds to orexin A was designed, characterized, and functionalized onto a zinc oxide field effect transistor to enable rapid detection. The detection limit using the sensor platform was sub-picomolar in water, and picomolar to nanomolar levels in saliva and serum. The transistor and recognition element sensor platform can be easily expanded, allowing for multiple biomarkers to be detected simultaneously, lending itself to complex biomarker analysis applicable to rapid feedback for neuroscience research and physiological monitoring.
We utilized three independent techniques, immunocytochemistry (ICC), single cell mass spectrometry (MS), and in situ hybridization (ISH), to localize neuropeptides and their transcripts in the nervous system of the nematode Ascaris suum . AF11 (SDIGISEPNFLRFa) is an endogenous peptide with potent paralytic effects on A. suum locomotory behavior. A highly specific antibody to AF11 showed robust immunostaining for AF11 in the paired AVK neurons in the ventral ganglion. We traced the processes from the AVK neurons into the ventral nerve cord and identified them as ventral cord interneurons. MS and MS/MS of single dissected AVKs detected AF11, two previously characterized peptides (AF25 and AF26), seven novel sequence-related peptides, including several sharing a PNFLRFamide C-terminus, and peptide NY, a peptide with an unrelated sequence. Also present in a subset of AVKs was AF2, a peptide encoded by the afp-4 transcript. By sequencing the afp-11 transcript, we discovered that it encodes AF11, all the AF11-related peptides detected by MS in AVK, and peptide NY. ISH detected the afp-11 transcript in AVK neurons, consistent with other techniques. ISH did not detect afp-11 in the ALA neuron, although both ICC and MS found AF11 in ca. 30% of ALAs. All 10 AF11-related peptides reduced acetylcholine-induced muscle contraction, but they differed in their rate of reversal of inhibition after removal of the peptide.
Access to cerebral tissue is essential to better understand the molecular mechanisms associated with neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we present, for the first time, a new tool designed to obtain molecular and cellular cerebral imprints in the striatum of anesthetized monkeys. The imprint is obtained during a spatially controlled interaction of a chemically modified micro-silicon chip with the brain tissue. Scanning electron and immunofluorescence microscopies showed homogeneous capture of cerebral tissue. Nano-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (nano-LC-MS/MS) analysis of proteins harvested on the chip allowed the identification of 1158 different species of proteins. The gene expression profiles of mRNA extracted from the imprint tool showed great similarity to those obtained via the gold standard approach, which is based on post-mortem sections of the same nucleus. Functional analysis of the harvested molecules confirmed the spatially controlled capture of striatal proteins implicated in dopaminergic regulation. Finally, the behavioral monitoring and histological results establish the safety of obtaining repeated cerebral imprints in striatal regions. These results demonstrate the ability of our imprint tool to explore the molecular content of deep brain regions in vivo. They open the way to the molecular exploration of brain in animal models of neurological diseases and will provide complementary information to current data mainly restricted to post-mortem samples.

Distinct populations of active cells in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus may facilitate the unique encoding of changes in the environment.
A report on the 2nd Wellcome Trust Scientific Conference on Biomarkers for Brain Disorders: Challenges and Opportunities, held at the Moller Centre, Cambridge, UK, February 3-5, 2013.
We compared performance on three manual-dexterity tasks under monocular and binocular viewing. The tasks were the standard Morrisby Fine Dexterity Test, using forceps to manipulate the items, a modified version of the Morrisby test using fingers, and a &quot;buzz-wire&quot; task in which subjects had to guide a wire hoop around a 3D track without bringing the hoop into contact with the track. In all three tasks, performance was better for binocular viewing. The extent of the binocular advantage in individuals did not correlate significantly with their stereoacuity measured on the Randot test. However, the extent of the binocular advantage depended strongly on the task. It was weak when fingers were used on the Morrisby task, stronger with forceps, and extremely strong on the buzz-wire task (fivefold increase in error rate with monocular viewing). We suggest that the 3D buzz-wire game is particularly suitable for assessing binocularly based dexterity.


Regions of frontal and posterior parietal cortex are known to control the allocation of spatial attention across the visual field. However, the neural mechanisms underlying attentional control in the intact human brain remain unclear, with some studies supporting a hemispatial theory emphasizing a dominant function of the right hemisphere and others supporting an interhemispheric competition theory. We previously found neural evidence to support the latter account, in which topographically organized frontoparietal areas each generate a spatial bias, or &quot;attentional weight,&quot; toward the contralateral hemifield, with the sum of the weights constituting the overall bias that can be exerted across visual space. Here, we used a multimodal approach consisting of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of spatial attention signals, behavioral measures of spatial bias, and fMRI-guided single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to causally test this interhemispheric competition account. Across the group of fMRI subjects, we found substantial individual differences in the strengths of the frontoparietal attentional weights in each hemisphere, which predicted subjects' respective behavioral preferences when allocating spatial attention, as measured by a landmark task. Using TMS to interfere with attentional processing within specific topographic frontoparietal areas, we then demonstrated that the attentional weights of individual subjects, and thus their spatial attention behavior, could be predictably shifted toward one visual field or the other, depending on the site of interference. The results of our multimodal approach, combined with an emphasis on neural and behavioral individual differences, provide compelling evidence that spatial attention is controlled through competitive interactions between hemispheres rather than a dominant right hemisphere in the intact human brain.
Affective cognitive control capacity (e.g., the ability to regulate emotions or manipulate emotional material in the service of task goals) is associated with professional and interpersonal success. Impoverished affective control, by contrast, characterizes many neuropsychiatric disorders. Insights from neuroscience indicate that affective cognitive control relies on the same frontoparietal neural circuitry as working memory (WM) tasks, which suggests that systematic WM training, performed in an emotional context, has the potential to augment affective control. Here we show, using behavioral and fMRI measures, that 20 d of training on a novel emotional WM protocol successfully enhanced the efficiency of this frontoparietal demand network. Critically, compared with placebo training, emotional WM training also accrued transfer benefits to a &quot;gold standard&quot; measure of affective cognitive control-emotion regulation. These emotion regulation gains were associated with greater activity in the targeted frontoparietal demand network along with other brain regions implicated in affective control, notably the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex. The results have important implications for the utility of WM training in clinical, prevention, and occupational settings.
Recent advances in structural magnetic resonance imaging technology and analysis now allows for accurate in vivo measurement of cortical thickness, an important aspect of cortical organization that has historically only been conducted on postmortem brains. In this study, for the first time, we examined regional and lateralized cortical thickness in a sample of 71 chimpanzees for comparison with previously reported findings in humans. We also measured gray and white matter volumes for each subject. The results indicated that chimpanzees showed significant regional variation in cortical thickness with lower values in primary motor and sensory cortex compared with association cortex. Furthermore, chimpanzees showed significant rightward asymmetries in cortical thickness for a number of regions of interest throughout the cortex and leftward asymmetries in white but not gray matter volume. We also found that total and region-specific cortical thickness was significantly negatively correlated with white matter volume. Thus, chimpanzees with greater white matter volumes had thinner cortical thickness. The collective findings are discussed within the context of previous findings in humans and theories on the evolution of cortical organization and lateralization in primates.
Debates about motor theories of speech perception have recently been reignited by a burst of reports implicating premotor cortex (PMC) in speech perception. Often, however, these debates conflate perceptual and decision processes. Evidence that PMC activity correlates with task difficulty and subject performance suggests that PMC might be recruited, in certain cases, to facilitate category judgments about speech sounds (rather than speech perception, which involves decoding of sounds). However, it remains unclear whether PMC does, indeed, exhibit neural selectivity that is relevant for speech decisions. Further, it is unknown whether PMC activity in such cases reflects input via the dorsal or ventral auditory pathway, and whether PMC processing of speech is automatic or task-dependent. In a novel modified categorization paradigm, we presented human subjects with paired speech sounds from a phonetic continuum but diverted their attention from phoneme category using a challenging dichotic listening task. Using fMRI rapid adaptation to probe neural selectivity, we observed acoustic-phonetic selectivity in left anterior and left posterior auditory cortical regions. Conversely, we observed phoneme-category selectivity in left PMC that correlated with explicit phoneme-categorization performance measured after scanning, suggesting that PMC recruitment can account for performance on phoneme-categorization tasks. Structural equation modeling revealed connectivity from posterior, but not anterior, auditory cortex to PMC, suggesting a dorsal route for auditory input to PMC. Our results provide evidence for an account of speech processing in which the dorsal stream mediates automatic sensorimotor integration of speech and may be recruited to support speech decision tasks.
Mammalian cones respond to light by closing a cGMP-gated channel via a cascade that includes a heterotrimeric G-protein, cone transducin, comprising Gt2, G3 and Gt2 subunits. The function of G in this cascade has not been examined. Here, we investigate the role of G3 by assessing cone structure and function in G3-null mouse (Gnb3(-/-)). We found that G3 is required for the normal expression of its partners, because in the Gnb3(-/-) cone outer segments, the levels of Gt2 and Gt2 are reduced by fourfold to sixfold, whereas other components of the cascade remain unaltered. Surprisingly, Gnb3(-/-) cones produce stable responses with normal kinetics and saturating response amplitudes similar to that of the wild-type, suggesting that cone phototransduction can function efficiently without a G subunit. However, light sensitivity was reduced by approximately fourfold in the knock-out cones. Because the reduction in sensitivity was similar in magnitude to the reduction in Gt2 level in the cone outer segment, we conclude that activation of Gt2 in Gnb3(-/-) cones proceeds at a rate approximately proportional to its outer segment concentration, and that activation of phosphodiesterase and downstream cascade components is normal. These results suggest that the main role of G3 in cones is to establish optimal levels of transducin heteromer in the outer segment, thereby indirectly contributing to robust response properties.
The orofacial region is a major focus of chronic neuropathic pain conditions characterized by primary hyperalgesia at the site of injury and secondary hyperalgesia outside the injured zone. We have used a rat model of injury to the maxillary branch (V2) of the trigeminal nerve to produce constant and long-lasting primary hyperalgesia in the V2 territory and secondary hyperalgesia in territories innervated by the mandibular branch (V3). Our findings indicate that the induction of primary and secondary hyperalgesia depended on peripheral input from the injured nerve. In contrast, the maintenance of secondary hyperalgesia depended on central mechanisms. The centralization of the secondary hyperalgesia involved descending 5-HT drive from the rostral ventromedial medulla and the contribution of 5-HT3 receptors in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis (Vc), the homolog of the spinal dorsal horn. Electrophysiological studies further indicate that after nerve injury spontaneous responses and enhanced poststimulus discharges in Vc nociresponsive neurons were time-dependent on descending 5-HT drive and peripheral input. The induction phase of secondary hyperalgesia involved central sensitization mechanisms in Vc neurons that were dependent on peripheral input, whereas the maintenance phase of secondary hyperalgesia involved central sensitization in Vc neurons conducted by a delayed descending 5-HT drive and a persistence of peripheral inputs. Our results are the first to show that the maintenance of secondary hyperalgesia and underlying central sensitization associated with persistent pain depend on a transition to supraspinal mechanisms involving the serotonin system in rostral ventromedial medulla-dorsal horn circuits.
Dysferlin is proposed as a key mediator of calcium-dependent muscle membrane repair, although its precise role has remained elusive. Dysferlin interacts with a new membrane repair protein, mitsugumin 53 (MG53), an E3 ubiquitin ligase that shows rapid recruitment to injury sites. Using a novel ballistics assay in primary human myotubes, we show it is not full-length dysferlin recruited to sites of membrane injury but an injury-specific calpain-cleavage product, mini-dysferlinC72. Mini-dysferlinC72-rich vesicles are rapidly recruited to injury sites and fuse with plasma membrane compartments decorated by MG53 in a process coordinated by L-type calcium channels. Collective interplay between activated calpains, dysferlin, and L-type channels explains how muscle cells sense a membrane injury and mount a specialized response in the unique local environment of a membrane injury. Mini-dysferlinC72 and MG53 form an intricate lattice that intensely labels exposed phospholipids of injury sites, then infiltrates and stabilizes the membrane lesion during repair. Our results extend functional parallels between ferlins and synaptotagmins. Whereas otoferlin exists as long and short splice isoforms, dysferlin is subject to enzymatic cleavage releasing a synaptotagmin-like fragment with a specialized protein- or phospholipid-binding role for muscle membrane repair.
Corticothalamic slow oscillations of neuronal activity determine internal brain states. At least in the cortex, the electrical activity is associated with large neuronal Ca(2+) transients. Here we implemented an optogenetic approach to explore causal features of the generation of slow oscillation-associated Ca(2+) waves in the in vivo mouse brain. We demonstrate that brief optogenetic stimulation (3-20 ms) of a local group of layer 5 cortical neurons is sufficient for the induction of global brain Ca(2+) waves. These Ca(2+) waves are evoked in an all-or-none manner, exhibit refractoriness during repetitive stimulation, and propagate over long distances. By local optogenetic stimulation, we demonstrate that evoked Ca(2+) waves initially invade the cortex, followed by a secondary recruitment of the thalamus. Together, our results establish that synchronous activity in a small cluster of layer 5 cortical neurons can initiate a global neuronal wave of activity suited for long-range corticothalamic integration.
The organization of spinal reflex circuits relies on the specification of distinct classes of proprioceptive sensory neurons (pSN), but the factors that drive such diversity remain unclear. We report here that pSNs supplying distinct skeletal muscles differ in their dependence on the ETS transcription factor Etv1 for their survival and differentiation. The status of Etv1-dependence is linked to the location of proprioceptor muscle targets: pSNs innervating hypaxial and axial muscles depend critically on Etv1 for survival, whereas those innervating certain limb muscles are resistant to Etv1 inactivation. The level of NT3 expression in individual muscles correlates with Etv1-dependence and the loss of pSNs triggered by Etv1 inactivation can be prevented by elevating the level of muscle-derived NT3-revealing a TrkC-activated Etv1-bypass pathway. Our findings support a model in which the specification of aspects of pSN subtype character is controlled by variation in the level of muscle NT3 expression and signaling.
Changes in the extracellular ionic concentrations occur as a natural consequence of firing activity in large populations of neurons. The extent to which these changes alter the properties of individual neurons and the operation of neuronal networks remains unknown. Here, we show that the locomotor-like activity in the isolated neonatal rodent spinal cord reduces the extracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)]o) to 0.9mM and increases the extracellular potassium ([K(+)]o) to 6mM. Such changes in [Ca(2+)]o and [K(+)]o trigger pacemaker activities in interneurons considered to be part of the locomotor network. Experimental data and a modeling study show that the emergence of pacemaker properties critically involves a [Ca(2+)]o-dependent activation of the persistent sodium current (INaP). These results support a concept for locomotor rhythm generation in which INaP-dependent pacemaker properties in spinal interneurons are switched on and tuned by activity-dependent changes in [Ca(2+)]o and [K(+)]o.
The importance of neuronal morphology in brain function has been recognized for over a century. The broad applicability of &quot;digital reconstructions&quot; of neuron morphology across neuroscience subdisciplines has stimulated the rapid development of numerous synergistic tools for data acquisition, anatomical analysis, three-dimensional rendering, electrophysiological simulation, growth models, and data sharing. Here we discuss the processes of histological labeling, microscopic imaging, and semiautomated tracing. Moreover, we provide an annotated compilation of currently available resources in this rich research &quot;ecosystem&quot; as a central reference for experimental and computational neuroscience.
Cognitive deficits are a core dysfunction in schizophrenia. In this issue of Neuron, Parnaudeau etal. (2013) investigated synchronization in thalamocortical pathways in an animal model to address the disconnection between brain regions as a mechanism for working memory impairments in the disorder.
Oligodendrocyte development is controlled by numerous extracellular signals that regulate a series of transcription factors that promote the differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells to myelinating cells in the central nervous system. A major element of this regulatory system that has only recently been studied is the intracellular signalling from surface receptors to transcription factors to down-regulate inhibitors and up-regulate inducers of oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination. The current review focuses on one such pathway: the mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) pathway, which integrates signals in many cell systems and induces cell responses including cell proliferation and cell differentiation. This review describes the known functions of mTOR as they relate to oligodendrocyte development, and its recently discovered impact on oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelination. A potential model for its role in oligodendrocyte development is proposed.
Sleep changes were studied in mice (n = 59) from early adolescence to adulthood (postnatal days P19-111). REM sleep declined steeply in early adolescence, while total sleep remained constant and NREM sleep increased slightly. Four hours of sleep deprivation starting at light onset were performed from ages P26 through adulthood (&gt;P60). Following this acute sleep deprivation all mice slept longer and with more consolidated sleep bouts, while NREM slow wave activity (SWA) showed high interindividual variability in the younger groups, and increased consistently only after P42. Three parameters together explained up to 67% of the variance in SWA rebound in frontal cortex, including weight-adjusted age and increase in alpha power during sleep deprivation, both of which positively correlated with the SWA response. The third, and strongest predictor was the SWA decline during the light phase in baseline: mice with high peak SWA at light onset, resulting in a large SWA decline, were more likely to show no SWA rebound after sleep deprivation, a result that was also confirmed in parietal cortex. During baseline, however, SWA showed the same homeostatic changes in adolescents and adults, declining in the course of sleep and increasing across periods of spontaneous wake. Thus, we hypothesize that, in young adolescent mice, a ceiling effect and not the immaturity of the cellular mechanisms underlying sleep homeostasis may prevent the SWA rebound when wake is extended beyond its physiological duration.


Novelty detection, a critical computation within the medial temporal lobe (MTL) memory system, necessarily depends on prior experience. The current study used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in humans to investigate dynamic changes in MTL activation and functional connectivity as experience with novelty accumulates. fMRI data were collected during a target detection task: Participants monitored a series of trial-unique novel and familiar scene images to detect a repeating target scene. Even though novel images themselves did not repeat, we found that fMRI activations in the hippocampus and surrounding cortical MTL showed a specific, decrementing response with accumulating exposure to novelty. The significant linear decrement occurred for the novel but not the familiar images, and behavioral measures ruled out a corresponding decline in vigilance. Additionally, early in the series, the hippocampus was inversely coupled with the dorsal striatum, lateral and medial prefrontal cortex, and posterior visual processing regions; this inverse coupling also habituated as novelty accumulated. This novel demonstration of a dynamic adjustment in neural responses to novelty suggests a similarly dynamic allocation of neural resources based on recent experience.
Drug addiction is a psychiatric disease state, wherein a drug is impulsively and compulsively self-administered despite negative consequences. This repeated administration results in permanent changes to nervous system physiology and architecture. The molecular pathways affected by addictive drugs are complex and inter-dependent on each other. Recently, various new proteins and protein families have been discovered to play a role in drug abuse. Emerging players in this phenomenon include TRP (Transient Receptor Potential) family channels, which are primarily known to function in sensory systems. Several TRP family channels identified in both vertebrates and invertebrates are involved in psychostimulant-induced plasticity, suggesting their involvement in drug dependence. This review summarizes various observations, both from studies in humans and other organisms, which support a role for these channels in the development of drug-related behaviors.


Anti-predator behaviour of magpies was investigated, using five species of model predators, at times of raising offspring. We predicted differences in mobbing strategies for each predator presented and also that raising juveniles would affect intensity of the mobbing event. Fourteen permanent resident family groups were tested using 5 different types of predator (avian and reptilian) known to be of varying degrees of risk to magpies and common in their habitat. In all, 210 trials were conducted (across three different stages of juvenile development). We found that the stage of juvenile development did not alter mobbing behaviour significantly, but predator type did. Aerial strategies (such as swooping) were elicited by taxidermic models of raptors, whereas a taxidermic model of a monitor lizard was approached on the ground and a model snake was rarely approached. Swooping patterns also changed according to which of the three raptors was presented. Our results show that, in contrast to findings in other species, magpies vary mobbing strategy depending on the predator rather than varying mobbing intensity.
The introduction of magnetoencephalography has made it possible to study electromagnetic signaling in deeper, paralimbic cortical structures such as the medial prefrontal/anterior cingulate (ACC) and medial parietal/posterior cingulate (PCC) cortices. Self-awareness and self-control have been attributed to these regions. To test the hypothesis that they are dysfunctional in pathological gambling with poor self-control, we studied gamblers with and without previous stimulant abuse and age- and sex-matched controls. We found that pathological gamblers were more impulsive than controls in a stop-signal task and attributed this to changes in the activity of the paralimbic network: Pathological gamblers had reduced synchronization at rest in the high gamma range (55-100 Hz) compared with controls and failed to show an increase in gamma synchronization during rest compared with the task, as observed in controls. Subgroup analysis revealed that pathological gamblers without a history of stimulant abuse had lower PCC power during the stop-signal task compared with controls and gamblers with previous stimulant abuse. Furthermore, gamblers with a history of stimulant abuse had up to four times higher power at the ACC site during rest and the task compared with controls. In conclusion, pathological gamblers had higher impulsivity and functional paralimbic abnormalities, which could not be explained by a history of stimulant abuse. In addition, previous stimulant abuse had a marked effect on the amplitude of oscillatory brain activity in the ACC and PCC, suggesting long-term deleterious effects of repeated dopaminergic drug exposure. These consequences should be investigated in more detail in longitudinal studies.
The phosphoinositide signaling system is a crucial regulator of neural development, cell survival, and plasticity. Phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) negatively regulates phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling and downstream targets. Nse-Cre Pten conditional knockout mice, in which Pten is ablated in granule cells of the dentate gyrus and pyramidal neurons of the hippocampal CA3, but not CA1, recapitulate many of the symptoms of humans with inactivating PTEN mutations, including progressive hypertrophy of the dentate gyrus and deficits in hippocampus-based social and cognitive behaviors. However, the impact of Pten loss on activity-dependent synaptic plasticity in this clinically relevant mouse model of Pten inactivation remains unclear. Here, we show that two phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase- and protein synthesis-dependent forms of synaptic plasticity, theta burst-induced long-term potentiation and metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-dependent long-term depression, are dysregulated at medial perforant path-to-dentate gyrus synapses of young Nse-Cre Pten conditional knockout mice before the onset of visible morphological abnormalities. In contrast, long-term potentiation and mGluR-dependent long-term depression are normal at CA3-CA1 pyramidal cell synapses at this age. Our results reveal that deletion of Pten in dentate granule cells dysregulates synaptic plasticity, a defect that may underlie abnormal social and cognitive behaviors observed in humans with Pten inactivating mutations and potentially other autism spectrum disorders.
Mechanotransduction, the pathway by which mechanical forces are translated to biological signals, plays important but poorly characterized roles in physiology. PIEZOs are recently identified, widely expressed, mechanically activated ion channels that are hypothesized to play a role in mechanotransduction in mammals. Here, we describe two distinct PIEZO2 mutations in patients with a subtype of Distal Arthrogryposis Type 5 characterized by generalized autosomal dominant contractures with limited eye movements, restrictive lung disease, and variable absence of cruciate knee ligaments. Electrophysiological studies reveal that the two PIEZO2 mutations affect biophysical properties related to channel inactivation: both E2727del and I802F mutations cause the PIEZO2-dependent, mechanically activated currents to recover faster from inactivation, while E2727del also causes a slowing of inactivation. Both types of changes in kinetics result in increased channel activity in response to a given mechanical stimulus, suggesting that Distal Arthrogryposis Type 5 can be caused by gain-of-function mutations in PIEZO2. We further show that overexpression of mutated PIEZO2 cDNAs does not cause constitutive activity or toxicity to cells, indicating that the observed phenotype is likely due to a mechanotransduction defect. Our studies identify a type of channelopathy and link the dysfunction of mechanically activated ion channels to developmental malformations and joint contractures.
Motor fatigue induced by physical activity is an everyday experience characterized by a decreased capacity to generate motor force. Factors in both muscles and the central nervous system are involved. The central component of fatigue modulates the ability of motoneurons to activate muscle adequately independently of the muscle physiology. Indirect evidence indicates that central fatigue is caused by serotonin (5-HT), but the cellular mechanisms are unknown. In a slice preparation from the spinal cord of the adult turtle, we found that prolonged stimulation of the raphe-spinal pathway--as during motor exercise--activated 5-HT1A receptors that decreased motoneuronal excitability. Electrophysiological tests combined with pharmacology showed that focal activation of 5-HT1A receptors at the axon initial segment (AIS), but not on other motoneuronal compartments, inhibited the action potential initiation by modulating a Na(+) current. Immunohistochemical staining against 5-HT revealed a high-density innervation of 5-HT terminals on the somatodendritic membrane and a complete absence on the AIS. This observation raised the hypothesis that a 5-HT spillover activates receptors at this latter compartment. We tested it by measuring the level of extracellular 5-HT with cyclic voltammetry and found that prolonged stimulations of the raphe-spinal pathway increased the level of 5-HT to a concentration sufficient to activate 5-HT1A receptors. Together our results demonstrate that prolonged release of 5-HT during motor activity spills over from its release sites to the AIS of motoneurons. Here, activated 5-HT1A receptors inhibit firing and, thereby, muscle contraction. Hence, this is a cellular mechanism for central fatigue.

During puberty, the brain goes through extensive remodeling, involving the addition of new neurons and glia to brain regions beyond the canonical neurogenic regions (i.e., dentate gyrus and olfactory bulb), including limbic and hypothalamic cell groups associated with sex-typical behavior. Whether these pubertally born cells become functionally integrated into neural circuits remains unknown. To address this question, we gave male Syrian hamsters daily injections of the cell birthdate marker bromodeoxyuridine throughout puberty (postnatal day 28-49). Half of the animals were housed in enriched environments with access to a running wheel to determine whether enrichment increased the survival of pubertally born cells compared with the control environment. At 4 wk after the last BrdU injection, animals were allowed to interact with a receptive female and were then killed 1 h later. Triple-label immunofluorescence for BrdU, the mature neuron marker neuronal nuclear antigen, and the astrocytic marker glial fibrillary acidic protein revealed that a proportion of pubertally born cells in the medial preoptic area, arcuate nucleus, and medial amygdala differentiate into either mature neurons or astrocytes. Double-label immunofluorescence for BrdU and the protein Fos revealed that a subset of pubertally born cells in these regions is activated during sociosexual behavior, indicative of their functional incorporation into neural circuits. Enrichment affected the survival and activation of pubertally born cells in a brain region-specific manner. These results demonstrate that pubertally born cells located outside of the traditional neurogenic regions differentiate into neurons and glia and become functionally incorporated into neural circuits that subserve sex-typical behaviors.
Basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits are critical for motor control and motor learning. Classically, basal ganglia nuclei are thought to regulate motor behavior by increasing or decreasing cortical firing rates, and basal ganglia diseases are assumed to reflect abnormal overall activity levels. More recent studies suggest instead that motor disorders derive from abnormal firing patterns, and have led to the hypothesis that surgical treatments, such as pallidotomy, act primarily by eliminating pathological firing patterns. Surprisingly little is known, however, about how the basal ganglia normally influence task-related cortical activity to regulate motor behavior, and how lesions of the basal ganglia influence cortical firing properties. Here, we investigated these questions in a songbird circuit that has striking homologies to mammalian basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits but is specialized for singing. The &quot;cortical&quot; outflow nucleus of this circuit is required for song plasticity and normally exhibits increased firing during singing and song-locked burst firing. We found that lesions of the striato-pallidal nucleus in this circuit prevented hearing-dependent song changes. These basal ganglia lesions also stripped the cortical outflow neurons of their patterned burst firing during singing, without changing their spontaneous or singing-related firing rates. Taken together, these results suggest that the basal ganglia are essential not for normal cortical firing rates but for driving task-specific cortical firing patterns, including bursts. Moreover, such patterned bursting appears critical for motor plasticity. Our findings thus provide support for therapies that aim to treat basal ganglia movement disorders by normalizing firing patterns.


INTRODUCTION: The ideal measures to prevent postoperative delirium remain unestablished. We conducted this systematic review and meta-analysis to clarify the significance of potential interventions. METHODS: The PRISMA statement guidelines were followed. Two researchers searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and the Cochrane Library for articles published in English before August 2012. Additional sources included reference lists from reviews and related articles from 'Google Scholar'. Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) on interventions seeking to prevent postoperative delirium in adult patients were included. Data extraction and methodological quality assessment were performed using predefined data fields and scoring system. Meta-analysis was accomplished for studies that used similar strategies. The primary outcome measure was the incidence of postoperative delirium. We further tested whether interventions effective in preventing postoperative delirium shortened the length of hospital stay. RESULTS: We identified 38 RCTs with interventions ranging from perioperative managements to pharmacological, psychological or multicomponent interventions. Meta-analysis showed dexmedetomidine sedation was associated with less delirium compared to sedation produced by other drugs (two RCTs with 415 patients, pooled risk ratio (RR) = 0.39; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.16 to 0.95). Both typical (three RCTs with 965 patients, RR = 0.71; 95% CI = 0.54 to 0.93) and atypical antipsychotics (three RCTs with 627 patients, RR = 0.36; 95% CI = 0.26 to 0.50) decreased delirium occurrence when compared to placebos. Multicomponent interventions (two RCTs with 325 patients, RR = 0.71; 95% CI = 0.58 to 0.86) were effective in preventing delirium. No difference in the incidences of delirium was found between: neuraxial and general anesthesia (four RCTs with 511 patients, RR = 0.99; 95% CI = 0.65 to 1.50); epidural and intravenous analgesia (three RCTs with 167 patients, RR = 0.93; 95% CI = 0.61 to 1.43) or acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and placebo (four RCTs with 242 patients, RR = 0.95; 95% CI = 0.63 to 1.44). Effective prevention of postoperative delirium did not shorten the length of hospital stay (10 RCTs with 1,636 patients, pooled SMD (standard mean difference) = -0.06; 95% CI = -0.16 to 0.04). CONCLUSIONS: The included studies showed great inconsistencies in definition, incidence, severity and duration of postoperative delirium. Meta-analysis supported dexmedetomidine sedation, multicomponent interventions and antipsychotics were useful in preventing postoperative delirium.
Avoiding what you know is bad is a major challenge for recovering addicts. New research suggests that powerful desire can develop even for cues that have always been repulsive. Memories about learned cues can promote addiction in certain conditions.
The spatial resolution of sensory systems is not homogeneous across their receptive surfaces. For example, tactile acuity is greatest on the fingertips, reflecting the high innervation density and small mechanoreceptive fields in this area [1, 2]. In contrast, pain is considered to lack any equivalent to the tactile fovea on the fingertips, where the density of nociceptive fibers is remarkably low [3]. Here, by combining psychophysics with histology, we show that this established notion is incorrect. By delivering small-diameter nociceptive-specific laser pulses to human volunteers, we discovered that (1) the spatial acuity for pain is higher on the fingertips than on proximal skin regions such as the hand dorsum, and (2) this distal-proximal gradient for pain is comparable to that for touch. In contrast, skin biopsies in the same participants showed that the intraepidermal nerve fiber density is lower in the fingertips than in the hand dorsum. The increased spatial acuity for pain on the fingertips therefore cannot be explained simply by peripheral innervation density. This finding is, however, consistent with the existence of fine-grained maps of nociceptive input to individual digits in the human primary somatosensory cortex [4].
Learning to read is extremely difficult for about 10% of children; they are affected by a neurodevelopmental disorder called dyslexia [1, 2]. The neurocognitive causes of dyslexia are still hotly debated [3-12]. Dyslexia remediation is far from being fully achieved [13], and the current treatments demand high levels of resources [1]. Here, we demonstrate that only 12 hr of playing action video games-not involving any direct phonological or orthographic training-drastically improve the reading abilities of children with dyslexia. We tested reading, phonological, and attentional skills in two matched groups of children with dyslexia before and after they played action or nonaction video games for nine sessions of 80 min per day. We found that only playing action video games improved children's reading speed, without any cost in accuracy, more so than 1 year of spontaneous reading development and more than or equal to highly demanding traditional reading treatments. Attentional skills also improved during action video game training. It has been demonstrated that action video games efficiently improve attention abilities [14, 15]; our results showed that this attention improvement can directly translate into better reading abilities, providing a new, fast, fun remediation of dyslexia that has theoretical relevance in unveiling the causal role of attention in reading acquisition.
We have explored the mechanisms involved in the facilitation of glutamate release mediated by the activation of kainate receptors (KARs) in the cortex using isolated nerve terminals (synaptosomes). Kainate (KA) produced an increase on glutamate release at 100 M. The effect of KA was antagonized by NBQX (with AMPA receptors blocked by GYKI53655). This facilitation was suppressed by the inhibition of PKA activation by Rp-Br-cAMP and H-89. Moreover, the facilitation of glutamate release mediated by KAR requires the mobilization of intrasynaptosomal Ca(2+) stores and the formation of a Ca(2+)-calmodulin complex. We conclude that KARs present on presynaptic terminals in the neocortex mediate the facilitation of glutamate release through a mechanism involving an increase in cytosolic Ca(2+) to activate a Ca(2+)-calmodulin-AC/cAMP/PKA signaling cascade.
With population ageing, there is an increased interest in how to promote a good old age. A predominant concept in these discussions is successful ageing, which is mainly based on researchers' definitions. This article aims to explore successful ageing from the perspective of community-dwelling older people (24 persons aged 77-90 years). Individual open interviews were conducted and analysed according to qualitative content analysis. An overarching theme was formulated as &quot;self-respect through ability to keep fear of frailty at a distance&quot;. This embraced the content of four categories: &quot;having sufficient bodily resources for security and opportunities&quot;, &quot;structures that promote security and opportunities&quot;, &quot;feeling valuable in relation to the outside world&quot;, and &quot;choosing gratitude instead of worries&quot;. Ageing seems to be a dynamic process rather than a static structure and might therefore be susceptible to actions. Paying attention to attitudes and treating the older person with respect, particularly with regard to worries about increasing vulnerability, can lead to better ways of promoting successful ageing.
Intraparenchymal injection of a viral vector enables conditional gene manipulation in distinct populations of neurons or particular regions of the central nervous system. We demonstrate a stereotaxic injection technique that allows targeted gene expression or silencing in the dorsal horn of the mouse spinal cord. The surgical procedure is brief. It requires laminectomy of a single vertebra, providing for quick recovery of the animal and unimpaired motility of the spine. Controlled injection of a small vector suspension volume at low speed and use of a microsyringe with beveled glass cannula minimize the tissue lesion. The local immune response to the vector depends on the intrinsic properties of the virus employed; in our experience, it is minor and short-lived when a recombinant adeno-associated virus is used. A reporter gene such as enhanced green fluorescent protein facilitates monitoring spatial distribution of the vector, and the efficacy and cellular specificity of the transfection.
Maurocalcine is a highly potent cell-penetrating peptide isolated from the Tunisian scorpion Maurus palmatus. Many cell-penetrating peptide analogues have been derived from the full-length maurocalcine by internal cysteine substitutions and sequence truncation. Herein we have further characterized the cell-penetrating properties of one such peptide, MCaUF1-9, whose sequence matches that of the hydrophobic face of maurocalcine. This peptide shows very favorable cell-penetration efficacy compared to Tat, penetratin or polyarginine. The peptide appears so specialized in cell penetration that it seems hard to improve by site directed mutagenesis. A comparative analysis of the efficacies of similar peptides isolated from other toxin members of the same family leads to the identification of hadrucalcin's hydrophobic face as an even better CPP. Protonation of the histidine residue at position 6 renders the cell penetration of MCaUF1-9 pH-sensitive. Greater cell penetration at acidic pH suggests that MCaUF1-9 can be used to specifically target cancer cells in vivo where tumor masses grow in more acidic environments.
Stem cell technology is a promising branch of regenerative medicine that is aimed at developing new approaches for the treatment of severely debilitating human diseases, including those affecting the central nervous system (CNS). Despite the increasing understanding of the mechanisms governing their biology, the application of stem cell therapeutics remains challenging. The initial idea that stem cell transplants work in vivo via the replacement of endogenous cells lost or damaged owing to disease has been challenged by accumulating evidence of their therapeutic plasticity. This new concept covers the remarkable immune regulatory and tissue trophic effects that transplanted stem cells exert at the level of the neural microenvironment to promote tissue healing via combination of immune modulatory and tissue protective actions, while retaining predominantly undifferentiated features. Among a number of promising candidate stem cell sources, neural stem/precursor cells (NPCs) are under extensive investigation with regard to their therapeutic plasticity after transplantation. The significant impact in vivo of experimental NPC therapies in animal models of inflammatory CNS diseases has raised great expectations that these stem cells, or the manipulation of the mechanisms behind their therapeutic impact, could soon be translated to human studies. This review aims to provide an update on the most recent evidence of therapeutically-relevant neuro-immune interactions following NPC transplants in animal models of multiple sclerosis, cerebral stroke and traumas of the spinal cord, and consideration of the forthcoming challenges related to the early translation of some of these exciting experimental outcomes into clinical medicines.

Based on the interrelation between science and philosophy, this article addresses the impact of neurosciences on the philosophical issues posed by today's society, especially those related with epistemology and the philosophy of science. To do so, the different approaches in the cognitive sciences are taken into account, with special attention paid to those that have to do with social, embodied and situated cognition versus a more individual, rational and abstract cognition. This initial framework is taken as the starting point with which to analyse the ways of representing knowledge and the characteristics of the cognoscente agent.
Inflammation and antenatal glucocorticoids, the latter given to mothers at risk for preterm birth, affect lung development and may contribute to the development of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). The effects of the combined exposures on inflammation and antenatal glucocorticoids on transforming growth factor (TGF)- signaling are unknown. TGF- and its downstream mediators are implicated in the etiology of BPD. Therefore, we asked whether glucocorticoids altered intra-amniotic lipopolysaccharide (LPS) effects on TGF- expression, its signaling molecule phosphorylated sma and mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 2 (pSmad2), and the downstream mediators connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) and caveolin-1 (Cav-1). Ovine singleton fetuses were randomized to receive either an intra-amniotic injection of LPS and/or maternal betamethasone (BTM) intramuscularly 7 and/or 14 days before delivery at 120 days gestational age (GA; term = 150 days GA). Saline was used for controls. Protein levels of TGF-1 and -2 were measured by ELISA. Smad2 phosphorylation was assessed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot. CTGF and Cav-1 mRNA and protein levels were determined by RT-PCR and Western blot. Free TGF-1 and -2 and total TGF-1 levels were unchanged after LPS and/or BTM exposure, although total TGF-2 increased in animals exposed to BTM 7 days before LPS. pSmad2 immunostaining increased 7 days after LPS exposure although pSmad2 protein expression did not increase. Similarly, CTGF mRNA and protein levels increased 7 days after LPS exposure as Cav-1 mRNA and protein levels decreased. BTM exposure before LPS prevented CTGF induction and Cav-1 downregulation. This study demonstrated that the intrauterine inflammation-induced TGF- signaling can be inhibited by antenatal glucocorticoids in fetal lungs.
Environmental factors seem to play a key role in brain and behavioral development, both in humans and animals. Different environmental manipulations, either pre- or post-natal, have been shown to exert long-term physiological and behavioral effects. While studies in the field of Enriched Environment mainly focus on the post weaning period and provide enrichment as a post adverse-experience manipulation, the preceding effects of prenatal Enriched Environment have rarely been investigated. In this study, we investigated the effects of prenatal Enriched Environment (through the entire pregnancy) followed by adulthood acute stress. In the prenatal Enriched Environment offspring, we found anxiety and depressive-like behaviors with poor attentional performance. Surprisingly, when prenatal Enriched Environment was followed by adulthood stress, we observed a dramatic restoration of these behavioral deficits. Our results suggest that prenatal Enriched Environment may substrate resiliency to adulthood stress.
Stress has been shown to influence working memory. However, sex differences and the potential impact of stimulus emotionality have not received much attention. In a first experiment the effects of stress on a neutral working memory (WM) paradigm were tested in male and female participants (Experiment 1). Experiment 2 employed the same paradigm but used emotional stimuli. For this purpose, healthy participants were exposed either to a stressful (Trierer Social Stress Test (TSST)) or to a non-stressful control condition. Subsequently, WM performance in an n-back task was assessed. In Experiment 1, single digits were used as stimuli, while in Experiment 2 neutral and negative pictures were additionally employed. Salivary cortisol and Alpha-Amylase (sAA) were measured before and three times after the treatment as a marker of hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis- and sympathetic nervous system (SNS) activity. In both experiments, stress caused a substantial cortisol and sAA increase. For WM performance (response time) a stress by sex interaction was apparent. Stress enhanced performance in men, while impairing it in women. In both experiments stress had no effect on response accuracy. No modulating effect of the emotional quality of stimuli on n-back performance was observed (study 2). The results indicate that the effect of acute stress on n-back performance differs between the sexes. In contrast to long-term memory, the influence of stress on WM appears not to be modulated by the emotionality of the employed stimuli if stimuli are potential targets as it is the case in the n-back task.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the network and its effective connectivity subserving body processing in women suffering from anorexia nervosa (AN) and also in healthy controls. Ten women diagnosed with AN and 15 healthy, age matched controls were investigated using fMRI during viewing images of bodies and chairs. Effective connectivity between cortical areas which are involved in human visual body processing was accessed. Effective connectivity analysis yielded evidence for a different network in AN and healthy controls during visual processing of human bodies. Left sided effective connectivity in the occipital cortex of women with AN showed a highly negative correlation with body size misjudgment. Present results yield evidence for altered networks for body processing in women with AN. Results explain body size misjudgment, a key feature in AN, which seems to be based on reduced effective connectivity in the body processing network.
Explicit encoding requires humans to select the information relevant to their goals, yet not all irrelevant information is discarded. The present study addressed how different quantity and relevance of information modulate the electrophysiological activity during the encoding and retrieval phases of a recognition memory task. Subjects learned associations between two semantically unrelated pictures, and then performed a recognition judgment. After recognition, subjects were asked to recall the associated picture by using the recognized image as a cue. Cues yielded either high quantity of information (the cue evoked two associations, only one of them being relevant to the task), or low quantity of information (the cue evoked a single, relevant association). At encoding, a negative peak (400 ms) showed reduced negativity at left sites for the associative trials compared to the non-associative ones, while at right frontal sites the peak was more negative for goal-unrelated associations, compared to goal-related ones. Late right negativity during the test phase (800-1000 ms) discriminated hits followed either by correct or by no recall, but only when the cue evoked multiple associations. Frontal electrophysiological asymmetry at encoding was affected by the behavioral goal, i.e. activity reflected goal-related encoding on the left and goal-unrelated encoding on the right. The late right effect at retrieval suggests a link between this activity during encoding and the evaluation of the higher quantity of information in light of the behavioral goal during retrieval. Overall, the results indicate that different mechanisms and/or neuronal populations are involved in goal-related versus goal-unrelated association.
Synchronized oscillatory activity at alpha (8-12 Hz) and beta (13-30 Hz) frequencies plays a key role in motor control. Nevertheless, its exact functional significance has yet to be solved. Transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) allows the frequency-specific modulation of ongoing oscillatory activity. The goal of the present study was to investigate the effect of 10 and 20 Hz tACS over left primary motor cortex (M1) on motor functions and cortical excitability in healthy subjects. To this end, tACS was applied for 10 min. Sham stimulation served as control condition. Movement speed and accuracy of the right hand were assessed in 15 right-handed subjects before and after (0, 30 and 60 min) tACS of M1. Cortical silent period (CSP) and motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were determined as measures of M1 excitability. While 10 Hz tACS particularly increased movement variability, especially in tasks requiring internal pacing, 20 Hz tACS resulted in movement slowing. Behavioural effects occurred in distinct time windows. While 10 Hz effects developed over 30 min after stimulation, 20 Hz tACS effects were found immediately after stimulation. Following 10 Hz tACS these effects were significantly correlated with CSP duration, indicating interference with inhibitory pathways. The present findings suggest differential effects of stimulation frequency on motor behaviour and M1 excitability.
Herein, we investigated the effect Salvia sahendica (S. sahenica) extract, an endemic plant of Iran on the improvement of learning and memory deficits in amyloid beta-(A) injected rats. In order to test this hypothesis, we pretreated rats with S. sahendica 1 week prior to A injection, then performed Morris water maze test. Besides, we studied the molecular factors involved in neuronal plasticity and apoptosis such as Ca(2+)/cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB), c-fos, Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  co-activator 1 (PGC-1), Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) and caspase-3. Moreover, we used Terminal-Transferase dUTP Nick End Labeling (TUNEL) technique to detect apoptosis in the hippocampus of A-injected rats. Results showed that S. sahendica could improve learning and memory in the behavioral test. The results of molecular section showed that CREB, c-fos and PGC-1 levels attenuated in the A-injected rats in comparison with control group. These decreases were attenuated 58, 62, 57% respectively in S. sahendica-pretreated rats. This dietary supplementation could decrease apoptotic factors including caspase-3, PARP and TUNEL positive cells as well. Collectively, the present result from behavioral testing and biochemical analysis demonstrated that S. sahendica treatment for 1 week protected against apoptosis and memory deficits in A-injected rats.



The water-soluble derivatives of propofol have gained attention as a method to increase solubility of propofol. According to the principle of lactonization, the lead compound HX0969 was synthesized first and then the pharmacological features of HX0969 were evaluated in a comparison with those of propofol in the SD rats. Then, HX0969 disodium phosphate monoester (HX0969W) and glycine ester trifluoroacetic acid salt (HX101230) were synthesized, and their pharmacological features were compared with those of Lusedra, which has been recognized and marketed as a water-soluble prodrug of propofol since 2008. The results showed that HX0969 could produce an anesthetic effect within a few seconds (3.63.0s) and its therapeutic index was 4.66 in the SD rat. The pharmacodynamic characteristics of HX0969W were similar to those of the Lusedra. HX101230 could still produce an anesthetic effect within 60s in the rats though its therapeutic index was not so high (TI=2.96). Therefore, our study has indicated that HX0969 is a potentially useful lead compound of propofol derivative. Its rapid anesthetic effect is probably associated with lactonization.
Parkinson's disease and its characteristic symptoms are thought to arise from the progressive degeneration of specific midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons. In humans, DA neurons of the substantia nigra (SN) and their projections to the striatum show selective vulnerability, while neighboring DA neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) are relatively spared from degeneration. Recent studies from our laboratory have shown that the VTA exhibits a unique transcriptional response when exposed to MPTP (Phani et al., 2010), a neurotoxin able to mimic the selective cell loss observed in PD (Schneider et al., 1987). In this study, we focus on gremlin, a peptide that is transcriptionally increased in the VTA in response to MPTP. We describe a novel role for gremlin as a neuroprotective agent both in vitro and in vivo and show that gremlin is capable of protecting SN DA neurons and several DA cell lines against MPP+/MPTP. We propose that this protection is mediated by VEGFR2, and by the MAP kinase signaling pathway downstream of the receptor. Our data indicate that gremlin may be a key factor in protecting the VTA against MPTP-induced cell death, and that exogenous application of gremlin is capable of protecting SN DA neurons, and therefore may provide an opportunity for the development of novel PD therapeutic compounds.
Estrogen receptor  (ER) isoforms with complex types of alternative splicing are naturally present in the human brain and may affect canonical receptor signaling. In the present study we investigated transcriptional activity of common ER splice variants from this group with different molecular defects: MB1 (intron retention), TADDI (small deletion between exons 3 and 4 with an insert), the  (deletion) 3()-7(*)/819 (complete skipping of exons 4, 5 and 6 and partial deletion of exons 3 and 7) and the 3-6 (lacking exons 3, 4, 5 and 6) in HeLa and M17 cells upon stimulation with (17)estradiol or insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). In HeLa cells, all these splice variants showed the dominant negative function that was more pronounced for the TADDI. In M17 cells the dominant negative variants appeared to be the MB1 and the 3-6, whereas TADDI turned out to be a clearly dominant positive variant. In M17 cells mRNA levels of 3-6 and 3(*)-7(*)/819 variants increased following (17)estradiol administration. In Hela cells (17)estradiol up-regulated the IGF-1 receptor mRNA levels in cultures transfected with MB1, TADDI and 3(*)-7(*)/819. Our data demonstrate that ER splice variants show differential levels of the transcriptional activity in a cell type-specific way and that IGF-1 signaling pathways are differentially employed in a cell-type specific manner depending on the level of the discrete ER splice variants expressed. Functional properties of various ER splice variants and their cell type-specificity should, thus, be considered as potential confounders of estrogen therapy effects on the brain.
In the present study, we assessed the involvement of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in the ability of rats to perform crossmodal (tactile-to-visual) object recognition tasks. We tested rats with 3 different types of bilateral excitotoxic lesions: (1) Large PFC lesions, including the medial PFC (mPFC) and ventral and lateral regions of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC); (2) selective mPFC lesions; and (3) selective OFC lesions. Rats were tested on 2 versions of crossmodal object recognition (CMOR): (1) The original CMOR task, which uses a tactile-only sample phase and a visual-only choice phase; and (2) a &quot;multimodal pre-exposure&quot; version (PE/CMOR), in which simultaneous pre-exposure to the tactile and visual features of an object facilitates CMOR performance over longer memory delays. Inclusive PFC lesions disrupted performance on both versions of CMOR, whereas selective mPFC damage had no effect. Lesions limited to the OFC caused delay-dependent deficits on the CMOR task, but failed to reverse the enhancement produced by multimodal object pre-exposure. This pattern of functional dissociations suggests complex, multidimensional contributions of the PFC and its subregions to crossmodal cognition.
Dominant mutations in TUBB2B have been reported in patients with polymicrogyria. We further explore the phenotype associated with mutations in TUBB2B. Twenty patients with polymicrogyria (five unilateral) were tested for mutations in TUBB2B by Sanger sequencing. We identified two novel de novo mutations, c.743C&gt;T (p.Ala248Val) and c.1139G&gt;T (p.Arg380Leu) in exon 4 of TUBB2B in three unrelated families. Brain magnetic resonance images showed polymicrogyria involving predominantly the perisylvian regions. In addition, there was a dysmorphic appearance of the basal ganglia, thin corpus callosum, enlargement of the ventricles, thinning of the white matter and hypoplasia of pons and cerebellar vermis. This combination of associated features was absent in all 17 patients with polymicrogyria in whom no mutation was identified. This report underlines that the association of polymicrogyria with thin or absent corpus callosum, dysmorphic basal ganglia, brainstem and vermis hypoplasia is highly likely to result from mutations in TUBB2B and provides further insight in how mutations in TUBB2B affect protein function.

Fragile X premutation-associated disorders, including Fragile X-associated Tremor Ataxia Syndrome, result from unmethylated CGG repeat expansions in the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of the FMR1 gene. Premutation-sized repeats increase FMR1 transcription but impair rapid translation of the Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), which is absent in Fragile X Syndrome (FXS). Normally, FMRP binds to RNA and regulates metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-mediated synaptic translation, allowing for dendritic synthesis of several proteins. FMRP itself is also synthesized at synapses in response to mGluR activation. However, the role of activity-dependent translation of FMRP in synaptic plasticity and Fragile X-premutation-associated disorders is unknown. To investigate this question, we utilized a CGG knock-in mouse model of the Fragile X premutation with 120-150 CGG repeats in the mouse Fmr1 5' UTR. These mice exhibit increased Fmr1 mRNA production but impaired FMRP translational efficiency, leading to a modest reduction in basal FMRP expression. Cultured hippocampal neurons and synaptoneurosomes derived from CGG KI mice demonstrate impaired FMRP translation in response to the group I mGluR agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine. Electrophysiological analysis reveals enhanced mGluR-mediated long-term depression (mGluR-LTD) at CA3-CA1 synapses in acute hippocampal slices prepared from CGG KI mice relative to wild-type littermates, similar to Fmr1 knockout mice. However, unlike mGluR-LTD in mice completely lacking FMRP, mGluR-LTD in CGG knock-in mice remains dependent on new protein synthesis. These studies demonstrate partially overlapping synaptic plasticity phenotypes in mouse models of FXS and Fragile X premutation disorders and support a role for activity-dependent synthesis of FMRP in enduring forms of synaptic plasticity.


We have previously reported that NADPH oxidase 2 (Nox2) is up-regulated in spinal cord microglia after spinal nerve injury, demonstrating that it is critical for microglia activation and subsequent pain hypersensitivity. However, the mechanisms and molecules involved in Nox2 induction have not been elucidated. Previous studies have shown that Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are involved in nerve injury-induced spinal cord microglia activation. In this study, we investigated the role of TLR in Nox2 expression in spinal cord microglia after peripheral nerve injury. Studies using TLR knock-out mice have shown that nerve injury-induced microglial Nox2 up-regulation is abrogated in TLR2 but not in TLR3 or -4 knock-out mice. Intrathecal injection of lipoteichoic acid, a TLR2 agonist, induced Nox2 expression in spinal cord microglia both at the mRNA and protein levels. Similarly, lipoteichoic acid stimulation induced Nox2 expression and reactive oxygen species production in primary spinal cord glial cells in vitro. Studies on intracellular signaling pathways indicate that NF-B and p38 MAP kinase activation is required for TLR2-induced Nox2 expression in glial cells. Conclusively, our data show that TLR2 mediates nerve injury-induced Nox2 gene expression in spinal cord microglia via NF-B and p38 activation and thereby may contribute to spinal cord microglia activation.
Neurodegenerative diseases associated with the pathological aggregation of microtubule-associated protein Tau are classified as tauopathies. Alzheimer disease, the most common tauopathy, is characterized by neurofibrillary tangles that are mainly composed of abnormally phosphorylated Tau. Similar hyperphosphorylated Tau lesions are found in patients with frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) that is induced by mutations within the tau gene. To further understand the etiology of tauopathies, it will be important to elucidate the mechanism underlying Tau hyperphosphorylation. Tau phosphorylation occurs mainly at proline-directed Ser/Thr sites, which are targeted by protein kinases such as GSK3 and Cdk5. We reported previously that dephosphorylation of Tau at Cdk5-mediated sites was enhanced by Pin1, a peptidyl-prolyl isomerase that stimulates dephosphorylation at proline-directed sites by protein phosphatase 2A. Pin1 deficiency is suggested to cause Tau hyperphosphorylation in Alzheimer disease. Up to the present, Pin1 binding was only shown for two Tau phosphorylation sites (Thr-212 and Thr-231) despite the presence of many more hyperphosphorylated sites. Here, we analyzed the interaction of Pin1 with Tau phosphorylated by Cdk5-p25 using a GST pulldown assay and Biacore approach. We found that Pin1 binds and stimulates dephosphorylation of Tau at all Cdk5-mediated sites (Ser-202, Thr-205, Ser-235, and Ser-404). Furthermore, FTDP-17 mutant Tau (P301L or R406W) showed slightly weaker Pin1 binding than non-mutated Tau, suggesting that FTDP-17 mutations induce hyperphosphorylation by reducing the interaction between Pin1 and Tau. Together, these results indicate that Pin1 is generally involved in the regulation of Tau hyperphosphorylation and hence the etiology of tauopathies.
Missense mutations in the proteolipid protein 1 (PLP1) gene cause a wide spectrum of hypomyelinating disorders, from mild spastic paraplegia type 2 to severe Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (PMD). Mutant PLP1 accumulates in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and induces ER stress. However, the link between the clinical severity of PMD and the cellular response induced by mutant PLP1 remains largely unknown. Accumulation of misfolded proteins in the ER generally leads to up-regulation of ER chaperones to alleviate ER stress. Here, we found that expression of the PLP1-A243V mutant, which causes severe disease, depletes some ER chaperones with a KDEL (Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu) motif, in HeLa cells, MO3.13 oligodendrocytic cells, and primary oligodendrocytes. The same PLP1 mutant also induces fragmentation of the Golgi apparatus (GA). These organelle changes are less prominent in cells with milder disease-associated PLP1 mutants. Similar changes are also observed in cells expressing another disease-causing gene that triggers ER stress, as well as in cells treated with brefeldin A, which induces ER stress and GA fragmentation by inhibiting GA to ER trafficking. We also found that mutant PLP1 disturbs localization of the KDEL receptor, which transports the chaperones with the KDEL motif from the GA to the ER. These data show that PLP1 mutants inhibit GA to ER trafficking, which reduces the supply of ER chaperones and induces GA fragmentation. We propose that depletion of ER chaperones and GA fragmentation induced by mutant misfolded proteins contribute to the pathogenesis of inherited ER stress-related diseases and affect the disease severity.
A mixed micellar liquid chromatographic (LC) method, the mobile phase consisting of anionic and non-ionic surfactants, has been developed for the high-speed direct radiometabolite analysis of positron emission tomography (PET) radioligands in plasma. The addition of Triton X-100 on an anionic surfactant sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) mobile phase improved elution strength and peak efficiency for many PET radioligands. Several radioligands could be easily separated from their radioactive metabolites with short run time of only 4 min using a &quot;pure&quot; (without organic solvent) mixed micellar mobile phase and semi-preparative monolithic C(18)-bonded silica column by simple isocratic elution without any treatment of plasma. Moreover, the use of &quot;hybrid&quot; mixed micellar mobile phase containing anionic, non-ionic surfactants and organic solvent was effective to further enhance peak efficiency and elute highly retained hydrophobic PET radioligands. These characteristics enabled significant shorting the radiometabolite analysis procedure of PET radioligands and simplifying the experimental setup.
Estradiol-17 (E) and progesterone (P) play critical roles in female reproductive physiology and behavior. Given the sensitivity of females to exogenous sources of these steroids, we examined the presence of E and P in conspecifics' excretions and the transfer of excreted steroids between conspecifics. We paired individual adult female mice with a stimulus male or female conspecific given daily injections of [H]E or [H]P. Following 48 h of direct interaction with the stimulus animal, we measured radioactivity in the uterus, ovaries, muscle, olfactory bulbs, mesencephalon and diencephalon (MC+DC), and cerebral cortex of the untreated female cohabitant. Radioactivity was significantly present in all tissues of female subjects after individual exposure to a stimulus male or female given [H]E. In females exposed to males given [H]P, radioactivity was significantly present in the uterus, ovaries, and muscle, but not in other tissues. In females exposed to stimulus females given [H]P, radioactivity was significantly present in all tissues except the MC+DC. In mice directly administered [H]steroids, greater radioactivity was found in the urine of females than of males. Among females directly administered [H]steroids, greater radioactivity was found in urine of those given [H]P4 than of those given [H]E. When females were administered unlabeled E before exposure to [H]E-treated females, less radioactivity was detected in most tissues than was detected in the tissues of untreated females exposed to [H]E-treated females. We suggest that steroid transfer among individuals has implications for the understanding of various forms of pheromonal activity.
The big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus, uses echolocation for foraging and orientation. The limited operating range of biosonar implies that bats must rely upon spatial memory in familiar spaces with dimensions larger than a few meters. Prior experiments with bats flying in obstacle arrays have revealed differences in flight and acoustic emission patterns depending on the density and spatial extent of the obstacles. Using the same method, combined with acoustic microphone array tracking, we flew big brown bats in an obstacle array that varied in density and distribution in different locations in the flight room. In the initial experiment, six bats learned individually stereotyped flight patterns as they became familiar with the space. After the first day, the repetition rate of sonar broadcasts dropped to a stable level, consistent with low-density clutter. In a second experiment, after acquiring their stable paths, each bat was released from each of two unfamiliar locations in the room. Each bat still followed the same flight path it learned originally. In a third experiment, performed 1 month after the first two experiments, three of the bats were re-flown in the same configuration of obstacles; these three resumed flying in their accustomed path. The other three bats were flown in a mirror-image reconfiguration of the obstacles; these bats quickly found stable flight paths that differed from their originally learned paths. Overall, the flight patterns indicate that the bats perceive the cluttered space as a single scene through which they develop globally organized flight paths.
This study has established the presence of IgM against S-nitrosylated proteins in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients using S-nitrosocysteine epitope (anti-SNOcys) as previously shown in serum. Anti-SNOcys IgM increased significantly in CSF during relapsing-remitting MS compared to milder neurological conditions. Evidence from albumin, IgG and IgM suggest that the production of anti-SNOcys IgM is intrathecal rather than the result of ingress from serum. Two correlations during relapse: between CSF level of anti-SNOcys IgM and time elapsed since relapse onset; and between CSF and serum anti-SNOcys IgM levels, suggest that this antibody may have potential as a biomarker.
High intrathecal levels of anti-myelin basic protein (MBP) IgM were previously found to be significantly associated with early favorable course in a cohort of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). A mAb to MBP 105-120 recognizing the 222-228 epitope of the extracellular domain of high affinity immunoglobulin gamma Fc-receptor I (CD64) was isolated from EBV(+) B cell clones of long-term stable RRMS patients. This mAb exerted immunosuppressive activity on MS-derived T cell lines through induction and release of high amounts of interleukin-10 and decreased levels of interleukin-12 from activated monocytes providing the biological basis for a potential new treatment for MS and other immune-mediated neurological disorders.
A proportion of healthy siblings of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients have an oligoclonal immunological reaction in their cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) termed the &quot;MS oligoclonal trait&quot;. The CSF levels of the major myelin glycosphingolipid sulfatide and serum antibodies against the glycosphingolipids sulfatide and galactosylceramide were recently reported to be increased in MS patients. We studied the levels of these substances in pairs of 46 patients and their 46 healthy siblings and 50 unrelated healthy blood donors (HBD). The sulfatide concentration in CSF was assayed by thin layer chromatography and immunostaining, and the concentration of galactosylceramide by densitometry after thin layer chromatography. Anti-glycosphingolipid antibody levels were assayed by ELISA. In the healthy siblings, the CSF sulfatide concentrations were markedly increased (p&lt;0.001, age adjusted p=0.025), and the serum IgM anti-GalCer antibodies were increased in healthy siblings compared with HBD (p=0.02). The increased sulfatide or antibody levels did not co-segregate with the &quot;MS oligoclonal trait&quot; or the HLA-DR15 phenotype. In conclusion, a proportion of healthy siblings of MS patients have increased CSF sulfatide and anti-glycosphingolipid antibody levels, which may, analogous to the &quot;MS oligoclonal trait&quot;, constitute an &quot;MS glycosphingolipid endophenotype&quot;. Endophenotypes could potentially simplify the genetics of complex disorders.
Clinical evidence for parkinsonism may accompany Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis with a frequency ranging from 5% to 17%. The concurrence of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis and Parkinson's disease, outside the known Guam and Kii Peninsula foci, is instead rare, but this raises the possibility of a common pathogenesis. Clinically this complex presents with a levodopa-responsive parkinsonism and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis and has been termed Brait-Fahn-Schwartz disease. Here we describe two patients with this uncommon neurodegenerative complex. Both presented with Parkinson disease and progressed to a full blown Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. We further suggest that the association of Parkinson disease and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis represents a distinct nosological entity, which should be kept separated from extrapyramidal signs and symptoms that may occur in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.
This study aimed to investigate which cerebral cortices are involved in the central autonomic network and how they are linked to the peripheral (cardiac) autonomic network in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and normal controls. 26 PD patients with autonomic dysfunction and 23 age- and sex-matched controls were evaluated by simultaneous spectral analysis of electroencephalography (EEG) and electrocardiography (ECG) recording along with autonomic questionnaires. Although the PD group has significantly more symptoms of autonomic dysfunction, frequency-domain HRV can not differentiate these two groups. However, different patterns of central oscillation and their correlation with peripheral autonomic indices could be found for the two groups. While the power of specific EEG bands under electrodes F4, F7, Cz and Pz (parietal-lateral premotor cortex, which is considered as a compensatory area for the relative deficiency of mesial frontal-striatal circuits in PD) correlated significantly with the power of peripheral heart rate variability (HRV) indices in the PD group, those under electrodes C3, P3, P4 and F8 had significant correlation in the control group. In conclusion, functional connectivity between areas of cerebral cortex and peripheral autonomic system can be measured and differs between PD patients with autonomic dysfunction and healthy controls. The central autonomic network may play a role in brain re-organization in PD patients with autonomic dysfunction.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) is a group of idiopathic, acquired, immune-mediated inflammatory demyelinating diseases of the peripheral nervous system. A majority of patients with CIDP respond to &quot;first-line&quot; treatment with IVIG, plasmapheresis and/or corticosteroids. There exists insufficient evidence to ascertain the benefit of treatment with &quot;conventional&quot; immunosuppressive drugs. The inconsistent efficacy, long-term financial burden and health risks of non-specific immune altering therapy have drawn recurrent attention to the possible usefulness of a variety of biological agents that target key aspects in the CIDP immunopathogenic pathways. This review aims to give an updated account of the scientific rationale and potential use of biological therapeutics in patients with CIDP. No specific treatment recommendations are given. The discovery, development and application of biological markers by modern molecular diagnostic techniques may help identify drug-nave or treatment-resistant CIDP patients most likely to respond to targeted immunotherapy.
To effectively study the mechanisms by which deep brain stimulation (DBS) produces its therapeutic benefit and to evaluate new therapeutic indications, it is vital to administer DBS over an extended period of time in awake, freely behaving animals. To date multiple preclinical stimulators have been designed and described. However, these stimulators have failed to incorporate some of the design criteria necessary to provide a system analogous to those used clinically. Here we define these design criteria and propose an improved and complete preclinical DBS system. This system is fully programmable in frequency, pulse-width and current amplitude, has a rechargeable battery and delivers biphasic, charge-balanced output to two independent electrodes. The system has been optimized for either implantation or for use externally via attachment to rodent jackets.
Animal models of spinal cord injury (SCI) are intended to mimic the main features of human spinal cord lesions, although sometimes it becomes a difficult task to find the right technique to discriminate the severity of the lesion as well as to assess different aspects of functional recovery. For this reason, we have used several functional methods to assess gross and fine locomotion deficits, as well as electrophysiological data to study the dysfunctions underlying the behavioral changes. Moreover, an extensive study based on the quantification of alternation and coordination parameters during gait has been done. Spinal cord injuries of varying severity (mild contusion, moderate contusion and hemisection) were performed at the thoracic level in adult rats that were followed-up for 6 weeks. Lesions resulting in similar scores in the open field test (i.e. mild contusion and hemisection) caused more marked differences in fine coordination when assessed by quantitative coordination analysis based on a digitized walking treadmill. In conclusion, gross and fine deficits can be detected using a battery of tests based on the performance of the animals during tasks of different difficulty. When used appropriately, they become useful tools to study functional recovery due to spontaneous plastic changes or to therapeutic interventions after SCI, as well as to test the effects of new therapies.
Riluzole, a sodium/glutamate antagonist has shown promise as a neuroprotective agent. It is licensed for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and is in clinical trial development for spinal cord injury (SCI). This study investigated the therapeutic time-window and pharmacokinetics of riluzole in a rodent model of cervical SCI. Rats were treated with riluzole (8mg/kg) at 1 hour (P1) and 3 hours (P3) after injury or with vehicle. Afterward, P1 and P3 groups received riluzole (6 (mg/kg) every 12 hours for 7 days. Both P1 and P3 animals had significant improvements in locomotor recovery as measured by open field locomotion (BBB score, BBB subscore). Von Frey stimuli did not reveal an increase in at level or below level mechanical allodynia. Sensory-evoked potential recordings and quantification of axonal cytoskeleton demonstrated a riluzole-mediated improvement in axonal integrity and function. Histopathological and retrograde tracing studies demonstrated that delayed administration leads to tissue preservation and reduces apoptosis and inflammation. High performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was undertaken to examine the pharmacokinetics of riluzole. Riluzole penetrates the spinal cord in 15min, and SCI slowed elimination of riluzole from the spinal cord, resulting in a longer half-life and higher drug concentration in spinal cord and plasma. Initiation of riluzole treatment 1 and 3 hours post-SCI led to functional, histological, and molecular benefits. While extrapolation of post-injury time windows from rat to man is challenging, evidence from SCI-related biomarker studies would suggest that the post-injury time window is likely to be at least 12 hours in man.
A stereoselective synthesis of spiropiperidine compounds, exemplified by compound 1, was developed, which was based upon the late stage N-arylation of a 1,8-diazaspiro[4.5]dec-3-en-2-one pharmacophore. Previously, compound 1 was prepared in low overall yield from piperidinone 2 via the Strecker reaction. A new route was developed, which employed the stereospecific Corey-Link reaction of an enantiomerically pure trichloromethylcarbinol to give a template compound amenable to late stage N-arylation.

Considerable evidence links many neuropsychiatric, neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorders with multiple complex interactions between genetics and environmental factors such as nutrition. Mental health problems, autism, eating disorders, Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease and brain tumours are related to individual variability in numerous protein-coding and non-coding regions of the genome. However, genotype does not necessarily determine neurological phenotype because the epigenome modulates gene expression in response to endogenous and exogenous regulators, throughout the life-cycle. Studies using both genome-wide analysis of multiple genes and comprehensive analysis of specific genes are providing new insights into genetic and epigenetic mechanisms underlying nutrition and neuroscience. This review provides a critical evaluation of the following related areas: (1) recent advances in genomic and epigenomic technologies, and their relevance to brain disorders; (2) the emerging role of non-coding RNAs as key regulators of transcription, epigenetic processes and gene silencing; (3) novel approaches to nutrition, epigenetics and neuroscience; (4) gene-environment interactions, especially in the serotonergic system, as a paradigm of the multiple signalling pathways affected in neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders. Current and future advances in these four areas should contribute significantly to the prevention, amelioration and treatment of multiple devastating brain disorders.



-latrotoxin and snake presynaptic phospholipases A2 neurotoxins target the presynaptic membrane of axon terminals of the neuromuscular junction causing paralysis. These neurotoxins display different biochemical activities, but similarly alter the presynaptic membrane permeability causing Ca(2+) overload within the nerve terminals, which in turn induces nerve degeneration. Using different methods, here we show that the calcium-activated proteases calpains are involved in the cytoskeletal rearrangements that we have previously documented in neurons exposed to -latrotoxin or to snake presynaptic phospholipases A2 neurotoxins. These results indicate that calpains, activated by the massive calcium influx from the extracellular medium, target fundamental components of neuronal cytoskeleton such as spectrin and neurofilaments, whose cleavage is functional to the ensuing nerve terminal fragmentation.
The presence of -synuclein aggregates in the characteristic Lewy body pathology seen in idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), together with -synuclein gene mutations in familial PD, places -synuclein at the center of PD pathogenesis. Decreased levels of the chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) proteins LAMP-2A and hsc70 in PD brain samples suggests compromised -synuclein degradation by CMA may underpin the Lewy body pathology. Decreased CMA protein levels were not secondary to the various pathological changes associated with PD, including mitochondrial respiratory chain dysfunction, increased oxidative stress and proteasomal inhibition. However, decreased hsc70 and LAMP-2A protein levels in PD brains were associated with decreases in their respective mRNA levels. MicroRNA (miRNA) deregulation has been reported in PD brains and we have identified eight miRNAs predicted to regulate LAMP-2A or hsc70 expression that were reported to be increased in PD. Using a luciferase reporter assay in SH-SY5Y cells, four and three of these miRNAs significantly decreased luciferase activity expressed upstream of the lamp-2a and hsc70 3'UTR sequences respectively. We confirmed that transfection of these miRNAs also decreased endogenous LAMP-2A and hsc70 protein levels respectively and resulted in significant -synuclein accumulation. The analysis of PD brains confirmed that six and two of these miRNAs were significantly increased in substantia nigra compacta and amygdala respectively. These data support the hypothesis that decreased CMA caused by miRNA-induced downregulation of CMA proteins plays an important role in the -synuclein pathology associated with PD, and opens up a new avenue to investigate PD pathogenesis.
Our daily life is characterized by multiple response options that need to be cascaded in order to avoid overstrain of restricted response selection resources. While response selection and goal activation in action cascading are likely driven by a process varying from serial to parallel processing, little is known about the underlying neural mechanisms that may underlie interindividual differences in these modes of response selection. To investigate these mechanisms, we used a stop-change paradigm for the recording of event-related potentials and standardized low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography source localizations in healthy subjects. Systematically varying the stimulus onset asynchrony (the temporal spacing of &quot;stop&quot; and &quot;change&quot; signals), we applied mathematical constraints to classify subjects in more parallel or more serial goal activators during action cascading. On that basis, the electrophysiological data show that processes linking stimulus processing and response execution, but not attentional processes, underlie interindividual differences in either serial or parallel response selection modes during action cascading. On a systems level, these processes were mediated via a distributed fronto-parietal network, including the anterior cingulate cortex (Brodman area 32, BA32) and the temporo-parietal junction (BA40). There was a linear relation between the individual degree of overlap in activated task goals and electrophysiological processes.


During navigation, grid cells increase their spike rates in firing fields arranged on a markedly regular triangular lattice, whereas their spike timing is often modulated by theta oscillations. Oscillatory interference models of grid cells predict theta amplitude modulations of membrane potential during firing field traversals, whereas competing attractor network models predict slow depolarizing ramps. Here, using in vivo whole-cell recordings, we tested these models by directly measuring grid cell intracellular potentials in mice running along linear tracks in virtual reality. Grid cells had large and reproducible ramps of membrane potential depolarization that were the characteristic signature tightly correlated with firing fields. Grid cells also demonstrated intracellular theta oscillations that influenced their spike timing. However, the properties of theta amplitude modulations were not consistent with the view that they determine firing field locations. Our results support cellular and network mechanisms in which grid fields are produced by slow ramps, as in attractor models, whereas theta oscillations control spike timing.
This article compiles an expose of Valentino Braitenberg's singular view on neuroanatomy and neuroscience. The review emphasizes his topologically informed work on neuroanatomy and his dialectics of brain-based explanations of motor behavior. Some of his early ideas on topologically informed neuroanatomy are presented, together with some of his more obscure work on the taxonomy of neural fiber bundles and synaptic arborizations. His functionally informed interpretations of neuroanatomy of the cerebellum, cortex, and hippocampus, are introduced. Finally, we will touch on his philosophical views and the inextricable role of function in the explanation of neural behavior.
The ability to direct our thought processes influences not only what we do, but also what we remember later. Here we sought to identify the brain network that supports the ability to control memory retrieval and to understand the neural basis of age-related changes and individual differences in the capacity for mnemonic control. To this end, we collected functional MRI data from 43 children and young adults while they attempted to retrieve or suppress retrieval of previously learned associations. Seed-based functional connectivity analyses revealed a largely right-lateralized dorsolateral prefrontal cortex-cingulate-parietal-hippocampal network that exhibited strongly correlated activity during retrieval suppression. Regardless of age, individuals who were able to suppress memory retrieval exhibited tighter coupling between key nodes in this dorsolateral prefrontal cortex-cingulate-parietal-hippocampal network than individuals who did not. Further, only those capable of mnemonic control exhibited tighter coupling during successful retrieval suppression (intentional forgetting) than during unsuccessful retrieval (unintentional forgetting). Across both children and adults, individual differences in retrieval suppression were best explained by the strength of these network interactions.
Serotonin has a myriad of central functions involving mood, appetite, sleep, and memory and while its release within the spinal cord is particularly important for generating movement, the corresponding role on cortical movement representations (motor maps) is unknown. Using adult rats we determined that pharmacological depletion of serotonin (5-HT) via intracerebroventricular administration of 5,7 dihydroxytryptamine resulted in altered movements of the forelimb in a skilled reaching task as well as higher movement thresholds and smaller maps derived using high-resolution intracortical microstimulation (ICMS). We ruled out the possibility that reduced spinal cord excitability could account for the serotonin depletion-induced changes as we observed an enhanced Hoffman reflex (H-reflex), indicating a hyperexcitable spinal cord. Motor maps derived in 5-HT1A receptor knock-out mice also showed higher movement thresholds and smaller maps compared with wild-type controls. Direct cortical application of the 5-HT1A/7 agonist 8-OH-DPAT lowered movement thresholds in vivo and increased map size in 5-HT-depleted rats. In rats, electrical stimulation of the dorsal raphe lowered movement thresholds and this effect could be blocked by direct cortical application of the 5-HT1A antagonist WAY-100135, indicating that serotonin is primarily acting through the 5-HT1A receptor. Next we developed a novel in vitro ICMS preparation that allowed us to track layer V pyramidal cell excitability. Bath application of WAY-100135 raised the ICMS current intensity to induce action potential firing whereas the agonist 8-OH-DPAT had the opposite effect. Together our results demonstrate that serotonin, acting through 5-HT1A receptors, plays an excitatory role in forelimb motor map expression.
The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been implicated in regulating CNS myelination. BDNF mutant mice exhibit a hypomyelinating phenotype, and BDNF exerts distinct effects upon oligodendroglial proliferation, differentiation, and myelination in vitro. To investigate the precise influence that BDNF exerts in regulating CNS myelination in vivo, we have generated conditional knock-out mice in which TrkB has been deleted specifically in oligodendrocytes. Deletion of TrkB disrupted normal oligodendrocyte myelination, resulting in a significant reduction in myelin protein expression and myelination of CNS white matter tracts during development. Importantly, conditional knock-out mice exhibited normal numbers of mature oligodendrocytes and normal numbers of myelinated axons; however, myelin thickness was significantly reduced during development. These data indicate that while TrkB expression in oligodendrocytes plays no role in the initial contact with axons, it exerts an important influence in subsequent stages to promote myelin ensheathment. The conditional knock-out mice also exhibited an increased density of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) in CNS white matter tracts. Concordant with these results, in vitro analyses using OPCs subjected to TrkB knockdown also revealed increased OPC proliferation. Our data suggested this effect was dependent upon TrkC and p75 expression. Thus, our data demonstrate that TrkB expression in oligodendroglia exerts a direct effect on oligodendrocytes to promote myelination and an indirect effect upon the OPC population, modifying their proliferative potential.
Associative stimulation causes enduring changes in the nervous system based on the Hebbian concept of spike-timing-dependent plasticity. The present study aimed to characterize the immediate and long-term electrophysiological effects of associative stimulation at the level of spinal cord and to test how trans-spinal direct current stimulation (tsDC) modulates associative plasticity. The effect of combined associative stimulation and tsDC on locomotor recovery was tested in a unilateral model of spinal cord injury (SCI). Two associative protocols were tested: (1) spino-sciatic associative (SSA) protocol, in which the first stimulus originated from the sciatic nerve and the second from the spinal cord; and (2) cortico-sciatic associative (CSA) protocol, in which the first stimulus originated from the sciatic nerve and the second from the motor cortex. In addition, those two protocols were repeated in combination with cathodal tsDC application. SSA and CSA stimulation produced immediate enhancement of spinal and cortical outputs, respectively, depending on the duration of the interstimulus interval. Repetitive SSA or CSA stimulation produced long-term potentiation of spinal and cortical outputs, respectively. Applying tsDC during SSA or CSA stimulation markedly enhanced their immediate and long-term effects. In behaving mice with unilateral SCI, four consecutive 20 min sessions of CSA + tsDC markedly reduced error rate in a horizontal ladder-walking test. Thus, this form of artificially enhanced associative connection can be translated into a form of motor relearning that does not depend on practice or experience.
Information is encoded in the nervous system through the discharge and synchronization of single neurons. The striatum, the input stage of the basal ganglia, is divided into three territories: the putamen, the caudate, and the ventral striatum, all of which converge onto the same motor pathway. This parallel organization suggests that there are multiple and competing systems in the basal ganglia network controlling behavior. To explore which mechanism(s) enables the different striatal domains to encode behavioral events and to control behavior, we compared the neural activity of phasically active neurons [medium spiny neurons (MSNs), presumed projection neurons] and tonically active neurons (presumed cholinergic interneurons) across striatal territories from monkeys during the performance of a well practiced task. Although neurons in all striatal territories displayed similar spontaneous discharge properties and similar temporal modulations of their discharge rates to the behavioral events, their correlation structure was profoundly different. The distributions of signal and noise correlation of pairs of putamen MSNs were strongly shifted toward positive correlations and these two measures were correlated. In contrast, MSN pairs in the caudate and ventral striatum displayed symmetrical, near-zero signal and noise correlation distributions. Furthermore, only putamen MSN pairs displayed different noise correlation dynamics to rewarding versus neutral/aversive cues. Similarly, the noise correlation between tonically active neuron pairs was stronger in the putamen than in the caudate. We suggest that the level of synchronization of the neuronal activity and its temporal dynamics differentiate the striatal territories and may thus account for the different roles that striatal domains play in behavioral control.
Adolescence is a period in which the developing prefrontal cortex (PFC) is sensitive to maladaptive changes when exposed to nicotine. Nicotine affects PFC function and repeated exposure to nicotine during adolescence impairs attention performance and impulse control during adulthood. Nicotine concentrations experienced by smokers are known to desensitize nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), but the impact thereof on PFC circuits is poorly understood. Here, we investigated how smoking concentrations of nicotine (100-300 nm) interfere with cholinergic signaling in the mouse PFC. nAChR desensitization depends on subunit composition. Since nAChR subunits are differentially expressed across layers of the PFC neuronal network, we hypothesized that cholinergic signaling through nAChRs across layers would suffer differentially from exposure to nicotine. Throughout the PFC, nicotine strongly desensitized responses to ACh in neurons expressing 2* nAChRs, whereas ACh responses mediated by 7 nAChRs were not hampered. The amount of desensitization of 2* nAChR currents depended on neuron type and cortical layer. 2*-mediated responses of interneurons in LII-III and LVI completely desensitized, while cholinergic responses in LV interneurons and LVI pyramidal cells showed less desensitization. This discrepancy depended on 5 subunit expression. Two-photon imaging of neuronal population activity showed that prolonged exposure to nicotine limited cholinergic signaling through 2* nAChRs to deep PFC layers where 5 subunits were expressed. Together, our results demonstrate a layer-dependent decrease in cholinergic activation of the PFC through nAChRs by nicotine. These mechanisms may be one of the first steps leading up to the pathophysiological changes associated with nicotine exposure during adolescence.
Patterns of correlated activity among brain regions reflect functionally relevant networks that are widely assumed to be stable over time. We hypothesized that if these correlations reflect the prior history of coactivation of brain regions, then a marked shift in cognition could alter the strength of coupling between these regions. We sought to test whether intensive reasoning training in humans would result in tighter coupling among regions in the lateral frontoparietal network, as measured with resting-state fMRI (rs-fMRI). Rather than designing an artificial training program, we studied individuals who were preparing for a standardized test that places heavy demands on relational reasoning, the Law School Admissions Test (LSAT). LSAT questions require test takers to group or sequence items according to a set of complex rules. We recruited young adults who were enrolled in an LSAT course that offers 70 h of reasoning instruction (n = 25), and age- and IQ-matched controls intending to take the LSAT in the future (n = 24). rs-fMRI data were collected for all subjects during two scanning sessions separated by 90 d. An analysis of pairwise correlations between brain regions implicated in reasoning showed that fronto-parietal connections were strengthened, along with parietal-striatal connections. These findings provide strong evidence for neural plasticity at the level of large-scale networks supporting high-level cognition.
The release of neurotransmitter via the fusion of transmitter-filled, presynaptic vesicles is the primary means by which neurons relay information. However, little is known regarding the molecular mechanisms that supply neurotransmitter destined for vesicle filling, the endogenous transmitter concentrations inside presynaptic nerve terminals, or the dynamics of vesicle refilling after exocytosis. We addressed these issues by recording from synaptically coupled pairs of glycine/GABA coreleasing interneurons (cartwheel cells) of the mouse dorsal cochlear nucleus. We find that the plasma membrane transporter GlyT2 and the intracellular enzyme glutamate decarboxylase supply the majority of glycine and GABA, respectively. Pharmacological block of GlyT2 or glutamate decarboxylase led to rapid and complete rundown of transmission, whereas increasing GABA synthesis via intracellular glutamate uncaging dramatically potentiated GABA release within 1 min. These effects were surprisingly independent of exocytosis, indicating that prefilled vesicles re-equilibrated upon acute changes in cytosolic transmitter. Titration of cytosolic transmitter with postsynaptic responses indicated that endogenous, nonvesicular glycine/GABA levels in nerve terminals are 5-7 mm, and that vesicular transport mechanisms are not saturated under basal conditions. Thus, cytosolic transmitter levels dynamically set the strength of inhibitory synapses in a release-independent manner.
Gap junction (GJ) channels composed of Connexin36 (Cx36) are widely expressed in the mammalian CNS and form electrical synapses between neurons. Here we describe a novel modulatory mechanism of Cx36 GJ channels dependent on intracellular free magnesium ([Mg(2+)]i). We examined junctional conductance (gj) and its dependence on transjunctional voltage (Vj) at different [Mg(2+)]i in cultures of HeLa or N2A cells expressing Cx36. We found that Cx36 GJs are partially inhibited at resting [Mg(2+)]i. Thus, gj can be augmented or reduced by lowering or increasing [Mg(2+)]i, respectively. Similar changes in gj and Vj-gating were observed using MgATP or K2ATP in pipette solutions, which increases or decreases [Mg(2+)]i, respectively. Changes in phosphorylation of Cx36 or in intracellular free calcium concentration were not involved in the observed Mg(2+)-dependent modulation of gj. Magnesium ions permeate the channel and transjunctional asymmetry in [Mg(2+)]i resulted in asymmetric Vj-gating. The gj of GJs formed of Cx26, Cx32, Cx43, Cx45, and Cx47 was also reduced by increasing [Mg(2+)]i, but was not increased by lowering [Mg(2+)]i; single-channel conductance did not change. We showed that [Mg(2+)]i affects both open probability and the number of functional channels, likely through binding in the channel lumen. Finally, we showed that Cx36-containing electrical synapses between neurons of the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus in rat brain slices are similarly affected by changes in [Mg(2+)]i. Thus, this novel modulatory mechanism could underlie changes in neuronal synchronization under conditions in which ATP levels, and consequently [Mg(2+)]i, are modified.
The thalamus is crucial in determining the sensory information conveyed to cortex. In the visual system, the thalamic lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) is generally thought to encode simple center-surround receptive fields, which are combined into more sophisticated features in cortex, such as orientation and direction selectivity. However, recent evidence suggests that a more diverse set of retinal ganglion cells projects to the LGN. We therefore used multisite extracellular recordings to define the repertoire of visual features represented in the LGN of mouse, an emerging model for visual processing. In addition to center-surround cells, we discovered a substantial population with more selective coding properties, including direction and orientation selectivity, as well as neurons that signal absence of contrast in a visual scene. The direction and orientation selective neurons were enriched in regions that match the termination zones of direction selective ganglion cells from the retina, suggesting a source for their tuning. Together, these data demonstrate that the mouse LGN contains a far more elaborate representation of the visual scene than current models posit. These findings should therefore have a significant impact on our understanding of the computations performed in mouse visual cortex.
Associative learning can occur under anesthesia and its neural correlates have begun to be elucidated. During discrimination learning under anesthesia in rats, lateral amygdala excitability increases in response to a conditioned stimulus (CS+) previously paired with electrical stimulation of the paw but not to another stimulus presented alone (CS-). Similarly, medial prefrontal cortex activity increases selectively during CS+ presentation after discrimination learning but this occurs only in neurons receiving input from the basolateral amygdala (BLA), the main source of amygdaloid projections to this region. However, BLA activity during discrimination learning under anesthesia has not been investigated. Here we used in vivo electrophysiology to examine BLA activity before and after associative learning and during later memory retrieval in anesthetized rats. We examined extracellular unit and local field potential (LFP) activity using an auditory discrimination learning paradigm. Rats were repeatedly presented with two distinct sounds, one of which was paired with electrical stimulation of the paw. One hour later, the paired sound (CS+) was presented alone along with the sound not paired with electrical stimulation (CS-). We found increased unit firing late (1 h) but not early (5 min) after learning. LFP power was increased both early and late after learning. In control experiments we also found increased unit and LFP activity late after electrical stimulation alone. After discrimination learning, unit firing increased in response to CS+, but not CS-, presentation. LFP power also showed a modest increase during CS+, compared to CS-, presentation. These findings suggest that discrimination learning under anesthesia can occur at the neural level in BLA. The potential relevance of these results is discussed in relation to previous studies examining neural activity during fear learning and memory processing in conscious animals.
Hydrogen sulfide (HS) is involved in central regulation of respiratory rhythm at the level of the medulla oblongata. The present study was carried out to test our hypothesis that HS exerts site-specific regulatory action on respiratory rhythm in the medulla oblongata of neonatal rats. The rhythmic discharge of hypoglossal rootlets in medullary slices of neonatal rats was recorded. 200 M NaHS (an HS donor) increased burst frequency (BF) in 900-m slices containing the pre-Btzinger complex (preBtC), whereas it caused diphasic responses in 1200-, 1400- and 1800-m slices containing both the preBtC and part or all of the parafacial respiratory group (pFRG): an initial decrease in BF followed by an increase. The initial decrease in BF was no longer observed after unilateral lesion of the pFRG region in the 1400-m slices. In addition, BF was increased by a unilateral micro-injection of NaHS into the preBtC region, but was decreased by an injection into the pFRG region. These data support our hypothesis that the regulatory action of HS on respiratory rhythm in the medulla oblongata is site-specific. The excitatory effect is caused by the preBtC, while the inhibitory effect is from the pFRG.
The objective of this study was to investigate the updating process of internal models of action in children and young adults, through the postural and motor strategies adopted in simple tasks, namely sit-to-stand (STS) and back-to-sit (BTS). To this end, 11 healthy children from 7 to 10years (latest stage of childhood) and 12 healthy adults participated in the experiment. The STS and BTS tasks were performed with horizontal support surface and support surface tilted 10 to the right or forward in order to investigate the immediate adaptation of the internal representations of the movement. Movement variables that included the durations of STS and BTS and the amplitudes of the trunk movement were computed. Postural characteristics were also considered during the transition from STS to BTS, including the trunk orientation and the head stabilization strategies. Despite certain similarities with adults, especially in terms of the asymmetry of the performance times for the two tasks (STS vs. BTS) and the partial movement adaptations, the children were less able than adults to adapt both postural and movement controls to the new support conditions. Thus, it appears that the updating of internal models of action is a process that matures slowly throughout ontogenesis.
Caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE) is a botanical compound abundant in honeybees' propolis. It has anti-inflammatory, antiviral, antioxidant, immunomodulatory and antitumor properties. Its beneficial effects against neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease, have also been suggested and some mechanisms have been proposed. Mitochondrial damage and oxidative stress are critical events in neurodegeneration. Release of cytochrome c from mitochondria to cytosol and the downstream activation of caspase-3 have been suggested as targets of the protective mechanism of CAPE. Most of the studies addressing the protective effect of CAPE have been performed in cell culture. This is the first study to demonstrate the protective effect of CAPE against the dopaminergic neuronal loss induced by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in rats. It also demonstrates, for the first time, the inhibitory effect of CAPE on mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT), a mediator of neuronal death that triggers cytochrome c release and caspase-3 activation. Scavenging of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and metal chelation was demonstrated in the brain-affected areas of the rats treated with 6-OHDA and CAPE. Additionally, we demonstrated that CAPE does not affect brain mitochondrial function. Based on these findings and on its ability to cross the blood-brain barrier, CAPE is a promising compound to treat Parkinson's and other neurodegenerative diseases.
Previous studies have shown that running exercise could increase regional cerebral blood flow. There have been previous studies investigating the effects of running exercise on capillary density in the brain and showing that running exercise could induce brain angiogenesis. However, there have been no studies investigating the effects of running exercise on the total volume, total length and total surface area of the capillaries in the cortex. Moreover, sex differences in the effects of running exercise on the capillaries of the cortex have not previously been investigated. The current study was designed to investigate the effects of running exercise on the capillaries in the cortex of middle-aged rats using the new unbiased stereological methods. The present study found that the total length and total surface area of the capillaries in the cortex of running middle-aged female rats were significantly increased, compared to control rats. Our results also reveal that there are sex differences in the effects of running exercise on the capillaries in the cortex of middle-aged rats. These results demonstrate that exercise-induced increases of the capillaries in the female rat cortex might be one of the structural bases for the exercise-induced improvement in the spatial learning capacity of middle-aged female rats. These results provide a baseline for further studies that search for strategies to delay the deleterious effects of brain aging.
Dopamine-derived neurotoxins, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (salsolinol) and 1(R),2(N)-dimethyl-6,7-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (NM-salsolinol) are the two most possible 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-like endogenous neurotoxin candidates that involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). The levels of endogenously synthesized salsolinol and NM-salsolinol are increased in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of PD patients. Both of them lead to neurotoxicity in dopaminergic cells by inhibiting mitochondrial electron transport chain. To study the role of salsolinol and NM-salsolinol in Parkin deficiency-induced dopaminergic cell damage, we determined the cellular level of oxidative stress, the formation of salsolinol and NM-salsolinol, the level of mitochondrial damage and cell viability with/without the presence of exogenous HO using differentiated dopaminergic PC12 cells. Our data show that parkin knock down elevates cellular oxidative stress, salsolinol and NM-salsolinol levels, which are responsible for the higher cell mortality in Parkin-deficient cells upon exposure to exogenous HO. The level of mitochondrial membrane potential loss, cristae disruption and the release of cytochrome c increased significantly along with the increased level of salsolinol and NM-salsolinol, whereas compared to parkin knock down cells in the presence of HO, the mitochondrial damage and higher cell mortality were both diminished when the levels of salsolinol and NM-salsolinol was reduced. The results not only indicate the elevated level of salsolinol and NM-salsolinol, but also reveal the potential role of salsolinol and NM-salsolinol in parkin knock down-induced cell vulnerability. We assume that parkin deficiency is the trigger of excessive oxidative stress, elevated endogenous neurotoxin levels and mitochondrial damage, which eventually results in cell death of dopaminergic cells.
Neurosteroids are a class of endogenous steroids synthesized in the brain that are believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of neuropsychiatric disorders and memory impairment. Ammonia impairs long-term potentiation (LTP), a synaptic model of learning, in the hippocampus, a brain region involved in memory acquisition. Although mechanisms underlying ammonia-mediated LTP inhibition are not fully understood, we previously found that the activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) is important. Based on this, we hypothesize that metabolic stressors, including hyperammonemia, promote untimely NMDAR activation and result in neural adaptations that include the synthesis of allopregnanolone (alloP) and other GABA-potentiating neurosteroids that dampen neuronal activity and impair LTP and memory formation. Using an antibody against 5-reduced neurosteroids, we found that 100 M ammonia acutely enhanced neurosteroid immunostaining in pyramidal neurons in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices. The enhanced staining was blocked by finasteride, a selective inhibitor of 5-reductase, a key enzyme required for alloP synthesis. Finasteride also overcame LTP inhibition by 100 M ammonia, as did picrotoxin, an inhibitor of GABA-A receptors. These results indicate that GABA-enhancing neurosteroids, synthesized locally within pyramidal neurons, contribute significantly to ammonia-mediated synaptic dysfunction. These results suggest that the manipulation of neurosteroid synthesis could provide a strategy to improve cognitive function in individuals with hyperammonemia.
Microglial phagocytosis plays a key role in neuroprotective and neurodegenerative responses of the innate immune system in the brain. Here we investigated the regulatory function of phosphoinositide 3-kinase  (PI3K) in phagocytosis of bacteria and Zymosan particles by mouse brain microglia in vitro and in vivo. Using genetic and pharmacological approaches our data revealed PI3K as an essential mediator of microglial phagocytosis. Unexpectedly, microglia expressing lipid kinase deficient mutant PI3K exhibited similar phagocytosis as wild-type cells. These data suggest kinase-independent stimulation of cAMP phosphodiesterase activity by PI3K as a crucial mediator of phagocytosis. In sum our findings indicate PI3K-dependent suppression of cAMP signaling as a critical regulatory element of microglial phagocytosis.
Our aim was to evaluate continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) as a tool to induce temporary impairment (virtual lesion) in semantic processing. Four groups with 20 subjects each were stimulated. In the three experimental groups the stimulation site was the left superior temporal cortex. Stimulation was either 1Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) at 100% resting motor threshold (RMT) or cTBS, with intensities of 80% or 90% active motor threshold (AMT). The TMS-control group was stimulated at the right medial prefrontal cortex with 1 Hz rTMS. After stimulation subjects accomplished a lexical decision task with a duration of about 20 min. In an additional fifth group the lexical decision task was performed without TMS. Reaction times were not influenced by cTBS applied with 80% AMT, but prolonged for about 80 ms with 90% AMT compared to the no stimulation condition. An increase of 140 ms was found after 1 Hz rTMS. The effect lasted for the whole task, but declined from the first to the second half of the experiment. The direct comparison of cTBS and 1 Hz rTMS suggests that both stimulation patterns can induce virtual lesions in the left superior temporal cortex and impair semantic processing. We suppose that cTBS could replace 1 Hz rTMS in this field since the application is faster and it is more comfortable to the subjects.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is an asymmetric neurodegenerative disorder, and secondary adaptive mechanisms of the less-affected side could potentially compensate for parkinsonian symptoms. Here, we analyzed gene expression changes on the healthy side of a unilateral PD rat model and correlated these changes with locomotor velocity, which is known to be decreased in PD. Four weeks after a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion, the spontaneous locomotor velocity of rats was recorded just prior to brain extraction. We then analyzed the gene expression levels of markers of the direct (dynorphin and D1-class dopamine receptors) and indirect (enkephalin and D2-class dopamine receptors) pathways in the contralateral healthy striatum by in situ hybridization histochemistry. In addition, we analyzed the expression of several striatal and cortical glutamatergic markers, as well as nigral tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and nigral dopamine transporter (DAT). We found a significant positive correlation between the mRNA expression levels of contralateral D1-class dopamine receptors and the mean locomotor velocity, at 4 weeks after surgery in parkinsonian rats but not in controls. Moreover, we observed a significant increase in the level of dynorphin mRNA in the lateral part of the contralateral striatum of parkinsonian rats compared to the controls. In contrast, no contralateral changes were observed in the striatal indirect pathway. We also did not find any significant contralateral modifications of TH, DAT or glutamatergic markers in PD animals, indicating that changes in direct pathway genes are not due to nigrostriatal dopaminergic or corticostriatal glutamatergic innervation. In conclusion, our results suggest a role of the healthy striatal direct pathway in counteracting dopaminergic denervation effects on motor symptoms.
The 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) is involved in higher cognitive and memory functions, and is associated with the etiology of neurological diseases involving cognitive decline, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). We hypothesized that spine changes in the 7 knockout might help to explain the behavioral deficits observed in 7 knockout mice and prodromal hippocampal changes in AD. We quantified several measures of dendritic morphology in the CA1 region of the mouse hippocampus in Golgi-stained material from wildtype and 7 knockout mice at P24. The most significant difference was a 64% increase in thin (L-type) dendritic spines on the CA1 basilar tree in knockout mice (p&lt;.05). There were small decreases in the number of in N-type (-15%), M-type (-14%) and D-type (-4%) spine densities. The CA1 basilar dendritic tree of knockout mice had significantly less branching in the regions near the soma in comparison with wildtype animals (p&lt;.01), but not in the more distal branching. Changes in the configuration of CA1 basilar dendritic spines have been observed in a number of experimental paradigms, suggesting that basilar dendritic spines are highly plastic. One component of cognitive dysfunction may be through 7-modulated GABAergic interneurons synapsing on CA1 basal dendrites.
This study examined the projections from the rat insular cortex (Ins) to lower brainstem areas which are possibly involved in orofacial pain processing. We first examined distributions of Ins neurons projecting directly to the trigeminal caudal subnucleus (Vc, medullary dorsal horn) and oral subnucleus (Vo) which are known to receive orofacial nociceptive inputs. After injections of a retrograde tracer, Fluorogold (FG), into the medial part and lateral part of laminae I/II of Vc, many neurons were labeled bilaterally with a contralateral predominance in the rostral level of granular Ins (GI) and dysgranular Ins (DI) and the caudal level of GI/DI, respectively, but none in the agranular Ins (AI). After FG injections into laminae III-V of Vc, no Ins neurons were labeled. After FG injections into the Vo, many neurons were labeled bilaterally with a contralateral predominance in the rostral and caudal GI/DI, but none in the AI. We then examined descending projections from the GI/DI to the lower brainstem. After injections of an anterograde tracer, biotinylated dextranamine (BDA), into the rostral GI/DI, many BDA-labeled axons and terminals were seen bilaterally with a contralateral predominance in the medial part of laminae I/II of Vc, dorsomedial Vo, juxtatrigeminal region, rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), and nucleus of the solitary tract, and with an ipsilateral predominance in the parabrachial nucleus (Pb), Klliker-Fuse nucleus (KF) and trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus. After BDA injections into the caudal GI/DI, they were seen bilaterally with a contralateral predominance in the lateral part of laminae I/II of Vc, ventrolateral Vo, juxtatrigeminal region and RVM, and with an ipsilateral dominance in the lateral zone (PAGl) of periaqueductal gray, Pb and KF. These results suggest that orofacial nociceptive processing of Vc and Vo neurons may be regulated by GI/DI directly or indirectly through brainstem nuclei such as PAGl, Pb, KF and RVM.
Opioid mechanisms are involved in the control of water and NaCl intake and opioid receptors (ORs) are present in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), a site of important facilitatory mechanisms related to the control of sodium appetite. Therefore, in the present study we investigated the effects of the activation of -ORs in the CeA on 0.3 M NaCl and water intake in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats with stainless steel cannulas implanted bilaterally in the CeA were used. In rats submitted to water deprivation-partial rehydration, bilateral injections of the selective -OR agonist [D-Ala, N-Me-Phe, Gly-ol]-enkephalin (DAMGO) in the doses of 1, 2, and 4 nmol into the CeA induced a dose-related increase of 0.3M NaCl intake and water intake, and bilateral injections of the selective -OR antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH (CTAP) in the doses of 0.5, 1, and 2 nmol into the CeA produced a dose-related decrease of 0.3 M NaCl and water intake induced by DAMGO 2 nmol into the same site. In rats treated with the diuretic furosemide (10 mg/kg b.w.) combined with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril (5 mg/kg b.w.) injected subcutaneously, bilateral injections of DAMGO 2 nmol into the CeA increased 0.3 M NaCl intake and water intake and the blockade of -ORs with CTAP 1 nmol injected into the CeA reduced the increase in 0.3 M NaCl intake and water intake induced by DAMGO 2 nmol into the same site. Bilateral injections of DAMGO into the CeA did not change urinary volume, sodium urinary excretion and mean arterial pressure, but increased activity. Thus stimulating -ORs in the CeA increases hypertonic sodium intake, whereas antagonizing these sites inhibits hypertonic sodium intake. Together, our results implicate -ORs in the CeA in a positive regulation of sodium intake.
Morphine derived from Papaver somniferum is commonly used as an analgesic compound for pain relief. It is now accepted that endogenous morphine, structurally identical to vegetal morphine-alkaloid, is synthesized by mammalian cells from dopamine. Morphine binds mu opioid receptor and induces antinociceptive effects. However, the exact role of these compounds is a matter of debate although different links with infection, sepsis, inflammation, as well as major neurological pathologies (Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia) have been proposed. The present review describes endogenous morphine and morphine derivative discovery, synthesis, localization and potential implications in physiological and pathological processes.
Heroin is reported to cause spongiform leukoencephalopathy (SLE) in heroin addicts and the exact mechanism has not yet been identified. In the present study, we found that heroin could induce apoptosis of primary cultured cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) and Bim was upregulated both transcriptionally and post transcriptionally during CGCs apoptosis. Upregulated Bim translocated to mitochondria and Bax was activated under heroin treatment. Genetic knockdown of Bim using lentiviruses significantly prevented neuronal apoptosis induced by heroin. Meanwhile, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/c-Jun pathway was activated in heroin-induced apoptosis. Bim was demonstrated as a downstream target of JNK/c-Jun pathway in this process because pharmacological inhibition of JNK reduced the levels of Bim mRNA and protein. These results indicate that Bim plays a critical role in the neurotoxic process by heroin and JNK/c-Jun pathway acts upstream of Bim in regulating heroin-induced neuronal death. This represents a detailed mechanism of heroin-induced neuronal apoptosis and may provide a new and effective strategy to treat heroin-induced addiction and SLE.
Studies on the neuritis model suggest that in many patients with neuropathic pain, symptoms may be due to nerve inflammation rather than frank nerve injury. Treatments for these patients are often ineffective. The neuroprotective and hematopoietic agent erythropoietin (EPO) has been shown to reverse pain behaviors in nerve injury models and therefore may be of therapeutic benefit. However, EPO can cause thrombosis. ARA290 is an analog of EPO that has the neuroprotective activities of EPO without stimulating hematopoiesis. The present study has examined the effects of ARA290 on pain behavior in the neuritis model. Following neuritis induction, 30 or 120 g/kg ARA290 or saline vehicle was injected intraperitoneally into rats daily from day 1 post surgery. Animals were assessed for mechanical allodynia and heat hyperalgesia. Levels of the cytokine tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) and chemokine (CC motif) ligand 2 (CCL2) mRNA were also assessed using polymerase chain reaction. Vehicle-treated neuritis animals (n=20) developed signs of mechanical allodynia and heat hyperalgesia that reached a maximum on day 4 and 3 of testing, respectively. Treatment with either 30 (n=11) or 120 g/kg ARA290 (n=9) prevented the development of mechanical allodynia. However, ARA290 did not significantly affect heat hyperalgesia. There was no significant difference between the effects of each drug dose (p&lt;0.05, unpaired t test comparing area under the curve for mechanical allodynia). The levels of CCL2 and TNF- mRNA in the nerve and Gelfoam were not significantly different following 120 g/kg ARA290 treatment (n=3-7) compared to vehicle-treated animals (n=3-7; p=0.24; unpaired t tests). In summary, ARA290 may be beneficial in the treatment of neuropathic pain symptoms where signs of nerve injury are absent on clinical assessment. The mechanisms of action do not appear to involve the inhibition of TNF- or CCL2 production.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) is an important regulator of food digestion but its influence on small intestinal secretion has received little attention. We characterized effects of CCK-8, ghrelin and some related peptides on duodenal HCO3(-) secretion in vivo and demonstrated CCK-induced calcium signaling in acutely isolated enterocytes. A segment of proximal duodenum with intact blood supply was cannulated in situ in anaesthetized rats. Mucosal HCO3(-) secretion was continuously recorded (pH-stat). Peptides were administrated to the duodenum by close intra-arterial infusion. Clusters of duodenal enterocytes were attached to the bottom of a perfusion chamber. The intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)]i) was examined by dual-wavelength imaging. CCK-8 (3.0, 15 and 60 pmol/kg,h) caused dose-dependent increases (p&lt;0.01) in duodenal alkaline secretion in both overnight fasted and continuously fed animals. The CCK1R-antagonist devazepide but neither the CCK2R-antagonist YMM022 nor the melatonin MT2-selective antagonist luzindole inhibited the rise in secretion. Atropine decreased sensitivity to CCK-8. The appetite-related peptide ghrelin was without effect on the duodenal secretion in fasted as well as fed animals. Superfusion with CCK-8 (1.0-50 nM) induced [Ca(2+)]i signaling in acutely isolated duodenal enterocytes. After an initial peak response, [Ca(2+)]i returned to near basal values within 3-5min. Devazepide but not YMM022 inhibited this [Ca(2+)]i response. Low doses of CCK-8 stimulate duodenal alkaline secretion and induce enterocyte [Ca(2+)]i signaling by an action at CCK1 receptors. The results point to importance of CCK in the rapid postprandial rise in mucosa-protective duodenal secretion.





At present, there are many studies that collect information on aspects of neurologic and behavioral function (cognition, sensation, movement, emotion), but with little uniformity among the measures used to capture these constructs. Further, available measures are generally expensive, normed on homogenous nondiverse populations, not easily administered, do not cover the lifespan (or have easily linked pediatric and adult counterparts for the purposes of longitudinal comparison), and not based on the current thinking in the neuroscience community. There is also a paucity of measurement tools to gauge normal children in the motor and sensation domain areas, and many of these measures rely heavily on proxy reporting. Investigators have expressed the need for brief assessment tools that could address these issues and be used as a form of &quot;common currency&quot; across diverse study designs and populations. This ability to assess functionality along a common metric and &quot;crosswalk&quot; across measures is essential to the process of being able to pool data, which is often necessary when a large and diverse sample is needed. When individual studies employ unique assessment batteries, comparisons between studies and combining data from multiple studies can be problematic. The contract for the NIH Toolbox for the Assessment of Neurological and Behavioral Function (www.nihtoolbox.org) was initiated by the NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research (www.neuroscienceblueprint.nih.gov) to develop a set of state-of-the-art measurement tools to enhance collection of data in large cohort studies and to advance the biomedical research enterprise.
This special issue of Neurology() marks the unveiling of a multi-year effort to develop the NIH Toolbox for Assessment of Neurological and Behavioral Function (NIH Toolbox). Constructed based on state-of-the-art psychometric research and novel testing methods, this approach to functional neurologic measurement is as innovative in concept as it is in design. This initiative and the resulting set of instruments, supported through the NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research (NIH Blueprint) and built by a development team of more than 250 scientists from almost 100 academic institutions, promises to provide long overdue economies of scale and efficiency to the clinical research enterprise. The NIH Toolbox achieves that end by providing psychometrically sound, cutting-edge, adaptable measures that enable uniformity of measurement, data sharing, and integration of findings in the research setting.
Alpha-synuclein (SNCA) is central to the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease (PD), with 3 missense mutations reported to date. We report a novel mutation (p.H50Q) in a pathologically proven case.


Mutations in the K(V)7.2 gene encoding for voltage-dependent K(+) channel subunits cause neonatal epilepsies with wide phenotypic heterogeneity. Two mutations affecting the same positively charged residue in the S4 domain of K(V)7.2 have been found in children affected with benign familial neonatal seizures (R213W mutation) or with neonatal epileptic encephalopathy with severe pharmacoresistant seizures and neurocognitive delay, suppression-burst pattern at EEG, and distinct neuroradiological features (R213Q mutation). To examine the molecular basis for this strikingly different phenotype, we studied the functional characteristics of mutant channels by using electrophysiological techniques, computational modeling, and homology modeling. Functional studies revealed that, in homomeric or heteromeric configuration with K(V)7.2 and/or K(V)7.3 subunits, both mutations markedly destabilized the open state, causing a dramatic decrease in channel voltage sensitivity. These functional changes were (i) more pronounced for channels incorporating R213Q- than R213W-carrying K(V)7.2 subunits; (ii) proportional to the number of mutant subunits incorporated; and (iii) fully restored by the neuronal K(v)7 activator retigabine. Homology modeling confirmed a critical role for the R213 residue in stabilizing the activated voltage sensor configuration. Modeling experiments in CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cells revealed that both mutations increased cell firing frequency, with the R213Q mutation prompting more dramatic functional changes compared with the R213W mutation. These results suggest that the clinical disease severity may be related to the extent of the mutation-induced functional K(+) channel impairment, and set the preclinical basis for the potential use of K(v)7 openers as a targeted anticonvulsant therapy to improve developmental outcome in neonates with K(V)7.2 encephalopathy.
Neural slowing is commonly noted in older adults, with consequences for sensory, motor, and cognitive domains. One of the deleterious effects of neural slowing is impairment of temporal resolution; older adults, therefore, have reduced ability to process the rapid events that characterize speech, especially in noisy environments. Although hearing aids provide increased audibility, they cannot compensate for deficits in auditory temporal processing. Auditory training may provide a strategy to address these deficits. To that end, we evaluated the effects of auditory-based cognitive training on the temporal precision of subcortical processing of speech in noise. After training, older adults exhibited faster neural timing and experienced gains in memory, speed of processing, and speech-in-noise perception, whereas a matched control group showed no changes. Training was also associated with decreased variability of brainstem response peaks, suggesting a decrease in temporal jitter in response to a speech signal. These results demonstrate that auditory-based cognitive training can partially restore age-related deficits in temporal processing in the brain; this plasticity in turn promotes better cognitive and perceptual skills.

In action sequences, the eyes and hands ought to be coordinated in precise ways. The mechanisms governing the architecture of encoding and action of several effectors remain unknown. Here we study hand and eye movements in a sequential task in which letters have to be typed while they move down through the screen. We observe a strict refractory period of about 200 ms between the initiation of manual and eye movements. Subjects do not initiate a saccade just after typing and do not type just after making the saccade. This refractory period is observed ubiquitously in every subject and in each step of the sequential task, even when keystrokes and saccades correspond to different items of the sequence-for instance when a subject types a letter that has been gazed at in a preceding fixation. These results extend classic findings of dual-task paradigms, of a bottleneck tightly locked to the response selection process, to unbounded serial routines. Interestingly, while the bottleneck is seemingly inevitable, better performing subjects can adopt a strategy to minimize the cost of the bottleneck, overlapping the refractory period with the encoding of the next item in the sequence.
We studied the role of -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic septohippocampal projections in medial septum (MS) self-stimulation of behaving mice. Self-stimulation was evoked in wild-type (WT) mice using instrumental conditioning procedures and in J20 mutant mice, a type of mouse with a significant deficit in GABAergic septohippocampal projections. J20 mice showed a significant modification in hippocampal activities, including a different response for input/output curves and the paired-pulse test, a larger long-term potentiation (LTP), and a delayed acquisition and lower performance in the MS self-stimulation task. LTP evoked at the CA3-CA1 synapse further decreased self-stimulation performance in J20, but not in WT, mice. MS self-stimulation evoked a decrease in the amplitude of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) at the CA3-CA1 synapse in WT, but not in J20, mice. This self-stimulation-dependent decrease in the amplitude of fEPSPs was also observed in the presence of another positive reinforcer (food collected during an operant task) and was canceled by the local administration of an antibody-inhibiting glutamate decarboxylase 65 (GAD65). LTP evoked in the GAD65Ab-treated group was also larger than in controls. The hippocampus has a different susceptibility to septal GABAergic inputs depending on ongoing cognitive processes, and the GABAergic septohippocampal pathway is involved in consummatory processes related to operant rewards.
Collapsin Response Mediator Protein 5 (CRMP5) belongs to a family of five cytosolic proteins highly expressed in the developing nervous system but downregulated in the adult brain. When expressed at the adult stage, CRMP5 is involved in neurological disorders. Indeed, CRMP5 is found expressed in cancer cells of some brain tumors, such as glioblastoma, or in small cell lung cancer causing paraneoplastic neurological syndromes as a result of cancer-induced auto-immune processes. Nevertheless, its role in cancer pathology is still obscure. Here, we show a new short isoform, derived from C-terminal processing of CRMP5, presenting a nuclear localization both in human glioblastoma, and in cancer cell lines (H69, GL15). By mutational analysis, we demonstrate that nuclear translocation occurs via nuclear localization signal (NLS), where the essential residue for nuclear location is K391. Direct CRMP5/ tubulin interaction, previously shown during brain development, does not occur for cytosolic CRMP5 in pathological conditions, leading to the suggestion that in cancer cells CRMP5 is not sequestered in the cytosol; therefore it may undergo C-terminal truncation allowing the exposure of the NLS for active translocation. Moreover, we show that the function associated with the CRMP5 nuclear targeting is an increase of cell proliferation activity.
Mitral valve (MV) is composed of several structures working in synchrony to open during diastole and close in systole within the high-pressure systemic environment. Its morphological features ensure a normal leaflet closure that prevents regurgitation of blood back into the left atrium causing loss of ventricular pressure and forward flow. The complex interactions of the normal MV are reliant on each component playing a complete role for the efficient working of the valve. In this review we firstly discuss the overall MV structure in terms of a complex make up of the annulus, the leaflets, their tendinous cords, and the supporting papillary muscles, and then the anatomical changes of each MV components due to left ventricular geometry and function alterations, underlying functional mitral regurgitation.

In everyday life, humans often encounter complex environments in which multiple sources of information can influence their decisions. We propose that in such situations, people select and apply different strategies representing different cognitive models of the decision problem. Learning advances by evaluating the success of using a strategy and eventually by switching between strategies. To test our strategy selection model, we investigated how humans solve a dynamic learning task with complex auditory and visual information, and assessed the underlying neural mechanisms with functional magnetic resonance imaging. Using the model, we were able to capture participants' choices and to successfully attribute expected values and reward prediction errors to activations in the dopaminoceptive system (e.g., ventral striatum [VS]) as well as decision conflict to signals in the anterior cingulate cortex. The model outperformed an alternative approach that did not update decision strategies, but the relevance of information itself. Activation of sensory areas depended on whether the selected strategy made use of the respective source of information. Selection of a strategy also determined how value-related information influenced effective connectivity between sensory systems and the VS. Our results suggest that humans can structure their search for and use of relevant information by adaptively selecting between decision strategies.
In everyday scenes, the illuminant can vary spatially in chromaticity and luminance, and change over time (e.g. sunset). Such variation generates dramatic image effects too complex for any contemporary machine vision system to overcome, yet human observers are remarkably successful at inferring object properties separately from lighting, an ability linked with estimation and tracking of light field parameters. Which information does the visual system use to infer light field dynamics? Here, we specifically ask whether color contributes to inferred light source motion. Observers viewed 3D surfaces illuminated by an out-of-view moving collimated source (sun) and a diffuse source (sky). In half of the trials, the two sources differed in chromaticity, thereby providing more information about motion direction. Observers discriminated light motion direction above chance, and only the least sensitive observer benefited slightly from the added color information, suggesting that color plays only a very minor role for inferring light field dynamics.
Perisynaptic astrocytes express important glutamate transporters, especially excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2, rodent analog GLT1) to regulate extracellular glutamate levels and modulate synaptic activation. In this study, we investigated an exciting new pathway, the exosome-mediated transfer of microRNA (in particular, miR-124a), in neuron-to-astrocyte signaling. Exosomes isolated from neuron-conditioned medium contain abundant microRNAs and small RNAs. These exosomes can be directly internalized into astrocytes and increase astrocyte miR-124a and GLT1 protein levels. Direct miR-124a transfection also significantly and selectively increases protein (but not mRNA) expression levels of GLT1 in cultured astrocytes. Consistent with our in vitro findings, intrastriatal injection of specific antisense against miR-124a into adult mice dramatically reduces GLT1 protein expression and glutamate uptake levels in striatum without reducing GLT1 mRNA levels. MiR-124a-mediated regulation of GLT1 expression appears to be indirect and is not mediated by its suppression of the putative GLT1 inhibitory ligand ephrinA3. Moreover, miR-124a is selectively reduced in the spinal cord tissue of end-stage SOD1 G93A mice, the mouse model of ALS. Subsequent exogenous delivery of miR-124a in vivo through stereotaxic injection significantly prevents further pathological loss of GLT1 proteins, as determined by GLT1 immunoreactivity in SOD1 G93A mice. Together, our study characterized a new neuron-to-astrocyte communication pathway and identified miRNAs that modulate GLT1 protein expression in astrocytes in vitro and in vivo.
Kir2.4, a strongly rectifying potassium channel that is localized to neurons and is especially abundant in retina, was fished with yeast two-hybrid screen using a constitutively active Go1. Here, we wished to determine whether and how Go affects this channel. Using transfected HEK 293 cells and retinal tissue, we showed that Kir2.4 interacts with Go, and this interaction is stronger with the GDP-bound form of Go. Using two-electrode voltage clamp, we recorded from oocytes that were injected with Kir2.4 mRNA and a combination of G-protein subunit mRNAs. We found that the wild type and the inactive mutant of Go reduce the Kir2.4 basal current, whereas the active mutant has little effect. Other pertussis-sensitive G subunits also reduce this current, whereas Gs increases it. G increases the current, whereas m-phosducin, which binds G without affecting the state of G, reduces it. We then tested the effect of G-protein subunits on the surface expression of the channel fused to cerulean by imaging the plasma membranes of the oocytes. We found that the surface expression is affected, with effects paralleling those seen with the basal current. This suggests that the observed effects on the current are mainly indirect and are due to surface expression. Similar results were obtained in transfected HEK cells. Moreover, we show that in retinal ON bipolar cells lacking G3, localization of Kir2.4 in the dendritic tips is reduced. We conclude that G targets Kir2.4 to the plasma membrane, and Go slows this down by binding G.
PURPOSE: The composite hindered and restricted model of diffusion provides microstructural indices that are potentially more specific than those from diffusion tensor imaging. However, in comparison to diffusion tensor imaging, the acquisition time is longer, limiting clinical applications. Moreover, the model requires several parameters to be estimated whose confidence intervals can be large. Here, the composite hindered and restricted model of diffusion acquisition and data processing pipelines are optimized to extend the utility of this approach. METHODS: A multishell sampling scheme was optimized using the electrostatic repulsion algorithm, combined with optimal ordering. The optimal protocol, using as few measurements as possible, was determined through leave-n-out analyses. Parsimonious model selection criteria were used to select between nested models, comprising up to three restricted compartments. The schemes were evaluated using both through Monte-Carlo simulations and in vivo data. RESULTS: The optimization/model selection procedure resulted in increased accuracy and precision on the estimated parameters, allowing for a reduction in acquisition time and marked improvements in data quality. The final protocol provided whole brain coverage data in only 12 min. CONCLUSION: Through careful optimization of the acquisition and analysis pipeline for the composite hindered and restricted model of diffusion, it is possible to reduce acquisition time for whole brain datasets to a time that is clinically applicable. Magn Reson Med, 2013.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Plant defense compounds occur in floral nectar, but their ecological role is not well understood. We provide evidence that plant compounds pharmacologically alter pollinator behavior by enhancing their memory of reward. Honeybees rewarded with caffeine, which occurs naturally in nectar of Coffea and Citrus species, were three times as likely to remember a learned floral scent as were honeybees rewarded with sucrose alone. Caffeine potentiated responses of mushroom body neurons involved in olfactory learning and memory by acting as an adenosine receptor antagonist. Caffeine concentrations in nectar did not exceed the bees' bitter taste threshold, implying that pollinators impose selection for nectar that is pharmacologically active but not repellent. By using a drug to enhance memories of reward, plants secure pollinator fidelity and improve reproductive success.

Cobblestone brain malformation (COB) is a neuronal migration disorder characterized by protrusions of neurons beyond the first cortical layer at the pial surface of the brain. It is usually seen in association with dystroglycanopathy types of congenital muscular dystrophies (CMDs) and ocular abnormalities termed muscle-eye-brain disease. Here we report homozygous deleterious mutations in LAMB1, encoding laminin subunit beta-1, in two families with autosomal-recessive COB. Affected individuals displayed a constellation of brain malformations including cortical gyral and white-matter signal abnormalities, severe cerebellar dysplasia, brainstem hypoplasia, and occipital encephalocele, but they had less apparent ocular or muscular abnormalities than are typically observed in COB. LAMB1 is localized to the pial basement membrane, suggesting that defective connection between radial glial cells and the pial surface mediated by LAMB1 leads to this malformation.
The corpus callosum is the principal cerebral commissure connecting the right and left hemispheres. The development of the corpus callosum is under tight genetic control, as demonstrated by abnormalities in its development in more than 1,000 genetic syndromes. We recruited more than 25 families in which members affected with corpus callosum hypoplasia (CCH) lacked syndromic features and had consanguineous parents, suggesting recessive causes. Exome sequence analysis identified C12orf57 mutations at the initiator methionine codon in four different families. C12orf57 is ubiquitously expressed and encodes a poorly annotated 126 amino acid protein of unknown function. This protein is without significant paralogs but has been tightly conserved across evolution. Our data suggest that this conserved gene is required for development of the human corpus callosum.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) deficits have been reported in individuals with schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders with dysfunction of the cortico-striato-pallido-thalamic circuit. The purpose of this study was to investigate the structural neural correlates of PPI by using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) metrics. The subjects were 53 healthy women (mean age; 40.711.3 years). We examined the possible relationships between PPI and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) metrics to estimate white matter integrity and gray matter volume analyzed using the DARTEL (diffeomorphic anatomical registration through exponentiated lie) algebra method. There were significant correlations between DTI metrics and PPI in the parahippocampal region, the anterior limb of the internal capsule, the ventral tegmental area, the thalamus and anterior thalamic radiations, the left prefrontal region, the callosal commissural fiber, and various white matter regions. There were also positive correlations between PPI and gray matter volume in the bilateral parietal gyri and the left inferior prefrontal gyrus at a trend level. The present study revealed evidence of a relationship between PPI and the integrity of white matter. This result was compatible with the previous suggestion that PPI would be modulated by the cortico-striato-thalamic-pallido-pontine circuit.
Prenatal exposure to nicotine has been associated with many long-term cognitive and behavioral abnormalities. Based upon these observable outcomes, we hypothesized that prenatal nicotine exposure would induce lasting changes in dendritic morphology and synaptic connectivity throughout the cortex. Pregnant Long-Evans rats were administered nicotine or saline for the duration of pregnancy and offspring were sacrificed at P100 for Golgi-Cox analysis (dendritic length, dendritic branching, and spine density) of the prefrontal cortex (AID and Cg3), parietal cortex, and nucleus accumbens. In male offspring dendritic branching increased in AID and NAc, but decreased in the apical field of Cg3; spine density increased everywhere except NAc where it decreased; and dendritic length was increased in Cg3(basilar) and NAc but reduced in PAR(basilar). In female offspring, dendritic branching increased in NAc but decreased in AID; spine density increased in AID and PAR but decreased in Cg3 and NAc, and dendritic length was reduced in Cg3, PAR, and NAc. As changes were identified at P100, prenatal exposure to nicotine dramatically reorganized neuroanatomy in a persistent manner, likely altering the brain's response to normal and abnormal experiences.
Brain cytochrome P450 epoxygenases were recently shown to play an essential role in mediating the pain-relieving properties of morphine. To identify the CNS sites containing the morphine-relevant P450s, the effects of intracerebral (ic) microinjections of the P450 inhibitor CC12 were determined on morphine antinociception in rats. CC12 inhibited morphine antinociception when both drugs were injected into the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), but not following co-injections into the periaqueductal gray (PAG) or into the spinal subarachnoid space. In addition, intra-RVM CC12 pretreatment nearly completely blocked the effects of morphine following intracerebroventricular (icv) administration. Although morphine is thought to act in both the PAG and RVM by pre-synaptic inhibition of inhibitory GABAergic transmission, the present findings show that 1) the mechanism of morphine action differs between these two brainstem areas, and 2) P450 activity within the RVM is important for supraspinal morphine antinociception. Characterization of morphine-P450 interactions within RVM circuits will further enhance the understanding of the biochemistry of pain relief.
Reliable animal models of traumatic brain injury (TBI) are essential to test novel hypotheses and therapeutic interventions. In this study, based on advantages of both the closed head injury (CHI) and controlled cortical impact (CCI) models, we developed a bilateral head injury model in mice. C57BL/6 mice were used in this study. A midline craniotomy (5mm diameter) was performed extending 2mm anteriorly and 3mm posteriorly from the bregma, centered over the sagittal suture. The skull flap was left in place. A cortical impact on the surface of the skull flap was performed using an electromagnetic impactor. Here we report that the injury significantly decreased the neuroscore and increased foot drops in a severity-dependent manner. Severity-related deficits in performance on a rotarod device were also found at both slow and fast accelerations. These findings suggest that our TBI model can produce graded motor deficits. In addition, Morris water maze testing showed increased latency to locate a hidden platform in a severity-dependent manner, suggesting that our model can also produce graded memory deficits. Furthermore, an adhesive removal test revealed significant increases in time-to-contact and time-to-remove the adhesive tape from the paw in a severity-dependent manner, indicating that our TBI model produced graded somatosensory and motor deficits. Histological analysis presented a clear gradation in brain tissue damage following graded brain injuries. These findings collectively suggest that the current model may offer a sensitive, reliable and clinically-relevant model for assessments of therapeutic strategies forTBI.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) results in severe motor function impairment, and subsequent recovery is often incomplete. Rehabilitative training is considered to promote restoration of the injured neural network, thus facilitating functional recovery. However, no studies have assessed the effect of such trainings in the context of neural rewiring. Here, we investigated the effects of two types of rehabilitative training on corticospinal tract (CST) plasticity and motor recovery in mice. We injured the unilateral motor cortex with contusion, which induced hemiparesis on the contralesional side. After the injury, mice performed either a single pellet-reaching task (simple repetitive training) or a rotarod task (bilateral movement training). Multiple behavioral tests were then used to assess forelimb motor function recovery: staircase, ladder walk, capellini handling, single pellet, and rotarod tests. The TBI+rotarod group performed most forelimb motor tasks (staircase, ladder walk, and capellini handling tests) better than the TBI-only group did. In contrast, the TBI+reaching group did not perform better except in the single pellet test. After the injury, the contralateral CST, labeled by biotinylated dextran amine, formed sprouting fibers into the denervated side of the cervical spinal cord. The number of these fibers was significantly higher in the TBI+rotarod group, whereas it did not increase in the TBI+reaching group. These results indicate that bilateral movement training effectively promotes axonal rewiring and motor function recovery, whereas the effect of simple repetitive training is limited.






Itch is described as an unpleasant sensation that elicits the desire to scratch, which results in the removal of the irritant from the skin. The cough reflex also results from irritation, with the purpose of removing said irritant from the airway. Could cough then be similar to itch? Anatomically, both pathways are mediated by small-diameter sensory fibers. These cough and itch sensory fibers release neuropeptides upon activation, which leads to inflammation of the nerves. Both cough and itch also involve mast cells and their mediators, which are released upon degranulation. This common inflammation and interaction with mast cells are involved in the development of chronic conditions of itch and cough. In this review, we examine the anatomy and molecular mechanisms of itch and compare them to known mechanisms for cough. Highlighting the common aspects of itch and cough could lead to new thoughts and perspectives in both fields.
The endogenous circadian clock is a principal factor modulating memory across species. Determining the processes through which the circadian clock modulates memory formation is a key issue in understanding and identifying mechanisms to improve memory. We used the marine mollusk Aplysia californica to investigate circadian modulation of intermediate-term memory (ITM) and the mechanisms through which the circadian clock phase specifically suppresses memory using the operant learning paradigm, learning that food is inedible. We found that ITM, a temporally and mechanistically distinct form of memory, is rhythmically expressed under light-dark and constant conditions when induced by either massed or spaced training. Strong circadian regulation of ITM occurs with memory exhibited only by animals trained during the early subjective day; no apparent memory is expressed when training occurs during the late subjective day or night. Given the necessity of multiple persistent kinase cascades for ITM, we investigated whether protein phosphatase activity affected circadian modulation. Inhibition of protein phosphatases 1 and 2A blocked ITM when animals were trained during the early (subjective) day while resulting in phase-specific memory rescue when animals were trained late in the subjective day and early night. In contrast, inhibition of calcineurin did not block ITM when animals were trained during the early day and permitted ITM when animals were trained during the late subjective day, early evening, and throughout the night. These results demonstrate that levels of protein phosphatase activity are critical regulators of ITM and one mechanism through which the circadian clock regulates memory formation.
Sleep plays an important role in memory consolidation within multiple memory systems including contextual fear extinction memory, but little is known about the mechanisms that underlie this process. Here, we show that fear extinction training in rats, which extinguished conditioned fear, increased both slow-wave sleep and rapid-eye movement (REM) sleep. Surprisingly, 24 h later, during memory testing, only 57% of the fear-extinguished animals retained fear extinction memory. We found that these animals exhibited an increase in phasic pontine-wave (P-wave) activity during post-training REM sleep, which was absent in the 43% of animals that failed to retain fear extinction memory. The results of this study provide evidence that brainstem activation, specifically potentiation of phasic P-wave activity, during post-training REM sleep is critical for consolidation of fear extinction memory. The results of this study also suggest that, contrary to the popular hypothesis of sleep and memory, increased sleep after training alone does not guarantee consolidation and/or retention of fear extinction memory. Rather, the potentiation of specific sleep-dependent physiological events may be a more accurate predictor for successful consolidation of fear extinction memory. Identification of this unique mechanism will significantly improve our present understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie the sleep-dependent regulation of emotional memory. Additionally, this discovery may also initiate development of a new, more targeted treatment method for clinical disorders of fear and anxiety in humans that is more efficacious than existing methods such as exposure therapy that incorporate only fear extinction.
We used a network approach to assess systems-level abnormalities in motor activation in humans with Parkinson's disease (PD). This was done by measuring the expression of the normal movement-related activation pattern (NMRP), a previously validated activation network deployed by healthy subjects during motor performance. In this study, NMRP expression was prospectively quantified in (15)O-water PET scans from a PD patient cohort comprised of a longitudinal early-stage group (n = 12) scanned at baseline and at two or three follow-up visits two years apart, and a moderately advanced group scanned on and off treatment with either subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation (n = 14) or intravenous levodopa infusion (n = 14). For each subject and condition, we measured NMRP expression during both movement and rest. Resting expression of the abnormal PD-related metabolic covariance pattern was likewise determined in the same subjects. NMRP expression was abnormally elevated (p &lt; 0.001) in PD patients scanned in the nonmovement rest state. By contrast, network activity measured during movement did not differ from normal (p = 0.34). In the longitudinal cohort, abnormal increases in resting NMRP expression were evident at the earliest clinical stages (p &lt; 0.05), which progressed significantly over time (p = 0.003). Analogous network changes were present at baseline in the treatment cohort (p = 0.001). These abnormalities improved with subthalamic nucleus stimulation (p &lt; 0.005) but not levodopa (p = 0.25). In both cohorts, the changes in NMRP expression that were observed did not correlate with concurrent PD-related metabolic covariance pattern measurements (p &gt; 0.22). Thus, the resting state in PD is characterized by changes in the activity of normal as well as pathological brain networks.
Dynamin GTPase, a key molecule in endocytosis, mechanically severs the invaginated membrane upon GTP hydrolysis. Dynamin functions also in regulating actin cytoskeleton, but the mechanisms are yet to be defined. Here we show that dynamin 1, a neuronal isoform of dynamin, and cortactin form ring complexes, which twine around F-actin bundles and stabilize them. By negative-staining EM, dynamin 1-cortactin complexes appeared as &quot;open&quot; or &quot;closed&quot; rings depending on guanine nucleotide conditions. By pyrene actin assembly assay, dynamin 1 stimulated actin assembly in mouse brain cytosol. In vitro incubation of F-actin with both dynamin 1 and cortactin led to the formation of long and thick actin bundles, on which dynamin 1 and cortactin were periodically colocalized in puncta. A depolymerization assay revealed that dynamin 1 and cortactin increased the stability of actin bundles, most prominently in the presence of GTP. In rat cortical neurons and human neuroblastoma cell line, SH-SY5Y, both dynamin 1 and cortactin localized on actin filaments and the bundles at growth cone filopodia as revealed by immunoelectron microscopy. In SH-SY5Y cell, acute inhibition of dynamin 1 by application of dynamin inhibitor led to growth cone collapse. Cortactin knockdown also reduced growth cone filopodia. Together, our results strongly suggest that dynamin 1 and cortactin ring complex mechanically stabilizes F-actin bundles in growth cone filopodia. Thus, the GTPase-dependent mechanochemical enzyme property of dynamin is commonly used both in endocytosis and regulation of F-actin bundles by a dynamin 1-cortactin complex.
Noninvasive brain stimulation provides a potential tool for affecting brain functions in the typical and atypical brain and offers in several cases an alternative to pharmaceutical intervention. Some studies have suggested that transcranial electrical stimulation (TES), a form of noninvasive brain stimulation, can also be used to enhance cognitive performance. Critically, research so far has primarily focused on optimizing protocols for effective stimulation, or assessing potential physical side effects of TES while neglecting the possibility of cognitive side effects. We assessed this possibility by targeting the high-level cognitive abilities of learning and automaticity in the mathematical domain. Notably, learning and automaticity represent critical abilities for potential cognitive enhancement in typical and atypical populations. Over 6 d, healthy human adults underwent cognitive training on a new numerical notation while receiving TES to the posterior parietal cortex or the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Stimulation to the the posterior parietal cortex facilitated numerical learning, whereas automaticity for the learned material was impaired. In contrast, stimulation to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex impaired the learning process, whereas automaticity for the learned material was enhanced. The observed double dissociation indicates that cognitive enhancement through TES can occur at the expense of other cognitive functions. These findings have important implications for the future use of enhancement technologies for neurointervention and performance improvement in healthy populations.
ATP-binding cassette transporter A7 (ABCA7) is expressed in the brain and has been detected in macrophages, microglia, and neurons. ABCA7 promotes efflux of lipids from cells to apolipoproteins and can also regulate phagocytosis and modulate processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) to generate the Alzheimer's disease (AD) amyloid- (A) peptide. Genome-wide association studies have indicated that ABCA7 single nucleotide polymorphisms confer increased risk for late-onset AD; however, the role that ABCA7 plays in the brain in the AD context is unknown. In the present study, we crossed ABCA7-deficient (A7(-/-)) mice with J20 amyloidogenic mice to address this issue. We show that ABCA7 loss doubled insoluble A levels and thioflavine-S-positive plaques in the brain. This was not related to changes in APP processing (assessed by analysis of full-length APP and the APP  C-terminal fragment). Apolipoprotein E regulates cerebral A homeostasis and plaque load; however, the apolipoprotein E concentration was not altered by ABCA7 loss. Spatial reference memory was significantly impaired in both J20 and J20/A7(-/-) mice compared with wild-type mice; however, there were no cognitive differences between J20 and J20/A7(-/-) mice. There were also no major differences detected in hippocampal or plaque-associated microglial/macrophage markers between J20 and J20/A7(-/-) mice, whereas the capacity for bone marrow-derived macrophages derived from A7(-/-) mice to take up oligomeric A was reduced by 51% compared with wild-type mice. Our results suggest that ABCA7 plays a role in the regulation of A homeostasis in the brain and that this may be related to altered phagocyte function.
We studied the contribution of the rostral mPFC (rmPFC) to the acquisition and performance of classical eyeblink conditioning in rabbits using a delay paradigm. The rmPFC was determined by its afferent projections from the medial half of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus. The rmPFC neurons were identified by their antidromic activation from the mediodorsal nucleus and/or by their firing characteristics. The rmPFC neurons increased their firing during the first conditioning sessions, but decreased it when conditioned responses (CRs) reached asymptotic values. Therefore, no significant relationships could be established between neuronal firing rates and the percentage of CRs or the electromyographic (EMG) activity of the orbicularis oculi muscle during conditioning. Electrical train stimulation of the rmPFC produced a significant inhibition of air-puff-evoked blinks and reduced the generation of CRs compared with controls. Inhibition of the rmPFC by the local injection of lidocaine produced an increase in the amplitude of evoked reflex and conditioned eyeblinks and in the percentage of CRs. The rmPFC seems to be a potent inhibitor of reflex and conditioned eyeblinks, controlling the release of newly acquired eyelid responses until advanced stages of the acquisition process--i.e., until the need for the acquired response is fully confirmed. Therefore, the rmPFC seems to act as a &quot;flip-flop&quot; mechanism in controlling behavior.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) play an important role in long-term regulation of synaptic signaling in both vertebrates and invertebrates. In this study, the role of transcription- and translation-dependent processes in presynaptic versus postsynaptic neurons was examined during eCB-mediated synaptic plasticity in the CNS of the leech. Low-frequency stimulation (LFS) of non-nociceptive afferents elicits eCB-dependent long-term depression (eCB-LTD) heterosynaptically in nociceptive synapses that lasts at least 2 h. Bath application of emetine, a protein synthesis inhibitor, blocked eCB-LTD after afferent LFS or exogenous eCB application, indicating that this depression was translation dependent. Bath application of actinomycin D, an irreversible RNA synthesis inhibitor, or 5,6-dichlorobenzimidazole 1--d-ribofurandoside (DRB), a reversible RNA synthesis inhibitor, also prevented eCB-LTD. Selective injection of DRB or emetine into the presynaptic or postsynaptic neuron before LFS indicated that eCB-LTD required transcription and translation in the postsynaptic neuron but only translation in the presynaptic cell. Depression observed immediately after LFS was also blocked when these transcription- and translation-dependent processes were inhibited. It is proposed that induction of eCB-LTD in this nociceptive synapse requires the coordination of presynaptic protein synthesis and postsynaptic mRNA and protein synthesis. These findings provide significant insights into both eCB-based synaptic plasticity and understanding how activity in non-nociceptive afferents modulates nociceptive pathways.
The everyday act of speaking involves the complex processes of speech motor control. An important component of control is monitoring, detection, and processing of errors when auditory feedback does not correspond to the intended motor gesture. Here we show, using fMRI and converging operations within a multivoxel pattern analysis framework, that this sensorimotor process is supported by functionally differentiated brain networks. During scanning, a real-time speech-tracking system was used to deliver two acoustically different types of distorted auditory feedback or unaltered feedback while human participants were vocalizing monosyllabic words, and to present the same auditory stimuli while participants were passively listening. Whole-brain analysis of neural-pattern similarity revealed three functional networks that were differentially sensitive to distorted auditory feedback during vocalization, compared with during passive listening. One network of regions appears to encode an &quot;error signal&quot; regardless of acoustic features of the error: this network, including right angular gyrus, right supplementary motor area, and bilateral cerebellum, yielded consistent neural patterns across acoustically different, distorted feedback types, only during articulation (not during passive listening). In contrast, a frontotemporal network appears sensitive to the speech features of auditory stimuli during passive listening; this preference for speech features was diminished when the same stimuli were presented as auditory concomitants of vocalization. A third network, showing a distinct functional pattern from the other two, appears to capture aspects of both neural response profiles. Together, our findings suggest that auditory feedback processing during speech motor control may rely on multiple, interactive, functionally differentiated neural systems.
The transcription factor FosB and the brain-enriched calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) are induced in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) by chronic exposure to cocaine or other psychostimulant drugs of abuse, in which the two proteins mediate sensitized drug responses. Although FosB and CaMKII both regulate AMPA glutamate receptor expression and function in NAc, dendritic spine formation on NAc medium spiny neurons (MSNs), and locomotor sensitization to cocaine, no direct link between these molecules has to date been explored. Here, we demonstrate that FosB is phosphorylated by CaMKII at the protein-stabilizing Ser27 and that CaMKII is required for the cocaine-mediated accumulation of FosB in rat NAc. Conversely, we show that FosB is both necessary and sufficient for cocaine induction of CaMKII gene expression in vivo, an effect selective for D1-type MSNs in the NAc shell subregion. Furthermore, induction of dendritic spines on NAc MSNs and increased behavioral responsiveness to cocaine after NAc overexpression of FosB are both CaMKII dependent. Importantly, we demonstrate for the first time induction of FosB and CaMKII in the NAc of human cocaine addicts, suggesting possible targets for future therapeutic intervention. These data establish that FosB and CaMKII engage in a cell-type- and brain-region-specific positive feedforward loop as a key mechanism for regulating the reward circuitry of the brain in response to chronic cocaine.
Tissue acidosis and inflammatory mediators play critical roles in inflammatory pain. Extracellular acidosis activates acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs), which have emerged as key sensors for extracellular protons in the central and peripheral nervous systems and play key roles in pain sensation and transmission. Additionally, inflammatory mediators, such as serotonin (5-HT), are known to enhance pain sensation. However, functional interactions among protons, inflammatory mediators, and ASICs in pain sensation are poorly understood. In the present study, we show that 5-HT, a classical pro-inflammatory mediator, specifically enhances the proton-evoked sustained, but not transient, currents mediated by homomeric ASIC3 channels and heteromeric ASIC3/1a and ASIC3/1b channels. Unexpectedly, the effect of 5-HT on ASIC3 channels does not involve activation of 5-HT receptors, but is mediated via a functional interaction between 5-HT and ASIC3 channels. We further show that the effect of 5-HT on ASIC3 channels depends on the newly identified nonproton ligand sensing domain. Finally, coapplication of 5-HT and acid significantly increased pain-related behaviors as assayed by the paw-licking test in mice, which was largely attenuated in ASIC3 knock-out mice, and inhibited by the nonselective ASIC inhibitor amiloride. Together, these data identify ASIC3 channels as an unexpected molecular target for acute actions of 5-HT in inflammatory pain sensation and reveal an important role of ASIC3 channels in regulating inflammatory pain via coincident detection of extracellular protons and inflammatory mediators.
In swimming Xenopus laevis tadpoles, gaze stabilization is achieved by efference copies of spinal locomotory CPG output that produce rhythmic extraocular motor activity appropriate for minimizing motion-derived visual disturbances. During metamorphosis, Xenopus switches its locomotory mechanism from larval tail-based undulatory movements to bilaterally synchronous hindlimb kick propulsion in the adult. The change in locomotory mode leads to body motion dynamics that no longer require conjugate left-right eye rotations for effective retinal image stabilization. Using in vivo kinematic analyses, in vitro electrophysiological recordings and specific CNS lesions, we have investigated spino-extraocular motor coupling in the juvenile frog and the underlying neural pathways to understand how gaze control processes are altered in accordance with the animal's change in body plan and locomotor strategy. Recordings of extraocular and limb motor nerves during spontaneous &quot;fictive&quot; swimming in isolated CNS preparations revealed that there is indeed a corresponding change in spinal efference copy control of extraocular motor output. In contrast to fictive larval swimming where alternating bursts occur in bilateral antagonistic horizontal extraocular nerves, during adult fictive limb-kicking, these motor nerves are synchronously active in accordance with the production of convergent eye movements during the linear head accelerations resulting from forward propulsion. Correspondingly, the neural pathways mediating spino-extraocular coupling have switched from contralateral to strictly ipsilateral ascending influences that ensure a coactivation of bilateral extraocular motoneurons with synchronous left-right limb extensions. Thus, adaptive developmental plasticity during metamorphosis enables spinal CPG-driven extraocular motor activity to match the changing requirements for eye movement control during self-motion.
A strong body of research has defined the role of excitotoxic glutamate in animal models of brain ischemia and stroke; however, clinical trials of glutamate receptor antagonists have demonstrated their limited capacity to prevent brain damage following ischemia. We propose that astrocyte-neuron signaling represents an important modulatory target that may be useful in mediating damage following stroke. To assess the impact of astrocyte signaling on damage following stroke, we have used the astrocyte-specific dominant-negative SNARE mouse model (dnSNARE). Recent findings have shown that the astrocytic SNARE signaling pathway can affect neuronal excitability by regulating the surface expression of NMDA receptors. Using focal photothrombosis via the Rose Bengal method, as well as excitotoxic NMDA lesions, we show that dnSNARE animals exhibited a sparing of damaged tissue quantified using Nissl and NeuN staining. At the same time point, animals were also tested in behavioral tasks that probe the functional integrity of stroke- or lesion-damaged motor and somatosensory areas. We found that dnSNARE mice performed significantly better than littermate controls on rung walk and adhesive dot removal tasks following lesion. Together, our results demonstrate the important role of astrocytic signaling under ischemic conditions. Drugs targeting astrocyte signaling have a potential benefit for the outcome of stroke in human patients by limiting the spread of damage.
Neurogenesis must be properly regulated to ensure that cell production does not exceed the requirements of the growing cerebral cortex, yet our understanding of mechanisms that restrain neuron production remains incomplete. We investigated the function of microglial cells in the developing cerebral cortex of prenatal and postnatal macaques and rats and show that microglia limit the production of cortical neurons by phagocytosing neural precursor cells. We show that microglia selectively colonize the cortical proliferative zones and phagocytose neural precursor cells as neurogenesis nears completion. We found that deactivating microglia in utero with tetracyclines or eliminating microglia from the fetal cerebral cortex with liposomal clodronate significantly increased the number of neural precursor cells, while activating microglia in utero through maternal immune activation significantly decreased the number of neural precursor cells. These data demonstrate that microglia play a fundamental role in regulating the size of the precursor cell pool in the developing cerebral cortex, expanding our understanding of the mechanisms that regulate cortical development. Furthermore, our data suggest that any factor that alters the number or activation state of microglia in utero can profoundly affect neural development and affect behavioral outcomes.
The dentate gyrus (DG), in addition to its role in learning and memory, is increasingly implicated inthe pathophysiology of anxiety disorders. Here, we show that, dependent on their position along thedorsoventral axis of the hippocampus, DG granule cells (GCs) control specific features of anxiety and contextual learning. Using optogenetic techniques to either elevate or decrease GC activity, we demonstrate that GCs in the dorsal DG control exploratory drive and encoding, not retrieval, of contextual fear memories. In contrast, elevating theactivity of GCs in the ventral DG has no effect on contextual learning but powerfully suppresses innate anxiety. These results suggest that strategies aimed at modulating the excitability of the ventral DGmay be beneficial for the treatment of anxiety disorders.
Cocaine addiction is characterized by long-lasting vulnerability to relapse arising because neutral environmental stimuli become associated with drug use and then act as cues that induce relapse. It is not known how cues elicit cocaine seeking, and why cocaine seeking is more difficult to regulate than seeking a natural reward. We found that cocaine-associated cues initiate cocaine seeking by inducing a rapid, transient increase in dendritic spine size and synaptic strength in the nucleus accumbens. These changes required neural activity in the prefrontal cortex. This is not the case when identical cues were associated with obtaining sucrose, which did not elicit changes in spine size or synaptic strength. The marked cue-induced synaptic changes in the accumbens were correlated with the intensity of cocaine, but not sucrose seeking, and may explain the difficulty addicts experience in managing relapse to cocaine use.
Experience rearranges anatomical connectivity in the brain, but such plasticity is suppressed in adulthood. We examined the turnover of dendritic spines and axonal varicosities in the somatosensory cortex ofmice lacking Nogo Receptor 1 (NgR1). Through adolescence, the anatomy and plasticity of ngr1 null mice are indistinguishable from control, but suppression of turnover after age 26days fails to occur in ngr1-/- mice. Adolescent anatomical plasticity can be restored to 1-year-old mice by conditional deletion of ngr1. Suppression of anatomical dynamics by NgR1 is cell autonomous and is phenocopied by deletion of Nogo-A ligand. Whisker removal deprives the somatosensory cortex of experience-dependent input and reduces dendritic spine turnover in adult ngr1-/- mice to control levels, while an acutely enriched environment increases dendritic spine dynamics in control mice to the level of ngr1-/- mice in a standard environment. Thus, NgR1 determines the low set point for synaptic turnover in adult cerebral cortex.
Disorders characterized by expansion of an unstable nucleotide repeat account for a number of inherited neurological diseases. Here, we review examples of unstable repeat disorders that nicely illustrate three of the major pathogenic mechanisms associated with these diseases: loss of function typically by disrupting transcription of the mutated gene, RNA toxic gain of function, and protein toxic gain of function. In addition to providing insight into the mechanisms underlying these devastating neurological disorders, the study of these unstable microsatellite repeat disorders has provided insight into very basic aspects of neuroscience.
An interdisciplinary research field, music perception involves various disciplines, such as psychology, neuroscience, and even physics. Research on music perception offers us a window into the mechanism of the brain. In music perception, the same distance of key shift in different directions tends to be perceived as different degrees of change. It, however, still remains unclear whether directional asymmetry is specific to key shift perception or a general phenomenon of key perception. Using both behavioral and electroencephalogram methods, this study examined Chinese nonmusicians' subjective ratings and electroencephalogram -band activity related to a piece of music performed at three different key levels and presented in three separate performances, none of which contained a key shift. This study showed that directional asymmetry is a general phenomenon of key level perception rather than specific to key shift perception. Furthermore, a counterclockwisely modulated key is related to stronger -band spectral power than a clockwisely modulated key.

As more chemotherapy-treated cancer patients are reaching survivorship, side-effects such as cognitive impairment warrant research attention. The advent of neuroimaging has helped uncover a neural basis for these deficits. This paper offers a review of neuroimaging investigations in chemotherapy-treated adult cancer patients, discussing the benefits and limitations of each technique and study design. Additionally, despite the assumption given by the chemobrain label that chemotherapy is the only causative agent of these deficits, other factors will be considered. Suggestions are made on how to more comprehensively study these cognitive changes using imaging techniques, thereby promoting generalizability of the results to clinical applications. Continued investigations may yield better long-term quality of life outcomes by supporting patients' self-reports, and revealing brain regions being affected by chemotherapy.


Gaussia Luciferase (Gluc) has proven to be a powerful mammalian cell reporter for monitoring numerous biological processes in immunology, virology, oncology, and neuroscience. Current limitations of Gluc as a reporter include its emission of blue light, which is absorbed by mammalian tissues, limiting its use in vivo, and a flash-type bioluminescence reaction, making it unsuited for high-throughput applications. To overcome these limitations, a library of Gluc variants was generated using directed molecular evolution and screened for relative light output, a shift in emission spectrum, and glow-type light emission kinetics. Several variants with a 10-15 nm shift in their light emission peak were found. Further, a Gluc variant that catalyzes a glow-type bioluminescence reaction, suited for high-throughput applications, was also identified. These results indicate that molecular evolution could be used to modulate Gluc bioluminescence reaction characteristics.
Integral membrane proteins reside within the bilayer membranes that surround cells and organelles, playing critical roles in movement of molecules across them and the transduction of energy and signals. While their extreme amphipathicity presents technical challenges, biological mass spectrometry has been applied to all aspects of membrane protein chemistry and biology, including analysis of primary, secondary, tertiary, and quaternary structures as well as the dynamics that accompany functional cycles and catalysis.
The behaviors of other people are often central to envisioning the future. The ability to accurately predict the thoughts and actions of others is essential for successful social interactions, with far-reaching consequences. Despite its importance, little is known about how the brain represents people in order to predict behavior. In this functional magnetic resonance imaging study, participants learned the unique personality of 4 protagonists and imagined how each would behave in different scenarios. The protagonists' personalities were composed of 2 traits: Agreeableness and Extraversion. Which protagonist was being imagined was accurately inferred based solely on activity patterns in the medial prefrontal cortex using multivariate pattern classification, providing novel evidence that brain activity can reveal whom someone is thinking about. Lateral temporal and posterior cingulate cortex discriminated between different degrees of agreeableness and extraversion, respectively. Functional connectivity analysis confirmed that regions associated with trait-processing and individual identities were functionally coupled. Activity during the imagination task, and revealed by functional connectivity, was consistent with the default network. Our results suggest that distinct regions code for personality traits, and that the brain combines these traits to represent individuals. The brain then uses this &quot;personality model&quot; to predict the behavior of others in novel situations.

Brain connectivity maps display a delicate balance between individual variation and stereotypy, suggesting the existence of dedicated mechanisms that simultaneously permit and limit individual variation. We show that during the development of the Drosophila central nervous system, mutual inhibition among groups of neighboring postmitotic neurons during development regulates the robustness of axon target choice in a nondeterministic neuronal circuit. Specifically, neighboring postmitotic neurons communicate through Notch signaling during axonal targeting, to ensure balanced alternative axon target choices without a corresponding change in cell fate. Loss of Notch in postmitotic neurons modulates an axon's target choice. However, because neighboring axons respond by choosing the complementary target, the stereotyped connectivity pattern is preserved. In contrast, loss of Notch in clones of neighboring postmitotic neurons results in erroneous coinnervation by multiple axons. Our observations establish mutual inhibition of axonal target choice as a robustness mechanism for brain wiring and unveil a novel cell fate independent function for canonical Notch signaling. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.00337.001.
Cognitive dysfunction is a component of affective disorders, including depression. Chronic stress is a risk factor for depression, and we have shown that exposing rats to chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) induces a deficit of cognitive flexibility, the ability to modify behavior based on feedback from a changing environment. Deficits of cognitive flexibility, measured by extra-dimensional set-shifting on the Attentional Set-shifting Test (AST), are consistent with dysregulation of prefrontal cortical function, also characteristic of depression. We have shown that increasing norepinephrine in the medial prefrontal cortex facilitated set-shifting, and chronic treatment with the selective norepinephrine reuptake blocker, desipramine, restored cognitive flexibility in rats that had been compromised by CUS. Serotonin reuptake blockade also prevented CUS-induced deficits in cognitive flexibility, suggesting a role for both monoamines in this process. Milnacipran is a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) with moderate preference for blocking norepinephrine reuptake. In this study, we tested the effects of chronic milnacipran treatment on cognitive set-shifting after CUS. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated chronically by minipump with milnacipran (30 mg/kg/day), the positive control drug, desipramine (5mg/kg/day), or vehicle, and exposed to CUS or unstressed control conditions. For CUS, a different acute stressor was presented daily for 14 days. On Day 17, rats were tested on the AST. Consistent with previous results, CUS impaired cognitive set-shifting. Further, chronic treatment with either milnacipran or desipramine preserved cognitive flexibility after CUS, suggesting that milnacipran may have efficacy in the management of cognitive dysfunction as a component of stress-related illnesses, including fibromyalgia and depression.

Assessment for the purpose of monitoring change over time requires a different practical and statistical approach to that of assessment for diagnosing impairment. Sophisticated methods exist for identifying strengths and weaknesses in a patient's voice/speech profile, yet our understanding of the impact of repeated assessment is limited. Monitoring change necessitates that stimuli are stable in the absence of any true change in functioning, while remaining sensitive to influences that are considered to alter functioning (degeneration, therapy). The current paper discusses the issues relating to stimuli selection, identifying error within the sample and appropriate statistical models for identifying intra-individual change in the context of clinical and experimental speech or voice examinations.




The cell intrinsic factors that determine whether a neuron regenerates or undergoes apoptosis in response to axonal injury are not well defined. Here we show that the mixed-lineage dual leucine zipper kinase (DLK) is an essential upstream mediator of both of these divergent outcomes in the same cell type. Optic nerve crush injury leads to rapid elevation of DLK protein, first in the axons of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and then in their cell bodies. DLK is required for the majority of gene expression changes in RGCs initiated by injury, including induction of both proapoptotic and regeneration-associated genes. Deletion of DLK in retina results in robust and sustained protection of RGCs from degeneration after optic nerve injury. Despite this improved survival, the number of axons that regrow beyond the injury site is substantially reduced, even when the tumor suppressor phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is deleted to enhance intrinsic growth potential. These findings demonstrate that these seemingly contradictory responses to injury are mechanistically coupled through a DLK-based damage detection mechanism.
The mechanisms by which -amyloid (A), a peptide fragment believed to contribute to Alzheimer's disease, leads to synaptic deficits are not known. Here we find that elevated oligomeric A requires ion flux-independent function of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) to produce synaptic depression. A activates this metabotropic NMDAR function on GluN2B-containing NMDARs but not on those containing GluN2A. Furthermore, oligomeric A leads to a selective loss of synaptic GluN2B responses, effecting a switch in subunit composition from GluN2B to GluN2A, a process normally observed during development. Our results suggest that conformational changes of the NMDAR, and not ion flow through its channel, are required for A to produce synaptic depression and a switch in NMDAR composition. This A-induced signaling mediated by alterations in GluN2B conformation may be a target for therapeutic intervention of Alzheimer's disease.
Punishment of free-riding has been implicated in the evolution of cooperation in humans, and yet mechanisms for punishment avoidance remain largely uninvestigated. Individual variation in these mechanisms may stem from variation in the serotonergic system, which modulates processing of aversive stimuli. Functional serotonin gene variants have been associated with variation in the processing of aversive stimuli and widely studied as risk factors for psychiatric disorders. We show that variants at the serotonin transporter gene (SLC6A4) and serotonin 2A receptor gene (HTR2A) predict contributions to the public good in economic games, dependent upon whether contribution behavior can be punished. Participants with a variant at the serotonin transporter gene contribute more, leading to group-level differences in cooperation, but this effect dissipates in the presence of punishment. When contribution behavior can be punished, those with a variant at the serotonin 2A receptor gene contribute more than those without it. This variant also predicts a more stressful experience of the games. The diversity of institutions (including norms) that govern cooperation and punishment may create selective pressures for punishment avoidance that change rapidly across time and space. Variant-specific epigenetic regulation of these genes, as well as population-level variation in the frequencies of these variants, may facilitate adaptation to local norms of cooperation and punishment.
NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activation controls long-term potentiation (LTP) as well as long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission, cellular models of learning and memory. A long-standing view proposes that a high level of Ca(2+) entry through NMDARs triggers LTP; lower Ca(2+) entry triggers LTD. Here we show that ligand binding to NMDARs is sufficient to induce LTD; neither ion flow through NMDARs nor Ca(2+) rise is required. However, basal levels of Ca(2+) are permissively required. Lowering, but not maintaining, basal Ca(2+) levels with Ca(2+) chelators blocks LTD and drives strong synaptic potentiation, indicating that basal Ca(2+) levels control NMDAR-dependent LTD and basal synaptic transmission. Our findings indicate that metabotropic actions of NMDARs can weaken active synapses without raising postsynaptic calcium, thereby revising and expanding the mechanisms controlling synaptic plasticity.
From job interviews to the heat of battle, it is evident that people think and learn differently when stressed. In fact, learning under stress may have long-term consequences; stress facilitates aversive conditioning and associations learned during extreme stress may result in debilitating emotional responses in posttraumatic stress disorder. The mechanisms underpinning such stress-related associations, however, are unknown. Computational neuroscience has successfully characterized several mechanisms critical for associative learning under normative conditions. One such mechanism, the detection of a mismatch between expected and observed outcomes within the ventral striatum (i.e., &quot;prediction errors&quot;), is thought to be a critical precursor to the formation of new stimulus-outcome associations. An untested possibility, therefore, is that stress may affect learning via modulation of this mechanism. Here we combine a translational model of stress with a cognitive neuroimaging paradigm to demonstrate that stress significantly increases ventral striatum aversive (but not appetitive) prediction error signal. This provides a unique account of the propensity to form threat-related associations under stress with direct implications for our understanding of both normal stress and stress-related disorders.
It is widely believed that, in cortical pyramidal cells, action potentials (APs) initiate in the distal portion of axon initial segment (AIS) because that is where Na(+) channel density is highest. To investigate the relationship between the density of Na(+) channels and the spatiotemporal pattern of AP initiation, we simultaneously recorded Na(+) flux and action currents along the proximal axonal length. We found that functional Na(+) channel density is approximately four times lower in the AP trigger zone than in the middle of the AIS, where it is highest. Computational analysis of AP initiation revealed a paradoxical mismatch between the AP threshold and Na(+) channel density, which could be explained by the lopsided capacitive load imposed on the proximal end of the AIS by the somatodendritic compartment. Favorable conditions for AP initiation are therefore achieved in the distal AIS portion, close to the edge of myelin, where the current source-load ratio is highest. Our findings suggest that cable properties play a central role in determining where the AP starts, such that small plastic changes in the local AIS Na(+) channel density could have a large influence on neuronal excitability as a whole.
Nicotine, the major addictive substance in tobacco, increases the activity of the central amygdala (CeA). Amygdala is directly implicated in anxiety modulation and sends projections to the vicinity of the midbrain dopamine neurons, including the ventral tegmental area (VTA) which is a key area that controls nicotine dependence processes. In this study, the role of dopamine D(1) and D(2)/(3) receptors of the VTA on anxiogenic-like behavior induced with intra-CeA injection of nicotine has been investigated. Male Wistar rats with cannula aimed to the left CeA and the left VTA were submitted to the elevated plus-maze (EPM). The nicotine injection (1 g/rat) into the CeA decreased the percentage of open arm time and open arm entries, but not locomotor activity, indicating an anxiogenic-like response. Intra-VTA injection of a dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH23390 (0.25 g/rat), and a dopamine D2/3 receptor antagonist, sulpiride (0.7 g/rat), inhibited the anxiogenic-like response caused by intra-CeA injection of nicotine. These results suggest that the relationship between the VTA and the CeA may be involved in nicotine-induced anxiogenic-like behavior via dopamine D(1) and D(2)/(3) receptors. An understanding of these cellular processes will be crucial for the development of new intervention to combat nicotine effect.
One of the most significant barriers towards translational neuropsychiatry would be an unavailability of living brain tissues. Although organotypic brain tissue culture could be a useful alternative enabling observation of temporal changes induced by various drugs in living brain tissues, a proper method to establish a stable organotypic brain slice culture system using adult (rather than neonatal) hippocampus has been still elusive. In this study, we evaluated our simple method using the serum-free culture medium for successful adult organotypic hippocampal slice culture. Several tens of hippocampal slices from a single adult mouse (3-5 months old) were cultured in serum-free versus serum-containing conventional culture medium for 30 days and underwent various experiments to validate the effects of the existence of serum in the culture medium. Neither the excessive regression of neuronal viability nor metabolic deficiency was observed in the serum-free medium culture in contrast to the serum-containing medium culture. Despite such viability, newly generated immature neurons were scarcely detected in the serum-free culture, suggesting that the original neurons in the brain slice persist rather than being replaced by neurogenesis. Key structural features of in vivo neural tissue constituting astrocytes, neural processes, and pre- and post-synapses were also well preserved in the serum-free culture. In conclusion, using the serum-free culture medium, the adult hippocampal slice culture system will serve as a promising ex vivo tool for various fields of neuroscience, especially for studies on aging-related neuropsychiatric disorders or for high throughput screening of potential agents working against such disorders.

AvGluR1, a glutamate receptor ion channel from theprimitive eukaryote Adineta vaga, is activated by alanine, cysteine, methionine, and phenylalanine, which produce lectin-sensitive desensitizing responses like those to glutamate, aspartate, and serine. AvGluR1 LBD crystal structures reveal an unusual scheme for binding dissimilar ligands that may be utilized by distantly related odorant/chemosensory receptors. Arginine residues in domain 2 coordinate the -carboxyl group of glutamate, whereas in the alanine, methionine, and serine complexes a chloride ion acts as a surrogate ligand, replacing the -carboxyl group. Removal of Cl(-) lowers affinity for these ligands but not for glutamate or aspartate nor for phenylalanine, which occludes the anion binding site and binds with low affinity. AvGluR1 LBD crystal structures and sedimentation analysis also provide insights into the evolutionary link between prokaryotic and eukaryotic iGluRs and reveal features unique to both classes, emphasizing the need for additional structure-based studies on iGluR-ligand interactions.

New research combining neural decoding and biofeedback to target neuroplasticity causally links early visual cortical plasticity with improved perception. This is an exciting new approach to understanding brain function, one which may lead to new ways of treating neurological disorders by targeted intervention.
A recent study finds that the grid reference system in entorhinal cortex, used for computing distances during self-localization, has a discretized and modular organization. This has implications both for how the system develops and also for how it functions.
Axons must be supported by a strong and flexible cytoskeleton. New 'super-resolution' imaging of the submembranous axonal cytoskeleton reveals that it is organized in a periodic, ladder-like structure with alternating rings of actin linked together by intervening complexes of spectrin.
For over a hundred years, patching of the good eye has been the main and often only method of treating a 'lazy' or amblyopic eye. A recent study shows that a period of time in complete darkness can promote rapid recovery of vision.
One of the long-standing unsolved mysteries of visual neuroscience is how the world remains apparently stable in the face of continuous movements of eyes, head and body. Many factors seem to contribute to this stability, including rapid updating mechanisms that temporarily remap the visual input to compensate for the impending saccade. However, there is also a growing body of evidence pointing to more long-lasting spatiotopic neural representations, which remain solid in external rather than retinal coordinates. In this study, we show that these spatiotopic representations take hundreds of milliseconds to build up robustly.
A growing body of evidence suggests that memories are stored in the hippocampus by integrating spatial information from specialized cell types in the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) with nonspatial information from cells in the lateral entorhinal cortex (LEC). LEC neurons show little spatial modulation when rats run in empty open-field environments but fire in the vicinity of discrete objects, suggesting that they provide information about the specific content of the spatial environment. It is unclear, however, whether firing at objects is elicited purely by stimulus properties, in a sensory-like manner, or whether any higher-order property, such as the history of experience, is also relevant. To address this question, we recorded from LEC neurons in an open field where objects were present on a subset of the trials. Whereas some neurons fired at the objects, other cells developed specific firing at places where objects had been located on previous trials, providing a readout of past experience in the environment. The latter cells generally did not respond to the object when it was present, suggesting that object cells and object-trace cells are independent cell classes. These findings identify LEC as a component of the hippocampal-cortical circuit for object-place memory.
Tremor can dominate Parkinson's disease and yet responds less well to dopaminergic medications than do other cardinal symptoms of this condition. Deep brain stimulation can provide striking tremor relief, but the introduction of stimulating electrodes deep in the substance of the brain carries significant risks, including those of hemorrhage. Here, we pioneer an alternative approach in which we noninvasively apply transcranial alternating current stimulation (TACS) over the motor cortex to induce phase cancellation of the rest tremor rhythm. We first identify the timing of cortical oscillations responsible for rest tremor in the periphery by delivering tremor-frequency stimulation over motor cortex but do not couple this stimulation to the on-going tremor-instead, the rhythms simply &quot;drift&quot; in and out of phase alignment with one another. Slow alternating periods of phase cancellation and reinforcement result, informing on the phase alignments that induce the greatest change in tremor amplitude. Next, we deliver stimulation at these specified phase alignments to demonstrate controlled suppression of the on-going tremor. With this technique we can achieve almost 50% average reduction in resting tremor amplitude and in so doing form the basis of a closed-loop tremor-suppression therapy that could be extended to other oscillopathies.
The existence of heightened brain plasticity during critical periods in early postnatal life is a central tenet of developmental sensory neuroscience and helps explain the enduring deficits induced by early abnormal sensory exposure. The human visual disorder amblyopia has been linked to unbalanced visual input to the two eyes in early postnatal visual cortical development and has been modeled in animals by depriving them of patterned visual input to one eye, a procedure known as monocular deprivation (MD). We investigated the possibility that a period of darkness might reset the central visual pathways to a more plastic stage and hence increase the capacity for recovery from early MD. Here we show that a 10 day period of complete darkness reverses maturation of stable cytoskeleton components in kitten visual cortex and also results in rapid elimination of, or even immunity from, visual deficits linked to amblyogenic rearing by MD. The heightened instability of the cytoskeleton induced by darkness likely represents just one of many parallel molecular changes that promote visual recovery, possibly by release of the various brakes on cortical plasticity.



Over the past decade, there have been numerous advances in our understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC). Following the identification of the TSC1 and TSC2 genes, a link to regulatory control of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway has paved the way for new therapeutic interventions, and now even approved therapies for TSC. Gene identification has permitted establishment of cell lines and conditional knockout mouse strains to assay how abnormalities in brain structure lead to enhanced excitability, seizures, cognitive disabilities, and other neuropsychological disorders in TSC. Furthermore, work in in vitro systems and analysis of rodent models and human tissue has allowed investigators to study how brain lesions form in TSC. Evolving questions over the next decade include understanding the high clinical variability of TSC, defining why there is a lack of clear genotype-phenotype correlations, and identifying biomarkers for prognosis and stratification. The study of TSC has in many ways reflected a paradigm &quot;bench-to-bedside&quot; success story that serves as a model of many other neurological disorders.



To date, research on the human ether-a-go-go related gene (hERG) has focused on this potassium channel's role in cardiac repolarization and Long QT Syndrome (LQTS). However, growing evidence implicates hERG in a diversity of physiologic and pathological processes. Here we discuss these other functions of hERG, particularly their impact on diseases beyond cardiac arrhythmia.
Aim:Living high training low&quot; (LHTL) is an exercise-training protocol that refers living in hypoxia stress and training at normal level of O2. In this study, we investigated whether LHTL caused physiological heart hypertrophy accompanied by changes of biomarkers in renin-angiotensin system in rats.Methods:Adult male SD rats were randomly assigned into 4 groups, and trained on living low-sedentary (LLS, control), living low-training low (LLTL), living high-sedentary (LHS) and living high-training low (LHTL) protocols, respectively, for 4 weeks. Hematological parameters, hemodynamic measurement, heart hypertrophy and plasma angiotensin II (Ang II) level of the rats were measured. The gene and protein expression of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), angiotensinogen (AGT) and angiotensin II receptor I (AT1) in heart tissue was assessed using RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry, respectively.Results:LLTL, LHS and LHTL significantly improved cardiac function, increased hemoglobin concentration and RBC. At the molecular level, LLTL, LHS and LHTL significantly decreased the expression of ACE, AGT and AT1 genes, but increased the expression of ACE and AT1 proteins in heart tissue. Moreover, ACE and AT1 protein expression was significantly increased in the endocardium, but unchanged in the epicardium.Conclusion:LHTL training protocol suppresses ACE, AGT and AT1 gene expression in heart tissue, but increases ACE and AT1 protein expression specifically in the endocardium, suggesting that the physiological heart hypertrophy induced by LHTL is regulated by region-specific expression of renin-angiotensin system components.
Cannabidiol is a non-psychotomimetic constituent of Cannabis sativa, which induces central effects in rodents. It has been shown that cannabidiol attenuates cue-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. However, to the best of our knowledge, its effects on brain stimulation reward and the reward-facilitating effects of drugs of abuse have not yet been examined. Therefore, we investigated the effects of cannabidiol on brain reward function and on the reward-facilitating effect of morphine and cocaine using the intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) paradigm. Rats were prepared with a stimulating electrode into the medial forebrain bundle (MFB), and a guide cannula into the dorsal raphe (microinjection experiments), and were trained to respond for electrical brain stimulation. A low dose of cannabidiol did not affect the reinforcing efficacy of brain stimulation, whereas higher doses significantly elevated the threshold frequency required for MFB ICSS. Both cocaine and morphine lowered ICSS thresholds. Cannabidiol inhibited the reward-facilitating effect of morphine, but not cocaine. This effect was reversed by pre-treatment with an intra-dorsal raphe injection of the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY-100635. The present findings indicate that cannabidiol does not exhibit reinforcing properties in the ICSS paradigm at any of the doses tested, while it decreases the reward-facilitating effects of morphine. These effects were mediated by activation of 5-HT1A receptors in the dorsal raphe. Our results suggest that cannabidiol interferes with brain reward mechanisms responsible for the expression of the acute reinforcing properties of opioids, thus indicating that cannabidiol may be clinically useful in attenuating the rewarding effects of opioids.
Social/peer influences are among the strongest predictors of adolescent drug use. However, this important subject does not get much attention in pre-clinical studies. We recently observed that exposure to different social partners modulates morphine locomotor sensitization. Sensitivity to the hyper-locomotor response of drugs of abuse is a predictor of sensitivity to other drug-induced behaviors. Thus, this study examined how exposure to different social partners affected the rewarding properties of morphine. All animals were group-housed four per cage in one of two conditions referred to as 'only' and 'cage-mates'. In the mixed treatment condition, morphine- and saline-treated mice were housed together. These groups are referred to as 'morphine cage-mates' and 'saline cage-mates', respectively. In the separated treatment conditions, all mice in the cage received morphine (i.e. 'morphine only') or saline (i.e. 'saline only'), and cages were visually separated from each other. All animals were subsequently individually tested for the acquisition of morphine conditioned place preference (CPP) following one conditioning session with 10, 20 or 40 mg/kg morphine or saline. As expected, one conditioning session established morphine CPP in the morphine only animals, but not in the saline only animals. Notably, morphine CPP was not acquired by the morphine cage-mate animals. Additionally, 40 mg/kg morphine was sufficient to establish morphine CPP in the saline cage-mate animals. These results indicate that social environment has an effect on the rewarding properties of morphine. It suggests that exposure to different peers can alter the abuse potential of opioids and potentially other illicit drugs.

This study aims at developing a single numerical measure that represents a depressed patient's individual burden of illness. An exploratory study examined depressed outpatients (n=317) followed by a hypothesis confirmatory study using the NIMH STAR*D trial (n=2,967). Eigenvalues/eigenvectors were obtained from the Principal Component Analyses of patient-reported measures of symptom severity, functioning, and quality of life. The study shows that a single principal component labeled as the Individual Burden of Illness Index for Depression (IBI-D) accounts for the vast majority of the variance contained in these three measures providing a numerical z score for clinicians and investigators to determine an individual's burden of illness, relative to other depressed patients.

The endocrine pancreas is richly innervated with sympathetic and parasympathetic projections from the brain. In the mid-20th century, it was established that -adrenergic activation inhibits, whereas cholinergic stimulation promotes, insulin secretion; this demonstrated the importance of the sympathetic and parasympathetic systems in pancreatic endocrine function. It was later established that insulin injected peripherally could act within the brain, leading to the discovery of insulin and insulin receptors within the brain and the receptor-mediated transport of insulin into the central nervous system from endothelial cells. The insulin receptor within the central nervous system is widely distributed, reflecting insulin's diverse range of actions, including acting as an adiposity signal to reduce food intake and increase energy expenditure, regulation of systemic glucose responses, altering sympathetic activity, and involvement in cognitive function. As observed with central insulin administration, the pancreatic hormones glucagon, somatostatin, pancreatic polypeptide, and amylin can each also reduce food intake. Pancreatic and also gut hormones are released cephalically, in what is an important mechanism to prepare the body for a meal and prevent excessive postprandial hyperglycemia.

Geriatric medicine has an encyclopaedic sweep, reflecting the complexity of both the ageing process and of our patient group. Keeping up with, and making sense of, the relevant scientific literature is challenging, especially as ageing has increased in prominence as a focus of research across many branches of the sciences and the humanities. This review of research published in 2012 in generalist, geriatric medicine and gerontology journals has been compiled with a view to extracting those aspects of research into ageing which could be considered relevant not only to the practice of geriatric medicine, but also to our understanding of the ageing process and the relationship of geriatric medicine to other medical specialties and public health. The research discussed includes new insights into global ageing and the compression of morbidity; nosological, clinical and therapeutic aspects of dementia; an innovative study on the microbiome and ageing; epidemiological perspectives into multi-morbidity; an overview of the impact of the first waves of Baby Boomers; fresh thinking on geriatric syndromes such as orthostatic hypotension, kyphosis, urinary incontinence after stroke, frailty and elder abuse; an update of the Beers criteria and the first stirrings of recognition of the longevity dividend in the biomedical literature.
We report the case of a 97-year-old woman who had a prolonged hospital admission for the treatment of right-sided heart failure. During her stay she experienced a rapid deterioration, characterised by shortness of breath, cardiovascular compromise and a hot, red, swollen calf. Post-mortem examination demonstrated that this was caused by necrotising fasciitis due to Serratia marcescens as a single pathogen. This is only the second reported case of this condition in the absence of diabetes or immunosuppression, and clinical deterioration was much more rapid. The case underlines the importance of circumspection and regular review in the diagnosis of the elderly patient. It reminds us that these patients should be viewed as functionally immunosuppressed, and that some or all of the haematological markers of infection can be absent even in severe disease.
The ability to achieve and maintain the focus of cognitive activity on a given stimulation source or task, in other words to sustain attention or vigilance, is a fundamental component of human cognition. Given the omnipresent need for sustained attention in people's daily lives, a precise knowledge of the effects of normal aging on sustained attention is crucial. Findings in this topic are currently not consistent since they highlight either alteration or preservation or even the two, depending on the experimental approach used. Actually, the two existing approaches do not involve bottom-up and top-down processes at the same extent, which may in part account for this inconclusiveness. This review presents and attempts to explain these results by putting them into perspective with our current knowledge on cognitive aging and the two competing vigilance decrement theories, and discusses how they could inform us on our problems with sustaining attention over time.
Functional neuroimaging studies have consistently reported age-related changes in prefrontal cortex (PFC) activity during a variety of cognitive tasks, including episodic memory. These changes are often interpreted within the context of one of the following three neural models of age-related changes in brain function: dedifferentiation, neural inefficiency, and neural plasticity and compensation models. Distinguishing between these competing models has proven difficult when interpreting results using functional imaging data alone. In this paper we suggest that a more accurate interpretation of age-related changes in PFC activity requires consideration of age-related differences in gray matter volume (GMv) in PFC and the medial temporal lobes (MTL). We review fMRI studies of cognitive aging that have directly examined the relationship between PFC activity and both local (PFC) and distal (MTL) GMv in older versus younger adults. We also considered how structure-function relationships may be further modified in pathological aging (i.e. mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD)). We found that when task performance was matched between age-groups there was a negative association between regional PFC volume and activity in older adults. However, when older adults performed worse than young adults we observed a positive association between volume and activity in right lateral PFC. Additionally during memory tasks, several studies revealed that PFC activity is positively related to GM volume in MTL in healthy older adults, but negatively related in MCI and AD patients. We conclude that PFC activity is related to age-related changes in local and distal GM volume reductions and that consideration of these structural measures aids the interpretation of fMRI results. Furthermore, the study of structure-function relationships may provide important insights into the biological mechanisms underlying healthy versus pathological aging.







Objective : Cognitive deficit and white matter alteration relationships in Parkinson's disease (PD) were investigated. Methods : Comparison of 64 patients with PD (M:F, 34:30; 64.4  10.4 years) classified as cognitively normal (PD-CogNL, n = 24), mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI, n = 30), and dementia (PD-D, n = 10) with 21 healthy participants (M:F, 10:11; 60.1  13.6 years) was conducted using white matter fractional anisotropy (FA), region-of-interest analysis, and diffusion tensor imaging. Results : The PD-D and PD-MCI exhibited higher Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor scores (P &lt; .001; P &lt; .01) and Hoehn-Yahr stages (P &lt; .001; P &lt; .05) and FA reductions in left frontal/right temporal white matter and bilateral anterior cingulated bundles. Largest FA reductions occurred in PD-D left anterior cingulated bundle and corpus callosum splenium. Disease durations of PD-D = 6.8  6.86, PD-MCI = 5.1  2.9, and PD-CogNL = 4.7  3.4 years, suggesting progressive deterioration. Conclusions : Cerebral white matter deterioration may underlie progressive cognitive impairment in PD.

Lyme disease, infection with Borrelia burgdorferi, is a focally endemic tick-transmitted zoonosis. During the 3 decades since the responsible spirochete was identified, a series of misconceptions and misunderstandings have become widely prevalent, leading to frequent misdiagnosis and inappropriate treatment. Persistent misconceptions concern the reliability of available diagnostic tools, the signs and symptoms of nervous system involvement, the appropriate choice and duration of antimicrobial therapy, the curability of the infection, and the cause of symptoms that may persist in some patients after treatment. Concern about disparate perspectives led the Institute of Medicine to review the subject. In this article we review the principal misconceptions, discussing their origins and the best currently available scientific evidence related to each one.
The interaction between adverse life events during childhood and genetic factors is associated with a higher risk to develop major depressive disorder (MDD). One of the polymorphisms found to be associated with MDD is the Val66MET polymorphism of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). The aim of our two-center study was to determine how the BDNF Val66Met polymorphism and childhood adversity affect the volumetric measures of the hippocampus in healthy individuals and people with MDD. In this two-center study, 62 adult patients with MDD and 71 healthy matched controls underwent high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging. We used manual tracing of the bilateral hippocampal structure with help of the software BRAINS2, assessed childhood adversity using the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire and genotyped Val66Met BDNF SNP (rs6265). MDD patients had smaller hippocampal volumes, both in the left and right hemispheres (F = 5.4, P = 0.022). We also found a significant interaction between BDNF allele and history of childhood adversity (F = 6.1, P = 0.015): Met allele carriers in our samples showed significantly smaller hippocampal volumes when they did have a history of childhood adversity, both in patients and controls. Our results highlight how relevant stress-gene interactions are for hippocampal volume reductions. Subjects exposed to early life adversity developed smaller hippocampal volumes when they carry the Met-allele of the BDNF polymorphism.
Deletion of chr22q11 gives rise to velo-cardio facial syndrome (VCFS) and increases schizophrenia risk. The source of this elevated risk although unknown could result from stochastic, environmental, or genetic factors, the latter encompassing a range of complexity from polygenic mechanisms to &quot;second-hit&quot; mutations. For this study we tested the two-hit hypothesis where additional risk is conferred through a second CNV. We identified large (&gt;100 kb) CNVs in 48 VCFS cases (23 with psychosis--25 without) and show in the psychotic VCFS group there is a significant (P = 0.02) increase in the average size of CNVs (354-227 kb). To identify second-hit loci we focused on individuals possessing gene-centric CNVs and through literature mining identified 4 (31%) psychotic VCFS individuals (n = 13) that overlapped loci previously implicated in neuropsychiatric disorders compared to 1 (10%) from the non-psychotic VCFS individuals (n = 10). For replication 17 VCFS patients with schizophrenia from the molecular genetics of schizophrenia dataset were used to identify further CNVs. Thirteen individuals possessing gene-centric CNVs were identified including 3 (23%) individuals possessing a potential second-hit, taking the overall total in the psychotic VCFS group (n = 26) to 7 (27%) potential second-hit loci. Notably a deletion in a psychotic VCFS patient at 2q23.1 hit the gene MBD5 which when deleted gives rise to intellectual disability, epilepsy, and autistic features. Through this study we potentially extend this phenotypic spectrum to include schizophrenia. Our results suggest the two-hit hypothesis may be relevant to a proportion of VCFS patients with psychosis but sample sizes are small and further studies warranted.
The type 2 cannabinoid receptor (CB2R) was recently shown to mediate neuroprotection in ischemic injury. However, the role of CB2Rs in the central nervous system, especially neuronal and glial CB2Rs in the cortex, remains unclear. We, therefore, investigated anti-ischemic mechanisms of cortical CB2R activation in various ischemic models. In rat cortical neurons/glia mixed cultures, a CB2R agonist, trans-caryophyllene (TC), decreased neuronal injury and mitochondrial depolarization caused by oxygen-glucose deprivation/re-oxygenation (OGD/R); these effects were reversed by the selective CB2R antagonist, AM630, but not by a type 1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist, AM251. Although it lacked free radical scavenging and antioxidant enzyme induction activities, TC reduced OGD/R-evoked mitochondrial dysfunction and intracellular oxidative stress. Western blot analysis demonstrated that TC enhanced phosphorylation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) and cAMP responsive element-binding protein (CREB), and increased expression of the CREB target gene product, brain-derived neurotrophic factor. However, TC failed to alter the activity of either Akt or extracellular signal-regulated kinase, two major CB2R signaling pathways. Selective AMPK and CREB inhibitors abolished the neuroprotective effects of TC. In rats, post-ischemic treatment with TC decreased cerebral infarct size and edema, and increased phosphorylated CREB and brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression in neurons. All protective effects of TC were reversed by co-administration with AM630. Collectively, these data demonstrate that cortical CB2R activation by TC ameliorates ischemic injury, potentially through modulation of AMPK/CREB signaling, and suggest that cortical CB2Rs might serve as a putative therapeutic target for cerebral ischemia.
Children with 21-hydroxylase deficiency (21-OHD) need chronic glucocorticoid (cGC) therapy to replace congenital deficit of cortisol synthesis, and this therapy is the most frequent and severe form of drug-induced osteoporosis. In this study, we enrolled 18 patients (9 females) and 18 sex- and age-matched controls. We found in 21-OHD patients high serum and leukocyte levels of dickkopf-1 (DKK1), a secreted antagonist of the Wnt/-catenin signaling pathway known to be a key regulator of bone mass. In particular, we demonstrated by flow cytometry, confocal microscopy, and real-time PCR that monocytes, T lymphocytes, and neutrophils from patients expressed high levels of DKK1, which may be related to the cGC therapy. In fact, we showed that dexamethasone treatment markedly induced the expression of DKK1 in a dose- and time-dependent manner in leukocytes. The serum from patients containing elevated levels of DKK1 can directly inhibit in vitro osteoblast differentiation and receptor activator of NF-B ligand (RANKL) expression. We also found a correlation between both DKK1 and RANKL or COOH-terminal telopeptides of type I collagen (CTX) serum levels in 21-OHD patients on cGC treatment. Our data indicated that DKK1, produced by leukocytes, may contribute to the alteration of bone remodeling in 21-OHD patients on cGC treatment.
Genetic variations in metabolism of endocannabinoids and in CNR1 (gene for cannabinoid 1 receptor) are associated with symptom phenotype, colonic transit, and left colon motility in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Our aim was to evaluate associations between two variations in CNR1 genotype (rs806378 and [AAT]n triplets) with symptom phenotype, small bowel and colonic transit, and rectal sensations in 455 patients with IBS and 228 healthy controls. Small bowel and colonic transit were measured by scintigraphy, rectal sensation by isobaric distensions. Associations with genotype were assessed by (2) test (symptom phenotype) and ANCOVA (quantitative traits) based on a dominant genetic model. Significant association of CNR1 rs806378 (but not CNR1 [AAT]n) genotype and symptom phenotype was observed ((2) P = 0.028). There was significant association of CNR1 rs806378 (P = 0.014; CC vs. CT/TT) with colonic transit in IBS-diarrhea (IBS-D) group; the TT group had the fastest colonic transit at 24 and 48 h. There was significant overall association of CNR1 rs806378 with sensation rating of gas (P = 0.025), but not pain; the strongest associations for gas ratings were in IBS-D (P = 0.002) and IBS-alternating (P = 0.025) subgroups. For CNR1 (AAT)n, gene-by-phenotype interactions were observed for colonic transit at 24 (P = 0.06) and 48 h (P = 0.002) and gas (P = 0.046, highest for IBS-D, P = 0.034), but not pain sensation; the strongest association with transit was in controls, not in IBS. These data support the hypothesis that cannabinoid receptors may play a role in control of colonic transit and sensation in humans and deserve further study as potential mediators or therapeutic targets in lower functional gastrointestinal disorders.
Abstract Gastrostomy feeding is commonly used to support MND patients with dysphagia. In this paper we review three main methods of gastrostomy insertion (PEG, RIG, PIG); conduct a meta-analysis of mortality data following gastrostomy; and present a survey of current practice. A review of the literature revealed a lack of high quality evidence to indicate the optimal method and timing for gastrostomy insertion in patients with MND. A survey of 20 MND clinics demonstrated a clinic-based variability of gastrostomy practices due to factors such as clinician preference, availability of method, and patient respiratory function. The meta-analysis demonstrated that the estimate of the absolute difference in mortality rates was 2.1% higher for PEG (- 6.3%, + 11.2%), suggesting that RIG and PIG methods may be safer than PEG. These results and observations highlight the need for more research to evaluate and compare the safety of the differerent gastrostomy insertion methods in MND care.
Our objective was to investigate functional outcome in primary lateral sclerosis (PLS). We followed a group of 24 patients with PLS. Clinical (ALSFRS), respiratory, and neurophysiological (electromyography and transcranial magnetic stimulation) evaluations were performed at entry and regularly over the follow-up period. The time taken for a greater than 10% decrease in ALSFRS compared to the first assessment was defined as the dichotomous outcome; prognostic factors were evaluated using the Cox proportional hazard model. Results demonstrated that the median age at symptom onset was 54 years (range 28-75 years). In 46% symptoms began in the lower limbs, in 21% in the upper limbs and in 33% in bulbar muscles. The median symptom duration at first visit was 3.1 years (range 0.9-11.7 years). At last follow-up the median disease duration was 9.9 years (range 4.2-17.6 years). The median follow-up time was 4.6 years (range 2.1-11 years). We excluded from final analysis three patients with positive family history. Older age at onset (p=0.019) was related to more rapid functional impairment; gender, forced vital capacity, region of onset and neurophysiological changes did not predict outcome. In conclusion, age is the most critical prognostic factor for functional outcome in PLS.
The intromittent organs of most amniotes contain variable-volume hydrostatic skeletons that are stored in a flexible state and inflate with fluid before or during copulation. However, the penis in male crocodilians is notable because its shaft does not seem to change either its shape or bending stiffness as blood enters its vascular spaces before copulation. Here I report that crocodilians may have evolved a mechanism for penile shaft erection that does not require inflation and detumescence. Dissections of the cloaca in sexually mature male American alligators (Alligator mississippiensis) show that the cross section of the proximal shaft of the alligator penis contains dense collagenous tissues that do not significantly change shape when fluid is added to the central vascular space. The large amount of collagen in the wall and central space of the alligator penis stiffen the structure so it can be simply everted for copulation and rapidly retracted at its completion. Because no muscles insert directly onto the penis, eversion and retraction must be produced indirectly. My results suggest that the contraction of paired levator cloacae muscles around the anterior end of the cloaca rotates the penis out of the cloacal opening and strains the ligamentum rami that connect the base of the penis to the ischia. When the cloacal muscles relax, the elastic recoil of the ligamentum rami can return the penis to its original position inside the cloaca.
The topographic relationship between arteries and hepatobiliary ducts can be crucial during cholecystectomy. We observed the right hepatic artery traveling a rare route in a 91-year-old male. The common hepatic artery gave off the left hepatic, the right gastric, the gastroduodenal, and the right hepatic arteries consecutively without forming the proper hepatic artery. The right hepatic artery crossed the common bile duct anteriorly, ascended on the right side of the duct, passed the cystic duct posteriorly, and entered the right lobe of the liver. The so-called 9 o'clock artery running on the right side of the common hepatic and common biliary is reasonably speculated to be the aberrant right hepatic artery as presently shown. Developmental and clinical issues are discussed.




Recent genome wide association studies have identified CLU, CR1, ABCA7 BIN1, PICALM and MS4A6A/MS4A6E in addition to the long established APOE, as loci for Alzheimer's disease. We have systematically examined each of these loci to assess whether common coding variability contributes to the risk of disease. We have also assessed the regional expression of all the genes in the brain and whether there is evidence of an eQTL explaining the risk. In agreement with other studies we find that coding variability may explain the ABCA7 association, but common coding variability does not explain any of the other loci. We were not able to show that any of the loci had eQTLs within the power of this study. Furthermore the regional expression of each of the loci did not match the pattern of brain regional distribution in Alzheimer pathology. Although these results are mainly negative, they allow us to start defining more realistic alternative approaches to determine the role of all the genetic loci involved in Alzheimer's disease.
As in other neural systems, plasticity is a hallmark of the neural system controlling breathing. One spinal mechanism of respiratory plasticity is phrenic long-term facilitation (pLTF) following acute intermittent hypoxia. Although cellular mechanisms giving rise to pLTF occur within the phrenic motor nucleus, different signaling cascades elicit pLTF under different conditions. These cascades, referred to as Q and S pathways to phrenic motor facilitation (pMF), interact via cross-talk inhibition. Whereas the Q pathway dominates pLTF after mild to moderate hypoxic episodes, the S pathway dominates after severe hypoxic episodes. The biological significance of multiple pathways to pMF is unknown. This review will discuss the possibility that interactions between pathways confer emergent properties to pLTF, including pattern sensitivity and metaplasticity. Understanding these mechanisms and their interactions may enable us to optimize intermittent hypoxia-induced plasticity as a treatment for patients that suffer from ventilatory impairment or other motor deficits.
Modular pattern generator elements, also known as burst synergies or motor primitives, have become a useful and important way of describing motor behavior, albeit controversial. It is suggested that these synergy elements may constitute part of the pattern-shaping layers of a McCrea/Rybak two-layer pattern generator, as well as being used in other ways in the spinal cord. The data supporting modular synergies range across species including humans and encompass motor pattern analyses and neural recordings. Recently, synergy persistence and changes following clinical trauma have been presented. These new data underscore the importance of understanding the modular structure of motor behaviors and the underlying circuitry to best provide principled therapies and to understand phenomena reported in the clinic. We discuss the evidence and different viewpoints on modularity, the neural underpinnings identified thus far, and possible critical issues for the future of this area.
Developing brain circuits are shaped by postnatal sensory experience, but little is known about this process at the level of the spinal cord. Here we review the mechanisms by which cutaneous sensory input drives the maturation of spinal sensory circuits. Newborn animals are highly sensitive to tactile input and dorsal horn circuits are dominated by low threshold A fiber inputs. We show that this arises from the absence of the functional, targeted glycinergic inhibition of tactile activity that emerges only in the second week of life. Selective block of afferent C fibers in postnatal week 2 delays the maturation of glycinergic inhibition and maintains dorsal horn circuits in a neonatal state. We propose that in the newborn strong tactile A fiber input facilitates activity-dependent synaptic strengthening in the dorsal horn, but that this ends with the arrival of nociceptive C fiber spinal input that drives the maturation of targeted glycinergic inhibition.
The neuronal dendritic tree is a key determinant of how neurons receive, compute, and transmit information. During early postnatal life, synaptic activity promotes dendrite elaboration. Spinal motor neurons utilize GluA1-containing AMPA (2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazol-4-yl) propanoic acid) receptors (AMPA-R) to control this process. This form of developmental dendrite growth can occur independently of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDA-R). This review focuses on the mechanism by which the GluA1 subunit of AMPA-R transforms synaptic activity into dendrite growth, and describes the essential role of the GluA1 binding partner SAP97 (synapse-associated protein of 97 kDa molecular weight) in this process. This work defines a new mechanism of activity-dependent development, which might be harnessed to stimulate the recovery of function following insult to the central nervous system.
GABA and glycine are the primary fast inhibitory neurotransmitters in the mammalian spinal cord, but they differ in their regulatory functions, balancing neuronal excitation in the locomotor circuitry in the mammalian spinal cord. This review focuses on the unique role of GABAergic transmission during the assembly of the locomotor circuitry, from early embryonic stages when GABA(A) receptor-activated membrane depolarizations increase network excitation, to the period of early postnatal development, when GABAergic inhibition plays a primary role in coordinating the patterns of locomotor-like motor activity. To gain insight into the mechanisms that underlie the dominant contribution of GABAergic transmission to network activity during that period, we examined the morphological and electrophysiological properties of a subpopulation of GABAergic commissural interneurons that fit well with their putative function as integrated components of the rhythm-coordinating networks in the mouse spinal cord.
During neuronal circuit formation, axons are guided to their targets by the help of axon guidance molecules, which are required for establishing functional circuits. A promising system to dissect the development and functionalities of neuronal circuitry is the spinal cord central pattern generator (CPG) for locomotion, which converts a tonic supraspinal drive to rhythmic and coordinated movements. Here we describe concepts arising from genetic studies of the locomotor network with a focus on the position and roles of commissural interneurons. In particular, this involves studies of several families of axon guidance molecules relevant for midline crossing, the Eph/ephrins and Netrin/DCC. Effects on developing commissural interneurons in mice with aberrant midline axon guidance capabilities suggest that, in addition to ventral populations, dorsal commissural interneurons also play a role in coordinating locomotor circuitry. Recent findings implicate the novel dI6 interneuron marker Dmrt3 in this role. Strikingly, mutations in Dmrt3 result in divergent gait patterns in both mice and horses.
Studies of the model systems of spinal cord and brainstem reveal molecular, genetic, and cellular mechanisms that are critical for network and behavioral functions in the nervous system. Recent experiments establish the importance of neurogenetics in revealing cellular and network properties. Breakthroughs that utilize direct visualization of neuronal activity and network structure provide new insights. Major discoveries of plasticity in the spinal cord and brainstem contribute to basic neuroscience and, in addition, have promising therapeutic implications.
Cerebral ischemia, a focal or global insufficiency of blood flow to the brain, can arise through multiple mechanisms, including thrombosis and arterial hemorrhage. Ischemia is a major driver of stroke, one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. While the general etiology of cerebral ischemia and stroke has been known for some time, the conditions have only recently been considered treatable. This report describes current research in this field seeking to fully understand the pathomechanisms underlying stroke; to characterize the brain's intrinsic injury, survival, and repair mechanisms; to identify putative drug targets as well as cell-based therapies; and to optimize the delivery of therapeutic agents to the damaged cerebral tissue.
An association has previously been reported between susceptibility to multiple sclerosis and the rare mutant alleles of the CYP27B1 gene responsible for autosomal recessive vitamin D-dependent rickets type 1 (VDDR1). In an attempt to replicate this finding, we screened 495 multiplex families and 2,092 single affected families, together with 4,594 cases and 3,583 controls (a total of 17,073 individuals) but were unable to find any evidence supporting this putative association. Our data do not indicate that mutations responsible for VDDR1 influence the risk of developing multiple sclerosis.



Psychopathologies, such as depression, are frequently accompanied by poor coping strategies, including impaired social support resources. As well, unsupportive social interactions have been related to adverse health outcomes beyond any contribution of limited social support resources. There is reason to believe that increased eating associated with stressors represents a method of coping, albeit one that has negative consequences. The present investigation examined the relation between both unsupportive and supportive social interactions and emotional eating, and assessed whether this relationship was mediated by individual coping styles. Study 1 (N=221) indicated that unsupportive social interactions were associated with emotional eating, and with emotion- and avoidant-focused coping. Furthermore, multiple mediation analyses indicated that emotion-focused coping mediated the relation between unsupportive social interactions and emotional eating. Study 2 (N=169) replicated these findings, and also indicated that these effects were above and beyond those of social support and depressive symptomatology. Thus unsupportive social interactions may have implications for health outcomes and behaviors, beyond mood disorder symptomatology. The observed relations can be explained by theories of affect-regulation such as negative urgency and expectancy theory as well as on the basis of biological processes associated with eating and stress responses.
Social subordination in macaques is a well-established model to study the adverse effects of psychosocial stress on a number of health outcomes, including stress-induced eating. The present analysis was conducted to empirically define a meal among free-feeding female rhesus monkeys and to examine the roles of meal patterning (e.g., meal size, meal frequency, and snacking patterns) in findings from a previous study demonstrating that psychosocial stress increases overall caloric intake among subordinate animals with access to a highly palatable diet. Results indicate that all animals, regardless of social status, consumed more frequent meals, larger meals, and more calories in the form of snacks when a highly palatable diet was available. Additional findings suggest that subordinate animals consumed significantly larger meals compared to their dominant counterparts regardless of the dietary environment. Additionally, subordinate females with a history of exposure to the palatable diet consumed significantly more snack calories than both dominant and subordinate animals without previous exposure to the palatable diet when these females were returned to a standard laboratory diet. These findings illustrate how small changes in meal patterns can lead to significant increases in total caloric intake, which if prolonged, could promote the emergence of an obese phenotype.
It is unclear how cognitive impairment in multiple sclerosis (MS) is influenced by physical disability, fatigue, and depression. Our aim was to identify the strongest clinical predictors for cognitive impairment in relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) patients. The clinical risk factors included in the analysis were physical disability (EDSS), fatigue (FSS), the somatic and nonsomatic components of depression (BDI), disease progression rate [Multiple Sclerosis Severity Score (MSSS)], and psychotropic medication. Cognitive impairment had a prevalence of 30.5% in patients affecting preferentially attention, executive functions, processing speed and visual perception/organization. MSSS was not associated with cognitive impairment, depression, or fatigue. In regression models, cognitive performance was best predicted by the nonsomatic symptoms of depression alone or in combination with physical disability. Exclusion of patients with any psychotropic medication did not influence the results. Our results underscore the importance of evaluating depressive symptoms when suspecting cognitive impairment in patients with RRMS.

The trigemino-cardiac reflex is a brainstem reflex known to lead to a decrement in heart rate and blood pressure, whereas few data have been collected about its effects on the cerebral hemodynamic. In this study we assess the in vivo effects of trigeminal nerve peripheral stimulation by mandibular extension on pial microcirculation and systemic arterial blood pressure in rats. Experiments were performed in male Wistar rats subjected to mandibular extension obtained inserting an ad hoc developed retractor between the dental arches. Mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate were recorded and the pial arterioles were visualized by fluorescence microscopy to measure the vessel diameters before (15 minutes) during (5-15 minutes) and after (80 minutes) mandibular extension. While in control rats (sham-operated rats) and in rats subjected to the dissection of the trigeminal peripheral branches mean arterial blood pressure, heart rate and pial microcirculation did not change during the whole observation period (110 minutes), in rats submitted to mandibular extension, mean arterial blood pressure, heart rate and arteriolar diameter significantly decreased during stimulation. Afterward mean arterial blood pressure remained reduced as well as heart rate, while arteriolar diameter significantly increased evidencing a vasodilatation persisting for the whole remaining observation time. Therefore, trigeminal nerve proprioceptive stimulation appears to trigger specific mechanisms regulating systemic arterial blood pressure and pial microcirculation.

The present study aimed at evaluating respiratory parameters in multiple sclerosis (MS). The sample comprised 30 patients with MS diagnosis and 30 healthy subjects, matched by gender and age. Neurological assessment, expanded disability status scale (EDSS), manovacuometry, and peak flow (PEF) were performed. Patients with MS had lower values of maximum inspiratory (MIP) and expiratory (MEP) pressures and PEF compared to healthy controls. It was shown that respiratory impairment may be present in MS patients with low functional disability by EDSS. The data suggest that manovacuometry and PEF determination should be carried out systematically in patients with MS, and may be a reliable tool for the early detection of respiratory impairment allowing early respiratory rehabilitation.


Central stimulant (CS) therapy is a cornerstone in treatment of adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Substance use disorder (SUD) is a common comorbid disorder of ADHD and might complicate the treatment. Our main objectives were to investigate the prevalence of SUD during CS treatment, and identify variables associated with SUD during the treatment. The collection of data was based on a naturalistic, retrospective approach using the medical records of a cohort of all adult ADHD patients (N = 117) starting treatment with CS in a specific catchment area in the period 1997 to May 2005. A logistic regression model was applied to identify possible predictors of SUD during CS treatment. The study showed no onset of SUD during the CS treatment in the group of patients without comorbid SUD at baseline (mean CS treatment length 41.1 months). In the group of patients with comorbid SUD at baseline, 58.5 % had one or more relapses of SUD during treatment (mean CS treatment length 27.9 months). Younger age and comorbid antisocial personality disorder were associated with relapse. In a logistic regression analysis, cannabis abstinence for more than 12 months was a negative predictor for relapse of SUD. CS treatment does not precipitate onset of SUD in adults without previous SUD.
This paper reports on a conversation-analysis case study of interaction between a child with cerebral palsy and an adult using a computer-based voice output communication aid (VOCA) device with a touch-sensitive screen-input system. Data was collected from video recordings of everyday activities at school. The public nature of the VOCA-mediated turn construction process (hand movements towards the screen, on-screen folder navigation, synthetic speech) displays the projection of the turn under way and its possible continuations. The adult interlocutor orients to such projections when contributing to the topic of the ongoing turn and when initiating repair on its topical development. Contributing may activate the AAC user's further involvement in the ongoing turn, while repair may restrict the AAC user's influence on the topical progression. The findings are relevant for clinical assessment and intervention.
Although the literature on parent-child interactions in young children with autism has examined dyadic style, synchrony, and sustained engagement, the examination of parental skill in sustaining and developing play skills themselves has not been targeted. This study examined the extent to which parents of young children with autism match and scaffold their child's play. Sixteen dyads of parents and their children with autism participated in this study along with 16 matched dyads of typically developing children. Both groups were administered a structured play assessment and were observed during a 10-min free play situation. Strategies of play were examined and results revealed that parents of children with autism initiated more play schemes and suggested and commanded play acts more than parents of typical children. They also responded to their child's play acts more often with a higher level play act, while parents of typical children matched/expanded their responses to their child. Parent imitation was also related to longer sequences of play. The findings can guide further research and play intervention for parents.
Chemorepellent signals of the semaphorin family are known to play a crucial role in the development of the nervous system. Some semaphorins continue being expressed in the adult life when they regulate plasticity and regeneration. Increasing evidence indicates that semaphorins are implicated in the development of the autonomic nervous system as well as in the regulation of different forms of plasticity observed in the adulthood. Here we present selected examples illustrating the involvement of semaphorins in the regulation of autonomic plasticity in physiological and pathological conditions.
Human beings by nature are relational and in relating to others modulate their autonomic responses. Interpersonal relationships may be stressful or calming depending on social contexts, individual temperaments and personality traits. Not only human relationships, but also interactions with affectionate pets and virtual relationships via social networking technology can elicit autonomic responses. These responses range from sympathetic arousal to vagal modulation of cardiovascular activity, and from changes in energy intake and expenditure to modification of physical exercise habits, all of which have potential implications for health and well-being.
Autophagy is a cellular catabolic process in which various cytosolic components are degraded. For example, autophagy can mediate lipolysis of neutral lipid droplets. In contrast, we here report that autophagy is required to facilitate normal levels of neutral lipids in C. elegans. Specifically, by using multiple methods to detect lipid droplets including CARS microscopy, we observed that mutants in the gene bec- 1 (VPS30/ATG6/BECN1), a key regulator of autophagy, failed to store substantial neutral lipids in their intestines during development. Moreover, loss of bec-1 resulted in a decline in lipid levels in daf-2 [insulin/IGF-1 receptor (IIR) ortholog] mutants and in germline-less glp-1/Notch animals, both previously recognized to accumulate neutral lipids and have increased autophagy levels. Similarly, inhibition of additional autophagy genes, including unc-51/ULK1/ATG1 and lgg-1/ATG8/MAP1LC3A/LC3 during development, led to a reduction in lipid content. Importantly, the decrease in fat accumulation observed in animals with reduced autophagy did not appear to be due to a change in food uptake or defecation. Taken together, these observations suggest a broader role for autophagy in lipid remodeling in C. elegans.
Regulated degradation of cellular components by lysosomes is essential to maintain biological homeostasis. In mammals, three forms of autophagy, macroautophagy, microautophagy and chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), have been identified. Here, we showed a novel type of autophagy, in which RNA is taken up directly into lysosomes for degradation. This pathway, which we term &quot;RNautophagy,&quot; is ATP-dependent, and unlike CMA, is independent of HSPA8/Hsc70. LAMP2C, a lysosomal membrane protein, serves as a receptor for this pathway. The cytosolic tail of LAMP2C specifically binds to almost all total RNA derived from mouse brain. The cytosolic sequence of LAMP2C and its affinity for RNA are evolutionarily conserved from nematodes to humans. Our findings shed light on the mechanisms underlying RNA homeostasis in higher eukaryotes.

In the present study, we examined the effects of intracerebroventricular administration of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase- (ERK) and p38-specific inhibitors, U0126 and PD169316, respectively, on apoptosis induced by amyloid beta (A) in rats. To investigate the effects of these compounds, we evaluated intracellular signalling pathways of apoptosis, as well as inflammatory and antioxidant pathways, 7 and 20 days after A injection. We found that caspase-3 and Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, two hallmarks of apoptosis, were significantly decreased in the rats pre-treated with U0126 and PD169316, 7 days after A injection. This observation was in agreement with the results of immunostaining analysis of the hippocampus that showed decreased levels of terminal transferase dUTP nick end labelling positive cells in the hippocampus of U0126 and PD169316 pre-treated rats, compared with the A-injected group. We also chased the changes in the levels of calpain-2 and caspase-12, two ER factors, in the A-injected and treatment groups. Decreased levels of calpain-2 and caspase-12 in U0126 and PD169316 pre-treated rats confirmed the protective effects of these inhibitors. Furthermore, we studied the effect of two stress-sensing transcription factors, nuclear-related factor-2 (Nrf2) and nuclear factor-B (NF-B), in A-injected as wells as U0126 and PD169316 pre-treated rats. U0126 and PD169316 activated Nrf2 and suppressed NF-B pathways, 7 days after A injection. These antioxidant and inflammatory pathways restored to the vehicle level within 20 days. Taken together, our findings reinforce and extend the notion of the potential neuroprotective role of ERK and/or p38 inhibitors against the neuronal toxicity induced by A.
Traumatic brain injuries (TBIs) affect millions of people each year. Research investigating repeated or serial damage in the form of lesions indicates that behavioral deficits are reduced in animals given sequential lesions separated by a sufficient period of recovery. In the lesion literature, this phenomenon is known as the serial lesion effect (SLE). Although the SLE phenomenon is established in the lesion literature, it has not been thoroughly investigated under current models of brain injury. In the current study, a controlled cortical impact of the bilateral frontal cortex was performed in either a single procedure or a serial procedure separated by two weeks. Rats were tested on the Morris water maze, bilateral tactile adhesive removal task, rotarod and Barnes maze task to determine behavioral deficits. Histology was performed to determine lesion size and astrocyte and microglial response. A serial lesion effect was demonstrated across a majority of the behavioral tasks. However, histological analyses did not suggest a clear mechanistic link to the behavioral phenomena. This is the first study to demonstrate the SLE in a model of TBI, suggesting that behavioral deficits may actually be reduced in repeated head injuries, given an adequate time window between injuries.
There are still uncertainties about the role of the hippocampus (HPC) in memory consolidation. One theory, systems consolidation, states that the HPC is required for the initial storage of certain memories that subsequently become established in non-HPC networks through a lengthy process, involving an interaction with the HPC. A similar process may underlie the ability of multiple, distributed learning episodes of contextual fear conditioning to create a HPC-independent context fear memory, in a memory task that does not undergo systems consolidation with the mere passage of time [5]. The current study examined whether post-learning HPC activity is necessary to establish these HPC-independent context memories through distributed learning episodes. Rats received either three or six context conditioning sessions over the course of three days. The HPC-dependence of context memories was assessed using multisite, temporary inactivation of the HPC using ropivacaine during retention testing. We established that six conditioning sessions, but not three, created a memory that could be retrieved while the HPC was inactive. To directly test our hypothesis, HPC was inactivated after half of the six context-shock pairings in an independent group of rats. The rats were then tested for retention of context fear in the absence of HPC activity. Post-learning inactivation of the HPC did not affect the establishment of a HPC-independent context memory. These results favor the idea that at least one memory system outside the HPC can acquire context memories independently.
In search of a new potential target for deep brain stimulation in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), we evaluated the single-cell activity of neurons in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) in urethane-anesthetized rats in an animal model for OCD, the schedule-induced polydipsia (SIP) model, and compared this to the BST activity in control rats and to a third group of rats which were introduced in the model but did not develop the SIP, and thus were considered resistant. We compared the firing rate and firing pattern of BST neurons between these groups, between hemispheres and made a correlation of the firing rate and firing pattern to the position in the BST. The variability of BST neurons in SIP rats was lower and the randomness higher than BST neurons in control rats or resistant rats. The firing rate of BST neurons in SIP rats was significantly higher and the burst index lower than BST neurons in resistant rats but not in control rats. Also, neurons from the right hemisphere in the SIP group had a higher burst index than neurons from the left hemisphere. However, this is opposite in the resistant and control group. Third, we found a higher bursting index with increasing (more ventral) depth of recording. These findings suggest that schedule-induced polydipsia, which models compulsive behavior in humans, induces a change in firing behavior of BST neurons.
We have previously demonstrated that gonadectomy either prior to (early) or after (late) puberty elevated ethanol consumption in males to levels similar to intact adult females-effects that were attenuated by testosterone replacement. To assess whether alterations in the aversive effects of ethanol might contribute to gonadectomy-associated increases in ethanol intake in males, the present study examined the impact of gonadectomy on conditioned taste aversions (CTA) to ethanol in male and female Sprague-Dawley rats. Animals were gonadectomized, received sham surgery (SH) or non-manipulated (NM) on postnatal (P) day 23 (early) or 67 (late) and tested for CTA to ethanol in adulthood. Water-deprived rats were given 1 hr access every-other-day to 10% sucrose followed by an injection of ethanol (0, 1g/kg) for 5 test sessions. Test data were analyzed to determine the first day significant aversions emerged in each ethanol group (i.e., sucrose intakes significantly less than their saline-injected counterparts). Early gonadectomized males acquired the CTA more rapidly than did early SH and NM males (day 1 vs 3 and 4 respectively), whereas a gonadectomy-associated enhancement in ethanol CTA was not evident in late males. Among females, gonadectomy had little impact on ethanol-induced CTA, with females in all groups showing an aversion by the first or second day, regardless of surgery age. These data suggest that previously observed elevations in ethanol intake induced by either pre- or post-pubertal gonadectomy in males are not related simply to gonadectomy-induced alterations in the aversive effects of ethanol indexed via CTA.
Social structure emerges from the patterning of interactions between individuals and plays a critical role in shaping some of the main characteristics of animal populations. The topological features of social structure, such as the extent to which individuals interact in clusters, can influence many biologically important factors, including the persistence of cooperation, and the rate of spread of disease. Yet the extent to which social structure topology fluctuates over relatively short periods of time in relation to social, demographic or environmental events remains unclear. Here, we use social network analysis to examine seasonal changes in the topology of social structures that emerge from socio-positive associations in adult female rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). Behavioral data for two different association types (grooming, spatial proximity) were collected for females in two free-ranging groups during two seasons: the mating and birth seasons. Stronger dyadic bonds resulted in social structures that were more tightly connected (i.e. of greater density) in the mating season compared to the birth season. Social structures were also more centralized around a subset of individuals, and were more clustered in the mating season than the birth season, although the latter differences were mostly driven by differences in density alone. Our results suggest a degree of temporal variation in the topological features of social structure in this population. Such variation may feed back on interactions, hence affecting the behaviors of individuals, and may therefore be important to take into account in studies of animal behavior.
We examined shared and distinct genetic influences among standard measures of pulmonary functions: ratio of forced expiratory volume at 1 s to forced vital capacity (FEV1/FVC) and percent predicted values for forced expiratory volume at 1 s (FEV1%p), forced expiratory flow (FEFmax%p), and maximal voluntary ventilation (MVV%p) in 978-1,048 middle-aged (mean age = 55 years) male-male twins from the Vietnam Era Twin Study of Aging. A common latent factor (h(2) = 0.30) accounted for the correlations among these measures. This factor accounted for 54-81 % of the heritability of FEV1%p, FEFmax%p and MVV%p, but only explained 16 % of the heritability of FEV1/FVC. The remaining heritability of FEV1/FVC was explained by genetic influences independent of the common factor. Our findings suggest that while a common latent phenotype accounts for the relationships among different pulmonary function measures, the majority of genetic influences underlying FEV1/FVC--an index of pulmonary obstruction--are distinct from those underlying other pulmonary function measures.
Animals display protective patterns of behaviour. Adoption of such protective patterns requires the assessment of risks posed by the environment and subsequent avoidance of high-risk locations. We hypothesized that adverse experiences lead to formation of a context-specific memory, thus changing the pattern of exploratory behaviours in response to specific cues associated with this experience. Here we examined exploratory movement patterns and compared approach/avoidance behaviours in rats following a stressful experience in the same versus a different environment. Using an open table exploration task, we compared exploratory movements in rats that were either stressed by restraint in a different environment or stressed in the test environment. The following day rats were allowed to explore the open table environment. Different test situations were provided in which rats were given access to a refuge or a large visual object as placed in the vicinity to the open table. The results indicate that stressed rats avoid the specific location associated with a stressful experience. However, when provided with a refuge in this location the salience of the stressful memory is reduced and the refuge will become a preferred location. Exploratory patterns and avoidance behaviours were correlated with corticosterone levels. Behavioural changes were not related to dendritic morphology in the medial prefrontal cortex (layer III). The results provide insights into risk avoidance strategies in rats and suggest that environmental intervention can reverse stress-related changes in behaviour.
We describe the design and evaluation of an electronic system for the automatic recording of motor activity in rats. The device continually locates the position of a rat inside a transparent acrylic cube (50 cm/side) with infrared sensors arranged on its walls so as to correspond to the x-, y-, and z-axes. The system is governed by two microcontrollers. The raw data are saved in a text file within a secure digital memory card, and offline analyses are performed with a library of programs that automatically compute several parameters based on the sequence of coordinates and the time of occurrence of each movement. Four analyses can be made at specified time intervals: traveled distance (cm), movement speed (cm/s), time spent in vertical exploration (s), and thigmotaxis (%). In addition, three analyses are made for the total duration of the experiment: time spent at each x-y coordinate pair (min), time spent on vertical exploration at each x-y coordinate pair (s), and frequency distribution of vertical exploration episodes of distinct durations. User profiles of frequently analyzed parameters may be created and saved for future experimental analyses, thus obtaining a full set of analyses for a group of rats in a short time. The performance of the developed system was assessed by recording the spontaneous motor activity of six rats, while their behaviors were simultaneously videotaped for manual analysis by two trained observers. A high and significant correlation was found between the values measured by the electronic system and by the observers.

This paper presents a novel bio-inspired habituation function for robots under control by an artificial spiking neural network. This non-associative learning rule is modelled at the synaptic level and validated through robotic behaviours in reaction to different stimuli patterns in a dynamical virtual 3D world. Habituation is minimally represented to show an attenuated response after exposure to and perception of persistent external stimuli. Based on current neurosciences research, the originality of this rule includes modulated response to variable frequencies of the captured stimuli. Filtering out repetitive data from the natural habituation mechanism has been demonstrated to be a key factor in the attention phenomenon, and inserting such a rule operating at multiple temporal dimensions of stimuli increases a robot's adaptive behaviours by ignoring broader contextual irrelevant information.
Larval zebrafish beat their pectoral fins during many behaviors including low-speed swimming and prey tracking; however, little is known about the functions of these fin movements. Previously, we found experimental support for the function of larval fins in mixing of fluid near the body, which may enhance respiration by diffusion of dissolved oxygen across the skin. Here we use computational fluid dynamics to analyze fluid flow due to the pectoral fin movement. The pectoral fins bend along their proximodistal axis during abduction (fin extension), but remain nearly rigid during adduction (fin flexion). We hypothesize that this asymmetry in bending is critical for fluid mixing near the body and test the effects of fin bending with our simulations. For normal fin beats, we observed similar flow patterns in simulations and experiments. Flow patterns showed fluid stretching and folding, indicative of mixing. When proximodistal bending was removed from fin motion, fins were less effective at transporting fluid in a posterior direction near the body surface, but lateral mixing of fluid near the body was unaffected. Our results suggest that fin bending enhances posterior transport of fluid along the body surface, which may act to aid respiration in combination with lateral stretching and folding of fluid.




The rapid and efficient selection of emotionally salient or goal-relevant stimuli in the environment is crucial for flexible and adaptive behaviors. Converging data from neuroscience and psychology have accrued during the last decade to identify brain systems involved in emotion processing, selective attention, and their interaction, which together act to extract the emotional or motivational value of sensory events and respond appropriately. An important hub in these systems is the amygdala, which may not only monitor the emotional value of stimuli, but also readily project to several other areas and send feedback to sensory pathways (including striate and extrastriate visual cortex). This system generates saliency signals that modulate perceptual, motor, as well as memory processes, and thus in turn regulate behavior appropriately. Here, we review our current views on the function and properties of these brain systems, with an emphasis on their involvement in the rapid and/or preferential processing of threat-relevant stimuli. We suggest that emotion signals may enhance processing efficiency and competitive strength of emotionally significant events through gain control mechanisms similar to those of other (e.g. endogenous) attentional systems, but mediated by distinct neural mechanisms in amygdala and interconnected prefrontal areas. Alterations in these brain mechanisms might be associated with psychopathological conditions, such as anxiety or phobia. We conclude that attention selection and awareness are determined by multiple attention gain control systems that may operate in parallel and use different sensory cues but act on a common perceptual pathway.
Rapid and effective wound healing requires a coordinated cellular response involving fibroblasts, keratinocytes and vascular endothelial cells (VECs). Impaired wound healing can result in multiple adverse health outcomes and, although antibiotics can forestall infection, treatments that accelerate wound healing are lacking. We now report that topical application of water soluble cerium oxide nanoparticles (Nanoceria) accelerates the healing of full-thickness dermal wounds in mice by a mechanism that involves enhancement of the proliferation and migration of fibroblasts, keratinocytes and VECs. The Nanoceria penetrated into the wound tissue and reduced oxidative damage to cellular membranes and proteins, suggesting a therapeutic potential for topical treatment of wounds with antioxidant nanoparticles.
Plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) is a member of serine protease inhibitor family, which regulates the activity of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). In CNS, tPA/PAI-1 activity is involved in the regulation of a variety of cellular processes such as neuronal development, synaptic plasticity and cell survival. To gain a more insights into the regulatory mechanism modulating tPA/PAI-1 activity in brain, we investigated the effects of proteasome inhibitors on tPA/PAI-1 expression and activity in rat primary astrocytes, the major cell type expressing both tPA and PAI-1. We found that submicromolar concentration of MG132, a cell permeable peptide-aldehyde inhibitor of ubiquitin proteasome pathway selectively upregulates PAI-1 expression. Upregulation of PAI-1 mRNA as well as increased PAI-1 promoter reporter activity suggested that MG132 transcriptionally increased PAI-1 expression. The induction of PAI-1 downregulated tPA activity in rat primary astrocytes. Another proteasome inhibitor lactacystin similarly increased the expression of PAI-1 in rat primary astrocytes. MG132 activated MAPK pathways as well as PI3K/Akt pathways. Inhibitors of these signaling pathways reduced MG132-mediated upregulation of PAI-1 in varying degrees and most prominent effects were observed with SB203580, a p38 MAPK pathway inhibitor. The regulation of tPA/PAI-1 activity by proteasome inhibitor in rat primary astrocytes may underlie the observed CNS effects of MG132 such as neuroprotection.







The neurobiological basis of psychogenic movement disorders remains poorly understood and the management of these conditions difficult. Functional neuroimaging studies have provided some insight into the pathophysiology of disorders implicating particularly the prefrontal cortex, but there are no studies on psychogenic dystonia, and comparisons with findings in organic counterparts are rare. To understand the pathophysiology of these disorders better, we compared the similarities and differences in functional neuroimaging of patients with psychogenic dystonia and genetically determined dystonia, and tested hypotheses on the role of the prefrontal cortex in functional neurological disorders. Patients with psychogenic (n = 6) or organic (n = 5, DYT1 gene mutation positive) dystonia of the right leg, and matched healthy control subjects (n = 6) underwent positron emission tomography of regional cerebral blood flow. Participants were studied during rest, during fixed posturing of the right leg and during paced ankle movements. Continuous surface electromyography and footplate manometry monitored task performance. Averaging regional cerebral blood flow across all tasks, the organic dystonia group showed abnormal increases in the primary motor cortex and thalamus compared with controls, with decreases in the cerebellum. In contrast, the psychogenic dystonia group showed the opposite pattern, with abnormally increased blood flow in the cerebellum and basal ganglia, with decreases in the primary motor cortex. Comparing organic dystonia with psychogenic dystonia revealed significantly greater regional blood flow in the primary motor cortex, whereas psychogenic dystonia was associated with significantly greater blood flow in the cerebellum and basal ganglia (all P &lt; 0.05, family-wise whole-brain corrected). Group  task interactions were also examined. During movement, compared with rest, there was abnormal activation in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex that was common to both organic and psychogenic dystonia groups (compared with control subjects, P &lt; 0.05, family-wise small-volume correction). These data show a cortical-subcortical differentiation between organic and psychogenic dystonia in terms of regional blood flow, both at rest and during active motor tasks. The pathological prefrontal cortical activation was confirmed in, but was not specific to, psychogenic dystonia. This suggests that psychogenic and organic dystonia have different cortical and subcortical pathophysiology, while a derangement in mechanisms of motor attention may be a feature of both conditions.
Brain activity during rest is characterized by slow (0.01-0.1 Hz) fluctuations of blood oxygenation level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging signals. These fluctuations are organized as functional connectivity networks called resting-state networks, anatomically corresponding to specific neuronal circuits. As Parkinson's disease is mainly characterized by a dysfunction of the sensorimotor pathways, which can be influenced by levodopa administration, the present study investigated the functional connectivity changes within the sensorimotor resting-state network in drug-nave patients with Parkinson's disease after acute levodopa administration. Using a double-blind placebo-controlled design, resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging was carried out in 20 drug-nave patients with Parkinson's disease, immediately before and 60 min after, oral administration of either levodopa or placebo. Control resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data were recorded in 18 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers. Independent component analysis was performed to extract resting-state network maps and associated time-course spectral features. At the anatomical level, levodopa enhanced the sensorimotor network functional connectivity in the supplementary motor area, a region where drug-nave patients with Parkinson's disease exhibited reduced signal fluctuations compared with untreated patients. At the spectral frequency level, levodopa stimulated these fluctuations in a selective frequency band of the sensorimotor network. The reported effects induced by levodopa on sensorimotor network topological and spectral features confirm that the sensorimotor system is a target of acute levodopa administration in drug-nave patients with Parkinson's disease. Moreover, while the regional changes in supplementary motor area reflect the functional improvement in motor function, the rhythm-specific modulation induced by the dopamine precursor discloses a novel aspect of pharmacological stimulation in Parkinson's disease, adding further insight to the comprehension of levodopa action.
Recent research in cognitive neuroscience using virtual reality, robotic technology and brain imaging has linked self-consciousness to the processing and integration of multisensory bodily signals. This work on bodily self-consciousness has implicated the temporo-parietal, premotor and extrastriate cortex and partly originated in work on neurological patients with different disorders of bodily self-consciousness. One class of such disorders is autoscopic phenomena, which are defined as illusory own-body perceptions, during which patients experience the visual illusory reduplication of their own body in extrapersonal space. Three main forms of autoscopic phenomena have been defined. During autoscopic hallucinations, a second own body is seen without any changes in bodily self-consciousness. During out-of-body experiences, the second own body is seen from an elevated perspective and location associated with disembodiment. During heautoscopy, subjects report strong self-identification with the second own body, often associated with the experience of existing at and perceiving the world from two places at the same time. Although it has been proposed that each autoscopic phenomenon is associated with different impairments of bodily self-consciousness, past research on neurological patients and the development of experimental paradigms for the study of bodily self-consciousness has focused on out-of-body experiences and the association with temporo-parietal cortex. Here, we performed quantitative lesion analysis in the-to date-largest group of patients with autoscopic hallucination and heautoscopy and compared the location of brain damage with those of control patients suffering from complex visual hallucinations. We found that heautoscopy was associated with lesions to the left posterior insula, and that autoscopic hallucinations were associated with damage to the right occipital cortex. Autoscopic hallucination and heautoscopy were further associated with distinct symptoms and deficits. The present data suggest that the autoscopic hallucination is a visuo-somatosensory deficit implicating extrastriate cortex and is, despite the visual hallucination of the own body, not associated with major deficits in bodily self-consciousness. Based on the symptoms and deficits in patients with heautoscopy and the implication of the left posterior insula, we suggest that abnormal bodily self-consciousness during heautoscopy is caused by a breakdown of self-other discrimination regarding affective somatosensory experience due to a disintegration of visuo-somatosensory signals with emotional (and/or interoceptive) bodily signals. These brain mechanisms are distinct from those described for out-of-body experiences. The present data extend previous models of autoscopic phenomena and provide clinical evidence for the importance of emotional and interoceptive signal processing in the posterior insula in relation to bodily self-consciousness.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes are a heterogeneous group of inherited disorders that arise from impaired signal transmission at the neuromuscular synapse. They are characterized by fatigable muscle weakness. We performed linkage analysis, whole-exome and whole-genome sequencing to determine the underlying defect in patients with an inherited limb-girdle pattern of myasthenic weakness. We identify ALG14 and ALG2 as novel genes in which mutations cause a congenital myasthenic syndrome. Through analogy with yeast, ALG14 is thought to form a multiglycosyltransferase complex with ALG13 and DPAGT1 that catalyses the first two committed steps of asparagine-linked protein glycosylation. We show that ALG14 is concentrated at the muscle motor endplates and small interfering RNA silencing of ALG14 results in reduced cell-surface expression of muscle acetylcholine receptor expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. ALG2 is an alpha-1,3-mannosyltransferase that also catalyses early steps in the asparagine-linked glycosylation pathway. Mutations were identified in two kinships, with mutation ALG2p.Val68Gly found to severely reduce ALG2 expression both in patient muscle, and in cell cultures. Identification of DPAGT1, ALG14 and ALG2 mutations as a cause of congenital myasthenic syndrome underscores the importance of asparagine-linked protein glycosylation for proper functioning of the neuromuscular junction. These syndromes form part of the wider spectrum of congenital disorders of glycosylation caused by impaired asparagine-linked glycosylation. It is likely that further genes encoding components of this pathway will be associated with congenital myasthenic syndromes or impaired neuromuscular transmission as part of a more severe multisystem disorder. Our findings suggest that treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors may improve muscle function in many of the congenital disorders of glycosylation.
Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy, also known as Kennedy's disease, is an adult-onset hereditary neurodegenerative disorder caused by an expansion of the polyglutamine repeat in the first exon in the androgen receptor gene. Pathologically, the disease is defined by selective loss of spinal and bulbar motor neurons causing bulbar, facial and limb weakness. Although the precise disease pathophysiology is largely unknown, it appears to be related to abnormal accumulation of the pathogenic androgen receptor protein within the nucleus, leading to disruption of cellular processes. Using a mouse model of spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy that exhibits many of the characteristic features of the human disease, in vivo physiological assessment of muscle function revealed that mice with the pathogenic expansion of the androgen receptor develop a motor deficit characterized by a reduction in muscle force, abnormal muscle contractile characteristics, loss of functional motor units and motor neuron degeneration. We have previously shown that treatment with arimoclomol, a co-inducer of the heat shock stress response, delays disease progression in the mutant superoxide dismutase 1 mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a fatal motor neuron disease. We therefore evaluated the therapeutic potential of arimoclomol in mice with spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy. Arimoclomol was administered orally, in drinking water, from symptom onset and the effects established at 18 months of age, a late stage of disease. Arimoclomol significantly improved hindlimb muscle force and contractile characteristics, rescued motor units and, importantly, improved motor neuron survival and upregulated the expression of the vascular endothelial growth factor which possess neurotrophic activity. These results provide evidence that upregulation of the heat shock response by treatment with arimoclomol may have therapeutic potential in the treatment of spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy and may also be a possible approach for the treatment of other neurodegenerative diseases.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation has become an important field for both research in neuroscience and for therapy since Barker in 1985 showed that it was possible to stimulate the human motor cortex with an electromagnet. Today for instance, transcranial magnetic stimulation can be used to measure nerve conduction velocities and to create virtual lesions in the brain. The latter option creates the possibility to inactivate parts of the brain temporarily without permanent damage. In 2008, the American Food and Drugs Administration approved repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation as a therapy for major depression under strict conditions. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation has not yet been cleared for treatment of other diseases, including schizophrenia, anxiety disorders, obesity and Parkinson's disease, but results seem promising. Transcranial magnetic stimulation, however, was not invented at the end of the 20th century. The discovery of electromagnetism, the enthusiasm for electricity and electrotherapy, and the interest in Beard's concept of neurasthenia already resulted in the first electromagnetic treatments in the late 19th and early 20th century. In this article, we provide a history of electromagnetic stimulation circa 1900. From the data, we conclude that Mesmer's late 18th century ideas of 'animal magnetism' and the 19th century absence of physiological proof had a negative influence on the acceptance of this therapy during the first decades of the 20th century. Electromagnetism disappeared from neurological textbooks in the early 20th century to recur at the end of that century.
Sporadic and familiar amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) cases presented lower cholinergic activity than in healthy individuals in their still preserved spinal motoneurons (MNs) suggesting that cholinergic reduction might occur before MN death. To unravel how and when cholinergic function is compromised, we have analyzed the spatiotemporal expression of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) from early presymptomatic stages of the SOD1(G93A) ALS mouse model by confocal immunohistochemistry. The analysis showed an early reduction in ChAT content in soma and presynaptic boutons apposed onto MNs (to 76%) as well as in cholinergic interneurons in the lumbar spinal cord of the 30-day-old SOD1(G93A) mice. Cholinergic synaptic stripping occurred simultaneously to the presence of abundant surrounding major histocompatibility complex II (MHC-II)-positive microglia and the accumulation of nuclear Tdp-43 and the appearance of mild oxidative stress within MNs. Besides, there was a loss of neuronal MHC-I expression, which is necessary for balanced synaptic stripping after axotomy. These events occurred before the selective raise of markers of denervation such as ATF3. By the same time, alterations in postsynaptic cholinergic-related structures were also revealed with a loss of the presence of sigma-1 receptor, a Ca2+ buffering chaperone in the postsynaptic cisternae. By 2 months of age, ChAT seemed to accumulate in the soma of MNs, and thus efferences toward Renshaw interneurons were drastically diminished. In conclusion, cholinergic dysfunction in the local circuitry of the spinal cord may be one of the earliest events in ALS etiopathogenesis.
Over two-thirds of the 11.4 million cancer survivors in the United States can expect long-term survival, with many others living with cancer as a chronic disease controlled by ongoing therapy. However, behavioral co-morbidities often arise during treatment and persist long-term to complicate survival and reduce quality of life. In this review, the inter-relationships between cancer, depression, and sleep disturbance are described, with a focus on the role of sleep disturbance as a risk factor for depression. Increasing evidence also links alterations in inflammatory biology dynamics to these long-term effects of cancer diagnosis and treatment, and the hypothesis that sleep disturbance drives inflammation, which together contribute to depression, is discussed. Better understanding of the associations between inflammation and behavioral co-morbidities has the potential to refine prediction of risk and development of strategies for the prevention and treatment of sleep disturbance and depression in cancer survivors.
Selective attention in the presence of distraction is a key aspect of healthy cognition. The underlying neurobiological processes, have not, however, been functionally well characterized. In the present study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to determine how ecologically relevant distracting noise affects cortical activity in 27 healthy adults during two versions of the visual Sustained Attention To Response Task (SART) that differ in difficulty (and thus attentional load). A significant condition (noise or silence) by task (easy or difficult) interaction was observed in several areas, including dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), fusiform gyrus (FG), posterior cingulate (PCC), and pre-supplementary motor area (PreSMA). Post hoc analyses of interaction effects revealed deactivation of DLPFC, PCC, and PreSMA during distracting noise under conditions of low attentional load, and activation of FG and PCC during distracting noise under conditions of high attentional load. These results suggest that distracting noise may help alert subjects to task goals and reduce demands on cortical resources during tasks of low difficulty and attentional load. Under conditions of higher load, however, additional cognitive resources may be required in the presence of noise.
Developmental studies have demonstrated that cognitive processes such as attention, suppression of interference and memory develop throughout childhood and adolescence. However, little is currently known about the development of top-down control mechanisms and their influence on cognitive performance. In the present study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate modulation of activity in the ventral visual cortex in healthy 7-11-year-old children and young adults. The participants performed tasks that required attention to either face (Fs task) or scene (Sf task) images while trying to ignore distracting scene or face images, respectively. A face-selective area in the fusiform gyrus (fusiform face area, FFA) and an area responding preferentially to scene images in the parahippocampal gyrus (parahippocampal place area, PPA) were defined using functional localizers. Children responded slower and less accurately in the tasks than adults. In children, the right FFA was less selective to face images and regulation of activity between the Fs and Sf tasks was weaker compared to adults. In the PPA, selectivity to scenes and regulation of activity, there according to the task demands were comparable between children and adults. During the tasks, children activated prefrontal cortical areas including the middle (MFG) and superior (SFG) frontal gyrus more than adults. Functional connectivity between the right FFA and left MFG was stronger in adults than children in the Fs task. Children, on the other hand, had stronger functional connectivity than adults in the Sf task between the right FFA and right PPA and between right MFG and medial SFG. There were no group differences in the functional connectivity between the PPA and the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Together the results suggest that, in 7-11-year-old children, the FFA is still immature, whereas the selectivity to scenes and regulation of activity in the PPA is comparable to adults. The results also indicated functional immaturity of the PFC in children compared to adults and weaker connectivity between the PFC and the rFFA, explaining the weaker regulation of activity in the rFFA between the Fs and Sf tasks.
Reading-impaired children have difficulty tapping to a beat. Here we tested whether this relationship between reading ability and synchronized tapping holds in typically-developing adolescents. We also hypothesized that tapping relates to two other abilities. First, since auditory-motor synchronization requires monitoring of the relationship between motor output and auditory input, we predicted that subjects better able to tap to the beat would perform better on attention tests. Second, since auditory-motor synchronization requires fine temporal precision within the auditory system for the extraction of a sound's onset time, we predicted that subjects better able to tap to the beat would be less affected by backward masking, a measure of temporal precision within the auditory system. As predicted, tapping performance related to reading, attention, and backward masking. These results motivate future research investigating whether beat synchronization training can improve not only reading ability, but potentially executive function and auditory processing as well.
A 47-year-old white male with a history of uveitis, hypercalcemia and nephrolithiasis presented with acute onset partial seizure. On exam he had decreased sensation to light touch on his left lower extremity. A Brain MRI revealed a right frontal mass, which was initially thought to be a metastatic lesion or a primary brain tumor. However, biopsy of the lesion revealed it to be a non-caseating granulomatous lesion consistent with neurosarcoidosis.
Many brain and behavioural phenotypes in humans exhibit some degree of sexual dimorphism. Moreover, there are large and replicable differences in the vulnerability of the two sexes to a wide range of common brain disorders. Ultimately, sex differences in healthy individuals, or in pathological states, must arise as a consequence of the differential complement of sex-linked genes in males and females. These genes may act indirectly (for example through influencing gonadal hormone secretion), or directly, to influence brain development and function. In this review, I discuss how genetically tractable mouse models may be employed to inform our knowledge of the molecular basis of sexual differentiation of the mammalian brain, and how such models may therefore represent a useful tool through which to identify risk factors predisposing to sex-biased neuropsychiatric disorders.

In tasks that selectively probe visual or spatial working memory (WM) frontal and posterior cortical areas show a segregation, with dorsal areas preferentially involved in spatial (e.g. location) WM and ventral areas in visual (e.g. object identity) WM. In a previous fMRI study [1], we showed that right parietal cortex (PC) was more active during WM for orientation, whereas left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) was more active during colour WM. During WM for colour-orientation conjunctions, activity in these areas was intermediate to the level of activity for the single task preferred and non-preferred information. To examine whether these specialised areas play a critical role in coordinating visual and spatial WM to perform a conjunction task, we used theta burst transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to induce a functional deficit. Compared to sham stimulation, TMS to right PC or left IFG selectively impaired WM for conjunctions but not single features. This is consistent with findings from visual search paradigms, in which frontal and parietal TMS selectively affects search for conjunctions compared to single features, and with combined TMS and functional imaging work suggesting that parietal and frontal regions are functionally coupled in tasks requiring integration of visual and spatial information. Our results thus elucidate mechanisms by which the brain coordinates spatially segregated processing streams and have implications beyond the field of working memory.
The human cerebral cortex contains numerous myelinated fibres, many of which are concentrated in tangentially organized layers and radially oriented bundles. The spatial organization of these fibres is by no means homogeneous throughout the cortex. Local differences in the thickness and compactness of the fibre layers, and in the length and strength of the radial bundles renders it possible to recognize areas with a different myeloarchitecture. The neuroanatomical subdiscipline aimed at the identification and delineation of such areas is known as myeloarchitectonics. There is another, closely related neuroanatomical subdiscipline, named cytoarchitectonics. The aims and scope of this subdiscipline are the same as those of myeloarchitectonics, viz. parcellation. However, this subdiscipline focuses, as its name implies, on the size, shape and arrangement of the neuronal cell bodies in the cortex, rather than on the myelinated fibres. At the beginning of the twentieth century, two young investigators, Oskar and Ccile Vogt founded a centre for brain research, aimed to be devoted to the study of the (cyto+myelo) architecture of the cerebral cortex. The study of the cytoarchitecture was entrusted to their collaborator Korbinian Brodmann, who gained great fame with the creation of a cytoarchitectonic map of the human cerebral cortex. Here, we focus on the myeloarchitectonic studies on the cerebral cortex of the Vogt-Vogt school, because these studies are nearly forgotten in the present attempts to localize functional activations and to interprete findings in modern neuroimaging studies. Following introductory sections on the principles of myeloarchitectonics, and on the achievements of three myeloarchitectonic pioneers who did not belong to the Vogt-Vogt school, the pertinent literature is reviewed in some detail. These studies allow the conclusion that the human neocortex contains about 185 myeloarchitectonic areas, 70 frontal, 6 insular, 30 parietal, 19 occipital, and 60 temporal. It is emphasized that the data available, render it possible to compose a myeloarchitectonic map of the human neocortex, which is at least as reliable as any of the classic architectonic maps. During the realization of their myeloarchitectonic research program, in which numerous able collaborators were involved, the Vogts gradually developed a general concept of the organization of the cerebral cortex. The essence of this concept is that this structure is composed of about 200 distinct, juxtaposed 'Rindenfelder' or 'topistische Einheiten', which represent fundamental structural as well as functional entities. The second main part of this article is devoted to a discussion and evaluation of this 'Vogt-Vogt concept'. It is concluded that there is converging quantitative cytoarchitectonic, receptor architectonic, myeloarchitectonic, hodological, and functional evidence, indicating that this concept is essentially correct. The third, and final part of this article deals with the problem of relating particular cortical functions, as determined with neuroimaging techniques, to particular cortical structures. At present, these 'translation' operations are generally based on adapted, three-dimensional versions of Brodmann's famous map. However, it has become increasingly clear that these maps do not provide the neuroanatomical precision to match the considerable degree of functional segregation, suggested by neuroimaging studies. Therefore, we strongly recommend an attempt at combining and synthesizing the results of Brodmann's cytoarchitectonic analysis, with those of the detailed myeloarchitectonic studies of the Vogt-Vogt school. These studies may also be of interest for the interpretation of the myeloarchitectonic features, visualized in modern in vivo mappings of the human cortex.
The circadian master clock of the mammalian brain resides in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus. At the molecular level, the clock of the SCN is driven by a transcriptional/posttranslational autoregulatory network with clock gene products as core elements. Recent investigations have shown the presence of peripheral clocks in extra-hypothalamic areas of the central nervous system. However, knowledge on the clock gene network in the cerebral cortex is limited. We here show that the mammalian clock genes Per1, Per2, Per3, Cry1, Cry2, Bmal1, Clock, Nr1d1 and Dbp are expressed in the rat neocortex. Among these, Per1, Per2, Per3, Cry1, Bmal1, Nr1d1 and Dbp were found to exhibit daily rhythms. The amplitude of circadian oscillation in neocortical clock gene expression was damped and the peak delayed as compared with the SCN. Lesions of the SCN revealed that rhythmic clock gene expression in the neocortex is dependent on the SCN. In situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry showed that products of the canonical clock gene Per2 are located in perikarya throughout all areas of the neocortex. These findings show that local circadian oscillators driven by the SCN reside within neurons of the neocortex.
To further investigate brain structure and function in 26 handedness discordant monozygotic twin pairs (MzHd), MRI and behavioural assessments were carried out. These showed significant correlation between language-specific functional laterality in inferior and middle frontal gyri, and anterior corpus callosum. Previous studies of handedness discordant monozygotic twins failed to resolve the issue concerning handedness and hemispheric laterality for language due to methodological disparities. The results would be relevant to genetic theories as well as to brain structure:function explanations. MzHd twins underwent MRI and fMRI scanning as well as behavioural assessment of motor performance and cognition. There were significant differences on MRI and fMRI laterality measures, as well as a significant correlation between anterior callosal widths and functional laterality. LH twins showed higher frequencies of atypical functional laterality. There was no significant within-twin pair correlation on fMRI verbal laterality, nor did results show within-twin pair differences on verbal fluency or IQ. Implications for the field of laterality research pertain to frontal hemispheric equipotentiality for verbal processes in healthy individuals. In particular, there can be an apparent lack of cognitive 'cost' to atypical laterality. An fMRI verbal laterality index correlated significantly with corpus callosum widths near Broca's area.
The human extrastriate visual cortex comprises numerous functionally defined areas, which are not identified in the widely used cytoarchitectonical map of Brodmann. The ventral part of the extrastriate cortex is particularly devoted to the identification of visual objects, faces and word forms. We analyzed the region immediately antero-lateral to hOc4v in serially sectioned (20m) and cell body-stained human brains using a quantitative observer-independent cytoarchitectonical approach to further identify the anatomical organization of the extrastriate cortex. Two novel cytoarchitectonical areas, FG1 and FG2, were identified on the posterior fusiform gyrus. The results of ten postmortem brains were then registered to their MRI volumes (acquired before histological processing), 3D reconstructed, and spatially normalized to the Montreal Neurological Institute reference brain. Finally, probabilistic maps were generated for each cytoarchitectonical area by superimposing the areas of the individual brains in the reference space. Comparison with recent functional imaging studies yielded that both areas are located within the object-related visual cortex. FG1 fills the gap between the retinotopically mapped area VO-1 and a posterior fusiform face patch. FG2 is probably the correlate of this face patch.
The transcription factor Pax6 has been reported to specify neural progenitor cell fates during development and maintain neuronal commitments in the adult. The spatiotemporal patterns of Pax6 expression were examined in sagittal and horizontal sections of the embryonic, postnatal, and adult brains using immunohistochemistry and double immunolabeling. The proportion of Pax6-immunopositive cells in various parts of the adult brain was estimated using the isotropic fractionator methodology. It was shown that at embryonic day 11 (E11) Pax6 was robustly expressed in the proliferative neuroepithelia of the ventricular zone in the forebrain and hindbrain, and in the floor and the mesencephalic reticular formation (mRt) in the midbrain. At E12, its expression emerged in the nucleus of the lateral lemniscus in the rhombencephalon and disappeared from the floor of the midbrain. As neurodevelopment proceeds, the expression pattern of Pax6 changes from the mitotic germinal zone in the ventricular zone to become extensively distributed in cell groups in the forebrain and hindbrain, and the expression persisted in the mRt. The majority of Pax6-positive cell groups were maintained until adult life, but the intensity of Pax6 expression became much weaker. Pax6 expression was maintained in the mitotic subventricular zone in the adult brain, but not in the germinal region dentate gyrus in the adult hippocampus. There was no obvious colocalization of Pax6 and NeuN during embryonic development, suggesting Pax6 is found primarily in developing progenitor cells. In the adult brain, however, Pax6 maintains neuronal features of some subtypes of neurons, as indicated by 97.1% of Pax6-positive cells co-expressing NeuN in the cerebellum, 40.7% in the olfactory bulb, 38.3% in the cerebrum, and 73.9% in the remaining brain except the hippocampus. Differentiated tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) neurons were observed in the floor of the E11 midbrain where Pax6 was also expressed, but no obvious colocaliztion of TH and Pax6 was detected. No Pax6 expression was observed in TH-expressing areas in the midbrain at E12, E14, and postnatal day 1. These results support the notion that Pax6 plays pivotal roles in specifying neural progenitor cell commitments and maintaining certain mature neuronal fates.
An absence of coupling between cognition and perception can mean that the mind neglects the careful processing of information relevant to the task at hand and errors can ensue. Given that highly salient perceptual events can automatically capture attention, the current study explored whether the same neglect of task-relevant information was possible for stimuli with high levels of perceptual saliency (e.g., identifiable by colour). In four experiments, participants performed a go/no-go task with a low frequency of no-go events. Across all experiments, response inhibition was more successful for coloured no-go targets than for stimuli that shared the same colour as the go targets. In addition, the response time (reaction time [RT]) for rare, coloured go targets was slower than when the same events were noncolored. Together, these results suggest that in relatively simple go/no-go tasks, highly salient perceptual events capture attention in an automatic fashion. Increased visual salience is argued to be beneficial when associated with no-go targets because it momentarily enforces coupling between attention and perception, disrupting ongoing behaviour at the precise moment when not responding is the correct action to take. These results suggest that although the mind may at times neglect events in the environment, salient perceptual events cannot be ignored in the same way.


A literature search found no clinical trials or guidelines addressing the management of spontaneous intracranial hypotension (SIH). Based on the available literature and expert opinion, we have developed recommendations for the diagnosis and management of SIH. For typical cases, we recommend brain magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with gadolinium to confirm the diagnosis, and conservative measures for up to two weeks. If the patient remains symptomatic, up to three non-directed lumbar epidural blood patches (EBPs) should be considered. If these are unsuccessful, non-invasive MR myelography, radionuclide cisternography, MR myelography with intrathecal gadolinium, or computed tomography with myelography should be used to localize the leak. If the leak is localized, directed EPBs should be considered, followed by fibrin sealant or neurosurgery if necessary. Clinically atypical cases with normal brain MR imaging should be investigated to localize the leak. Directed EBPs can be used if the leak is localized; non-directed EBPs should be used only if there are indirect signs of SIH.

The central cardiovascular impacts of clinical opiate withdrawal have not been explored in detail. Pulse Wave Analysis (SphygmoCor) was conducted in healthy controls and opiate-dependent populations. A total of 1,294 patients (69.2 % male) were studied in quintuplicate on 2,089 occasions. Four groups were studied: control (N = 576), buprenorphine stabilized (N = 592), withdrawal (N = 112) and severe withdrawal (N = 14). Control patients were younger than the other groups (29.96  0.45 years v. 32.53  0.74-39.28  3.86) but had similar sex ratios. Multiple regression was used to correct for the effects of age, and significant exacerbations were found in withdrawal in the vascular age (RA), augmentation index, subendocardial perfusion ratio (SEVR &lt;100; R.R. 2.07 95 % C.I. 1.17-3.68, P = 0.02) and central systolic pressure both as factors themselves and in interactions with age (all P &lt; 0.01). The elevation of modelled RA at 60 years was from 69.66 in controls to 97.54 in withdrawal (40.02 %). The effects on RA were found in both sexes and confirmed on longitudinal analysis. The elevation of RA in withdrawal was most marked after 40 years of age (P = 0.027). These results show increased vascular stiffness and cardiovascular age but reduced subendocardial perfusion in opiate withdrawal. Given the daily recurrent nature of withdrawal, these effects are likely cumulative.
HIV budding requires the interaction with cell factors involved in the biogenesis of exosomes. This implies the possibility that viral products undergo exosome incorporation. While this has been already described for both Gag and Nef HIV-1 proteins, no conclusive results on HIV genome have been produced so far. Here, we report that unspliced, but not single or double spliced, HIV-1 RNA species are incorporated in exosomes. Deletion mutant analysis indicated that the presence of a stretch of sequences within the 5' end of the Gag p17 open reading frame is sufficient for HIV-1 RNA exosome incorporation. These sequences were found associating with exosomes also out of the HIV-1 context, thus indicating that the diversion towards the vesicular compartment can occur without need of additional HIV-1 sequences. Finally, the incorporation of genomic HIV-1 RNA in exosomes significantly increased when producer cells express HIV-1 defective for viral genome packaging. Manipulating infected cells to favour the selective incorporation in exosomes of genomic HIV-1 RNA might have therapeutic implications.
Hyperalgesia results from a decreased pain threshold, often subsequent to peripheral tissue damage. Recent reports revealed several promising mechanisms of hyperalgesia, but many issues remain unclear. The glial activation accompanying inflammation of neurotransmission in the spinal cord might be related to the initiation and maintenance of hyperalgesia. The present study investigated the pharmacological pain-modifying effects of mitogen-associated protein kinase (MAPK)-related inhibitors identified with glia cells over time during inflammatory pain. A model of inflammatory pain was produced by injecting mustard oil (MO) into the hind paws of rats. Following MO injection, the changes in paws flinching as the early onset of pain and paw withdrawal latency (PWL) in response to thermal stimulation were measured as delayed-onset hyperalgesia. Before and after the MO injection, one of the inhibitors, a p38-MAPK (SB), nuclear factor (NF)-B (PDTC), BDNF-trk-B (K252a), or JNK-1 (SP), was administered and flinching and PWL were measured. In the SB, PDTC, and k252a groups, early flinching following MO injection was moderately suppressed. Hyperalgesia was significantly suppressed in the left-right difference of PWL in animals receiving SB, k252a, or PDTC pre-treatment. In animals receiving post-treatment, the suppressive effects were most potent in the SP group. The present results revealed that microglial activation resulting from the release of the phosphatase p38-MAPK, the transcription factor NF-B, and BDNF contributes to the early stage of inflammatory pain. Astrocyte activation accompanying JNK activation contributes to subsequent hyperalgesia. Activation of different signals identified with glia cells is thought to contribute to the progression of hyperalgesia, which represents an applicable finding for the treatment of hyperalgesia.
Establishing human cell models of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) to mimic motor neuron-specific phenotypes holds the key to understanding the pathogenesis of this devastating disease. Here, we developed a closely representative cell model of SMA by knocking down the disease-determining gene, survival motor neuron (SMN), in human embryonic stem cells (hESCs). Our study with this cell model demonstrated that knocking down of SMN does not interfere with neural induction or the initial specification of spinal motor neurons. Notably, the axonal outgrowth of spinal motor neurons was significantly impaired and these disease-mimicking neurons subsequently degenerated. Furthermore, these disease phenotypes were caused by SMN-full length (SMN-FL) but not SMN-7 (lacking exon 7) knockdown, and were specific to spinal motor neurons. Restoring the expression of SMN-FL completely ameliorated all of the disease phenotypes, including specific axonal defects and motor neuron loss. Finally, knockdown of SMN-FL led to excessive mitochondrial oxidative stress in human motor neuron progenitors. The involvement of oxidative stress in the degeneration of spinal motor neurons in the SMA cell model was further confirmed by the administration of N-acetylcysteine, a potent antioxidant, which prevented disease-related apoptosis and subsequent motor neuron death. Thus, we report here the successful establishment of an hESC-based SMA model, which exhibits disease gene isoform specificity, cell type specificity, and phenotype reversibility. Our model provides a unique paradigm for studying how motor neurons specifically degenerate and highlights the potential importance of antioxidants for the treatment of SMA.
Dendrites exhibit self-avoidance, in which branches of the same neuron repel each other while overlapping with branches from neighboring neurons. A recent paper by Lefebvre and colleagues reveals that clustered protocadherins provide a basis for neuronal recognition during dendrite self-avoidance in vertebrates.


Errors trigger changes in behavior that help individuals adapt to new situations. The dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) is thought to be central to this response, but more lateral frontal regions are also activated by errors and may make distinct contributions. We investigated error processing by studying 2 distinct error types: commission and timing. Thirty-five subjects performed a version of the Simon Task designed to produce large number of errors. Commission errors were internally recognized and were not accompanied by explicit feedback. In contrast, timing errors were difficult to monitor internally and were explicitly signaled. Both types of error triggered changes in behavior consistent with increased cognitive control. As expected, robust activation within the dACC and bilateral anterior insulae (the Salience Network) was seen for commission errors. In contrast, timing errors were not associated with activation of this network but did activate a bilateral network that included the right ventral attentional system. Common activation for both error types occurred within the pars operculari and angular gyri. These results show that the dACC does not respond to all behaviorally salient errors. Instead, the error-processing system is multifaceted, and control can be triggered independently of the dACC when feedback is unexpected.
Psychophysical, clinical, and imaging evidence suggests that consonant and vowel sounds have distinct neural representations. This study tests the hypothesis that consonant and vowel sounds are represented on different timescales within the same population of neurons by comparing behavioral discrimination with neural discrimination based on activity recorded in rat inferior colliculus and primary auditory cortex. Performance on 9 vowel discrimination tasks was highly correlated with neural discrimination based on spike count and was not correlated when spike timing was preserved. In contrast, performance on 11 consonant discrimination tasks was highly correlated with neural discrimination when spike timing was preserved and not when spike timing was eliminated. These results suggest that in the early stages of auditory processing, spike count encodes vowel sounds and spike timing encodes consonant sounds. These distinct coding strategies likely contribute to the robust nature of speech sound representations and may help explain some aspects of developmental and acquired speech processing disorders.
The long-distance corticocortical connections between visual and nonvisual sensory areas that arise from pyramidal neurons located within layer V can be considered as a subpopulation of feedback connections. The purpose of the present study is to determine if layer V pyramidal neurons from visual and nonvisual sensory cortical areas that project onto the visual cortex (V1) constitute a homogeneous population of cells. Additionally, we ask whether dendritic arborization relates to the target, the sensory modality, the hierarchical level, or laterality of the source cortical area. Complete 3D reconstructions of dendritic arbors of retrogradely labeled layer V pyramidal neurons were performed for neurons of the primary auditory (A1) and somatosensory (S1) cortices and from the lateral (V2L) and medial (V2M) parts of the secondary visual cortices of both hemispheres. The morphological parameters extracted from these reconstructions were subjected to principal component analysis (PCA) and cluster analysis. The PCA showed that neurons are distributed within a continuous range of morphologies and do not form discrete groups. Nevertheless, the cluster analysis defines neuronal groups that share similar features. Each cortical area includes neurons belonging to several clusters. We suggest that layer V feedback connections within a single cortical area comprise several cell types.
An emerging view of prefrontal cortex (PFC) function is that multiple PFC areas process information in parallel, rather than as distinct modules. Two key functions assigned to the PFC are the regulation of top-down attention and stimulus-guided action. Electrophysiology and lesion studies indicate the involvement of both the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and prelimbic cortex (PL) in these functions. Little is known, however, about how these cortical regions interact. We recorded single unit spiking and local field potentials (LFPs) simultaneously in rodents during a sustained attention task and assessed interactions between the ACC and PL by measuring spike-LFP phase synchrony and LFP-LFP phase synchrony between these areas. We demonstrate that the magnitude of synchrony between the ACC and PL, before stimulus onset, predicts the subjects' behavioral choice after the stimulus. Furthermore, neurons switched from a state of beta synchrony during attention to a state of delta synchrony before the instrumental action. Our results indicate that multiple PFC areas interact during attention and that the same neurons may participate in segregated assemblies that support both attention and action.
Infants must learn to make sense of real-world auditory environments containing simultaneous and overlapping sounds. In adults, event-related potential studies have demonstrated the existence of separate preattentive memory traces for concurrent note sequences and revealed perceptual dominance for encoding of the voice with higher fundamental frequency of 2 simultaneous tones or melodies. Here, we presented 2 simultaneous streams of notes (15 semitones apart) to 7-month-old infants. On 50% of trials, either the higher or the lower note was modified by one semitone, up or down, leaving 50% standard trials. Infants showed mismatch negativity (MMN) to changes in both voices, indicating separate memory traces for each voice. Furthermore, MMN was earlier and larger for the higher voice as in adults. When in the context of a second voice, representation of the lower voice was decreased and that of the higher voice increased compared with when each voice was presented alone. Additionally, correlations between MMN amplitude and amount of weekly music listening suggest that experience affects the development of auditory memory. In sum, the ability to process simultaneous pitches and the dominance of the highest voice emerge early during infancy and are likely important for the perceptual organization of sound in realistic environments.
The ability to generate intentional behavior is undeniably at the core of what makes us acting subjects. Intentional actions consist of at least 2 components (Brass M, Haggard P. 2008. The what, when, whether model of intentional action. Neuroscientist. 14:319-325.): choosing an appropriate behavior (what) and selecting the moment of execution (when). The aim of this study was to identify differing and overlapping neural networks underlying the &quot;what&quot; and &quot;when&quot; of intentional movement initiation. While scanned with functional magnetic resonance imaging, 35 healthy subjects performed self-initiated and reactive, that is, internally and externally triggered movements of the right or left index finger in 3 experimental conditions: 1) &quot;Free Choice&quot; (free timing: when/choice of hand: what), 2) &quot;Timed Choice&quot; (external timing/choice of hand: what), and 3) &quot;No Choice&quot; (external timing/cued hand). The what-component specifically employed the presupplementary motor area (SMA) and dorsal premotor cortex bilaterally. The when-network consisted of superior SMA together with insula and Area 44 bilaterally as well as bilateral anterior putamen, globus pallidus, and left cerebellum subcortically. These 2 components recruited different networks, pointing to a partially distinct neuronal realization of the relating functions. Finally, the more intentional components were involved, the higher was activity in the anterior midcingulate cortex, which highlighted its role in intentional initiation of behavior.
Recent studies have revealed spatial and functional relations in the temporal dynamics of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) or electroencephalography (EEG) signals recorded in the adult brain. By modeling the frequency power spectrum of resting-state brain signals with a power-law function 0(f)1/f, the power-law exponent  has been shown to relate to the connectivity patterns of spontaneous brain activity that forms so-called rs-fMRI networks in the human adult brain. Here, we present an analysis of the dynamic properties of rs-fMRI and EEG signals acquired both in the newborn and adult brain, and we demonstrate frequency scaling of a power-law kind for orders of magnitude in the hemodynamic (0.01-0.15 Hz) and the electrical (0.2-30 Hz) domain. We show that the spatial segregation of resting-state dynamics of intrinsic fMRI signals in terms of the power-law exponent  is closely related to previously delineated resting-state neuronal architecture that encompasses primary sensory cortices and associate cortex in newborns. Moreover, the spatial profiles of differences in temporal dynamics for rs-fMRI signals could also be observed in EEG measurements in the newborn brain, albeit at a coarser spatial scale, with larger power-law exponents in occipital and parietal cortices compared with signals from the frontal brain.
Activation of protein kinase A (PKA) pathway at presynaptic terminals plays a crucial role in the supply of synaptic vesicles (SVs) from the reserve pool, affecting the steady-state level of activity and the reconstitution of the readily releasable pool after intense stimulation. However, the identity of the stimuli activating this pathway is undefined. Using fluorescence resonance energy transfer and molecular genetic, we show that kainate, through the activation of presynaptic kainate receptors, induces PKA activation and enhances synapsin I phosphorylation at PKA-specific residues. This leads to a dispersion of synapsin I immunoreactivity, which is accompanied by a PKA-dependent increase in the rate of SV recycling at the growth cone and by an enhanced miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents frequency in mature networks. Selective activation of this pathway is induced by the native neurotransmitter glutamate, when applied in the high nanomolar range. These data identify glutamate, specifically acting on KARs, as one of the stimuli able to induce phosphorylation of synapsin at PKA sites, both at the axonal growth cone and at the mature synapse, thus increasing SV availability and contributing to plasticity phenomena.
The identity of an object is not only specified by its parts but also by the relations among the parts. Rearranging parts can produce a completely different object, in the same manner as rearranging the phonemes in &quot;fur&quot; can yield &quot;rough.&quot; How does the visual system represent the relative positions of parts? Between-part relations can be characterized by specifying the relations between the medial axes (imaginary lines through the centers) of an object's parts. A functional magnetic resonance imaging multivoxel classification study tested whether the medial axis structure is represented in the human visual system independent of part identity and overall object orientation. Stimuli were line drawings of novel 3-part geometrical objects, which differed in the relations between their parts' medial axes (i.e., in their medial axis structures), the geons that composed each object, and the objects' orientations in plane and in depth. In regions of interest throughout visual cortex, a support vector machine classifier was trained to distinguish objects that shared either the same medial axis structures or the same orientations. By the level of V3, different medial axis structures were more accurately classified than different orientations, indicating a change in the representation of shape compared with earlier visual areas.
Human inferior parietal lobule (IPL) plays a key role in various cognitive functions. Its functional diversity, including attention, language, and action processing, is reflected by its structural segregation into 7 cytoarchitectonically distinct areas, each with characteristic connectivity patterns. We hypothesized that commonalities of the cytoarchitectonic, connectional, and functional diversity of the IPL should be reflected by a correlated transmitter receptor-based organization. Since the function of a cortical area requires a well-tuned receptor balance, the densities of 15 different receptors were measured in each IPL area. A hierarchical cluster analysis of the receptor balance revealed a tripartite segregation of the IPL into a rostral, middle, and caudal group. Comparison with other cortical areas showed strong similarities with Broca's region for all 3 groups, with the superior parietal cortex for the middle, and with extrastriate visual areas for the caudal group. Notably, caudal-most area PGp has a receptor fingerprint very similar to that of ventral extrastriate visual cortex. We therefore propose a new organizational model of the human IPL, consisting of 3 clusters, which corresponds to its known cytoarchitectonic, connectional, and functional diversity at the molecular level. This might reflect a general organizational principle of human IPL, beyond specific functional domains.
Synapsins (Syn I, Syn II, and Syn III) are a family of synaptic vesicle phosphoproteins regulating synaptic transmission and plasticity. SYN1/2 genes have been identified as major epilepsy susceptibility genes in humans and synapsin I/II/III triple knockout (TKO) mice are epileptic. However, excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission and short-term plasticity have never been analyzed in intact neuronal circuits of TKO mice. To clarify the generation and expression of the epileptic phenotype, we performed patch-clamp recordings in the CA1 region of acute hippocampal slices from 1-month-old presymptomatic and 6-month-old epileptic TKO mice and age-matched controls. We found a strong imbalance between basal glutamatergic and -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic transmission with increased evoked excitatory postsynaptic current and impaired evoked inhibitory postsynaptic current amplitude. This imbalance was accompanied by a parallel derangement of short-term plasticity paradigms, with enhanced facilitation of glutamatergic transmission in the presymptomatic phase and milder depression of inhibitory synapses in the symptomatic phase. Interestingly, a lower tonic GABA(A) current due to the impaired GABA release is responsible for the more depolarized resting potential found in TKO CA1 neurons, which makes them more susceptible to fire. All these changes preceded the appearance of epilepsy, indicating that the distinct changes in excitatory and inhibitory transmission due to the absence of Syns initiate the epileptogenic process.
The pore-forming subunit of voltage-gated calcium channels is associated to auxiliary subunits among which the cytoplasmic  subunit. The different isoforms of this subunit control both the plasma membrane targeting and the biophysical properties of the channel moiety. In a recent study, we demonstrated that the Cacnb4 ( 4) isoform is at the center of a new signaling pathway that connects neuronal excitability and gene transcription. This mechanism relies on nuclear targeting of  4 triggered by neuronal electrical stimulation. This re-localization of  4 is promoted by its interaction with Ppp2r5d a regulatory subunit of PP2A in complex with PP2A itself. The formation, as well as the nuclear translocation, of the  4/ Ppp2r5d/ PP2A complex is totally impaired by the premature R482X stops mutation of  4 that has been previously associated with juvenile epilepsy. Taking as a case study the tyrosine hydroxylase gene that is strongly upregulated in brain of lethargic mice, deficient for  4 expression, we deciphered the molecular steps presiding to this signaling pathway. Here we show that expression of wild-type  4 in HEK293 cells results in the regulation of several genes, while expression of the mutated  4 ( 1-481) produces a different set of gene regulation. Several genes regulated by  4 in HEK293 cells were also regulated upon neuronal differentiation of NG108-15 cells that induces nuclear translocation of  4 suggesting a link between  4 nuclear targeting and gene regulation.
NMDA receptors are glutamate-activated, Ca ( 2+) -permeable ion channels with critical roles in synaptic transmission and plasticity. The shape and size of their current is modulated by several kinase/phosphatase systems, and numerous residues located on the receptors' intracellular C-termini are phosphorylated in vivo. To investigate the mechanisms by which phosphorylation may control channel gating, we examined the single-channel behaviors of receptors carrying the S900A or S929A substitution in their GluN2A subunits and thus were rendered resistant to phosphorylation at those sites. We found that the mutations reduced channel open probability primarily by increasing the frequency of desensitized events. The kinetic models we developed revealed complex but similar changes in mechanism for the two mutants, leading to the view that dephosphorylation at either site may cause receptors to activate slower, deactivate faster and desensitize more frequently. This modulatory mechanism is consistent with the proposed roles for these residues in Ca ( 2+) -dependent desensitization and calcineurin-mediated reduction of current during brain development.
We describe techniques for the robust detection of community structure in some classes of time-dependent networks. Specifically, we consider the use of statistical null models for facilitating the principled identification of structural modules in semi-decomposable systems. Null models play an important role both in the optimization of quality functions such as modularity and in the subsequent assessment of the statistical validity of identified community structure. We examine the sensitivity of such methods to model parameters and show how comparisons to null models can help identify system scales. By considering a large number of optimizations, we quantify the variance of network diagnostics over optimizations (&quot;optimization variance&quot;) and over randomizations of network structure (&quot;randomization variance&quot;). Because the modularity quality function typically has a large number of nearly degenerate local optima for networks constructed using real data, we develop a method to construct representative partitions that uses a null model to correct for statistical noise in sets of partitions. To illustrate our results, we employ ensembles of time-dependent networks extracted from both nonlinear oscillators and empirical neuroscience data.
A series of 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid derivatives was prepared and evaluated for antinarcotic effects on morphine dependence in mice and binding affinities on serotonergic receptors. The key synthetic strategies involve generation of ketones 6-7, esters 9-12 through condensation reaction, and amides 13-19 via coupling reaction using 1-hydroxybenzotriazole/ethyl(dimethylaminopropryl)carbodiimide system in high yield. We found that the naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal syndrome was significantly suppressed by new synthetic 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid derivatives (20 mg/kg/day). Most of 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid derivatives were found to have high affinity to 5-HT(1A) receptor. The naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal syndrome was attenuated by (+)8-OH-DPAT (0.1 mg/kg/day, i.p.), a 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist. In cortical neuronal cells, (+)8-OH-DPAT (1 M) produced an elevation of the pERK 1/2 expression, and the elevated pERK levels were inhibited by WAY 100635, a 5-HT(1A) receptor-specific antagonist. Interestingly, the pERK levels were increased by the 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid derivatives and the derivatives-mediated changes in pERK levels were blocked by the WAY 100635. These results suggested that new synthetic 3,4,5-trimethoxycinnamic acid derivatives have a potential antinarcotic effect through acting as a 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist in mice.



DNA methylation reactions are regulated, in the first instance, by enzymes and the intermediates that constitute the 'so called' one-carbon metabolism. This is a complex biochemical pathway, also known as the homocysteine cycle, regulated by the presence of B vitamins (folate, B6, B12) and choline, among other metabolites. One of the intermediates of this metabolism is S-adenosylmethionine, which represent the methyl donor in all the DNA methyltransferase reactions in eukaryotes. The one-carbon metabolism therefore produces the substrate necessary for the transferring of a methyl group on the cytosine residues of DNA; S-adenosylmethionine also regulates the activity of the enzymes that catalyze this reaction, namely the DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs). Alterations of this metabolic cycle can therefore be responsible for aberrant DNA methylation processes possibly leading to several human diseases. As a matter of fact, increasing evidences indicate that a number of human diseases with multifactorial origin may have an epigenetic basis. This is also due to the great technical advances in the field of epigenetic research. Among the human diseases associated with epigenetic factors, aging-related and neurodegenerative diseases are probably the object of most intense research. This review will present the main evidences linking several human diseases to DNA methylation, with particular focus on neurodegenerative diseases, together with a short description of the state-of-the-art of methylation assays.







Epileptic encephalopathy is defined as a condition where the epileptic activity itself may contribute to the severe neurological and cognitive impairment seen, over and above that which would be expected from the underlying pathology alone. The epilepsy syndromes at high risk of this are a disparate group of conditions characterized by epileptic seizures that are difficult to treat and developmental delay. In this review, we discuss the ongoing debate regarding the significance of inter-ictal discharges and the impact of the seizures themselves on the cognitive delay or regression that is a common feature of these syndromes. The syndromes also differ in many ways and we provide a summary of the key features of the early-onset epileptic encephalopathies including Ohtahara and West syndromes in addition to later childhood-onset syndromes such as Lennox Gastaut and Doose syndromes. An understanding of the various severe epilepsy syndromes is vital to understanding the rationale for treatment. For example, the resolution of hypsarrhythmia in West syndrome is associated with an improvement in cognitive outcome and drives treatment choice, but the same cannot be applied to frequent inter-ictal discharges in Lennox Gastaut syndrome. We discuss the evidence base for treatment where it is available and describe current practice where it is not. For example, in West syndrome there is some evidence for preference of hormonal treatments over vigabatrin, although the choice and duration of hormonal treatment remains unclear. We describe the use of conventional and newer anti-epileptic medications in the various syndromes and discuss which medications should be avoided. Older possibly forgotten treatments such as sulthiame and potassium bromide also have a role in the severe epilepsies of childhood. We discuss hormonal treatment with particular focus on the treatment of West syndrome, continuous spike wave in slow wave sleep (CSWS)/electrical status epilepticus in slow wave sleep (ESES) and Landau Kleffner syndrome. The role of the ketogenic diet has in recent years come to the fore of the management of these severe epilepsies and we describe successful use in myoclonic astatic epilepsy, Lennox Gastaut syndrome and Dravet syndrome. It is important that resective epilepsy surgery is not ignored in the management of these children, particularly those with hemi-pathology who may present with ESES and respond well to hemispheric disconnection. Adjunctive and symptomatic surgical treatments such as vagal nerve stimulation and corpus callosotomy may improve seizure burden. Finally, it is vital that the identification and treatment of developmental, behavioural and psychiatric co-morbidities are not neglected and that a rational, holistic approach is taken to the management of epileptic encephalopathies.
Recent evidence has suggested that not only stimulus-specific attributes or top-down expectations can modulate attention selection processes, but also the actual mood state of the participant. In this study, we tested the prediction that the induction of positive mood can dynamically influence attention allocation and, in turn, modulate early stimulus sensory processing in primary visual cortex (V1). High-density visual event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded while participants performed a demanding task at fixation and were presented with peripheral irrelevant visual textures, whose position was systematically varied in the upper visual field (close, medium, or far relative to fixation). Either a neutral or a positive mood was reliably induced and maintained throughout the experimental session. The ERP results showed that the earliest retinotopic component following stimulus onset (C1) strongly varied in topography as a function of the position of the peripheral distractor, in agreement with a near-far spatial gradient. However, this effect was altered for participants in a positive relative to a neutral mood. On the contrary, positive mood did not modulate attention allocation for the central (task-relevant) stimuli, as reflected by the P300 component. We ran a control behavioral experiment confirming that positive emotion selectively impaired attention allocation to the peripheral distractors. These results suggest a mood-dependent tuning of position-specific encoding in V1 rapidly following stimulus onset. We discuss these results against the dominant broaden-and-build theory.
The human ability to flexibly adapt to novel circumstances is extraordinary. Perhaps the most illustrative, yet underappreciated, form of this cognitive flexibility is rapid instructed task learning (RITL)--the ability to rapidly reconfigure our minds to perform new tasks from instructions. This ability is important for everyday life (e.g., learning to use new technologies) and is used to instruct participants in nearly every study of human cognition. We review the development of RITL as a circumscribed domain of cognitive neuroscience investigation, culminating in recent demonstrations that RITL is implemented via brain circuits centered on lateral prefrontal cortex. We then build on this and the recent discovery of compositional representations within lateral prefrontal cortex to develop an integrative theory of cognitive flexibility and cognitive control that identifies mechanisms that may enable RITL within the human brain. The insights gained from this new theoretical account have important implications for further developments and applications of RITL research.
The dual-representation model of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD; Brewin, Gregory, Lipton, &amp; Burgess, Psychological Review, 117, 210-232 2010) argues that intrusions occur when people fail to construct context-based representations during adverse experiences. The present study tested a specific prediction flowing from this model. In particular, we investigated whether the efficiency of temporal-lobe-based spatial configuration learning would account for individual differences in intrusive experiences and physiological reactivity in the laboratory. Participants (N = 82) completed the contextual cuing paradigm, which assesses spatial configuration learning that is believed to depend on associative encoding in the parahippocampus. They were then shown a trauma film. Afterward, startle responses were quantified during presentation of trauma reminder pictures versus unrelated neutral and emotional pictures. PTSD symptoms were recorded in the week following participation. Better configuration learning performance was associated with fewer perceptual intrusions, r = -.33, p &lt; .01, but was unrelated to physiological responses to trauma reminder images (ps &gt; .46) and had no direct effect on intrusion-related distress and overall PTSD symptoms, rs &gt; -.12, ps &gt; .29. However, configuration learning performance tended to be associated with reduced physiological responses to unrelated negative images, r = -.20, p = .07. Thus, while spatial configuration learning appears to be unrelated to affective responding to trauma reminders, our overall findings support the idea that the context-based memory system helps to reduce intrusions.
During mental rotation (MR) of body parts, people internally simulate the movement of their corresponding body segments. These sensory-motor mechanisms render MR sensitive to proprioceptive information (e.g., posture). Similar mechanisms can alter illusory hand ownership following synchronous visuotactile stimulation (e.g., the rubber hand illusion [RHI]). In the present study, we first showed that illusory ownership for a fake hand can also be induced when the posture of the fake hand (palm-up) does not correspond with the subject's physical hand posture (palm-down). Then we tested whether illusory ownership for a fake hand in such a posture impacts the MR of hands carried out immediately and repeatedly after the RHI. The results showed that MR was altered for the view corresponding to the fake hand's posture, but not for other views. Additionally, these effects depended on illusory ownership, as only synchronous visuotactile stimulation was found to lead to these changes, characterized by a modulation of the rotation-dependent profile of MR response times. These findings show that similar sensory-motor mechanisms are recruited during the MR of hands and illusory hand ownership manipulated through multisensory mismatch, and that bottom-up visuotactile stimulation interferes with high-level imagery processes.


When two targets are presented using rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) and the interval between the targets is 200-500 ms, detection or identification of the second target is impaired. This impairment in second target report is known as the attentional blink (AB). This study sought to examine the impact of the direction of target association on priming during an AB task using very short and long SOAs. Two experiments were conducted using dual-stream RSVP tasks and targets that either shared an associative relationship or were unrelated to one another. The direction of association between the targets was also varied so that associatively related targets were presented in the forward (strongest association from target 1 to target 2) or backward directions of association (strongest association from target 2 to target 1). In Experiment 1 very short SOAs between targets (27-213 ms) were used. Priming was evident at the same SOAs for both targets presented in the backward direction of association. However, for targets presented in the forward direction of association, priming occurred for target 1 and target 2 at different SOAs. Experiment 2 used longer SOAs between targets (107 to 535 ms) and it was determined that while direction of association between the targets did not affect priming, there was a larger priming effect for target 2 than for target 1. The results of the two experiments indicate that direction of association between targets influences priming in RSVP tasks that use very short but not long SOAs. The results are discussed in relation to the two-stage response competition model of Potter et al. (J Exp Psychol Hum Percept Perform 28:1149-1162, 2002).
Recent research on moral decision-making has suggested that many common moral judgments are based on immediate intuitions. However, some individuals arrive at highly counterintuitive utilitarian conclusions about when it is permissible to harm other individuals. Such utilitarian judgments have been attributed to effortful reasoning that has overcome our natural emotional aversion to harming others. Recent studies, however, suggest that such utilitarian judgments might also result from a decreased aversion to harming others, due to a deficit in empathic concern and social emotion. The present study investigated the neural basis of such indifference to harming using functional neuroimaging during engagement in moral dilemmas. A tendency to counterintuitive utilitarian judgment was associated both with 'psychoticism', a trait associated with a lack of empathic concern and antisocial tendencies, and with 'need for cognition', a trait reflecting preference for effortful cognition. Importantly, only psychoticism was also negatively correlated with activation in the subgenual cingulate cortex (SCC), a brain area implicated in empathic concern and social emotions such as guilt, during counterintuitive utilitarian judgments. Our findings suggest that when individuals reach highly counterintuitive utilitarian conclusions, this need not reflect greater engagement in explicit moral deliberation. It may rather reflect a lack of empathic concern, and diminished aversion to harming others.
In the last 20 years neurological and neurosurgical follow up of our patients with pineal region expansions (118 patients) pointed to certain clinical and neurophysiological regularities. We performed retrospective study which included 84 patients with pineal region expansions in the period from 1992 to 2009. The study included 55 women and 29 men, mean age 30.08 +/- 13.93 years, with positive brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)--70 patients (83.4%) had simple pineal gland cysts, and 14 patients (16.67%) had expansive process in pineal region with compressive effect. All patients had headache, while 32 patients (38%) had epileptic phenomena--primary generalized seizures. Patients had common electroencephalography (EEG) pattern with paroxysmal discharges of 3Hz (or more than 3 Hz) spike-and-wave complexes. Operation with supracerebellar infratentorial approach was performed in 70 patients. In most of our patients indication for the operation was established based on the size of the cyst (15 mm or more), with the signs of compression on the quadrigeminal plate and compression of the surrounding veins, which could result in seizures and EEG changes verified in our group of patients. Pathohistological analysis revealed pineocytomas in 11 cases (15.71%), pinealoblastomas in 2 cases (2.86%), one case of teratoma (1.43%), while 56 patients had pineal gland cysts (80%). Following surgery clinical condition improved in all patients--patients became seizure-free and headaches significantly decreased. Other symptoms including diplopiae, nausea, vomiting, vertigo as well as blurred vision also disappeared. There were no complications after surgical procedures. This study points to often appearance of seizures that clinically and neurophysiologically present as primary generalized epilepsy in patients with pineal region expansions. Our hypotheses are that mass effect on the surrounding veins that affects normal perfusion, compressive effect on the quadrigeminal plate and the aqueduct of the midbrain, hemosiderin deposists, as well as secretion disturbances of anticonvulsive agent melatonin can be involved in the pathogenesis of seizures. We suggest to perform high resolution brain MRI with special demonstration of pineal region in all young patients that have seizures and specific EEG changes.

Development of calcium channel blockers is attractive, but has in the past been hampered by lack of high throughput electrophysiological technology. This limitation has been overcome by the implementation of automated patch clamp systems that allow identification of state-dependent compounds, which preferentially target pathologically overactive channels. We recently presented a fluorescence-based high-throughput screen for P/Q-type calcium channels followed by automated electrophysiology. Here, we provide a detailed description of the development of the secondary screen, and show the full analysis of the inactivation kinetics of the recombinant P/Q channel that served as a basis for the automated patch clamp protocol. Increasing the length of pre-depolarization shifted the inactivation to more hyperpolarized potentials. No steady-state inactivation was reached up to pre-depolarization durations of 3 min, while stability of the recordings progressively declined. As a compromise, a 3s pre-depolarization protocol was proposed for functional screening. In order to validate the electrophysiological screening, we compared kinetics and pharmacology of recombinant P/Q-type channels between automated and manual patch clamp measurements. Channel activation was similar under both conditions. By contrast, inactivation occurred at more hyperpolarized potentials in the automated system. Therefore, P/Q-type calcium channel inactivation is sensitive to the applied technological platform and needs to be adjusted when performing automated patch clamp recordings. Our results indicate that a thorough analysis of the inactivation kinetics is mandatory, when establishing an electrophysiological screening protocol for calcium channel blockers. As some data obtained by automated recordings may not be identical to manual patch clamp analysis, we recommend a proper initial validation of the screening assay and--if necessary--a posthoc adjustment of automated patch clamp values. The protocol presented here supports hit-to-lead and lead optimization efforts during the development of novel P/Q-type calcium channel blockers, and may be valuable for the generation of assays in other ion channel programs.
Circulating corticosteroids have been related to social status in a variety of species. However, our understanding of corticosteroid receptor expression and its relationship with sociality is still in its infancy. Knowledge of variation in receptor expression is critical to understand the physiological relevance of differences in circulating corticosteroid concentrations. In this study, we examined corticosteroid receptor gene expression in relation to dominance rank, sex, and social behaviour in the highly social cichlid fish, Neolamprologus pulcher. We examined the relative gene expression of the three known teleost corticosteroid receptors: glucocorticoid receptor 1 (GR1), glucocorticoid receptor 2 (GR2), and the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) in liver and brain tissue of dominant and subordinate N. pulcher males and females. Phylogenetic analysis revealed the N. pulcher gene originally described as GR2, clustered with other teleost GR1 genes, while the originally-described N. pulcher GR1 gene clustered with the GR2 genes of other teleosts. Therefore we propose a change in the original nomenclature of the N. pulcher GRs: GR1 (formerly GR2) and GR2 (formerly GR1) and adopt this new nomenclature throughout this manuscript. Liver MR transcript levels were higher in males than females, and positively related to submissive behaviour. Liver GR2 (formerly GR1) transcript levels were also higher in males than females. Collectively, the results demonstrate sex differences in corticosteroid receptor abundance, and suggest tissue- and receptor-specific roles for corticosteroid receptors in mediating aspects of social behaviour.
Independent Component Analysis with projection (ICAp) method proposed by Long et al. Hum. Brain Mapp. 30 (2009) 417-431, can solve the interaction among task-related components of multi-task functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. However, the departure of the ideal homodynamic response function (HRF) for projection from the true HRF may worse the ICAp results. In order to improve the performance of ICAp, the deconvolved ICAp (DICAp) method is proposed. Both the simulated and real fMRI experiments demonstrate that DICAp can separate more accurate time course corresponding to each task-related components and is more powerful to detect regions activated by each task only than ICAp.
Introspection, or metacognition, is the capacity to reflect on our own thoughts and behaviours. Here, we investigated how one specific metacognitive ability (the relationship between task performance and confidence) develops in adolescence, a period of life associated with the emergence of self-concept and enhanced self-awareness. We employed a task that dissociates objective performance on a visual task from metacognitive ability in a group of 56 participants aged between 11 and 41 years. Metacognitive ability improved significantly with age during adolescence, was highest in late adolescence and plateaued going into adulthood. Our results suggest that awareness of one's own perceptual decisions shows a prolonged developmental trajectory during adolescence.
Attention is often dichotomized into controlled vs. automatic processing, where controlled processing is slow, flexible, and intentional, and automatic processing is fast, inflexible, and unintentional. In contrast to this strict dichotomy, there is mounting evidence for context-specific processes that are engaged rapidly yet are also flexible. In the present study we extend this idea to the domain of implicit learning to examine whether flexibility in automatic processes can be implemented through the reliance on contextual features. Across three experiments we show that participants can learn implicitly two complementary sequences that are associated with distinct contexts, and that transfer of learning when the two contexts are randomly intermixed depends on the distinctiveness of the two contexts. Our results point to the role of context-specific processes in the acquisition and expression of implicit sequence knowledge, and also suggest that episodic details can be represented in sequence knowledge.
The capacity to self-generate mental content that is unrelated to the current environment is a fundamental characteristic of the mind, and the current experiment explored how this experience is related to the decisions that people make in daily life. We examined how task-unrelated thought (TUT) varies with the length of time participants are willing to wait for an economic reward, as measured using an inter-temporal discounting task. When participants performed a task requiring minimal attention, the greater the amount of time spent engaged in TUT the longer the individual was prepared to wait for an economic reward. These data indicate that self-generated thought engages processes associated with the successful management of long-term goals. Although immersion in the here and now is undeniably advantageous, under appropriate conditions the capacity to let go of the present and consider more pertinent personal goals may have its own rewards.
We introduce a new version of the perceptual retouch model. This model was used for explaining properties of temporal interaction of successive objects in reaching conscious representation. The new model incorporates two interactive binding operations - binding features for objects and binding the bound feature-objects with a large scale oscillatory system that corresponds to perceptual consciousness. Here, the typical result of masking experiments - second object advantage in conscious perception - is achieved by applying the effects of a common synchronizing oscillator with a delay. This delayed modulation of each of the feature-binding first-order oscillators that represent emerging and decaying neural activities of each of the objects guarantees that the oscillating synchrony of the feature-neurons of the following object is higher than the synchrony of the feature-neurons of the first presented object. Thus we model the fact that the following object dominates the preceding object in conscious perception. We also show the capacity of the model to simulate illusory misbinding of features from different objects. The third qualitative effect, the relative release of the first object from backward masking is achieved by priming the non-specific oscillatory modulation ahead in time.

Patients with parietal lesions and unilateral spatial neglect (USN) are unable to detect or respond to information in the contralesional side of space. However, some residual sensory processing may still occur and overcome inattention symptoms when contralesional stimuli are perceptually or biologically salient, as shown for emotional faces or voices. These effects have been attributed to enhanced neural responses of sensory regions to emotional stimuli, presumably driven by feedback signals from limbic regions such as the amygdala. However, because emotional faces and voices also differ from neutral stimuli in terms of physical features, the affective nature of these effects still remains to be confirmed. Here we report data from a right parietal patient in whom left visual extinction was reduced for contralesional visual stimuli following pavlovian aversive conditioning, relative to the same stimulus before conditioning, and relative to similar but non-conditioned stimuli. This reduction of visual extinction was thus mediated by the emotional meaning of stimuli acquired through implicit learning. Functional magnetic resonance imaging also showed that conditioned visual stimuli elicited greater activation in right visual cortex, relative to the non-conditioned stimuli, together with differential activations in amygdala. These results support the hypothesis that emotional appraisal, not only the processing of perceptual features, may partly restore attention to salient information in contralesional space. These findings open new perspectives to improve rehabilitation strategies in neglect, based on affective and motivational signals.
Dopamine (DA) neurotransmission through D2 receptors (DRD2) has been implicated in the regulation of reward processing, cognition and the effects of drugs of abuse, and also has significant effects in responses to stressors and salient aversive stimuli. An examination of the influence of genetic variation across multiple psychophysical measures therefore appears critical to understand the neurobiology of DA-modulated complex personality traits and psychiatric illnesses. To examine inter-individual variation in the function of DRD2 modulated mechanisms in healthy humans, we used a haplotype-based and single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) investigation. Their effects were interrogated with functional magnetic resonance imaging during reward and emotional processing. We found that a haplotype block composed by two SNPs, rs4274224 and rs4581480, affected the hemodynamic responses of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) during reward expectation and the subgenual anterior cingulate cortices (sgACC) during implicit emotional processing. Exploratory analysis within the significant haplotype block revealed the same functional effects only for the SNP rs4274224. Further analysis on rs4274224 using functional connectivity and positron emission tomography (PET) measures of DA D2/3 receptor mediated neurotransmission confirmed a gene effect on the functional connectivity of the DLPFC during reward anticipation and subcortical stress induced DA release. At a phenotypic trait level, significant effects of genotype were obtained for the NEO PI-R &quot;Openness to Experience&quot; and further correlated with neuroimaging data. Overall, these results show significant neurobiological effects of genotype variation in DRD2 on multiple functional domains, such as emotional, stress and reward processing. As such, it contributes to normal variation and potentially to vulnerability to psychopathology associated with those functions, such as risk for mood and substance use disorders.
The vestibular system processes information about head movement and orientation. No unimodal vestibular cortex has been identified in the mammalian brain. Rather, vestibular inputs are combined with many other sensory signals in the cortex. This arrangement suggests that vestibular input could influence processing in other sensory modalities. Here we show that vestibular stimulation differentially modulates two submodalities of the somatosensory system, increasing sensitivity to tactile input, and independently reducing sensitivity to nociceptive input. These modulations of touch and pain can clearly be distinguished from supramodal attentional effects of vestibular stimulation, because they are bilateral and operate in different directions. Outside the artificial conditions of laboratory stimulation, the vestibular system codes movements of the head, indicating a new relation between the body and the external world. We suggest the vestibular system participates in a form of sensory signal management, changing the balance between the various sensory systems as the relation between the body and the external environment changes. This sensory rebalancing may be a crucial element in the brain's capacity to reorient towards novel or salient features in the environment.
Systematic biases in spatial attention are a common finding. In the general population, a systematic leftward bias is typically observed (pseudoneglect), possibly as a consequence of right hemisphere dominance for visuospatial attention. However, this leftward bias can cross-over to a systematic rightward bias with changes in stimulus and state factors (such as line length and arousal). The processes governing these changes are still unknown. Here we tested models of spatial attention as to their ability to account for these effects. To this end, we experimentally manipulated both stimulus and state factors, while healthy participants performed a computerized version of a landmark task. State was manipulated by time-on-task (&gt;1 h) leading to increased fatigue and a reliable left- to rightward shift in spatial bias. Stimulus was manipulated by presenting either long or short lines which was associated with a shift of subjective midpoint from a reliable leftward bias for long to a more rightward bias for short lines. Importantly, we found time-on-task and line length effects to be additive suggesting a common denominator for line bisection across all conditions, which is in disagreement with models that assume that bisection decisions in long and short lines are governed by distinct processes (Magnitude estimation vs Global/local distinction). Our findings emphasize the dynamic rather than static nature of spatial biases in midline judgement. They are best captured by theories of spatial attention positing that spatial bias is flexibly modulated, and subject to inter-hemispheric balance which can change over time or conditions to accommodate task demands or reflect fatigue.
Midlife habits may be important for the later development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We estimated the contribution of midlife prayer to the development of cognitive decline. In a door-to-door survey, residents aged 65 years were systematically evaluated in Arabic including medical history, neurological, cognitive examination, and a midlife leisure-activities questionnaire. Praying was assessed by the number of monthly praying hours at midlife. Stepwise logistic regression models were used to evaluate the effect of prayer on the odds of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD versus cognitively normal individuals. Of 935 individuals that were approached, 778 [normal controls (n=448), AD (n=92) and MCI (n=238)] were evaluated. A higher proportion of cognitively normal individuals engaged in prayer at midlife [(87%) versus MCI (71%) or AD (69%) (p&lt;0.0001)]. Since 94% of males engaged in prayer, the effect on cognitive decline could not be assessed in men. Among women, stepwise logistic regression adjusted for age and education, showed that prayer was significantly associated with reduced risk of MCI (p=0.027, OR=0.55, 95% CI 0.33-0.94), but not AD. Among individuals endorsing prayer activity, the amount of prayer was not associated with MCI or AD in either gender. Praying at midlife is associated with lower risk of mild cognitive impairment in women.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by senile plaques (SP) of extracellular amyloid  peptides(A), neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) of intracellular hyper-phosphorylated tau and widespread loss of neurons. Apoptosis is the main reason of neuronal loss. It is proved that A triggers apoptotic cell death via the activation of caspase-dependent and - independent cell death effectors, respectively. Valproic acid (VPA) is a widely used mood stabilizer and antiepileptic drug. Our previous study showed that VPA treatment significantly reduced SP formation and improved memory deficits in transgenic AD model mice. The present study intended to explore the protective effect of VPA on neuronal loss in transgenic AD model mice and the possible mechanisms involved. Histological and ultra-structural analysis showed that VPA partially decreased the swollen mitochondria and neurophil and promoted neurite outgrowth in AD mice model. Meanwhile, VPA greatly rescued the neuronal loss in the brain of AD mice. TUNEL staining showed that VPA significantly reduced the number of apoptotic cells. Western blot analysis revealed that VPA notably down-regulated the expression of Caspase-3, Caspase-9 and Caspase-12, reduced the level of cytochrome C and Bax. The expression of the antiapoptotic protein Bcl-2 was increased after VPA treatment. Flow cytometry revealed that VPA significantly decreased intracellular level of Ca(2+) and elevated mitochondrial membrane potential. Altogether, these results indicate that VPA protected AD mice via suppression of upstream factors of apoptosis, namely inhibition of both mitochondrial and endoplasmic reticulum pathway of apoptosis.
Mainly known for its role in peripheral glucose homeostasis, insulin has also significant impact within the brain, functioning as a key neuromodulator in behavioral, cellular, biochemical and molecular studies. The brain is now regarded as an insulin-sensitive organ with widespread, yet selective, expression of the insulin receptor in the olfactory bulb, hypothalamus, hippocampus, cerebellum, amygdala and cerebral cortex. Insulin receptor signaling in the brain is important for neuronal development, glucoregulation, feeding behavior, body weight, and cognitive processes such as with attention, executive functioning, learning and memory. Emerging evidence has demonstrated insulin receptor signaling to be impaired in several neurological disorders. Moreover, insulin receptor signaling is recognized as important for dendritic outgrowth, neuronal survival, circuit development, synaptic plasticity and postsynaptic neurotransmitter receptor trafficking. We review the multiple roles of insulin in the brain, as well as its endogenous trafficking to the brain or its exogenous intervention. Although insulin can be directly targeted to the brain via intracerebroventricular (ICV) or intraparenchymal delivery, these invasive techniques are with significant risk, necessitating repeated surgical intervention and providing potential for systemic hypoglycemia. Another method, intranasal delivery, is a non-invasive, safe, and alternative approach which rapidly targets delivery of molecules to the brain while minimizing systemic exposure. Over the last decades, the delivery of intranasal insulin in animal models and human patients has evolved and expanded, permitting new hope for associated neurodegenerative and neurovascular disorders.
Parkinson's disease is a common age-related progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Over the last 15 years advances have been made in our understanding of the etiology of the disease, with the greatest insights perhaps coming from genetic studies. The identification of a number of genes that harbor pathogenic mutations causing Parkinson's disease have on the whole driven the development of disease model systems and nominated a number of therapeutic targets. As we move towards an era of personalized medicine, genetic determinants will become even more crucial for accurate diagnosis, and assessing prognosis and outcomes. The individual genomic profile and risk assessments will in the long-term determine clinical trial participation, treatment plans and therapeutic dosing. Herein we discuss the status of genetics in Parkinson's disease and how these factors may affect the patient care in the future.
Uncovering the genetic risk and protective factors for complex diseases is of fundamental importance for advancing therapeutic and biomarker discoveries. This endeavor is particularly challenging for neuropsychiatric diseases where diagnoses predominantly rely on the clinical presentation, which may be heterogeneous, possibly due to the heterogeneity of the underlying genetic susceptibility factors and environmental exposures. Although genome-wide association studies of various neuropsychiatric diseases have recently identified susceptibility loci, there likely remain additional genetic risk factors that underlie the liability to these conditions. Furthermore, identification and characterization of the causal risk variant(s) in each of these novel susceptibility loci constitute a formidable task, particularly in the absence of any prior knowledge about their function or mechanism of action. Biologically relevant, quantitative phenotypes, i.e., endophenotypes, provide a powerful alternative to the more traditional, binary disease phenotypes in the discovery and characterization of susceptibility genes for neuropsychiatric conditions. In this review, we focus on Alzheimer's disease (AD) as a model neuropsychiatric disease and provide a synopsis of the recent literature on the use of endophenotypes in AD genetics. We highlight gene expression, neuropathology and cognitive endophenotypes in AD, with examples demonstrating the utility of these alternative approaches in the discovery of novel susceptibility genes and pathways. In addition, we discuss how these avenues generate testable hypothesis about the pathophysiology of genetic factors that have far-reaching implications for therapies.
The headache attributed to airplane travel, also named &quot;airplane headache&quot;, is characterized by the sudden onset of a severe head pain exclusively in relation to airplane flights, mainly during the landing phase. Secondary causes, such as upper respiratory tract infections or acute sinusitis, must be ruled out. Although its cause is not thoroughly understood, sinus barotrauma should be reasonably involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms. Furthermore, in the current International Classification of Headache Disorders, rapid descent from high altitude is not considered as a possible cause of headache, although the onset of such pain in airplane travellers or aviators has been well known since the beginning of the aviation era. On the basis of a survey we conducted with the courteous cooperation of people who had experienced this type of headache, we proposed diagnostic criteria to be added to the forthcoming revision of the International Classification of Headache Disorders. Their formal validation would favour further studies aimed at improving knowledge of the pathophysiological mechanisms involved and at implementing preventative measures.
Disorders of glycogen metabolism are inborn errors of energy homeostasis affecting primarily skeletal muscle, heart, liver, and, less frequently, the central nervous system. These rare diseases are quite variable in age of onset, symptoms, morbidity, and mortality. This review provides an update on disorders of glycogen metabolism affecting skeletal muscle exclusively or predominantly. From a pathogenetic perspective, we classify these diseases as primary, if the defective enzyme is directly involved in glycogen/glucose metabolism, or secondary, if the genetic mutation affects proteins which indirectly regulate glycogen or glucose processing. In addition to summarizing the most recent clinical reports in this field, we briefly describe animal models of human glycogen disorders. These experimental models are greatly improving the understanding of the pathogenetic mechanisms underlying the muscle degenerative process associated to these diseases and provide in vivo platforms to test new therapeutic strategies.

Although headaches are common in the general population and have many causes, headaches secondary to inflammatory processes in the blood vessels in the Central Nervous System (CNS) are not so common. The most common types of vasculitis that are associated with headaches include primary CNS vasculitis, systemic necrotizing arteritis, granulomatous vasculitis, and systemic collagen diseases. It is important to differentiate between &quot;true&quot; vasculitides and a condition known and reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS). While treatment for many of the vasculitides consists of anti-inflammatory medications, this approach may produce significant complications in RCVS. It is up to the clinician to judiciously use imaging and laboratory data to reach the proper diagnosis and therefore offer the correct treatment to these patients.

Impairment of cortical circuit function is increasingly believed to be central to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia (Sz). Such impairments are suggested to result in abnormal gamma band oscillatory activity observed in Sz patients, and likely underlie the psychosis and cognitive deficits linked to this disease. Development of improved therapeutic strategies to enhance functional outcome of Sz patients is contingent upon a detailed understanding of the mechanisms behind cortical circuit development and maintenance. Convergent evidence from both Sz clinical and preclinical studies suggests impaired activity of a particular subclass of interneuron which expresses the calcium binding protein parvalbumin is central to the cortical circuit impairment observed. Here we review our current understanding of the Sz related cortical circuit dysfunction with a particular focus on the role of fast spiking parvalbumin interneurons in both normal cortical circuit activity and in NMDA receptor hypofunction models of the Sz disease state.

Niche construction is the modification of components of the environment through an organism's activities. Humans modify their environments mainly through ontogenetic and cultural processes, and it is this reliance on learning, plasticity and culture that lends human niche construction a special potency. In this paper we aim to facilitate discussion between researchers interested in niche construction and those interested in human cognitive development by highlighting some of the related processes. We discuss the transmission of culturally relevant information, how the human mind is a symbol-generating and artefact-devising system, and how these processes are bi-directional, with infants and children both being directed, and directing, their own development. We reflect on these in the light of four approaches: natural pedagogy, activity theory, distributed cognition and situated learning. Throughout, we highlight pertinent examples in non-humans that parallel or further explicate the processes discussed. Finally we offer three future directions; two involving the use of new techniques in the realms of neuroscience and modelling, and the third suggesting exploration of changes in the effects of niche construction across the lifespan.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) can be used to probe cortical function and treat neuropsychiatric illnesses. TMS has demonstrated neuroplastic effects akin to long-term potentiation and long-term depression, and therapeutic applications are in development for post-stroke recovery, Alzheimer's disease, and depression in seniors. Here, we discuss two new directions of TMS research relevant to cerebral aging and cognition. First, we introduce a paradigm for enhancing cognitive reserve, based on our research in sleep deprivation. Second, we discuss the use of magnetic seizure therapy (MST) to spare cognitive functions relative to conventional electroconvulsive therapy, and as a means of providing a more potent antidepressant treatment when subconvulsive TMS has shown modest efficacy in seniors. Whether in the enhancement of cognition as a treatment goal, or in the reduction of amnesia as a side effect, these approaches to the use of TMS and MST merit further exploration regarding their clinical potential.
Brain plasticity is an intrinsic characteristic of the nervous system that allows continuous remodeling of brain functions in pathophysiological conditions. Although normal aging is associated with morphological modifications and decline of cerebral functions, brain plasticity is at least partially preserved in elderly individuals. A growing body of evidence supports the notion that cognitive enrichment and aerobic training induce a dynamic reorganization of higher cerebral functions, thereby helping to maintain operational skills in the elderly and reducing the incidence of dementia. The stroke model clearly shows that spontaneous brain plasticity exists after a lesion, even in old patients, and that it can be modulated through external factors like rehabilitation and drugs. Whether drugs can be used with the aim of modulating the effects of physical training or cognitive stimulation in healthy aged people has not been addressed until now. The risk:benefit ratio will be the key question with regard to the ethical aspect of this challenge. We review in this article the main aspects of human brain plasticity as shown in patients with stroke, the drug modulation of brain plasticity and its consequences on recovery, and finally we address the question of the influence of aging on brain plasticity.
The increased risk for neurodegenerative and neuropsychiatric disorders associated with extended lifespan has long suggested mechanistic links between chronological age and brain-related disorders, including depression, Recent characterizations of age-dependent gene expression changes now show that aging of the human brain engages a specific set of biological pathways along a continuous lifelong trajectory, and that the same genes that are associated with normal brain aging are also frequently and similarly implicated in depression and other brain-related disorders. These correlative observations suggest a model of age-by-disease molecular interactions, in which brain aging promotes biological changes associated with diseases, and additional environmental factors and genetic variability contribute to defining disease risk or resiliency trajectories. Here we review the characteristic features of brain aging in terms of changes in gene function over time, and then focus on evidence supporting accelerated molecular aging in depression. This proposed age-by-disease biological interaction model addresses the current gap in research between &quot;normal&quot; brain aging and its connection to late-life diseases. The implications of this model are profound, as it provides an investigational framework for identifying critical moderating factors, outlines opportunities for early interventions or preventions, and may form the basis for a dimensional definition of diseases that goes beyond the current categorical system.
Cerebral aging is a complex and heterogenous process related to a large variety of molecular changes involving multiple neuronal networks, due to alterations of neurons (synapses, axons, dendrites, etc), particularly affecting strategically important regions, such as hippocampus and prefrontal areas. A substantial proportion of nondemented, cognitively unimpaired elderly subjects show at least mild to moderate, and rarely even severe, Alzheimer-related lesions, probably representing asymptomatic preclinical Alzheimer's disease, and/or mixed pathologies. While the substrate of resilience to cognitive decline in the presence of abundant pathologies has been unclear, recent research has strengthened the concept of cognitive or brain reserve, based on neuroplasticity or the ability of the brain to manage or counteract age-related changes or pathologies by reorganizing its structure, connections, and functions via complex molecular pathways and mechanisms that are becoming increasingly better understood. Part of neuroplasticity is adult neurogenesis in specific areas of the brain, in particular the hippocampal formation important for memory function, the decline of which is common even in &quot;healthy&quot; aging. To obtain further insights into the mechanisms of brain plasticity and adult neurogenesis, as the basis for prevention and potential therapeutic options, is a major challenge of modern neurosciences.
Impulsivity describes the tendency of an individual to act prematurely without foresight and is associated with a number of neuropsychiatric co-morbidities, including drug addiction. As such, there is increasing interest in the neurobiological mechanisms of impulsivity, as well as the genetic and environmental influences that govern the expression of this behaviour. Tests used on rodent models of impulsivity share strong parallels with tasks used to assess this trait in humans, and studies in both suggest a crucial role of monoaminergic corticostriatal systems in the expression of this behavioural trait. Furthermore, rodent models have enabled investigation of the causal relationship between drug abuse and impulsivity. Here, we review the use of rodent models of impulsivity for investigating the mechanisms involved in this trait, and how these mechanisms could contribute to the pathogenesis of addiction.


PF-022 (1) is a novel polycyclic benzothiophene kinase inhibitor selective for mitogen-activated protein kinase-activated protein kinase 2 (MK2). Compound 1 emerged as an inhibitor bearing submicromolar potency against MK2 (IC50 5 nM) and demonstrated projected human pharmacokinetics sufficient for oral dosing. However, following a single, oral administration of 1 to beagle dogs, animals experienced an acute liver injury characterized by increases in biomarkers associated with hepatotoxicity; particularly noteworthy was the reversible elevation in bile salts and total bilirubin. Accompanying this observation was an ADME appraisal which included hepatic bioactivation of 1 in multiple species and the in vitro inhibition of P-glycoprotein (P-gp; IC50 21 M). Simply attenuating the bioactivation via structural modification proved ineffective in improving the in vivo tolerability of this polycyclic scaffold. Hence, disruption of hepatobiliary transporters by the compound series was hypothesized as the likely mechanism contributing to the acute hepatotoxicity. Indeed, closer in vitro examination employing transporter gene overexpressing MDCK cell lines and membrane vesicles revealed potent compound-dependent inhibition of human multi-drug resistance-associated protein 2 (MRP2/ABCC2; IC50 38 M) and bile salt export pump (BSEP/ABCB11; IC50 10 M), two crucial hepatobiliary transport proteins accountable for bilirubin and bile salt homeostasis, respectively. Subsequent introduction of pKa-altering modifications to a second generation compound PF029 proved successful in reducing its affinity for these key efflux transporters (MRP2 IC50 &gt;80 M; BSEP IC50 &gt; 70 M; P-gp &gt; 90 M), consequently mitigating this overt organ toxicity in dogs.
The current review covers extant literature on pharmacotherapy for core symptoms of autism. The core symptoms of autism include impairments in social interaction and communication, as well as the presence of restricted and repetitive behaviors. There are no known efficacious treatments for the core social symptoms, although effects on repetitive behaviors are indicated with some data. While studies of fenfluramine, secretin, opiates, and mood stabilizers generally find no effect, mixed results suggest more research is needed on antidepressants and atypical antipsychotics. Newer lines of research, including cholinergic and glutamatergic agents and oxytocin, will be of considerable interest in the future. However, research on the treatment of core symptoms is plagued by limitations in study design, statistical power, and other issues inherent to the study of treatments for autism (e.g., heterogeneity of the disorder) that continue to prevent the elucidation of efficacious treatments.
With this paper we aimed to describe a case of a woman affected by Anorexia Nervosa Restricting subtype (AN-R) with delusional symptoms, visual hallucinations and severe body image distortion. We discussed the main AN diagnosis and whether delusional symptoms could be related to severity of AN describing also the use of olanzapine in such a severe clinical condition. The use of olanzapine was found to be effective to reduce both delusions and body distortions, and to improve compliance to treatments. We found a severe delusional symptomatology with mystic, omnipotence and persecution features. The psychotic structure seemed preceding the eating disorder and was also found to be worsened by emaciation. The use of antipsychotic helped reducing delusional symptoms and improving compliance to treatments. Finally, the dynamically oriented therapeutic relationship helped the patient to gain weight and to achieve a full recovery from psychotic symptoms.
Sirtuins are NAD-dependent protein deacetylases known to have protective effects against age-related diseases such as cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases. In mammals, there are seven sirtuins (SIRT1-7), which display diversity in subcellular localization and function. While SIRT1 has been extensively investigated due to its initial connection with lifespan extension and involvement in calorie restriction, important biological and therapeutic roles of other sirtuins have only recently been recognized. Here, we review the potential roles and effects of SIRT1 and SIRT2 in neurodegenerative diseases. We discuss different functions and targets of SIRT1 and SIRT2 in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's Disease (HD). We also cover the role of SIRT1 in neuronal differentiation due to the possible implications in neurodegenerative conditions, and conclude with an outlook on the potential therapeutic value of SIRT1 and SIRT2 in these disorders.

All organisms must adapt to changing nutrient availability, with nutrient surplus promoting glucose metabolism and nutrient deficit promoting alternative fuels (in mammals, mainly free fatty acids). A major function of glucose-sensing neurons in the hypothalamus is to regulate blood glucose. When these neurons sense glucose levels are too low, they activate robust counterregulatory responses to enhance glucose production, primarily from liver, and reduce peripheral metabolism. Some hypothalamic neurons can metabolize free fatty acids via -oxidation, and -oxidation generally opposes effects of glucose on hypothalamic neurons. Thus hypothalamic -oxidation promotes obese phenotypes, including enhanced hepatic glucose output.
Chronic stressors promote metabolic disturbances, including obesity and metabolic syndrome. Ghrelin, a peptide that promotes appetite and the accumulation of adipose tissue, is also secreted in response to stressors to protect the brain and peripheral tissues from the effects of these stressors. Here we demonstrate that elevated ghrelin levels produced by chronic exposure to social stress are associated with increased caloric intake and body weight gain in male C57BL mice. In contrast, stressed mice lacking ghrelin receptors (GHSR KO mice) or C57BL mice receiving chronic intracerebroventricular delivery of the ghrelin receptor antagonist [d-Lys(3)]-GHRP-6 show attenuated weight gain and feeding responses under the same social stress paradigm. Interestingly, stressed GHSR KO mice showed depleted sc and intrascapular brown fat depots, whereas stressed young wild-type mice did not. In old wild-type mice, chronic social defeat increased visceral and intrascapular brown fat depots in association with increases in obesity markers like hyperleptinemia and hyperinsulinemia along with increased hypothalamic expression of neuropeptide Y and Agouti related peptide. Importantly, the elevated expression of these peptides persisted least for 2 weeks after cessation of the stressor regimen. In contrast, old GHSR KO mice did not show these alterations after chronic social defeat. These results suggest that ghrelin plays an important role in the metabolic adaptations necessary to meet the energetic demands posed by stressors, but chronic exposure to stress-induced ghrelin elevations ultimately could lead to long lasting metabolic dysfunctions.
Diet-induced obesity (DIO) reduces the ability of centrally administered insulin to reduce feeding behavior and also reduces the transport of insulin from the periphery to the central nervous system (CNS). The current study was designed to determine whether reversal of high-fat DIO restores the anorexic efficacy of central insulin and whether this is accompanied by restoration of the compromised insulin transport. Adult male Long-Evans rats were initially maintained on either a low-fat chow diet (LFD) or a high-fat diet (HFD). After 22 weeks, half of the animals on the HFD were changed to the LFD, whereas the other half continued on the HFD for an additional 8 weeks, such that there were 3 groups: 1) a LFD control group (Con; n = 18), 2) a HFD-fed, DIO group (n = 17), and 3) a HFD to LFD, DIO-reversal group (DIO-rev; n = 18). The DIO reversal resulted in a significant reduction of body weight and epididymal fat weight relative to the DIO group. Acute central insulin administration (8 mU) reduced food intake and caused weight loss in Con and DIO-rev but not DIO rats. Fasting cerebrospinal fluid insulin was higher in DIO than Con animals. However, after a peripheral bolus injection of insulin, cerebrospinal fluid insulin increased in Con and DIO-rev rats but not in the DIO group. These data provide support for previous reports that DIO inhibits both the central effects of insulin and insulin's transport to the CNS. Importantly, DIO-rev restored sensitivity to the effects of central insulin on food intake and insulin transport into the CNS.
Mussels may concentrate pollutants, with possibly significant side effects on human health. Therefore, mussels (Mytilus galloprovincialis) from two sites of the Moroccan Atlantic coast (Jorf Lasfar [JL], an industrial site, and Oualidia [OL], a vegetable-growing area), were subjected to biochemical analyses to quantify the presence of heavy metals (Cd, Cr, and Pb) and to establish the lipid profile: fatty acid, cholesterol, oxysterol, phytosterol and phospholipid content. In addition, mussel lipid extracts known to accumulate numerous toxic components were tested on murine pancreatic -cells (MIN6), and their biological activities were measured with various flow cytometric and biochemical methods to determine their impacts on cell death induction, organelle dysfunctions (mitochondria, lysosomes, and peroxisomes), oxidative stress and insulin secretion. The characteristics of JL and OL lipid extracts were compared with those of commercially available mussels from Spain (SP) used for human consumption. OL and JL contained heavy metals, high amounts of phospholipids, and high levels of oxysterols; the [(unsaturated fatty acids)/(saturated fatty acids)] ratio, which can be considered a sign of environmental stress leading to lipid peroxidation, was low. On MIN6 cells, JL and OL lipid extracts were able to trigger cell death. This event was associated with overproduction of H2 O2 , increased catalase activity, a decreased GSH level, lipid peroxidation and stimulation of insulin secretion. These effects were not observed with SP lipid extracts. These data suggest that some components from OL and JL lipid extracts might predispose to pancreatic dysfunctions. Epidemiological studies would be needed to assess the global risk on human health and the metabolic disease incidence in a context of regular seafood consumption from the OL and JL areas.  2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol, 2013.
The Patancheru area near Hyderabad in India is recognized as a key link in the global supply chain for many bulk drugs. A central treatment plant receives wastewater from approximately 90 different manufacturers, and the resulting complex effluent has contaminated surface, ground, and drinking water in the region. Ecotoxicological testing of the effluent has shown adverse effects for several organisms, including aquatic vertebrates, at high dilutions. In addition, a recent study of microbial communities in river sediment indicated that the contamination of antibiotic substances might contribute to the emergence and spread of antibiotic resistance genes. In an attempt to start investigating how exposure to effluent-contaminated water may directly affect humans and other terrestrial vertebrates, rats were tube-fed effluent. Several pharmaceuticals present in the effluent could be detected in rat blood serum at low concentrations. However, results from exploratory microarray and quantitative polymerase chain reaction assays indicated no marked effects on hepatic gene transcription after 5 d of exposure. Clinical analysis of blood serum constituents, used as biomarkers for human disease did not reveal any significant changes, nor was there an effect on weight gain. The authors could not find evidence for any acute toxicity in the rat; however, the authors cannot rule out that [corrected] higher doses of effluent or a longer exposure time may still be associated with risks for terrestrial vertebrates.
In a short series of articles, we will review the evidence for genotype by environment interaction (GE) in developmental psychopathology. We will focus specifically on the characteristics of types of exposure assessed with respect to both their methods and findings. This article aims to review the studies exploring the moderating role of serotonin transporter on the effect of environmental adversities over time, particularly during childhood and adolescence, which is when level of internalizing symptoms and prevalence of mood disorders change substantially. Environmental adversities will not include abuse and maltreatment that have been reviewed before (see Bellani et al. 2012) and child's broader social ecology that will be reviewed in the next section.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a neurodevelopmental disorder with neurological symptoms, such as motor disorders and mental retardation. In most cases, RTT is caused by mutations in the DNA binding protein MeCP2. In mice, MeCP2 gene deletion has been reported to result in genome-wide increased histone acetylation. Transcriptional regulation of neurotrophic factor BDNF and transcription factor DLX5, essential for proper neurogenesis, is further altered in MeCP2-deleted animals. We therefore investigated the chromatin environment of MeCP2 target genes BDNF and DLX5 in lymphocytes from RTT patients and human controls, and analyzed the density of histones H3, H2B and H1, as well as the levels of methylation and acetylation on selected lysines of histone H3. Notably, we found a general increase in the density of histone H3 in RTT patients' lymphocytes compared with controls, and decreased levels of trimethylation of lysine 4 on histone H3 (H3K4me3), a modification associated with transcriptional activation. The levels of acetylation of lysine 9 (H3K9ac) and 27 (H3K27ac) did not show any statistically significant changes when normalized to the decreased histone H3 levels; nevertheless, an average decrease in acetylation was noted. Our results reveal an unexpected alteration of the chromatin state of established MeCP2 target genes in lymphocytes of human subjects with RTT.
Behavioral disorders are common in people with epilepsy and intellectual disability. Although in some genetic disorders behavioral problems are part of the established phenotype, they may also be a manifestation of underlying physical or mental illness, or may be unrecognized seizure activity. In light of this, assessment of behavioral disorders should take into account person factors such as the physical health and mental state of the person and environmental factors such as the quality of their interactions with carers and their living conditions. Video-electroencephalography ( EEG) is recommended where possible. We review potential pharmacologic and behavioral management strategies for behavioral disorders in people with intellectual disability.

Pregnancy is a state where pharmacokinetic changes are more pronounced and more rapid than during any other period of life. The consequences of such changes can be far reaching, not least in the management of epilepsy where the risks with uncontrolled seizures during pregnancy need to be balanced against potential teratogenic effects of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs). This article aims to review the literature on gestational effects on the pharmacokinetics of older and newer generation AEDs and discuss the implications for the treatment of epilepsy in women during pregnancy. Pregnancy can affect the pharmacokinetics of AEDs at any level from absorption, distribution, metabolism, to elimination. The effect varies depending on the type of AED. The most pronounced decline in serum concentrations is seen for AEDs that are eliminated by glucuronidation (UGT), in particular lamotrigine where the effect may be profound. Serum concentrations of AEDs that are cleared mainly through the kidneys, for example, levetiracetam, can also decline significantly. Some AEDs, such as carbamazepine seem to be affected only marginally by pregnancy. Data on pharmacokinetics during pregnancy are lacking completely for some of the newer generation AEDs: pregabalin, lacosamide, retigabine, and eslicarbazepine acetate. Where data are available, the effects of pregnancy on serum concentrations seem to vary considerably individually and are thus difficult to predict. Although large-scale systematic studies of the clinical relevance of the pharmacokinetic alterations are lacking, prospective and retrospective case series have reported an association between declining serum concentrations and deterioration in seizures control. The usefulness of routine monitoring of AED serum concentrations in pregnancy and of dose adjustments based on falling levels, are discussed in this review. We suggest that monitoring could be important, in particular when women have been titrated to the lowest effective AED dose and serum concentration before pregnancy, and when that individual optimal concentration can be used as reference.


The intimate relationship between sleep and epilepsy has long been recognized, yet our understanding of the relationship is incomplete. In this article we address four key issues in this area. First, we consider the reciprocal interaction between sleep and epilepsy. Sleep state clearly influences seizure onset, particularly in certain epilepsy syndromes. The converse is also true; epilepsy may disrupt sleep, either directly through seizures and epileptiform activity, or indirectly through medication-related effects. Unraveling the influences of sleep stage, epilepsy syndrome, and drug effects is challenging, and the current state of knowledge is reviewed. Secondly, accurate diagnosis of sleep-related epilepsy can be difficult, particularly the distinction of nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (NFLE) from arousal parasomnias. The challenges in this area, along with work from the authors, are discussed. Thirdly, we will explore the putative relationship between obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and epilepsy, including the effect of OSA on quality of life; this will lead us to a brief exploration of the effects of OSA on neuroendocrine function. Finally, we will review the evidence surrounding the role of sleep in sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP).
Seizures in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been examined by many investigators over the last several decades, and there are diverse opinions about their potential relevance to AD pathophysiology. Some studies suggest that seizures appear to be a fairly uncommon co-morbidity, whereas other studies report a higher incidence of seizures in patients with AD. It was previously thought that seizures play a minor role in AD pathophysiology because of their low frequency, and also because they may only be noticed during late stages of AD, suggesting that seizures are likely to be a consequence of neurodegeneration rather than a contributing factor. However, clinical reports indicate that seizures can occur early in the emergence of AD symptoms, particularly in familial AD. In this case, seizures may be an integral part of the emerging pathophysiology. This view has been supported by evidence of recurrent spontaneous seizures in transgenic mouse models of AD in which familial AD is simulated. Additional data from transgenic animals suggest that there may be a much closer relationship between seizures and AD than previously considered. There is also evidence that seizures facilitate production of amyloid  (A) and can cause impairments in cognition and behavior in both animals and humans. However, whether seizures play a role in the early stages of AD pathogenesis is still debated. Therefore, it is timely to review the similarities and differences between AD and epilepsy, as well as data suggesting that seizures may contribute to cognitive and behavioral dysfunction in AD. Here we focus on AD and temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), a particular type of epilepsy that involves the temporal lobe, a region that influences behavior and is critical to memory. We also consider potential neurobiological mechanisms that support the view that the causes of seizures in TLE may be related to the causes of cognitive dysfunction in AD. We suggest that similar underlying mechanisms may exist for at least some of the aspects of AD that are also found in TLE.
Epilepsy affects approximately 1% of children under the age of 15, making it a very common neurological disorder in the pediatric population (Russ et al., 2012). In addition, ~0.4-0.8% of all pregnant women have some form of epilepsy (Hauser et al., 1996a,b; Borthen et al., 2009; Krishnamurthy, 2012). Despite the potential deleterious effects of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) on the developing brain, their use is still required for seizure control in pregnant women (Krishnamurthy, 2012), and they represent the standard approach for treating children with epilepsy (Chu-Shore and Thiele, 2010; Quach et al., 2010; Verrotti et al., 2011). Even when AEDs are effective, there are potential side effects, including cognitive and affective changes or altered sleep and appetite. The consequences of AED exposure in development have been studied extensively (Canger et al., 1999; Modi et al., 2011a,b; Oguni, 2011). Despite intensive study, there is still debate about the long-term consequences of early life AED exposure. Here, we consider the evidence to date that AED exposure, either prenatally or in early postnatal life, has significant adverse effects on the developing brain and incorporate studies of laboratory animals as well as those of patients. We also note the areas of research where greater clarity seems critical in order to make significant advances. A greater understanding of the impact of AEDs on somatic, cognitive and behavioral development has substantial value because it has the potential to inform clinical practice and guide studies aimed at understanding the genetic and molecular bases of comorbid pathologies associated with common treatment regimens. Understanding these effects has the potential to lead to AEDs with fewer side effects. Such advances would expand treatment options, diminish the risk associated with AED exposure in susceptible populations, and improve the quality of life and health outcomes of children with epilepsy and children born to women who took AEDs during pregnancy.
Epilepsy is a heterogeneous condition with varying etiologies including genetics, infection, trauma, vascular, neoplasms, and toxic exposures. The overlap of psychiatric comorbidity adds to the challenge of optimal treatment for people with epilepsy. Seizure episodes themselves may have varying triggers; however, for decades, stress has been commonly and consistently suspected to be a trigger for seizure events. This paper explores the relationship between stress and seizures and reviews clinical data as well as animal studies that increasingly corroborate the impact of stress hormones on neuronal excitability and seizure susceptibility. The basis for enthusiasm for targeting glucocorticoid receptors for the treatment of epilepsy and the mixed results of such treatment efforts are reviewed. In addition, this paper will highlight recent findings identifying a regulatory pathway controlling the body's physiological response to stress which represents a novel therapeutic target for modulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Thus, the HPA axis may have important clinical implications for seizure control and imply use of anticonvulsants that influence this neuronal pathway.
Functional MRI (fMRI) has transformed academic neuroscience in the last decade and is now the most widely used non-invasive functional brain imaging technique. However, it has had much less of an impact in clinical neuroscience. While a majority of fMRI applications examine brain function in response to an externally driven task, an alternative approach characterizes the brain's intrinsic functional architecture. This involves fMRI scanning in the absence of an explicit task (i.e., in the resting state) and is, therefore, much more easily performed and tolerated by neurological and neuropsychiatric patient groups. The data are easily acquired, and the functional networks extracted are reproducible and reliable. However, quantifying networks of distributed brain activity and identifying the most informative features in a particular disorder remain a challenge. Progress has been made in this direction in recent years, with the adoption of mathematical tools from communications engineering. Specific alterations to the brain's functional connectivity at rest have been observed in generalized and focal epilepsies, as well as in non-epileptic attack disorder. The challenge for the future is to exploit knowledge of how the brain works as a complex system in order to develop more accurate and sensitive diagnostic tests for neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders.
What are the health status and health needs of people with epilepsy? How do clinicians and patients choose between alternative interventions for the same condition? Are health interventions used effectively in the community, and do they improve health? How can we translate findings from regulatory clinical trials to the real world? These and similar questions are the subject of applied translational research. This evolving and broad-ranging area of research involves the application of basic sciences such as epidemiology, biostatistics, economics, and behavioral science to the assessment of health, health interventions, and outcomes. However, despite its palpable importance, applied translational research remains underfunded and underutilized. Using their own innovative research as a prototype, two young and promising investigators provide insights not only into the enormous potential but also the gaps and hurdles of two specific areas of applied translational research, i.e., clinical decision analysis and health services research. The message is clear that if we are to understand and improve the health of people with epilepsy in clinics, hospitals, and communities, we must substantially increase research capacity to address the many gaps that thwart our progress in applied research in epilepsy.
Conditional mouse models based on the Cre-recombinase (Cre)-loxP method are a powerful tool for determining the spatial and temporal function of genes in neuroscience research. The Emx1-Cre conditional model is designed to drive Cre expression in a predominantly excitatory neuron specific manner and the Dlx5/6-Cre mouse expresses Cre predominantly in cortical inhibitory neurons. The mouse models expressing the Cre transgene are healthy, active and have no overt behavioural or brain histological phenotypes. Subcutaneous pentylenetetrazol (scPTZ) is a proconvulsant frequently used to probe neuronal network excitability. In both the Emx1-Cre and Dlx5/6-Cre conditional mouse models the latency to scPTZ-induced seizures was significantly shorter than for their wild-type littermates. This shows that mouse models carrying the Cre transgene alone can have significant behavioural phenotypes. This may act as a confound to the interpretation of data obtained from crosses with loxP-flanked targets especially in the context of epilepsy phenotypes. These data highlight that appropriate control experiments that compare wild-type mice to those that carry the cre-transgene but not the loxP-flanked target are essential when using this method.
We evaluated the efficacy and tolerability of rufinamide adjunctive therapy in children with refractory generalised epilepsy. The study cohort consisted of 20 patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, 5 with Dravet syndrome, and 28 with unclassified refractory generalised epilepsy. Patients with more than 50% seizure reduction at three and six months were defined as responders. The overall response rate was 37.7% at three months and 34.0% at six months. At three months, patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (40.0%) and epilepsy with spasms/tonic seizures (38.5%) showed higher response rates than those with Dravet syndrome (20.0%) and epilepsy with myoclonic seizures (20.0%). High response rates in patients with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (30.0%) and epilepsy with spasms/tonic seizures (38.5%) were sustained throughout the six-month study. The accuracy of, and differences between, responder rates should, however, be interpreted with caution due to the small number of patients. Overall, rufinamide appeared to be effective and reasonably well tolerated in this group of children with refractory generalised epilepsies, although a subgroup of patients with Dravet syndrome and epilepsy with myoclonic seizures were less responsive to rufinamide treatment.
The objective of this study is to determine the benefits of bone-anchored hearing aid (Baha) contralateral routing of signal (CROS) in the older adult population with single-sided deafness. Five questionnaires [general usage questionnaire, Glasgow benefit inventory (GBI), Abbreviated profile of hearing aid benefit (APHAB), Nijmegen cochlear implant questionnaire and the hearing handicap inventory for the elderly-screening version (HHIE-S)] were used to evaluate Baha use. Consecutive patients over 60 years of age with SSD fitted with a Baha CROS between April 1990 and April 2007 not using a conventional hearing aid in the better-hearing ear were identified. Nine out of 11 patients (82 %) were still using their Baha CROS, and 7 of the 11 patients (64 %) were still satisfied. The patients experienced no to little problems with handling and cleaning of the device. The GBI scores show good benefit in domains total (14  11) and general (19  17). The APHAB shows that, overall, 3 out of the 11 patients (27 %) experienced significant benefit, while all others experienced no significant benefit and no drawbacks. The HHIE-S shows that the patients experienced severe (18 %), mild to moderate (46 %) or no handicap (36 %) when using the Baha CROS. In conclusion, the benefit of a Baha CROS for elderly patients with SSD is evident in the majority of patients.
Little research has explored how eating disorders (ED) may be involved in the increased risk for metabolic syndrome in adults on antipsychotic medication. This pilot study compared participants on antipsychotic medication with obese and ED samples with respect to demographic and psychosocial factors. Participants (antipsychotic medication n=12; obese n=12; ED n=12), were adults presenting to an outpatient psychiatry department (83.3% women; M age=45.7511.5). Analysis of variance, analysis of covariance and chi-square tests were used to compare the samples. Participants on antipsychotic medications had a significantly lower mean body mass index than the obese (p&lt;.001) and ED (p&lt;.05) samples, as well as significantly lower Restraint Total scores (p&lt;.05) and subjective binge episode frequency (p&lt;.05) than the ED sample. The lack of significant differences that occurred between the antipsychotic medication sample and two eating disorder samples significantly different from one another indicates that this population may have unique symptomology and treatment needs.






Dopaminergic projections from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) to the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) mediate the behavioral and motivational effects of many drugs of abuse, including nicotine. Repeated intermittent administration of these drugs, a pattern often associated with initial drug exposure, sensitises the reactivity of dopamine (DA) neurons in this pathway, enhances the locomotor behaviors the drugs emit, and promotes their pursuit and self-administration. Here we show that activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the VTA, but not the NAcc, is essential for the induction of locomotor sensitisation by nicotine. Repeated intermittent nicotine exposure (4  0.4 mg/kg, base, i.p., administered over 7 days), a regimen leading to long-lasting locomotor sensitisation, also produced upregulation of nAChRs in the VTA, but not the NAcc, in the hours following the last exposure injection. Functional nAChR upregulation was observed selectively in DA but not GABA neurons in the VTA. These effects were followed by long-term potentiation of excitatory inputs to these cells and increased nicotine-evoked DA overflow in the NAcc. Withdrawal symptoms were not observed following this exposure regimen. Thus, intermittent activation and upregulation by nicotine of nAChRs in DA neurons in the VTA may contribute to the development of behavioral sensitisation and increased liability for nicotine addiction.
Three experiments were conducted to contrast the hypothesis that hippocampal N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors participate directly in the mechanisms of hippocampus-dependent learning with an alternative view that apparent impairments of learning induced by NMDA receptor antagonists arise because of drug-induced neuropathological and/or sensorimotor disturbances. In experiment 1, rats given a chronic i.c.v. infusion of d-AP5 (30 mm) at 0.5 L/h were selectively impaired, relative to aCSF-infused animals, in place but not cued navigation learning when they were trained during the 14-day drug infusion period, but were unimpaired on both tasks if trained 11 days after the minipumps were exhausted. d-AP5 caused sensorimotor disturbances in the spatial task, but these gradually worsened as the animals failed to learn. Histological assessment of potential neuropathological changes revealed no abnormalities in d-AP5-treated rats whether killed during or after chronic drug infusion. In experiment 2, a deficit in spatial learning was also apparent in d-AP5-treated rats trained on a spatial reference memory task involving two identical but visible platforms, a task chosen and shown to minimise sensorimotor disturbances. HPLC was used to identify the presence of d-AP5 in selected brain areas. In Experiment 3, rats treated with d-AP5 showed a delay-dependent deficit in spatial memory in the delayed matching-to-place protocol for the water maze. These data are discussed with respect to the learning mechanism and sensorimotor accounts of the impact of NMDA receptor antagonists on brain function. We argue that NMDA receptor mechanisms participate directly in spatial learning.
Giant cells of the cochlear nucleus are thought to integrate multimodal sensory inputs and participate in monaural sound source localization. Our aim was to explore the significance of a hyperpolarization-activated current in determining the activity of giant neurones in slices prepared from 10 to 14-day-old rats. When subjected to hyperpolarizing stimuli, giant cells produced a 4-(N-ethyl-N-phenylamino)-1,2-dimethyl-6-(methylamino) pyridinium chloride (ZD7288)-sensitive inward current with a reversal potential and half-activation voltage of -36 and -88 mV, respectively. Consequently, the current was identified as the hyperpolarization-activated non-specific cationic current (Ih ). At the resting membrane potential, 3.5% of the maximum Ih conductance was available. Immunohistochemistry experiments suggested that hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated, cation non-selective (HCN)1, HCN2, and HCN4 subunits contribute to the assembly of the functional channels. Inhibition of Ih hyperpolarized the membrane by 6 mV and impeded spontaneous firing. The frequencies of spontaneous inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic currents reaching the giant cell bodies were reduced but no significant change was observed when evoked postsynaptic currents were recorded. Giant cells are affected by biphasic postsynaptic currents consisting of an excitatory and a subsequent inhibitory component. Inhibition of Ih reduced the frequency of these biphasic events by 65% and increased the decay time constants of the inhibitory component. We conclude that Ih adjusts the resting membrane potential, contributes to spontaneous action potential firing, and may participate in the dendritic integration of the synaptic inputs of the giant neurones. Because its amplitude was higher in young than in adult rats, Ih of the giant cells may be especially important during the postnatal maturation of the auditory system.
Sexual behavior can be usefully parsed into an appetitive and a consummatory component. Both appetitive and consummatory male-typical sexual behaviors (respectively, ASB and CSB) are activated in male Japanese quail by testosterone (T) acting in the medial preoptic nucleus (POM), but never observed in females. This sex difference is based on a demasculinization (=organizational effect) by estradiol during embryonic life for CSB, but a differential activation by T in adulthood for ASB. Males expressing rhythmic cloacal sphincter movements (RCSMs; a form of ASB) or allowed to copulate display increased Fos expression in POM. We investigated Fos brain responses in females exposed to behavioral tests after various endocrine treatments. T-treated females displayed RCSM, but never copulated when exposed to another female. Accordingly they showed an increased Fos expression in POM after ASB but not CSB tests. Females treated with the aromatase inhibitor Vorozole in ovo and T in adulthood displayed both male-typical ASB and CSB, and Fos expression in POM was increased after both types of tests. Thus, the neural circuit mediating ASB is present or can develop in both sexes, but is inactive in females unless they are exposed to exogenous T. In contrast, the neural mechanism mediating CSB is not normally present in females, but can be preserved by blocking the embryonic production of estrogens. Overall these data confirm the difference in endocrine controls and probably neural mechanisms supporting ASB and CSB in quail, and highlight the complexity of mechanisms underlying sexual differentiation of behavior.
Recent human behavioral studies have shown semantic and/or lexical processing for stimuli presented below the auditory perception threshold. Here, we investigated electroencephalographic responses to words, pseudo-words and complex sounds, in conditions where phonological and lexical categorizations were behaviorally successful (categorized stimuli) or unsuccessful (uncategorized stimuli). Data showed a greater decrease in low-beta power at left-hemisphere temporal electrodes for categorized non-lexical sounds (complex sounds and pseudo-words) than for categorized lexical sounds (words), consistent with the signature of a failure in lexical access. Similar differences between lexical and non-lexical sounds were observed for uncategorized stimuli, although these stimuli did not yield evoked potentials or theta activity. The results of the present study suggest that behaviorally uncategorized stimuli were processed at the lexical level, and provide evidence of the neural bases of the results observed in previous behavioral studies investigating auditory perception in the absence of stimulus awareness.
Mental practice can induce significant neural plasticity and result in motor performance improvement if associated with motor imagery tasks. Given the effects of transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on neuroplasticity, the current study tested whether tDCS, using different electrode montages, can increase the neuroplastic effects of mental imagery on motor learning. Eighteen healthy right-handed adults underwent a randomised sham-controlled crossover experiment to receive mental training combined with either sham or active anodal tDCS of the right primary motor cortex (M1), right supplementary motor area, right premotor area, right cerebellum or left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). Motor performance was assessed by a blinded rater using: non-dominant handwriting time and legibility, and mentally trained task at baseline (pre) and immediately after (post) mental practice combined with tDCS. Active tDCS significantly enhances the motor-imagery-induced improvement in motor function as compared with sham tDCS. There was a specific effect for the site of stimulation such that effects were only observed after M1 and DLPFC stimulation during mental practice. These findings provide new insights into motor imagery training and point out that two cortical targets (M1 and DLPFC) are significantly associated with the neuroplastic effects of mental imagery on motor learning. Further studies should explore a similar paradigm in patients with brain lesions.
Cathepsin C (CC) (EC 3.4.14.1, dipeptidyl peptidase I) is a lysosomal cysteine protease that is required for the activation of several granule-associated serine proteases in vivo. CC has been shown to be constitutively expressed in various tissues, but the enzyme is hardly detectable in central nervous system (CNS) tissues. In the present study, we investigated the regional and cellular distribution of CC in normal, aging and pathological mouse brains. Immunoblotting failed to detect CC protein in whole brain tissues of normal mice, as previously described. However, low proteolytic activity of CC was detected in a brain region-dependent manner, and granular immunohistochemical signals were found in neuronal perikarya of particular brain regions, including the accessory olfactory bulb, the septum, CA2 of the hippocampus, a part of the cerebral cortex, the medial geniculate, and the inferior colliculus. In aged mice, the number of CC-positive neurons increased to some extent. The protein level of CC and its proteolytic activity showed significant increases in particular brain regions of mouse models with pathological conditions--the thalamus in cathepsin D-deficient mice, the hippocampus of ipsilateral brain hemispheres after hypoxic-ischemic brain injury, and peri-damaged portions of brains after penetrating injury. In such pathological conditions, the majority of the cells that were strongly immunopositive for CC were activated microglia. These lines of evidence suggest that CC is involved in normal neuronal function in certain brain regions, and also participates in inflammatory processes accompanying pathogenesis in the CNS.
It has recently been suggested that learning signals in the amygdala might be best characterized by attentional theories of associative learning [such as Pearce-Hall (PH)] and more recent hybrid variants that combine Rescorla-Wagner and PH learning models. In these models, unsigned prediction errors (PEs) determine the associability of a cue, which is used in turn to control learning of outcome expectations dynamically and reflects a function of the reliability of prior outcome predictions. Here, we employed an aversive Pavlovian reversal-learning task to investigate computational signals derived from such a hybrid model. Unlike previous accounts, our paradigm allowed for the separate assessment of associability at the time of cue presentation and PEs at the time of outcome. We combined this approach with high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging to understand how different subregions of the human amygdala contribute to associative learning. Signal changes in the corticomedial amygdala and in the midbrain represented unsigned PEs at the time of outcome showing increased responses irrespective of whether a shock was unexpectedly administered or omitted. In contrast, activity in basolateral amygdala regions correlated negatively with associability at the time of cue presentation. Thus, whereas the corticomedial amygdala and the midbrain reflected immediate surprise, the basolateral amygdala represented predictiveness and displayed increased responses when outcome predictions became more reliable. These results extend previous findings on PH-like mechanisms in the amygdala and provide unique insights into human amygdala circuits during associative learning.
Spatial pretraining can enable spatial learning in another environment that ordinarily requires hippocampal N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activity to become independent of that activity. This study explored further the circumstances in which this training-induced 'rescue' of later learning in the presence of the NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (D-AP5) can occur. D-AP5 (0, 10, 20 and 30mm in artificial cerebrospinal fluid) was infused continuously (0.5L/h, from a minipump) and bilaterally into the dorsal hippocampus during spatial-reference-memory training in a watermaze (4trials/day, 8days). This was preceded either by handling only or by identical spatial training in another watermaze in a separate laboratory with different extramaze cues. In nave rats, D-AP5 caused a dose-related impairment in spatial reference memory acquisition that was significant at the lowest 5nm/h infusion concentration. In pretrained rats, the dose-response function was shifted such that, in watermaze 2, spatial learning was normal at this low concentration, with a deficit at higher infusion concentrations. The induction of long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus in vivo was blocked at all D-AP5 concentrations. Sensorimotor abnormalities sometimes seen with NMDA receptor antagonists were only apparent at the highest concentration. The implication of this paradoxical dissociation between hippocampal NMDA receptor-dependent plasticity and spatial learning is discussed with reference to two rival hypotheses of the impact of pretraining.
Pain can be modulated by several contextual factors. For example, simply viewing one's own body can reduce pain, suggesting that the visual context may influence the processing of nociceptive stimuli. We studied changes in electroencephalographic (EEG) oscillatory activity related to visual modulation of nociception, comparing cortical oscillations during innocuous or noxious contact heat, while participants viewed either their own hand or a neutral object at the same location. Viewing the body compared with viewing the object reduced the intensity ratings of noxious stimuli, but not of innocuous heat. Time-frequency analysis of EEG data revealed that noxious, as opposed to warm, stimulation was associated with reduced beta (15-25Hz) power. Classically, such decreases in oscillatory power indicate increases in sensory cortical activation. These event-related oscillatory changes were moreover modulated by the visual context; viewing one's own body increased noxious stimulation-induced beta oscillatory activity bilaterally, relative to viewing a neutral object, possibly indicating inhibition of cortical nociceptive processing. These results demonstrate that visual-nociceptive interactions involve changes in sensorimotor EEG rhythms.
The updating of visual space across saccades is thought to rely on efference copies of motor commands. In humans, thalamic lesions impair performance on a saccadic double-step task, which requires the use of efference copy information, and the altering of saccade-related efference copy processing. This deficit is attributed to disruption of a pathway from the superior colliculus to the frontal eye field. However, the cerebellum is probably also involved in efference copy processing, due to its pivotal role for predictive motor control. The present study investigated the processing of efference copy information in eight patients with focal cerebellar lesions and 22 healthy controls by means of a saccadic double-step task with simultaneous event-related potential recording. Despite intact behavioural performance, a positive event-related potential component between 150 and 450ms after first saccade onset in the updating condition, which has been interpreted in terms of the integration of efference copy signals with motor intentions for a subsequent saccade, was markedly reduced in the patients. These findings suggest that the cerebellum contributes to on-line saccade monitoring, and that cerebellar lesions alter saccade-related efference copy processing. However, given the intact behavioural performance, the reduced positivity in the patients may indicate that cerebellar damage is accounted for by either exploiting reduced saccade-related information, or making use of compensatory strategies to circumvent a deficit in using efference copy information procured by the cerebellum. The present study extends previous findings on the neural underpinnings of saccadic updating and further elucidates the mechanisms underlying cerebellar predictive motor control.
Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies (DMD/DMB) are neuromuscular diseases linked to chromosome X and affect mainly male individuals. Duchenne muscular dystrophy is the most severe form of the disease, leading to a decreased patient survival compared with individuals with Becker type and female carriers of the mutated gene. In this paper we present the case of a female adolescent whose clinical picture and disease course closely resembled male individuals.
Allosteric modulators are emerging as new therapeutics for the treatment of psychiatric illnesses, such as schizophrenia. Conventional antipsychotic drugs are typically dopamine D2 receptor antagonists that compete with endogenous dopamine at the orthosteric site, and block excessive dopamine neurotransmission in the brain. However, they are unable to treat all symptoms of schizophrenia and often cause adverse motor and metabolic side effects. The binding profile of allosteric modulators differs, as they interact with their receptor at a novel binding site and their activity is determined by physiological signaling. In collaboration, our laboratories have synthesized and evaluated over 185 compounds for their allosteric modulatory activity at the dopamine D2 receptor. Of these compounds, PAOPA is among the most potent allosteric modulators, and has been shown to be effective in treating the MK-801 induced preclinical animal model of schizophrenia. The objective of this study was to evaluate PAOPA's ability to prevent and reverse behavioral abnormalities in an amphetamine-sensitized preclinical animal model of schizophrenia. Amphetamine sensitized rats were given PAOPA during sensitization and following sensitization to determine whether PAOPA is able to prevent and reverse behavioral abnormalities. Furthermore, changes in post-mortem dopamine levels were measured by high performance liquid chromatography in various brain regions. The results presented demonstrate that PAOPA is able to prevent and reverse behavioral and biochemical abnormalities in an amphetamine-sensitized animal model of schizophrenia.
Ramp-and-hold heat stimulation with a Peltier thermode is a standard procedure for quantitative sensory testing of human pain sensitivity. Because myelinated and unmyelinated nociceptive afferents respond preferentially to changing and steady temperatures, respectively, ramp-and-hold heat stimulation could assess processing of input from A-delta nociceptors early and C nociceptors late during prolonged thermal stimulation. In order to evaluate the progression from dynamic change to a steady temperature during prolonged Peltier stimulation, recordings of temperatures at the probe-skin interface were obtained. First, recordings of temperature during contact-and-hold stimulation (solenoid powered delivery of a preheated thermode to the skin) provided an evaluation of heat dissipation from the beginning of stimulation, uncontaminated by ramping. The heat-sink effect lasted up to 8s and accounted in part for a slow increase in pain intensity for stimulus durations of 1-16s and stimulus intensities of 43-59C. Recordings during longer periods of stimulation showed that feedback-controlled Peltier stimulation generated oscillations in temperature that were tracked for up to 75s by subjects' continuous ratings of pain. During 120-s trials, sensitization of pain was observed over 45s after the oscillations subsided. Thus, long-duration stimulation can be utilized to evaluate sensitization, presumably of C nociception, when not disrupted by oscillations in thermode temperature (e.g., those inherent to feedback control of Peltier stimulation). In contrast, sensitization was not observed during 130.5s of stimulation with alternately increasing and decreasing temperatures that repeatedly activated A-delta nociceptors.
An important question in oculomanual control is whether motor planning and execution modulate interference between motion of the eyes and hands. Here we investigated oculomanual interference using a novel paradigm that required saccadic eye movements and unimanual finger tapping. We examined finger trajectories for spatial interference caused by concurrent saccades. The first experiment used synchronous cues so that saccades and taps shared a common timekeeping goal. We found that finger trajectories showed bilateral interference where either finger was attracted in the direction of the accompanying saccade. The second experiment avoided interference due to shared planning resources by examining interference caused by reactive saccades. Here, we observed a lesser degree of execution-dependent coupling where the finger trajectory deviated only when reactive saccades were directed toward the hemifield of the responding hand. Our results show that distinct forms of eye-to-hand coupling emerge according to the demands of the task.
Short interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) is a common paired-pulse TMS technique that is used to measure GABAa-ergic inhibition in the cerebral motor cortex. However, inhibition evaluated with an interstimulus interval (ISI) between the TMS pulses of 2.5ms has quite different properties from that seen at 1ms. It is thought that the latter may represent either (or both) a different type of synaptic inhibition or refractoriness of neural membranes. The present experiments provide further evidence about the early and late components of SICI using transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), a technique thought to change neural excitability by polarising the nerve membranes. We assessed SICI using a threshold tracking method at a range of ISIs during concurrent application of tDCS in 11 healthy volunteers (8 males, 27-43years old). Each subject underwent both anodal and cathodal tDCS with two different intensities of stimulation (1 and 2mA). Because there was no significant difference between the results at the two intensities, the data were combined. Principal component analysis was used to separate the contributions of early and late SICI to the time course of inhibition from 1 to 5ms tDCS had opposite effects on early and late SICI. Anodal tDCS reduced late SICI but enhanced early SICI, whereas cathodal tDCS had the opposite effect. This is further evidence that the two phases of SICI are produced by different mechanisms, perhaps involving different sets of neurones or different locations on the same neurone that respond oppositely to tDCS.
Primary motor cortex (MI) and parietal area PE both participate in cortical control of reaching actions, but few studies have been able to directly compare the form of kinematic encoding in the two areas simultaneously during hand tracking movements. To directly compare kinematic coding properties in these two areas under identical behavioral conditions, we recorded simultaneously from two chronically implanted multielectrode arrays in areas MI and PE (or areas 2/5) during performance of a continuous manual tracking task. Monkeys manually pursued a continuously moving target that followed a series of straight-line movement segments, arranged in a sequence where the direction (but not length) of the upcoming segment varied unpredictably as each new segment appeared. Based on recordings from populations of MI (31-143 units) and PE (22-87 units), we compared hand position and velocity reconstructions based on linear filters. We successfully reconstructed hand position and velocity from area PE (mean r (2)=0.751 for position reconstruction, r (2)=0.614 for velocity), demonstrating trajectory reconstruction from each area. Combing these populations provided no reconstruction improvements, suggesting that kinematic representations in MI and PE encode overlapping hand movement information, rather than complementary or unique representations. These overlapping representations may reflect the areas' common engagement in a sensorimotor feedback loop for error signals and movement goals, as required by a task with continuous, time-evolving demands and feedback. The similarity of information in both areas suggests that either area might provide a suitable target to obtain control signals for brain computer interface applications.
Hemiparesis after stroke decreases ability to dorsiflex the more-affected ankle during walking. Increased strength would be beneficial, but the more-affected limb is often too weak to be trained. In neurologically intact participants, training one limb induces strength gains in the contralateral, untrained limb. This approach remains unexplored post-stroke. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that unilateral dorsiflexor high-intensity resistance training on the less-affected side increases strength and motor output bilaterally following stroke. 19 participants (84.1  77.6 months post-infarct) performed 6 weeks of maximal isometric dorsiflexion training using the less-affected leg. Voluntary isometric strength (dorsiflexion torque, muscle activation), reciprocal inhibition (RI), walking ability (gait speed, kinematics, EMG patterns), and clinical function were measured within 1 week before and 4 days following training. Post-intervention, dorsiflexion torque increased by ~31 % (p &lt; 0.05) in the more-affected (untrained) and by ~34 % (p &lt; 0.05) in the less-affected (trained) legs. Muscle activation significantly increased bilaterally, by ~59 and ~20 % in the trained and untrained legs, respectively. Notably, 4 participants who were unable to generate functional dorsiflexion on the more-affected side before training could do so post-intervention. Significant correlations between muscle activation and size of RI were noted across muscle groups before and after training, and the relation between size of RI and level of muscle activation in the more-affected tibialis anterior muscle was significantly altered by training. Thus, significant gains in voluntary strength and muscle activation on the untrained, more-affected side after stroke can be invoked through training the opposite limb. We demonstrate residual plasticity existing many years post-stroke and suggest clinical application of the cross-education effect where training the more-affected limb is not initially possible.
Our previous study on retinal light exposure suggests the involvement of zinc (Zn(2+)) toxicity in the death of RPE and photoreceptors (LD) which could be attenuated by pyruvate and nicotinamide, perhaps through restoration of NAD(+) levels. In the present study, we examined Zn(2+) toxicity, and the effects of NAD(+) restoration in primary retinal cultures. We then reduced Zn(2+) levels in rodents by reducing Zn(2+) levels in the diet, or by genetics and measured LD. Sprague Dawley albino rats were fed 2, or 61mg Zn(2+)/kg of diet for 3weeks, and exposed to 18kLux of white light for 4h. We light exposed (70kLux of white light for 50h) Zn(2+) transporter 3 knockout (ZnT3-KO, no synaptic Zn(2+)), or RPE65 knockout mice (RPE65-KO, lack rhodopsin cycling), or C57/BI6/J controls and determined light damage and Zn(2+) staining. Retinal Zn(2+) staining was examined at 1h and 4h after light exposure. Retinas were examined after 7d by optical coherence tomography and histology. After LD, rats fed the reduced Zn(2+) diet showed less photoreceptor Zn(2+) staining and degeneration compared to a normal Zn(2+) diet. Similarly, ZnT3-KO and RPE65-KO mice showed less Zn(2+) staining, NAD(+) loss, and RPE or photoreceptor death than C57/BI6/J control mice. Dietary or ZnT3-dependent Zn(2+) stores, and intracellular Zn(2+) release from rhodopsin recycling are suggested to be involved in light-induced retinal degeneration. These results implicate novel rhodopsin-mediated mechanisms and therapeutic targets for LD. Our companion manuscript demonstrates that pharmacologic, circadian, or genetic manipulations which maintain NAD(+) levels reduce LD.
Light-induced retinal damage (LD) occurs after surgery or sun exposure. We previously showed that zinc (Zn(2+)) accumulated in photoreceptors and RPE cells after LD but prior to cell death, and pyruvate or nicotinamide attenuated the resultant death perhaps by restoring nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) levels. We first examined the levels of NAD(+) and the efficacy of pyruvate or nicotinamide in oxidative toxicities using primary retinal cultures. We next manipulated NAD(+) levels invivo and tested the affect on LD to photoreceptors and RPE. NAD(+) levels cycle with a 24-h rhythm in mammals, which is affected by the feeding schedule. Therefore, we tested the affect of increasing NAD(+) levels on LD by giving nicotinamide, inverting the feeding schedule, or using transgenic mice which overexpress cytoplasmic nicotinamide mononucleotide adenyl-transferase-1 (cytNMNAT1), an NAD(+) synthetic enzyme. Zn(2+) accumulation was also assessed in culture and in retinal sections. Retinas of light damaged animals were examined by OCT and plastic sectioning, and retinal NAD(+) levels were measured. Day fed, or nicotinamide treated rats showed less NAD(+) loss, and LD compared to night fed rats or untreated rats without changing the Zn(2+) staining pattern. CytNMNAT1 showed less Zn(2+) staining, NAD(+) loss, and cell death after LD. In conclusion, intense light, Zn(2+) and oxidative toxicities caused an increase in Zn(2+), NAD(+) loss, and cell death which were attenuated by NAD(+) restoration. Therefore, NAD(+) levels play a protective role in LD-induced death of photoreceptors and RPE cells.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative motor disease caused by degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Because brain inflammation has been considered a risk factor for PD, we analyzed whether PTEN induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1), an autosomal recessive familial PD gene, regulates brain inflammation during injury states. Using acutely prepared cortical slices to mimic injury, we analyzed expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-, interleukin (IL)-1, and IL-6 at the mRNA and protein levels. Both mRNA and protein expression of these cytokines was higher at 6-24 h after slicing in PINK1 knockout (KO) slices compared to that in wild-type (WT) slices. In serial experiments to understand the signaling pathways that increase inflammatory responses in KO slices, we found that IB degradation was enhanced but Akt phosphorylation decreased in KO slices compared to those in WT slices. In further experiments, an inhibitor of PI3K (LY294002) upstream of Akt increased expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Taken together, these results suggest that PINK1 deficiency enhance brain inflammation through reduced Akt activation and enhanced IB degradation in response to brain injury.
Multiple sclerosis is associated with a high incidence of depression, cognitive impairments and neuropathic pain. Previously, we demonstrated that tactile allodynia is present at disease onset in an animal model of MS, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). We have now monitored changes in object recognition in mice with EAE to determine if altered nociceptive sensitivity is also associated with behavioral signs indicative of cognitive impairment in this model. At the onset of clinical signs, mice with EAE showed impairments in the novel object recognition (NOR) assay, indicative of deficits in cognitive functioning early in the disease course. At the spinal level, we found increased gene expression for the cytokines IL-1, IL-6 and the glutamate transporter EAAT-2 that coincide with increased nociceptive sensitivity and deficits in object recognition. Increased levels of EAAT-2 mRNA appear to be a response to perturbed protein levels of the transporter as we found a loss of EAAT-2 protein levels in the spinal cord of EAE mice. To determine if changes in the levels of EAAT-2 were responsible for the observed changes in nociceptive sensitivity and cognitive deficits, we treated EAE mice with the -lactam antibiotic ceftriaxone, an agent known to increase glutamate transporter levels in vivo. Ceftriaxone prevented tactile hypersensitivity and normalized performance in the NOR assay in EAE mice. These findings highlight the important interrelationship between pain and cognitive function in the disease and suggest that targeting spinally mediated pain hypersensitivity is a novel therapeutic avenue to treat impairments in other higher order cortical processes.
Stress is a common environmental factor associated with depressive illness and the amygdala is thought to be integral for this association. For example, repeated stress impairs amygdalar neuroplasticity in rodents and these defects parallel amygdalar deficits in depressive illness patients. Because the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate is important in neuroplasticity, we hypothesized that alterations in amygdalar glutamatergic systems may serve as key players in depressive illness. Moreover, restoration of amygdalar glutamatergic systems may serve as important therapeutic targets in the successful management of multiple stress-related mood disorders. To address these hypotheses, we measured glutamate efflux in the basolateral and central amygdalar complexes via in vivo microdialysis, as well as the expression of synaptic proteins that regulate vesicular glutamate packaging and release, in rats subjected to repeated stress and treated daily with saline or the antidepressant tianeptine. Glutamate efflux was significantly reduced in the central amygdalar complex of animals subjected to repeated stress. In addition, repeated stress nearly eliminated amygdalar vGLUT2 expression, thereby proving a potential mechanism through which repeated stress impairs amygdalar glutamate neurochemistry. These stress-induced changes in glutamate efflux and vGLUT2 expression were inhibited by daily tianeptine administration. Moreover, tianeptine administration increased the vesicular localization of SNAP-25, which could account for the ability of tianeptine to modify glutamatergic tone in non-stressed control rats. Collectively, these results demonstrate that repeated stress differentially affects amygdalar glutamate systems and further supports our previous studies indicating that tianeptine's antidepressant efficacy may involve targeting amygdalar glutatamatergic systems.

Nerve endings in the epidermis, termed nociceptors, conduct information on noxious stimuli to the central nervous system. The precise role of epidermal nerve fibers in neuropathic pain is however still controversial. Here, we have investigated the re-innervation patterns of epidermal and dermal nerve fibers in a rat neuropathic pain model. After applying the spared nerve injury (SNI) model, we determined the mechanical and thermal withdrawal thresholds in the uninjured lateral (sural) and medial (saphenous) areas of the affected hind paw and investigated the innervations patterns of Substance P (SubP), Neurofilament-200 (NF-200) and P2X3-immunoreactive (IR) nerve fibers in the epidermis and dermis. We found a significant loss in the density of peptidergic (Sub P and NF-200) and non-peptidergic (P2X3) nerve fibers in the center area of the foot sole at 2 weeks postoperatively (PO). The densities of Sub P-IR fibers in the epidermis and upper dermis, and the density of P2X3-IR fibers in the upper dermis were significantly increased at 10 weeks PO as compared to 2 weeks PO, but were still significantly lower than the densities in controls. However, the density of NF-200-IR fibers in the center area reached control levels at 10 weeks PO. No changes were found in the densities of any of the fibers in the medial and lateral parts of the foot sole. The present results suggest that after peripheral nerve injury, specific nerve fibers have different re-innervation patterns in the epidermis and dermis and that they might be involved in the development of neuropathic pain.


Different lines of experimental evidence indicate that treatment with extracts from and derivatives of Phaseolus vulgaris reduces intake of food, including highly palatable foods and beverages, in rats. The present study was designed to extend to mice these lines of evidence. To this end, CD1 mice were treated acutely with a standardized extract of P. vulgaris and then exposed to unlimited access to regular food pellets (Experiment 1) or 1-hour limited access to three different palatable foods/beverages, such as butter cookies (Experiment 2), a condensed-milk beverage (Experiment 3), and a chocolate-flavored beverage (Experiment 4). Treatment with P. vulgaris extract resulted in a significant reduction in the intake of regular food pellets, that was still evident 24h later, as well as of the three palatable nourishments. Together, these results (a) extend to mice several previous findings on the capacity of P. vulgaris extracts to suppress food intake in rats, (b) suggest that P. vulgaris extracts may interfere with the central mechanisms regulating appetite, food intake, palatability, and/or the rewarding and hedonic properties of food, and (c) P. vulgaris extracts may represent a potentially effective therapy for overeating, obesity, and food craving.
The paper examines neurophysiological basis for development and performance of brain-computer interface (BCI) that permits cerebral activity alone to control computers or other external technical devices. BCI based on the discrimination of EEG patterns related to an imagery of extremity movements is considered. The problem of BCI application to restoring of motor functions in patients with motor disabilities is discussed.
Resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxy-trans stilbene) is commonly recognized by its antioxidant properties. Despite its beneficial qualities, the toxic effects of this natural compound are still unknown. Since mitochondria are essential to support the energy-dependent regulation of several cell functions, the objective of this study was to evaluate resveratrol effects on rat brain and liver mitochondrial fractions from male and females regarding oxidative stress and bioenergetics. No basal differences were observed between mitochondrial fractions from males and females, except in liver mitochondria, the generation of H(2)O(2) by the respiratory chain is lower for female preparations. Resveratrol inhibited lipid peroxidation in preparations from both genders and organs. Furthermore, brain mitochondria in both gender groups appeared susceptible to resveratrol as seen by a decrease in state 3 respiration and alterations in mitochondrial membrane potential fluctuations during ADP phosphorylation. As opposed, liver mitochondria were less affected by resveratrol. Our data also demonstrates that resveratrol inhibits complex I activity in all mitochondrial preparations. The results suggest that brain mitochondria appear to be more susceptible to resveratrol effects, and gender appears to play a minor role. It remains to be determined if resveratrol effects on brain mitochondria contribute to deterioration of mitochondrial function or instead to mediate hormesis-mediated events.
Astroglia encompass a subset of versatile glial cells that fulfill a major homeostatic role in the mammalian brain. Since any brain disease results from failure in brain homeostasis, astroglial cells are involved in many, if not all, aspects of neurological and/or psychiatric disorders. In this article, the roles of astrocytes as homeostatic cells in healthy and diseased brains are surveyed. These cells can mount the defence response to the insult of the brain, astrogliosis, when and where they display hypertrophy. Interestingly, astrocytes can alternatively display atrophy in some pathological conditions. Various pathologies, including Alexander and Alzheimer's diseases, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, stroke and epilepsy, to mention a few, are discussed. Astrocytes could represent a novel target for medical intervention in the treatment of brain disorders.

Cochlear spiral ganglion neurons provide the only pathway for transmitting sound evoked activity from the hair cells to the central auditory system. Serotonin plays a role in the response properties of central auditory neurons. However, knowledge about the role of serotonin in the peripheral auditory nervous system remains limited. In the current study, we investigated the influence of serotonin on outward potassium current in mouse cultured spiral ganglion neurons using whole-cell patch clamp technique. The cell capacitance was 4.03  0.18 pF (n = 54). Application of serotonin caused an increase of outward potassium currents within seconds, whereas treatment with WAY100635, a selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, counteracted the increase effect of serotonin. These results suggest that serotonin increases outward potassium currents in cultured spiral ganglion neurons through the activation of 5-HT1A receptor. Serotonin may play an important role in sound transmission.
Paroxysmal dyskinesias (PDs) are a group of episodic movement disorders with marked variability in clinical manifestation and potential association with epilepsy. PRRT2 has been identified as a causative gene for PDs, but the phenotypes and inheritance patterns of PRRT2 mutations need further clarification. In this study, 10 familial and 21 sporadic cases with PDs and PDs-related phenotypes were collected. Genomic DNA was screened for PRRT2 mutations by direct sequencing. Seven PRRT2 mutations were identified in nine (90.0%) familial cases and in six (28.6%) sporadic cases. Five mutations are novel: two missense mutations (c.647C&gt;G/p.Pro216Arg and c.872C&gt;T/p.Ala291Val) and three truncating mutations (c.117delA/p.Val41TyrfsX49, c.510dupT/p.Leu171SerfsX3 and c.579dupA/p.Glu194ArgfsX6). Autosomal dominant inheritance with incomplete penetrance was observed in most of the familial cases. In the sporadic cases, inheritance was heterogeneous including recessive inheritance with compound heterozygous mutations, inherited mutations with incomplete parental penetrance and de novo mutation. Variant phenotypes associated with PRRT2 mutations, found in 36.0% of the affected cases, included febrile convulsions, epilepsy, infantile non-convulsive seizures (INCS) and nocturnal convulsions (NC). All patients with INCS or NC, not reported previously, displayed abnormalities on electroencephalogram (EEG). No EEG abnormalities were recorded in patients with classical infantile convulsions and paroxysmal choreoathetosis (ICCA)/paroxysmal kinesigenic dyskinesia (PKD). Our study further confirms that PRRT2 mutations are the most common cause of familial PDs, displaying both dominant and recessive inheritance. Epilepsy may occasionally occur in ICCA/PKD patients with PRRT2 mutations. Variant phenotypes INCS or NC differ from classical ICCA/PKD clinically and electroencephalographically. They have some similarities with, but not identical to epilepsy, possibly represent an overlap between ICCA/PKD and epilepsy.
The glucocorticoid-induced receptor (GIR) is a stress-responsive gene that is abundantly expressed in forebrain limbic regions. Glucocorticoid-induced receptor has been classified as a Neuropeptide Y-like receptor, however, physiological attributes have not been investigated. In this study, mice lacking GIR (-/-) were screened in various paradigms related to stress, anxiety, activity, memory, fear and reward. GIR -/- mice elicited behavioral insensitivity to the anxiogenic effects of restraint stress. However, hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis response to stress was not impacted by GIR deficiency. Increased preference for sucrose was observed in GIR -/- mice suggestive of modulation of reward-associated behaviors by the receptor. A delayed acquisition of spatial learning was also observed in GIR -/- mice. There were no effects of genotype on the modulation of anxiety-like behavior, activity, fear-conditioning and extinction. Our data extend previous studies on GIR regulation by glucocorticoids and provide novel evidence for a role of GIR in reward, learning and the behavioral outcomes of stress.

We tested the hypothesis that astrocytes grown in a suitable three-dimensional (3D) cell culture system exhibit morphological and biochemical features of in vivo astrocytes that are otherwise lost upon transfer from the in vivo to a two-dimensional (2D) culture environment. First, we report development of a novel bioactively coated nanofiber-based 3D culture system (Bioactive3D) that supports cultures of primary mouse astrocytes. Second, we show that Bioactive3D culture system maintains the in vivo-like morphological complexity of cultured cells, allows movement of astrocyte filopodia in a way that resembles the in vivo situation, and also minimizes the cellular stress, an inherent feature of standard 2D cell culture systems. Third, we demonstrate that the expression of gap junctions is reduced in astrocytes cultured in a 3D system that supports well-organized cell-cell communication, in contrast to the enforced planar tiling of cells in a standard 2D system. Finally, we show that astrocytes cultured in the Bioactive3D system do not show the undesired baseline activation but are fully responsive to activation-inducing stimuli. Thus, astrocytes cultured in the Bioactive3D appear to more closely resemble astrocytes in vivo and represent a superior in vitro system for assessing (patho)physiological and pharmacological responses of these cells and potentially also in co-cultures of astrocytes and other cell types.
Congenital hyperinsulinism/hyperammonemia (HI/HA) syndrome is caused by an activation mutation of glutamate dehydrogenase 1 (GDH1), a mitochondrial enzyme responsible for the reversible interconversion between glutamate and -ketoglutarate. The syndrome presents clinically with hyperammonemia, significant episodic hypoglycemia, seizures, and frequent incidences of developmental and learning defects. Clinical research has implicated that although some of the developmental and neurological defects may be attributed to hypoglycemia, some characteristics cannot be ascribed to low glucose and as hyperammonemia is generally mild and asymptomatic, there exists the possibility that altered GDH1 activity within the brain leads to some clinical changes. GDH1 is allosterically regulated by many factors, and has been shown to be inhibited by the ADP-ribosyltransferase sirtuin 4 (SIRT4), a mitochondrially localized sirtuin. Here we show that SIRT4 is localized to mitochondria within the brain. SIRT4 is highly expressed in glial cells, specifically astrocytes, in the postnatal brain and in radial glia during embryogenesis. Furthermore, SIRT4 protein decreases in expression during development. We show that factors known to allosterically regulate GDH1 alter gliogenesis in CTX8 cells, a novel radial glial cell line. We find that SIRT4 and GDH1 overexpression play antagonistic roles in regulating gliogenesis and that a mutant variant of GDH1 found in HI/HA patients accelerates the development of glia from cultured radial glia cells.
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal, rapidly progressive, neurodegenerative disease caused by motor neuron degeneration. Despite extensive efforts, the underlying cause of ALS and the path of neurodegeneration remain elusive. Astrocyte activation occurs in response to central nervous system (CNS) insult and is considered a double edged sword in many pathological conditions. We propose that reduced glutamatergic and trophic response of astrocytes to activation may, over time, lead to accumulative CNS damage, thus facilitating neurodegeneration. We found that astrocytes derived from the SOD1(G93A) ALS mouse model exhibit a reduced glutamatergic and trophic response to specific activations compared to their wild-type counterparts. Wild-type astrocytes exhibited a robust response when activated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), G5 or treated with ceftriaxone in many parameters evaluated. These parameters include increased expression of GLT-1 and GLAST the two major astrocytic glutamate transporters, accompanied by a marked increase in the astrocytic glutamate clearance and up-regulation of neurtrophic factor expression. However, not only do un-treated SOD1(G93A) astrocytes take up glutamate less efficiently, but in response to activation they show no further increase in any of the glutamatergic parameters evaluated. Furthermore, activation of wild-type astrocytes, but not SOD1(G93A) astrocytes, improved their ability to protect the motor neuron cell line NSC-34 from glutamate induced excitotoxicity. Our data indicates that altered astrocyte activation may well be pivotal to the pathogenesis of ALS.


Hearing and balance deficits often affect humans and other mammals permanently, because their ears stop producing hair cells within a few days after birth. But production occurs throughout life in the ears of sharks, bony fish, amphibians, reptiles, and birds allowing them to replace lost hair cells and quickly recover after temporarily experiencing the kinds of sensory deficits that are irreversible for mammals. Since the mid 1970s, researchers have been asking what puts the brakes on hair cell regeneration in mammals. Here we evaluate the headway that has been made and assess current evidence for alternative mechanistic hypotheses that have been proposed to account for the limits to hair cell regeneration in mammals.
In 1898, Angelo Mosso (1846-1910) used his low-pressure chambers to carry out some remarkable experiments that are not well known. Paul Bert (1833-1886) had previously demonstrated that the deleterious effects of high altitude were due to low PO2, but this conclusion was disputed by many of the eminent scientists of the day. Mosso believed that the physiological effects of high altitude were caused by a low PCO2 (acapnia) and he made a series of low-pressure chamber experiments to test this. In some studies he added oxygen to the air in the chambers so that he could study the effects of extreme hypobaria; in one experiment he survived a barometric pressure of only 192 mm Hg equivalent to an altitude of about 10,800 m. Some of his experiments were observed by his daughter Mim who wrote a colorful account in her book dedicated to her father &quot;Un cercatore d'ignoto&quot; (A seeker of the unknown).
Memories serve to establish some permanence to our inner lives despite the fleeting nature of subjective experience. Most neurobiological theories of memory assume that this mental permanence reflects an underlying cellular permanence. Namely, it is assumed that the cellular changes which first occur to store a memory are perpetuated for as long as the memory is stored. But is that really the case? In an opinion piece in this issue of Hippocampus, Aryeh Routtenberg raises the provocative idea that the subjective sense of memory persistence is not in fact a result of persistence at the cellular level, rather, that &quot;supple synapses&quot; and multiple &quot;evanescent networks&quot; that are forever changing are responsible for our memories. On one level, his proposal could be construed as a radical challenge to some of our most fundamental theories of the neurobiology of memory, including Donald Hebb's proposal that memories are stored by networks that strengthen their connections to increase the likelihood of the same activity patterns being recreated at a later date. However, it could also be seen as a moderating call, a call for a greater acknowledgement of the dynamic, stochastic, and distributed nature of neural networks. In this response to Routtenberg's article, we attempt to provide a clarification of the dividing line between these two interpretations of his argument, and in doing so, we provide some overview of the empirical evidence that bears on this subject. We argue that the data that exists to date favors the more moderate interpretation: that memory storage involves a process in which activity patterns are made more likely to reoccur, but that an under-appreciated reality is that mnemonic traces may continue to change and evolve over time.
The appropriate therapeutic serum valproate level in maintenance therapy for bipolar disorder is not well known. We studied the serum valproate levels in seventeen bipolar I and twenty-four bipolar II disorder outpatients who had been treated with stable doses of valproate successfully for at least 12 months as prophylactic therapy. The trough serum valproate levels were 52.2 +/- 20.4 microg/ml in bipolar I, and 41.0 +/- 18.3 microg/ml in bipolar II disorder patients, respectively. A greater trend towards a higher trough level (p = 0.07) was indicated in the bipolar I disorder group. We speculate that these valproate levels may be an approximation to the appropriate valproate levels in maintenance therapy and that there may be a correlation between the level of valproate required for stabilization and the subtype of the bipolar disorder. However, when interpreting these findings, certain limitations to this study? Need to be taken into account as follows. The sample size was small. We could not look at a group on valproate that had relapsed and a group that had dropped out of maintenance therapy. Further studies are needed.
Estrogens potently suppress food intake. Compelling evidence suggests that estradiol, the primary form of estrogens, reduces food intake by facilitating other anorectic signals. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), like estradiol, appears to suppress food intake by affecting meal size. We hypothesized that estradiol modulates Bdnf expression and the anorectic effect of BDNF. The first goal was to determine whether Bdnf expression was regulated by endogenous estradiol of cycling rats and by cyclic estradiol treatment using ovariectomized rats. Bdnf expression within the ventromedial nucleus of hypothalamus (VMH) was temporally elevated at estrus following the estradiol peak, which coincided with the decline in feeding at this phase of the ovarian cycle. Additionally, food intake and body weight were increased following ovariectomy with a parallel decrease in Bdnf expression in the VMH. All of these alterations were reversed by cyclic estradiol treatment, suggesting that Bdnf expression within the VMH was regulated in an estradiol-dependent manner. The second goal was to determine whether estradiol modulates the anorectic effect of BDNF. Sham-operated estrous rats and ovariectomized rats cyclically treated with estradiol responded to a lower dose of central administration of BDNF to decrease food intake than male rats and oil-treated ovariectomized rats, implying that endogenous estradiol or cyclic estradiol replacement increased the sensitivity to anorectic effect of BDNF. These data indicate that Bdnf expression within the VMH and the anorectic effect of BDNF varied depending on plasma estradiol levels, suggesting that estradiol may regulate BDNF signaling to regulate feeding.
Polymorphisms in noncoding regions of the vasopressin 1a receptor gene (Avpr1a) are associated with a variety of socioemotional characteristics in humans, chimpanzees, and voles, and may impact behavior through a site-specific variation in gene expression. The socially monogamous prairie vole offers a unique opportunity to study such neurobiological control of individual differences in complex behavior. Vasopressin 1a receptor (V1aR) signaling is necessary for the formation of the pair bond in males, and prairie voles exhibit greater V1aR binding in the reward-processing ventral pallidum than do asocial voles of the same genus. Diversity in social behavior within prairie voles has been correlated to natural variation in neuropeptide receptor expression in specific brain regions. Here we use RNA interference to examine the causal relationship between intraspecific variation in V1aR and behavioral outcomes, by approximating the degree of naturalistic variation in V1aR expression. Juvenile male prairie voles were injected with viral vectors expressing shRNA sequences targeting Avpr1a mRNA into the ventral pallidum. Down-regulation of pallidal V1aR density resulted in a significant impairment in the preference for a mated female partner and a reduction in anxiety-like behavior in adulthood. No effect on alloparenting was detected. These data demonstrate that within-species naturalistic-like variation in V1aR expression has a profound effect on individual differences in social attachment and emotionality. RNA interference may prove to be a useful technique to unite the fields of behavioral ecology and neurogenetics to perform ethologically relevant studies of the control of individual variation and offer insight into the evolutionary mechanisms leading to behavioral diversity.
Early experiences profoundly affect the adult coping response to stress and, consequently, adult vulnerability to psychopathologies triggered by stressing conditions, such as major depression. Though studies in animal models have demonstrated that individuals reared in different conditions are differently vulnerable to a stressor of a specific quality, no information is available as to whether such vulnerability differs when facing stressors of different qualities. To this purpose, we reared C57BL/6 male mice either in standard laboratory rearing condition (SN) or in Communal Nest (CN) condition, the latter consisting of a single nest where three mothers keep their pups together and share care-giving behavior until weaning. We scored the amount of interactions with the mother and with peers and found that CN is a form of social enrichment because both these components are significantly increased. At adulthood, we exposed SN and CN mice, for 4 weeks, to either a physical (forced swim) or a social stress (social instability). Immediately before, at week 1 and at week 4 of the stress procedure, corticosterone levels and the hedonic profile were measured. The results show that CN mice are more resilient to social stress than SN mice since they displayed no anhedonia and lower corticosterone levels. By contrast, both experimental groups were similarly vulnerable to physical stress. Overall, our results show that, in male mice, the adult vulnerability to stress changes according to the quality of the stressor, as a function of early experiences. In addition, the stressor to which CN mice are resilient is qualitatively similar to the stimuli they have experienced early on, both concerning the social domain.
Adverse early life experience, such as childhood abuse, neglect, and trauma, increases lifetime risk for mental illness. To investigate underlying mechanisms, the maternal separation (MS) paradigm was developed and validated as an animal model of early adversity in rats, reliably effecting long-term changes to anxiety, gene expression, and stress response. However, across-species validation of core findings in mice has met with limited success. To re-visit parameters governing the effectiveness of MS in mice, this study investigated the effect of MS on maternal care, offspring behavior, and offspring stress-induced corticosterone response in the c57bl/6 mouse strain. The results from this study suggest that: (i) levels of maternal care increase as a function of separation duration immediately after daily MS, but long-term care remains unchanged; and (ii) c57bl/6 mice are resilient to MS, exhibiting subtle decreases in anxiety and unchanged stress-induced corticosterone response as adults, irrespective of separation duration.
The human brain undergoes structural changes in children entering puberty, while simultaneously children increase in height. It is not known if brain changes are under genetic control, and whether they are related to genetic factors influencing the amount of overall increase in height. Twins underwent magnetic resonance imaging brain scans at age 9 (N = 190) and 12 (N = 125). High heritability estimates were found at both ages for height and brain volumes (49-96%), and high genetic correlation between ages were observed (r(g) &gt; 0.89). With increasing age, whole brain (+1.1%), cerebellum (+4.2%), cerebral white matter (+5.1%), and lateral ventricle (+9.4%) volumes increased, and third ventricle (-4.0%) and cerebral gray matter (-1.6%) volumes decreased. Children increased on average 13.8 cm in height (9.9%). Genetic influences on individual difference in volumetric brain and height changes were estimated, both within and across traits. The same genetic factors influenced both cerebral (20% heritable) and cerebellar volumetric changes (45%). Thus, the extent to which changes in cerebral and cerebellar volumes are heritable in children entering puberty are due to the same genes that influence change in both structures. The increase in height was heritable (73%), and not associated with cerebral volumetric change, but positively associated with cerebellar volume change (r(p) = 0.24). This association was explained by a genetic correlation (r(g) = 0.48) between height and cerebellar change. Brain and body each expand at their own pace and through separate genetic pathways. There are distinct genetic processes acting on structural brain development, which cannot be explained by genetic increase in height.
Placebo analgesia (PA) is one of the most studied placebo effects. Brain imaging studies published over the last decade, using either positron emission tomography (PET) or functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), suggest that multiple brain regions may play a pivotal role in this process. However, there continues to be much debate as to which areas consistently contribute to placebo analgesia-related networks. In the present study, we used activation likelihood estimation (ALE) meta-analysis, a state-of-the-art approach, to search for the cortical areas involved in PA in human experimental pain models. Nine fMRI studies and two PET studies investigating cerebral hemodynamic changes were included in the analysis. During expectation of analgesia, activated foci were found in the left anterior cingulate, right precentral, and lateral prefrontal cortex and in the left periaqueductal gray (PAG). During noxious stimulation, placebo-related activations were detected in the anterior cingulate and medial and lateral prefrontal cortices, in the left inferior parietal lobule and postcentral gyrus, anterior insula, thalamus, hypothalamus, PAG, and pons; deactivations were found in the left mid- and posterior cingulate cortex, superior temporal and precentral gyri, in the left anterior and right posterior insula, in the claustrum and putamen, and in the right thalamus and caudate body. Our results suggest on one hand that the modulatory cortical networks involved in PA largely overlap those involved in the regulation of emotional processes, on the other that brain nociceptive networks are downregulated in parallel with behavioral analgesia.
Simple writer's cramp (WC) is a task-specific form of dystonia, characterized by abnormal movements and postures of the hand during writing. It is extremely task-specific, since dystonic symptoms can occur when a patient uses a pencil for writing, but not when it is used for sharpening. Maladaptive plasticity, loss of inhibition, and abnormal sensory processing are important pathophysiological elements of WC. However, it remains unclear how those elements can account for its task-specificity. We used fMRI to isolate cerebral alterations associated with the task-specificity of simple WC. Subjects (13 simple WC patients, 20 matched controls) imagined grasping a pencil to either write with it or sharpen it. On each trial, we manipulated the pencil's position and the number of imagined movements, while monitoring variations in motor output with electromyography. We show that simple WC is characterized by abnormally increased activity in the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) when imagined actions are specifically related to writing. This cerebral effect was independent from the known deficits in dystonia in generating focal motor output and in processing somatosensory feedback. This abnormal activity of the PMd suggests that the task-specific element of simple WC is primarily due to alterations at the planning level, in the computations that transform a desired action outcome into the motor commands leading to that action. These findings open the way for testing the therapeutic value of interventions that take into account the computational substrate of task-specificity in simple WC, e.g. modulations of PMd activity during the planning phase of writing.
A central topic in sensorimotor neuroscience is the static-dynamic dichotomy that exists throughout the nervous system. Previous work examining motor unit synchronization reports that the activation strategy and timing of motor units differ for static and dynamic tasks. However, it remains unclear whether segregated or overlapping blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) activity exists in the brain for static and dynamic motor control. This study compared the neural circuits associated with the production of static force to those associated with the production of dynamic force pulses. To that end, healthy young adults (n = 17) completed static and dynamic precision grip force tasks during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Both tasks activated core regions within the visuomotor network, including primary and sensory motor cortices, premotor cortices, multiple visual areas, putamen, and cerebellum. Static force was associated with unique activity in a right-lateralized cortical network including inferior parietal lobe, ventral premotor cortex, and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. In contrast, dynamic force was associated with unique activity in left-lateralized and midline cortical regions, including supplementary motor area, superior parietal lobe, fusiform gyrus, and visual area V3. These findings provide the first neuroimaging evidence supporting a lateralized pattern of brain activity for the production of static and dynamic precision grip force.
The pathophysiology of auditory verbal hallucinations (AVH) is still unclear. Cognitive as well as electrophysiological studies indicate that a defect in sensory feedback (corollary discharge) may contribute to the experience of AVH. This could result from disruption of the arcuate fasciculus, the major tract connecting frontal and temporo-parietal language areas. Previous diffusion tensor imaging studies indeed demonstrated abnormalities of this tract in schizophrenia patients with AVH. It is, however, difficult to disentangle specific associations with AVH in this patient group as many other factors, such as other positive and negative symptoms, medication or halted education could likewise have affected tract integrity. We therefore investigated AVH in relative isolation and studied a group of non-psychotic individuals with AVH as well as patients with AVH and non-hallucinating matched controls. We compared tract integrity of the arcuate fasiculus and of three other control tracts, between 35 non-psychotic individuals with AVH, 35 schizophrenia patients with AVH, and 36 controls using diffusion tensor imaging and magnetization transfer imaging. Both groups with AVH showed an increase in magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) in the arcuate fasciculus, but not in the other control tracts. In addition, a general decrease in fractional anisotropy (FA) for almost all bundles was observed in the patient group, but not in the non-psychotic individuals with AVH. As increased MTR in the arcuate fasciculus was present in both hallucinating groups, a specific association with AVH seems plausible. Decreases in FA, on the other hand, seem to be related to other disease processes of schizophrenia.
Previous investigations of the default-mode network (DMN) in persons with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) have shown reduced functional connectivity between the anterior and posterior aspects. This finding was originally demonstrated in adults with ADHD, then in youth with ADHD, and has been tentatively linked to ultra low frequency oscillations within the DMN. The current study evaluates the specificity of DMN abnormalities to neuronal oscillations in the ultra low frequency range, and examines the regional specificity of these DMN aberrations in medicated and unmedicated adults with, and those without ADHD. An individually matched sample of adults with and without ADHD completed 6-minute sessions of resting-state magnetoencephalography (MEG). Participants with ADHD were known responders to stimulant medications and completed two sessions (predrug/postdrug). MEG data were coregistered to the participant's MRI, corrected for head motion, fitted to a regional-level source model, and subjected to spectral analyses to extract neuronal population activity in regions of the DMN. The unmedicated adults with ADHD exhibited broadband deficits in medial prefrontal cortices (MPFC), but not other DMN regions compared to adults without ADHD. Unmedicated patients also showed abnormal cross-frequency coupling in the gamma range between the MPFC and posterior cingulate areas, and disturbed balance within the DMN as activity in posterior regions was stronger than frontal regions at beta and lower frequencies, which dissipated at higher -frequencies. Administration of pharmacotherapy significantly increased prefrontal alpha activity (8-14 Hz) in adults with ADHD, and decreased the cross-frequency gamma coupling. These results indicate that neurophysiological aberrations in the DMN of patients with ADHD are not limited to ultra slow oscillations, and that they may be primarily attributable to abnormal broadband activity in the MPFC.
Recent studies in cognitive neuroscience have suggested that the integration of information about the internal bodily state and the external environment is crucial for the experience of emotion. Extensive overlap between the neural mechanisms underlying the subjective emotion and those involved in interoception (perception of that which is arising from inside the body) has been identified. However, the mechanisms of interaction between the neural substrates of interoception and emotional experience remain unclear. We examined the common and distinct features of the neural activity underlying evaluation of emotional and bodily state using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The right anterior insular cortex and ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC) were identified as commonly activated areas. As both of these areas are considered critical for interoceptive awareness, these results suggest that attending to the bodily state underlies awareness of one's emotional state. Uniquely activated areas involved in the evaluation of emotional state included the temporal pole, posterior and anterior cingulate cortex, medial frontal gyrus, and inferior frontal gyrus. Also the precuneus was functionally associated with activity of the right anterior insular cortex and VMPFC when evaluating emotional state. Our findings indicate that activation in these areas and the precuneus are functionally associated for accessing interoceptive information and underpinning subjective experience of the emotional state. Thus, awareness of one's own emotional state appears to involve the integration of interoceptive information with an interpretation of the current situation.
Dystroglycanopathies are a group of congenital muscular dystrophies (CMD) often caused by mutations in genes encoding glycosyltransferases that lead to hypoglycosylation of -dystroglycan (-DG) and reduce its extracellular matrix-binding activity. Overexpressing LARGE (formerly known as like-glycosyltransferase) generates an extracellular matrix-binding carbohydrate epitope in cells with CMD-causing mutations in not only LARGE but also other glycosyltransferases, including POMT1, POMGnT1, and fukutin, creating the possibilities of a one-for-all gene therapy. To determine the feasibility of LARGE gene therapy, a serotype 9 adeno-associated viral vector for overexpressing LARGE (AAV9-LARGE) was injected intracardially into newborns of two mouse models of CMD: the natural LARGE mutant Large(myd) mice and protein O-mannose N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase 1 (POMGnT1) knockout mice. AAV9-LARGE virus treatment yielded partial restoration of -DG glycosylation and ligand-binding activity. The muscular dystrophy phenotype in skeletal muscles was ameliorated as revealed by significantly reduced fibrosis, necrosis, and numbers of centrally located nuclei with improved motor function. These results indicate that LARGE overexpression in vivo by AAV9-mediated gene therapy is effective at restoring functional glycosylation of -DG and rescuing the muscular dystrophy phenotype in deficiency of not only LARGE but also POMGnT1, providing evidence that in vivo LARGE gene therapy may be broadly useful in dystroglycanopathies.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease affecting 1-2% in people &gt;60 and 3-4% in people &gt;80. Genome-wide association (GWA) studies have now implicated significant evidence for association in at least 18 genomic regions. We have studied a large PD-meta analysis and identified a significant excess of SNPs (P &lt; 1  10(-16)) that are associated with PD but fall short of the genome-wide significance threshold. This result was independent of variants at the 18 previously implicated regions and implies the presence of additional polygenic risk alleles. To understand how these loci increase risk of PD, we applied a pathway-based analysis, testing for biological functions that were significantly enriched for genes containing variants associated with PD. Analysing two independent GWA studies, we identified that both had a significant excess in the number of functional categories enriched for PD-associated genes (minimum P = 0.014 and P = 0.006, respectively). Moreover, 58 categories were significantly enriched for associated genes in both GWA studies (P &lt; 0.001), implicating genes involved in the 'regulation of leucocyte/lymphocyte activity' and also 'cytokine-mediated signalling' as conferring an increased susceptibility to PD. These results were unaltered by the exclusion of all 178 genes that were present at the 18 genomic regions previously reported to be strongly associated with PD (including the HLA locus). Our findings, therefore, provide independent support to the strong association signal at the HLA locus and imply that the immune-related genetic susceptibility to PD is likely to be more widespread in the genome than previously appreciated.
Highly malignant glioblastoma (GBM) is characterized by high genetic heterogeneity and infiltrative brain invasion patterns, and aberrant miRNA expression has been associated with hallmark malignant properties of GBM. The lack of effective GBM treatment options prompted us to investigate whether miRNAs would constitute promising therapeutic targets toward the generation of a gene therapy approach with clinical significance for this disease. Here, we show that microRNA-21 (miR-21) is upregulated and microRNA-128 (miR-128) is downregulated in mouse and human GBM samples, a finding that is corroborated by analysis of a large set of human GBM data from The Cancer Genome Atlas. Moreover, we demonstrate that oligonucleotide-mediated miR-21 silencing in U87 human GBM cells resulted in increased levels of the tumor suppressors PTEN and PDCD4, caspase 3/7 activation and decreased tumor cell proliferation. Cell exposure to pifithrin, an inhibitor of p53 transcriptional activity, reduced the caspase activity associated with decreased miR-21 expression. Finally, we demonstrate for the first time that miR-21 silencing enhances the antitumoral effect of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor sunitinib, whereas no therapeutic benefit is observed when coupling miR-21 silencing with the first-line drug temozolomide. Overall, our results provide evidence that miR-21 is uniformly overexpressed in GBM and constitutes a highly promising target for multimodal therapeutic approaches toward GBM.
Glycinergic neurotransmission is a major inhibitory influence in the CNS and its disruption triggers a paediatric and adult startle disorder, hyperekplexia. The postsynaptic (1)-subunit (GLRA1) of the inhibitory glycine receptor (GlyR) and the cognate presynaptic glycine transporter (SLC6A5/GlyT2) are well-established genes of effect in hyperekplexia. Nevertheless, 52% of cases (117 from 232) remain gene negative and unexplained. Ligand-gated heteropentameric GlyRs form chloride ion channels that contain the (1) and -subunits (GLRB) in a 2(1):3 configuration and they form the predominant population of GlyRs in the postnatal and adult human brain, brainstem and spinal cord. We screened GLRB through 117 GLRA1- and SLC6A5-negative hyperekplexia patients using a multiplex-polymerase chain reaction and Sanger sequencing approach. The screening identified recessive and dominant GLRB variants in 12 unrelated hyperekplexia probands. This primarily yielded homozygous null mutations, with nonsense (n = 3), small indel (n = 1), a large 95 kb deletion (n = 1), frameshifts (n = 1) and one recurrent splicing variant found in four cases. A further three cases were found with two homozygous and one dominant GLRB missense mutations. We provide strong evidence for the pathogenicity of GLRB mutations using splicing assays, deletion mapping, cell-surface biotinylation, expression studies and molecular modelling. This study describes the definitive assignment of GLRB as the third major gene for hyperekplexia and impacts on the genetic stratification and biological causation of this neonatal/paediatric disorder. Driven principally by consanguineous homozygosity of GLRB mutations, the study reveals long-term additive phenotypic outcomes for affected cases such as severe apnoea attacks, learning difficulties and developmental delay.
Kleptomania is characterized by repetitive stealing behavior and has been associated with deleterious unwanted outcomes including forensic contact and increased rates of suicidal behavior. Very few trials have been conducted to investigate pharmacological treatment options for this neglected condition. Memantine is an NMDA-receptor antagonist that has shown promising results in the treatment of other behavioral addictions and substance addictions. Twelve individuals with kleptomania received memantine (10 mg/day, titrated to 30 mg/day maximum depending on clinical response and tolerability) over the course of 8 weeks, in an open-label trial. The effects of treatment were quantified using well-validated measures and select neurocognitive tests (last observation carried forward analyses). Kleptomania disease severity scores decreased across all measures considered, and 11 (91.7%) of the participants met the responder criteria (35% improvement on the primary effectiveness measure plus CGI improved/very much improved; significant improvements were also observed in terms of mood, anxiety, and disability scores along with a significant improvement in stop-signal response inhibition. Memantine was generally well tolerated. This study shows the effectiveness of memantine in reducing urges to shoplift and shoplifting behavior along with improving impulsivity, mood, anxiety, and psychosocial functioning.
Two quite sensible ways of recording audiometric threshold data emerged in the early 1920s. They were advanced by Edmund Prince Fowler, an otologist, and by Harvey Fletcher, a physicist. Either would probably have been better than the present system, and would have preserved scientific tradition relative to the orientation of the ordinates of graphs.




In some criminal law cases, the defendant is assessed by a forensic psychiatrist or psychologist within the context of an insanity defense. In this article I argue that specific neuroscientific research can be helpful in improving the quality of such a forensic psychiatric evaluation. This will be clarified in two ways. Firstly, we shall adopt the approach of understanding these forensic assessments as evaluations of the influence of a mental disorder on a defendant's decision-making process. Secondly, I shall point to the fact that researchers in neuroscience have performed various studies over recent years on the influence of specific mental disorders on a patient's decision-making. I argue that such research, especially if modified to decision-making in criminal scenarios, could be very helpful to forensic psychiatric assessments. This kind of research aims to provide insights not merely into the presence of a mental disorder, but also into the actual impact of mental disorders on the decisions defendants have made in regard to their actions.
Centrally acting monoamines have long been thought to be associated with component traits of behavior and emotion and are potential biological mediators of psychopathology. In this study we tested the hypothesis that centrally acting monoamines would be associated with measures of affective instability (i.e. affective intensity and affective lability) in healthy and personality disordered human subjects. In total, 57 adult subjects including 19 psychiatrically healthy volunteers and 38 personality disordered individuals were assessed for affective instability with the affective intensity measure (AIM) and the Affective Lability Scale (ALS). Samples of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were collected for assay of 5-hydroxyindoleacitic acid (5-HIAA), homovanillic acid (HVA) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-phenylglycol (MHPG). CSF 5-HIAA concentration correlated directly with overall AIM score and, specifically, with the AIM Negative Intensity score, in all subjects and in personality disordered subjects. This result was not affected but the addition of aggression scores or life history of mood disorder to the model. Neither CSF HVA nor MHPG were found to uniquely correlate with either AIM or ALS measure. Higher Affective Intensity scores, Negative Intensity scores, specifically, are directly correlated with higher basal levels of CSF 5-HIAA. This relationship was independent of aggression, life history of mood disorder and general personality traits.
Social defeat in mice is a potent stressor that promotes the development of depressive- and anxiety-like behaviours, as well as variations of neuroendocrine and brain neurotransmitter activity. Although environmental enrichment may protect against some of the adverse behavioural and biological effects of social defeat, it seems that, among male group-housed mice maintained in an enriched environment (EE), aggressive behaviours may be more readily instigated, thus promoting distress and exacerbating psychopathological features. Thus, although an EE can potentially have numerous beneficial effects, these may depend on the general conditions in which mice were raised. It was observed in the current investigations that EE group-housed BALB/cByJ mice displayed increased anxiety-like behaviours compared to their counterparts maintained in a standard environment (SE). Furthermore, in response to social defeat, EE group-housed male mice exhibited decreased weight gain, exaggerated corticosterone elevations and altered hippocampal norepinephrine utilization compared to their SE counterparts. These effects were not apparent in the individually housed EE mice and, in fact, enrichment among these mice appeared to buffer against serotonin changes induced by social defeat. It is possible that some potentially beneficial effects of enrichment were precluded among group-housed mice, possibly owing to social disturbances that might occur in these conditions. In fact, even if social interaction is an essential feature of enrichment, it seems that some of the positive effects of this housing condition might be optimal when mice are housed individually, particularly with regard to buffering the effects of social defeat.
Electroconvulsive therapy is the most effective treatment for antidepressant-resistant depression, although its mechanism has not been fully elucidated. Previous studies have demonstrated that electroconvulsive seizures (ECS) induce expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the rat hippocampus. However, in contrast with mature BDNF (mBDNF) known to have antidepressant effects, its precursor (pro-BDNF) has harmful effects on neurons. We therefore hypothesized that efficient processing of pro-BDNF is a critical requirement for the antidepressant effects of ECS. We found that single administration of ECS rapidly increased not only hippocampal levels of pro-BDNF but also those of prohormone convertase 1 (PC1) and tissue-plasminogen activator (t-PA), which are proteases involved in intra- and extracellular pro-BDNF processing, respectively. Interestingly, pro-BDNF and t-PA levels were increased in hippocampal synaptosomes after single ECS, suggesting their transport to secretory sites. In rats receiving 10-d repeated ECS, accumulation of pro-BDNF and a resultant increase in mBDNF levels were observed. While t-PA levels increased and accumulated following repeated ECS, PC1 levels did not, suggesting that intracellular processing capacity is limited. Finally, chronic administration of imipramine significantly increased mBDNF levels, but not pro-BDNF and protease levels, indicating that the therapeutic mechanism of imipramine differs from that of ECS. Taken together, these results suggest that, while intra- and extracellular proteases are involved in pro-BDNF processing in single ECS, t-PA plays a dominant role following repeated ECS. Such efficient pro-BDNF processing as well as strong induction of BDNF expression may contribute to the antidepressant effects of ECS.

Exposure to psychologically stressful and traumatic experiences and the requirement of heightened attention to environmental stimuli are common in police work. Police officers are at increased risk for stress-related disorders such as Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Traumatic experiences can result in changes to brain structure and function associated with attention and cognitive control processes (such as response inhibition). Despite the significance that these cognitive functions may have on job performance in police officers, few studies have examined the effects of exposure to traumatic events on top-down cognitive control functions in police. In the present study, a dense electrode array system was used to examined the N2 and P3 components of the event-related potential (ERP) during a Go/NoGo continuous performance task (Go/NoGo CPT) in trauma-exposed police officers who did not meet criteria for a current diagnosis of PTSD and in non-trauma exposed civilian controls. Amplitude and latency were obtained to Go, NoGo, and non-target trials. The major between-group findings were for P3 amplitude. There were no group effects for N2. Both groups had an enhanced fronto-central P3 amplitude to NoGo compared to Go trials. However, police had greater P3 amplitude compared to controls for all trial types (Go, NoGo, non-target). PTSD symptom scores in police officers were positively correlated with fronto-central NoGo P3 amplitude, but not with posterior NoGo amplitude. This study provides evidence of heightened attention and/or arousal in police officers as indicated by the generally greater P3 amplitude in police compared to controls during a task requiring sustained attention and inhibitory control. Greater PTSD symptom severity in trauma-exposed individuals may affect frontal cognitive control systems related to response inhibition.
Most chronic stroke patients present with difficulty in the manipulation of objects. The aim of this study was to test whether an intensive program of precision grip training could improve hand functioning of patients at more than 6 months after a stroke. This was a cross-over study; hence, at inclusion, the patients were randomly divided into two groups: one group started with the bilateral movement therapy and the other group started with the unilateral movement therapy. The patients were assessed on four separate occasions across a 12-week period: (a) at inclusion in the study, (b) 4 weeks later, immediately before the first rehabilitation session, (c) after 4 weeks of one therapy, and (d) after a further 4 weeks of the other therapy. Ten patients completed two consecutive 4-week sessions (1 h, 3 days/week) of therapy. The therapy comprised unilateral and bilateral repetitive grip-lift task-oriented rehabilitation with rhythmic auditory cueing. The grip-lift force coordination, digital dexterity, manual ability, and the level of satisfaction (with activities and participation) were assessed. A one-way repeated-measure analysis of variance across the four evaluations did not detect any objective improvement in the measured variables after 8 weeks of specific intensive training. Precision grip training was shown to not generate significant improvement in the grip-lift task, digital dexterity, manual ability, or satisfaction in chronic stroke patients.


This article considers the possibility of integrating sociological and cognitive neuroscience ideas on consciousness and developing a new research area: neurosociology of consciousnesses. Research was conducted taking into account the limited knowledge on consciousness produced in these disciplines and the necessity of finding ways to study the social roles concerning the neural correlates of consciousness. Applying several ideas on consciousness from these disciplines (intersubjectivity, close connection with collective forms representations, deriving awareness from the brain's processes, and so on), I show that it is difficult to reconcile the differences in the treatment of consciousness through the simple combination of the different ideas. The integration should be pursued in light of the neuroscientific findings concerning consciousness in different social contexts (role behavior, social interactions, and so on). In integrating the concepts, I predicted the role of time delay in conscious awareness in decision making, synchronization of neural oscillations under conscious perception, and the activations of certain brain zones in correspondence to different conscious cognitive processes for understanding in face-to-face situations. The study reveals that the optimal path for neurosociological research on consciousness is in its primary development without a rigid binding to either sociology or neuroscience.
We describe an extremely rare case of unilateral rete mirabile in a young woman and discuss its significance in embryological development as well as its radiological aspects, differential diagnosis and potential clinical implications.
Although women were welcomed into medical practice in increasing numbers by the close of the nineteenth century, it was not until the second quarter of the twentieth century that they were recognised as valuable collaborators and contributors in the nascent field of neuroendocrinology, wherein they soon made advances that have stood the test of time. Mary Pickford at Edinburgh measured the action of acetyl choline in the supraoptic nucleus of the hypothalamus and helped to establish that vasopressin and oxytocin are formed in separate and distinct neurons. Berta Scharrer, like her future husband Ernest Scharrer, was born in Munich. Their great contribution was the proof that the posterior pituitary is not a gland, but the location of the release into the circulation of vasopressin and oxytocin from fibres in the hypothalamico-hypophysial tract. Their work succeeded in establishing against high-powered, vehement opposition the value of histological evidence in elucidating synthesis, storage and release of secretion from neuro-endocrine cells. A Rockefeller travelling fellowship allowed Marthe Vogt to move from Berlin in 1932 to London and then to Cambridge. The relations between the cortex and medulla of the suprarenal gland and the control of adrenocorticotropin were her main concerns. Dora Jacobsohn emigrated to Sweden after graduating in Berlin in 1934. She investigated control of the anterior pituitary gland by the hypothalamus, and co-operated with Geoffrey Harris in establishing the role of the hypothalamico-hypophysial portal venous system that conveys the releasing factors that preside over anterior pituitary cells. Laboratory discoveries do not constitute the whole of science, for the interpretation of evidence and recognition of general principles deserve attention. Dorothy Price, from Aurora, Illinois, received her BS in 1922 at the University of Chicago, and was glad to find employment as a histology technician in the zoology laboratory, where she was quietly appropriated by Carl Moore (1892-1955), an investigator seeking the key to hormonal control of gonadal function. The burning question was the part played by what was (then) called hormone antagonism in the biology of the testis. Price recognised that the common factor in explaining the deleterious effects of oestrin and testosterone on the testes could be traced to the anterior pituitary: the pituitary controlled testicular secretion, and the male hormone in turn controlled gonadotropin release in the pituitary. This seesaw balance explained the problem, and was the first of many regulatory systems to be recognised as ensuring stability--and later became known as negative feedback. The contributions of these five women helped place neuro-endocrinology on a firm foundation for its later expansion.
Pheromones--chemical signals that can elicit responses in a conspecific--are important in intraspecies communication. Information conveyed by pheromones includes the location of an animal, the presence of food or a threat, sexual attraction, courtship, and dam-pup interactions. These chemical messages remain intact and volatile even when animals, such as rodents, are housed in laboratories rather than their natural environment. Laboratory protocols, such as the cage cleaning and sanitation processes, as well as general housing conditions can alter a rodent's normal production of pheromones in both amount and type and thus may affect behavior. In addition, some procedures induce the release of alarm pheromones that subsequently alter the behavior of other rodents. To prevent pheromonal interference and stress-induced pheromonal release in their research subjects, experimenters should assess current laboratory protocols regarding cage cleaning processes, housing designs, and behavioral assays. Here we discuss how the most commonly used laboratory procedures can alter pheromonal signaling and cause confounding effects.




Individuals working in commercial hog confinement facilities have elevated incidences of headaches, depression, nausea, skeletal muscle weakness, fatigue, gastrointestinal disorders, and cardiovascular diseases, and the molecular mechanisms for these nonrespiratory ailments remain incompletely undefined. A common element underlying these diverse pathophysiologies is perturbation of intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis. This study assessed whether the dust generated inside hog confinement facilities contains compounds that alter Ca(2+) mobilization via ryanodine receptors (RyRs), key intracellular channels responsible for mobilizing Ca(2+) from internal stores to elicit an array of physiologic functions. Hog barn dust (HBD) was extracted with phosphate-buffered saline, sterile-filtered (0.22 m), and size-separated using Sephadex G-100 resin. Fractions (F) 1 through 9 (Mw &gt;10,000 Da) had no measurable effects on RyR isoforms. However, F10 through F17, which contained compounds of Mw 2,000 Da, modulated the [(3)H]ryanodine binding to RyR1, RyR2, and RyR3 in a biphasic (Gaussian) manner. The Ki values for F13, the most potent fraction, were 3.8  0.2 g/ml for RyR1, 0.2  0.01 g/ml and 19.1  2.8 g/ml for RyR2 (two binding sites), and 44.9  2.8 g/ml and 501.6  9.2 g/ml for RyR3 (two binding sites). In lipid bilayer assays, F13 dose-dependently decreased the open probabilities of RyR1, RyR2, and RyR3. Pretreating differentiated mouse skeletal myotubes (C2C12 cells) with F13 blunted the amplitudes of ryanodine- and K(+)-induced Ca(2+) transients. Because RyRs are present in many cell types, impairment in Ca(2+) mobilization from internal stores via these channels is a possible mechanism by which HBD may trigger these seemingly unrelated pathophysiologies.
Mindfulness describes a state of consciousness in which individuals attend to ongoing events and experiences in a receptive and non-judgmental way. The present research investigated the idea that mindfulness reduces emotional exhaustion and improves job satisfaction. The authors further suggest that these associations are mediated by the emotion regulation strategy of surface acting. Study 1 was a 5-day diary study with 219 employees and revealed that mindfulness negatively related to emotional exhaustion and positively related to job satisfaction at both the within- and the between-person levels. Both relationships were mediated by surface acting at both levels of analysis. Study 2 was an experimental field study, in which participants (N = 64) were randomly assigned to a self-training mindfulness intervention group or a control group. Results revealed that participants in the mindfulness intervention group experienced significantly less emotional exhaustion and more job satisfaction than participants in the control group. The causal effect of mindfulness self-training on emotional exhaustion was mediated by surface acting. Implications for using mindfulness and mindfulness training interventions in organizational research and practice are discussed in conclusion.
We examined visual attention allocation during a set of social videos that are intended to elicit the coordination of attention with another person, compared to a control condition. Deficits in joint attention are a characteristic of young children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Participants included a diverse sample of 50 typically developing school-aged children between 3 and 9 years of age (M = 6:3, SD = 1:8). Results demonstrated that gaze allocation differed significantly between the experimental and control condition. Further, individual differences in gaze allocation were significantly predicted by a parent-report measure evaluating features of the broad autism phenotype. This study contributes to a research program that aims to develop and validate an endophenotype measure of ASD.
According to some theories imitation, defined as an action resonance mechanism, is deficient in autism. In contrast, other theories (e.g., the &quot;top down control of imitation&quot; hypothesis) state that the problem is not in imitation per se but in the way social cues modulate imitative responses. In this study, 15 high-functioning children with autism and 15 matched controls were tested for their ability to imitate finger movements preceded by neutral and emotional facial expressions (primes) in a stimulus-response compatibility task. Hand movements performed after neutral expressions did not differ between the two groups (i.e., they both showed a normal imitative tendency). However, hand movements performed after emotional expressions significantly differed between the two populations, with controls, but not autistic spectrum disorder (ASD), showing enhanced imitation in the emotional condition. This study supports the view that, in ASD, imitation abilities are spared but they are not modulated according to the emotional and social context.


Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLDH) is a multifunctional oxidoreductase and is well known as an essential component of four mammalian mitochondrial multienzyme complexes: pyruvate dehydrogenase, -ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, branched chain -keto acid dehydrogenase, and the glycine cleavage system. However, existence of extracellular DLDH in mammals, if any, has not been clearly defined. The present article reports identification and biochemical characterization of serum DLDH. Proteomic analysis of rat serum using blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (BN-PAGE) and mass spectrometry peptide sequencing led to generation of 6 tryptic peptides in one band that matched to mitochondrial DLDH, indicating the existence of DLDH in rat serum. Measurement of enzymatic activity also indicated the existence of DLDH in human and mouse serum. Further biochemical analysis of rat serum DLDH revealed that this enzyme lacked diaphorase activity and could not be detected on Western blots probed with antibodies that recognized mitochondrial DLDH. Moreover, both ammonium sulfate fractioning and gel filtration of serum samples rendered a great loss in DLDH activity, indicating that the enzyme activity of this serum protein, unlike that of mitochondrial DLDH, is very labile. When DTT was supplemented in the buffer used for gel filtration, DLDH activity was found to be largely preserved; indicating that serum DLDH is susceptible to air-implicated inactivation. Results of the present study indicate that serum DLDH differs from mitochondrial DLDH in that it is a very labile enzyme.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) causes significant mortality in most developing countries worldwide. At present, it is imperative to identify a treatment to address the devastating post-TBI consequences. Therefore, the present study has been performed to assess the specific effect of immediate exposure to normabaric hyperoxia (NBO) after fluid percussion injury (FPI) in the striatum of mice. To execute FPI, mice were anesthetised and sorted into (i) a TBI group, (ii) a sham group without injury and (iii) a TBI group treated with immediate exposure to NBO for 3 h. Afterwards, brains were harvested for morphological assessment. The results revealed no changes in morphological and neuronal damage in the sham group as compared to the TBI group. Conversely, the TBI group showed severe morphological changes as well as neuronal damage as compared to the TBI group exposed to NBO for 3 h. Interestingly, our findings also suggested that NBO treatment could diminish the neuronal damage in the striatum of mice after FPI. Neuronal damage was evaluated at different points of injury and the neighbouring areas using morphology, neuronal apoptotic cell death and pan-neuronal markers to determine the complete neuronal structure. In conclusion, immediate exposure to NBO following FPI could be a potential therapeutic approach to reduce neuronal damage in the TBI model.
The prototypical transient receptor potential (TRP) channel is the major light-sensitive, and Ca(2+)-permeable channel in the microvillar photoreceptors of Drosophila. TRP channels are activated following hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(4,5)P] by the key effector enzyme phospholipase C (PLC). Mutants lacking TRP channels undergo light-dependent retinal degeneration, as a consequence of the reduced Ca(2+) influx. It has been proposed that degeneration is caused by defects in the Ca(2+)-dependent visual pigment cycle, which result in accumulation of toxic phosphorylated metarhodopsin-arrestin complexes (MPP-Arr2). Here we show that two interventions, which prevent accumulation of MPP-Arr2, namely rearing under red light or eliminating the C-terminal rhodopsin phosphorylation sites, failed to rescue degeneration in trp mutants. Instead, degeneration in trp mutants reared under red light was rescued by mutation of PLC. Degeneration correlated closely with the light-induced depletion of PtdIns(4,5)P that occurs in trp mutants due to failure of Ca(2+)-dependent inhibition of PLC. Severe retinal degeneration was also induced in the dark in otherwise wild-type flies by overexpression of a bacterial PtdInsPn phosphatase (SigD) to deplete PtdIns(4,5)P. In degenerating trp photoreceptors, phosphorylated Moesin, a PtdIns(4,5)P-regulated membrane-cytoskeleton linker essential for normal microvillar morphology, was found to delocalize from the rhabdomere and there was extensive microvillar actin depolymerisation. The results suggest that compromised light-induced Ca(2+) influx, due to loss of TRP channels, leads to PtdIns(4,5)P depletion, resulting in dephosphorylation of Moesin, actin depolymerisation and disintegration of photoreceptor structure.
The roles of P21-activated kinase (PAK) in the regulation of axon outgrowth downstream of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins are poorly understood. Here we show that PAK1-3 and PIX are expressed in the developing spinal cord and differentially localize to point contacts and filopodial tips within motile growth cones. Using a specific interfering peptide called PAK18, we found that axon outgrowth is robustly stimulated on laminin by partial inhibition of PAK-PIX interactions and PAK function, whereas complete inhibition of PAK function stalls axon outgrowth. Furthermore, modest inhibition of PAK-PIX stimulates the assembly and turnover of growth cone point contacts, whereas strong inhibition over-stabilizes adhesions. Point mutations within PAK confirm the importance of PIX binding. Together our data suggest that regulation of PAK-PIX interactions in growth cones controls neurite outgrowth by influencing the activity of several important mediators of actin filament polymerization and retrograde flow, as well as integrin-dependent adhesion to laminin.
Cerebrovascular disease has an important role in cognitive decline and dementia. In this context, cerebral microinfarcts are attracting increasing attention, but these lesions could thus far not be detected in vivo. The aim of this study was to try to identify possible cortical microinfarcts on high-resolution 7T in vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and to perform a histopathologic validation study on similar appearing lesions on 7T ex vivo MRI of postmortem brain tissue. The study population consisted of 22 elderly subjects, who underwent 7T MRI. The fluid attenuated inversion recovery, T(2), and T(1) weighted scans of these subjects were examined for possible cortical microinfarcts. In the ex vivo MRI study, 15 formalin-fixed coronal brain slices of 6 subjects with Alzheimer and vascular pathology were examined and subjected to histopathologic verification. On the in vivo scans, 15 cortical lesions could be identified that were likely to be microinfarcts in 6 subjects. In the postmortem tissue, 6 similar appearing lesions were identified of which 5 were verified as cortical microinfarcts on histopathology. This study provides strong evidence that cortical microinfarcts can be detected in vivo, which will be of great value in further studies into the role of vascular disease in cognitive decline and dementia.
Cerebral hypoxia and acidosis can follow traumatic brain injury (TBI) and are associated with increased mortality. This study aimed to evaluate a relationship between reduced pH(bt) and disturbances of cerebral metabolism. Prospective data from 56 patients with TBI, receiving microdialysis and Neurotrend monitoring, were analyzed. Four tissue states were defined based on pH(bt) and P(bt)O(2): 1--low P(bt)O(2)/pH(bt), 2--low pH(bt)/normal P(bt)O(2), 3--normal pH(bt)/low P(bt)O(2), and 4--normal pH(bt)/P(bt)O(2)). Microdialysis values were compared between the groups. The relationship between P(bt)O(2) and lactate/pyruvate (LP) ratio was evaluated at different pH(bt) levels. Proportional contribution of each state was evaluated against mortality. As compared with the state 4, the state 3 was not different, the state 2 exhibited higher levels of lactate, LP, and glucose and the state 1--higher LP and reduced glucose (P&lt;0.001). A significant negative correlation between LP and P(bt)O(2) (rho=-0.159, P&lt;0.001) was stronger at low pH(bt) (rho=-0.201, P&lt;0.001) and nonsignificant at normal pH(bt) (P=0.993). The state 2 was a significant discriminator of mortality categories (P=0.031). Decreased pH(bt) is associated with impaired metabolism. Measuring pH(bt) with P(bt)O(2) is a more robust way of detecting metabolic derangements.
In patients after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) failure of cerebral autoregulation is associated with delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI). Various methods of assessing autoregulation are available, but their predictive values remain unknown. We characterize the relationship between different indices of autoregulation. Patients with SAH within 5 days were included in a prospective study. The relationship between three indices of autoregulation was analyzed: two indices calculated using spontaneous blood pressure fluctuations, Sxa (based on transcranial Doppler) and TOxa (based on near-infrared spectroscopy); and transient hyperemic response test (THRT) where a brief compression of the common carotid artery is used. The predictive value of indices was assessed using data from the first 5 days. Overall there was only moderate correlation between indices. However, both Sxa and TOxa showed good accuracy in predicting impaired autoregulation evidenced by a negative THRT (area under the curve (AUC): 0.788, 95% CI: 0.723 to 0.854 and AUC: 0.827, 95% CI: 0.769 to 0.885, respectively). All indices proved accurate in predicting DCI when 0- to 5-day data were used (AUC: 0.801, 95% CI: 0.660 to 0.942; AUC: 0.857, 95% CI: 0.731 to 0.984, AUC: 0.796, 95% CI: 0.658 to 0.934 for THRT, Sxa, and TOxa, respectively). Combining all three indices had 100% specificity for predicting DCI. While multiple colinearities exist between the assessed methods, multimodal monitoring of cerebral autoregulation can aid in predicting DCI.
Whole-brain dynamic time-resolved computed tomography angiography (CTA) is a technique developed on the new 320-detector row CT scanner capable of generating time-resolved cerebral angiograms from skull base to vertex. Unlike a conventional cerebral angiogram, this technique visualizes pial arterial filling in all vascular territories, thereby providing additional hemodynamic information. Ours was a retrospective study of consecutive patients with ischemic stroke and M1 middle cerebral artery +/- intracranial internal carotid artery occlusions presenting to our center from June 2010 and undergoing dynamic time-resolved CTA and perfusion CT within 6hours of symptom onset. Leptomeningeal collateral status was assessed by determining relative prominence of pial arteries in the ischemic region, rate and extent of retrograde flow, and various topographical patterns of pial arterial filling. Twenty-five patients were included in the study. We demonstrate the existence of the following novel properties of leptomeningeal collaterals in humans: (a) posterior (posterior cerebral artery (PCA)-MCA) dominant collateralization, (b) intra-territorial 'within MCA region' leptomeningeal collaterals, and (c) significant variability in size, extent, and retrograde filling time in pial arteries. We also describe a simple and reliable collateral grading template that, for the first time on dynamic CTA, incorporates back-filling time as well as size and extent of collateral filling.
Plastic changes in the adult mammal hippocampus can be altered by many factors and perhaps the most well-documented is stress. Stress and elevated corticosterone levels have been shown to decrease hippocampal neurogenesis and decrease the complexity of CA3 pyramidal neurons. However, the extent of these changes in relation to low and moderately elevated levels of corticosterone has yet to be fully investigated. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to determine how low to moderately elevated circulating corticosterone levels affect dendritic morphology of CA3 pyramidal cells and hippocampal neurogenesis in adult male rats. To do this, three groups of adult male Wistar rats were used: (1) Sham-operated, (2) Adrenalectomized (ADX), and (3) ADX+corticosterone replacement. Primary results show that adrenalectomy, but not moderately elevated levels of corticosterone replacement, resulted in significant atrophy of CA3 pyramidal neurons. Interestingly, moderate corticosterone replacement resulted in significantly more surviving new cells in the dentate gyrus when compared to sham controls. This work shows that circulating levels of corticosterone differentially affect plasticity in the CA3 region and the dentate gyrus.
Foot drop is commonly caused by compromise of the peripheral nervous system. Unilateral foot drop as the first sign of a parasagittal brain tumor has been reported in the adult literature but never previously in the pediatric population. We report a child with a right parietal rhabdomyosarcoma in which foot drop was the only abnormal neurologic finding at initial presentation. Localization to the central nervous system should be included in children presenting with foot drop.


Cell therapy has the potential to treat gastrointestinal motility disorders caused by diseases of the enteric nervous system. Many studies have demonstrated that various stem/progenitor cells can give rise to functional neurons in the embryonic gut; however, it is not yet known whether transplanted neural progenitor cells can migrate, proliferate, and generate functional neurons in the postnatal bowel in vivo. We transplanted neurospheres generated from fetal and postnatal intestinal neural crest-derived cells into the colon of postnatal mice. The neurosphere-derived cells migrated, proliferated, and generated neurons and glial cells that formed ganglion-like clusters within the recipient colon. Graft-derived neurons exhibited morphological, neurochemical, and electrophysiological characteristics similar to those of enteric neurons; they received synaptic inputs; and their neurites projected to muscle layers and the enteric ganglia of the recipient mice. These findings show that transplanted enteric neural progenitor cells can generate functional enteric neurons in the postnatal bowel and advances the notion that cell therapy is a promising strategy for enteric neuropathies.


We evaluated the frequency, therapeutic response and predictors of status epilepticus (SE) and cluster seizures among elderly people. Patients over 60 years old with epilepsy (n=201; age, 68.0  7.5 years) were prospectively recruited. Among them, 64 patients (32%) who presented with new-onset cluster attacks and/or SE formed the study group. All underwent evaluation with electroencephalography (EEG) and CT scans. The mean duration of SE and cluster seizures at admission was 14.9  53.7 hours. Cluster seizures were observed in 53 (26.4%) and SE in 34 (17%) elderly patients with seizures (n=201). The types of SE were: generalized convulsive (23 patients), epilepsia partialis continua (eight patients), non-convulsive (two patients) and myoclonic (one patient). The types of epilepsy syndrome included were: acute symptomatic (37 patients; 57.8%), cryptogenic (15 patients; 23.4%) and remote symptomatic (12 patients; 18.8%). Interictal EEG was abnormal in 79.7% of patients with critical presentation compared to 53.3% of patients without critical presentation. Epileptiform activity was observed in 46.9% of patients with SE and/or cluster seizures compared to 27.0% without SE and/or cluster seizures (p=0.001). The neuroimaging differences between the two groups were the absence of white-matter changes on CT scan in those with, compared to those without, SE and/or cluster seizures (28.1% compared to 41.6%, p=0.06). The risk factors for SE and/or cluster seizures were: acute symptomatic seizures, simple partial seizures, a higher number of seizures, lower Glasgow coma scale (GCS) score and an absence of white-matter changes on CT scan. After multivariate analysis, lower GCS score (p=0.01; odds ratio [OR]=0.82) and a higher number of seizures (p=0.03; OR=1.03) significantly predicted the occurrence of SE and/or cluster seizures. Seizures were controlled with two antiepileptic drugs in 70.6%. To conclude, SE and/or cluster seizures are common (32%) among elderly patients with epilepsy. Early and aggressive treatment is effective in the majority.

Neural representation of auditory regularities can be probed using the MMN, a component of ERPs generated in the auditory cortex by any violation of that regularity. Although several studies have shown that visual information can influence or even trigger an MMN by altering an acoustic regularity, it is not known whether audiovisual regularities are encoded in the auditory representation supporting MMN generation. We compared the MMNs elicited by the auditory violation of (a) an auditory regularity (a succession of identical standard sounds), (b) an audiovisual regularity (a succession of identical audiovisual stimuli), and (c) an auditory regularity accompanied by variable visual stimuli. In all three conditions, the physical difference between the standard and the deviant sound was identical. We found that the MMN triggered by the same auditory deviance was larger for audiovisual regularities than for auditory-only regularities or for auditory regularities paired with variable visual stimuli, suggesting that the visual regularity influenced the representation of the auditory regularity. This result provides evidence for the encoding of audiovisual regularities in the human brain.
Neuropsychological, neurophysiological, and neuroimaging studies suggest that right frontoparietal circuits may be necessary for the processing of mental number space, also known as the mental number line (MNL). Here we sought to specify the critical time course of three nodes that have previously been related to MNL processing: right posterior parietal cortex (rPPC), right FEF (rFEF), and right inferior frontal gyrus (rIFG). The effects of single-pulse TMS delivered at 120% distance-adjusted individual motor threshold were investigated in 21 participants, within a window of 0-400 msec (sampling interval = 33 msec) from the onset of a central digit (1-9, 5 excluded). Pulses were delivered in a random order and with equal probability at each time point, intermixed with noTMS trials. To analyze whether and when TMS interfered with MNL processing, we fitted bimodal Gaussian functions to the observed data and measured effects on changes in the Spatial-Numerical Association of Response Codes (SNARC) effect (i.e., an advantage for left- over right-key responses to small numbers and right- over left-key responses to large numbers) and in overall performance efficiency. We found that, during magnitude judgment with unimanual key-press responses, TMS reduced the SNARC effect in the earlier period of the fitted functions (25-60 msec) when delivered over rFEF (small and large numbers) and rIFG (small numbers); TMS further reduced the SNARC effect for small numbers in a later period when delivered to rFEF (200 msec). In contrast, TMS of rPPC did not interfere with the SNARC effect but generally reduced performance for small numbers and enhanced it for large numbers, thus producing a pattern reminiscent of &quot;neglect&quot; in mental number space. Our results confirm the causal role of an intact right frontoparietal network in the processing of mental number space. They also indicate that rPPC is specifically tied to explicit number magnitude processing and that rFEF and rIFG contribute to interfacing mental visuospatial codes with lateralized response codes. Overall, our findings suggest that both ventral and dorsal frontoparietal circuits are causally involved and functionally connected in the mapping of numbers to space.
This study used immunohistochemistry, retrograde tracing, and high-resolution confocal microscopy to explore the structure and neurochemistry of nerve terminals in the corneal epithelium of mice and guinea pigs. In both species, sub-basal nerves formed a plexus in the basal epithelium. Some axons had bulbar endings within the basal epithelium, but most projected perpendicularly from sub-basal nerves to within a few micrometers of the epithelial surface. Three morphologies for these nerve terminals were identified. Simple terminals did not branch after leaving the sub-basal nerves and ended with a single, bulbar swelling. Ramifying terminals branched in the squamous cell layer, forming horizontal fibers that ran parallel to the surface and terminated with single bulbar swellings. Complex terminals branched as they approached the epithelial surface, forming a cluster of highly branched fibers with multiple bulbar endings. Calcitonin gene-related peptide immunolabeled (peptidergic) axons ended mostly in simple terminals, whereas transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 8 immunolabeled (cold receptor) axons ended almost exclusively in complex terminals. Retrograde labeling identified discrete subpopulations of corneal afferent neurons in the trigeminal ganglion. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunolabeled (sympathetic) nerve terminals originating from the superior cervical ganglion occurred throughout the corneal epithelium of mice, but only in the basal epithelium of guinea pigs. These findings demonstrate that nerve terminals in the corneal epithelium of mice and guinea pigs can be distinguished on the basis of their morphology and neurochemistry, and suggest that nerve terminals with different sensory modalities can be defined on the basis of their morphology.
Bob Capranica was a towering figure in the field of auditory neuroethology. Among his many contributions are the exploitation of the anuran auditory system as a general vertebrate model for studying communication, the introduction of a signal processing approach for quantifying sender-receiver dynamics, and the concept of the matched filter for efficient neural processing of complex vocal signals. In this paper, meant to honor Bob on his election to Fellow of the International Society for Neuroethology, I provide a description and analysis of some of his most important research, and I highlight how the concepts and data he contributed still inspire neuroethology today.

In schizophrenia, novel target sites for repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), such as the cerebellum, are proposed to have a putative therapeutic role in treatment-resistant cases. We present a case of treatment-resistant schizophrenia that showed worsening of auditory verbal hallucinations after receiving high-frequency cerebellar vermal rTMS. We propose that cerebellar vermal rTMS modulates neuronal networks, causing activation in temporoparietal areas, which results in worsening of auditory verbal hallucinations.

Weakly electric knifefish are exceptionally maneuverable swimmers. In prior work, we have shown that they are able to move their entire body omnidirectionally so that they can rapidly reach prey up to several centimeters away. Consequently, in addition to being a focus of efforts to understand the neural basis of sensory signal processing in vertebrates, knifefish are increasingly the subject of biomechanical analysis to understand the coupling of signal acquisition and biomechanics. Here, we focus on a key subset of the knifefish's omnidirectional mechanical abilities: hovering in place, and swimming forward at variable speed. Using high-speed video and a markerless motion capture system to capture fin position, we show that hovering is achieved by generating two traveling waves, one from the caudal edge of the fin and one from the rostral edge, moving toward each other. These two traveling waves overlap at a nodal point near the center of the fin, cancelling fore-aft propulsion. During forward swimming at low velocities, the caudal region of the fin continues to have counter-propagating waves, directly retarding forward movement. The gait transition from hovering to forward swimming is accompanied by a shift in the nodal point toward the caudal end of the fin. While frequency varies significantly to increase speed at low velocities, beyond approximately one body length per second, the frequency stays near 10 Hz, and amplitude modulation becomes more prominent. A coupled central pattern generator model is able to reproduce qualitative features of fin motion and suggest hypotheses regarding the fin's neural control.
Using a novel autobiographical think/no-think procedure (ATNT; a modified version of the think/no-think task), 2 studies explored the extent to which we possess executive control over autobiographical memory. In Study 1, 30 never-depressed participants generated 12 positive and 12 negative autobiographical memories. Memories associated with cue-personal word pairings were learned to criterion. Participants were then asked to recall the memory associated with some of the cue-personal word pairs (i.e., think condition) or to avoid saying or thinking about the memory associated with others (i.e., no-think condition). In a subsequent test of recall, systematic forgetting effects emerged for no-think autobiographical memories compared to baseline that received neither no-think nor think instructions. These findings were extended and replicated in a second ATNT study (using a further 30 never-depressed participants), which showed that the forgetting of autobiographical memories in the no-think condition was unlikely to be a function of thought substitution or demand characteristics.
In 2 main experiments, the mediated priming effect was used to determine whether retrieval continues to be mediated after repeated testing. In each experiment, participants used the keyword method to learn French vocabulary, then completed a modified lexical decision task in which they first translated a French word, and then made a lexical decision on a semantic associate either of the keyword or of the English translation, a semantically unrelated word, or a nonword. In Experiment 2, the amount of testing was varied before the lexical decision task. A mediated priming effect was found with limited testing, consistent with mediated retrieval as proposed by both the working memory mediation model and the mediator effectiveness hypothesis, but not after extended testing, consistent with direct retrieval as proposed by the direct access model.
The international literature shows that in 40-50% of the cases, homicides-suicides involving children under the age of 10 are committed by mothers. Here, we report some results on homicides-suicides, in the mother-child relationship, occurred in Italy between 1992 and 2010. We examined 36 cases of filicide-suicide mothers by consulting the archives of RAI, daily newspapers, and the ANSA news agency. We focused on: mothers and children's age, place of residence, date and place of the murder, number and sex of the murdered children, and modality of the homicide-suicide. At the time of the homicide-suicide, the average age of mothers was 35.4. The number of children killed by each mother was one, except in seven cases. All the women had underestimated psychopathological disorders and only six women were regularly treated. The dynamics and characteristics of the events were much more similar to suicides than homicides, so we can consider them as &quot;extensive suicides.&quot;
We describe a case of an acute lethal poisoning with hydrocarbons resulting from massive accidental inhalation of gasoline vapors. The victim, a 50-year-old man was found unconscious inside a control room for the transport of unleaded fuel. Complete autopsy was performed and showed evidence of congestion and edema of the lungs. Toxicological investigation was therefore fundamental to confirm exposure to fumes of gasoline. Both venous and arterial blood showed high values of volatiles in particular for benzene (39.0 and 30.4g/mL, respectively), toluene (23.7 and 20.4g/mL), and xylene isomers (29.8 and 19.3g/mL). The relatively low values found in the lungs are consistent with the fact that the subject, during the rescue, underwent orotracheal intubation followed by resuscitation techniques, while the low concentrations for all substances found in urine and kidneys could point to a death that occurred in a very short time after first contact with the fumes of gasoline.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common age-related neurodegenerative disorder. Dopamine neurotoxicity, mediated through oxidative stress, is implicated in disease pathogenesis. The vesicular monoamine transporter-2 (VMAT2) transfers dopamine into synaptic vesicles preparing it for exocytotic release and preventing its cytoplasmic oxidation. DJ-1 mutations cause early-onset familial PD. Here, we show that DJ-1 protects dopaminergic neurons and controls the vesicular sequestration of dopamine by upregulating VMAT2. Overexpression of DJ-1 protected cells against dopamine toxicity, reduced oxidative stress, and increased VMAT2 expression and function. Reduced DJ-1 levels resulted in opposite effects. Dopamine vesicular sequestration and its release upon depolarization were dependent on DJ-1 levels. Transcriptional regulation of VMAT2 expression by DJ-1 was confirmed by chromatin immunoprecipitation assay. The results were corroborated in vivo using 6-hydroxydopamine hemiparkinsonian mouse model and transgenic DJ-1 knockout mice. Our experimental data point to a novel potential protective function of DJ-1, which could be used as a therapeutic tool.

This study investigated the influence of spirituality on depression in Western Australian women. Two hundred and seventy-eight women (aged 18-78) completed an online survey about factors relating to daily spiritual experience, depression, anxiety and social support. Significant correlations were found between spiritual experience and depression, whereby individuals who reported higher spirituality also reported higher rates of social support and lower levels of depression. A major finding from this study was that spirituality accounted for a significant proportion of variance in depressive symptoms beyond the mediating effect of social support.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the presence of amyloid- (A)-containing plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and neuronal loss in the brain. Inflammatory changes, typified by activated microglia, particularly adjacent to A plaques, are also a characteristic of the disease, but it is unclear whether these contribute to the pathogenesis of AD or are a consequence of the progressive neurodegenerative processes. Furthermore, the factors that drive the inflammation and neurodegeneration remain poorly understood. CNS-infiltrating T cells play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis, but their role in the progression of AD is still unclear. In this study, we examined the role of A-specific T cells on A accumulation in transgenic mice that overexpress amyloid precursor protein and presenilin 1 (APP/PS1). We found significant infiltration of T cells in the brains of APP/PS1 mice, and a proportion of these cells secreted IFN- or IL-17. A-specific CD4 T cells generated by immunization with A and a TLR agonist and polarized in vitro to Th1-, Th2-, or IL-17-producing CD4(+) T cells, were adoptively transferred to APP/PS1 mice at 6 to 7 mo of age. Assessment of animals 5 wk later revealed that Th1 cells, but not Th2 or IL-17-producing CD4(+) T cells, increased microglial activation and A deposition, and that these changes were associated with impaired cognitive function. The effects of Th1 cells were attenuated by treatment of the APP/PS1 mice with an anti-IFN- Ab. Our study suggests that release of IFN- from infiltrating Th1 cells significantly accelerates markers of diseases in an animal model of AD.

MPS encompasses a group of rare lysosomal storage disorders that are associated with the accumulation of glycosaminoglycans (GAG) in organs and tissues. This accumulation can lead to the progressive development of a variety of clinical manifestations. Ear, nose, throat (ENT) and respiratory problems are very common in patients with MPS and are often among the first symptoms to appear. Typical features of MPS include upper and lower airway obstruction and restrictive pulmonary disease, which can lead to chronic rhinosinusitis or chronic ear infections, recurrent upper and lower respiratory tract infections, obstructive sleep apnoea, impaired exercise tolerance, and respiratory failure. This review provides a detailed overview of the ENT and respiratory manifestations that can occur in patients with MPS and discusses the issues related to their evaluation and management.
Social communication involves influencing what other people think and feel about themselves. We use the term conative theory of mind (ToM) to refer to communicative interactions involving one person trying to influence the mental and emotional state of another, paradigmatic examples of which are irony and empathy. This study reports how children with traumatic brain injury (TBI) understand ironic criticism and empathic praise, on a task requiring them to identify speaker belief and intention for direct conative speech acts involving literal truth, and indirect speech acts involving either ironic criticism or empathic praise. Participants were 71 children in the chronic state of a single TBI and 57 age- and gender-matched children with orthopedic injuries (OI). Group differences emerged on indirect speech acts involving conation (i.e., irony and empathy), but not on structurally and linguistically identical direct speech acts, suggesting specific deficits in this aspect of social cognition in school-age children with TBI. Deficits in children with mild-moderate TBI were less widespread and more selective than those of children with more severe injuries. Deficits in understanding the social, conative function of indirect speech acts like irony and empathy have widespread and deep implications for social function in children with TBI.
Logopenic progressive aphasia (LPA) is a form of primary progressive aphasia (PPA) characterized by hesitant speech with marked impairment in naming and repetition. LPA is associated with brain atrophy in the left temporal and inferior parietal cortices and is predominantly associated with Alzheimers disease (AD) pathology. In contrast to LPA, typical AD is commonly associated with episodic memory disturbance and bilateral medial temporal lobe atrophy. Recent evidence suggests verbal short-term memory is more impaired than visuospatial short-term memory in LPA. This study investigated verbal and visuospatial short-term memory in 12 LPA and 12 AD patients matched for disease severity, and in 12 age- and education-matched healthy controls. Overall, both patient groups showed significantly reduced verbal and visuospatial spans compared with controls. In addition, LPA patients performed significantly worse than AD patients on both forward and backward conditions of the Digit Span task. In contrast, no difference was present between patient groups on either version of the Spatial Span task. Importantly, LPA patients showed better visuospatial than verbal span whereas AD patients and controls did not differ across modality. This study demonstrates the specificity of the short-term memory disturbance in LPA, which arises from a breakdown of the phonological system.
The development of positron emission tomography radioligands for the GABAA /benzodiazepine receptor complex (GABAA receptor) labeled with (11) C and (18) F is examined. The review covers labeling strategies as well as brief biological evaluations of radioligands. In addition, we assess the special considerations that must be taken during a development program for radioligands targeting the GABAA receptor and explore some of the challenges that lie ahead.
Serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission plays a key modulatory role in the brain. This system is critical for pathophysiological processes and many drug treatments for brain disorders interact with its 14 subtypes of receptors. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a unique tool for the study of the living brain in translational studies from animal models to patients in neurology or psychiatry. This short review is intended to cover the current status of PET radioligands used for imaging human brain 5-HT receptors. Here, we describe the available PET radioligands for the 5-HT1A , 5-HT1B , 5-HT2A , 5-HT4 and 5-HT6 receptors. Finally, we highlight the future challenges for a functional PET imaging of serotonin receptors, including the research towards specific PET radiotracers for yet unexplored serotonin receptors, the need of radiotracers for endogenous serotonin level measurement and the contribution of agonist radiotracers for functional imaging of 5-HT neurotransmission.
Triple-quantum filtering has been suggested as a mechanism to differentiate signals from different physiological compartments. However, the filtering method is sensitive to static field inhomogeneities because different coherence pathways may interfere destructively. Previously suggested methods employed additional phase-cycles to separately acquire pathways. Whilst this removes the signal dropouts, it reduces the signal-to-noise per unit time. In this work we suggest the use of a phase-rotation scheme to simultaneously acquire all coherence pathways and then separate them via Fourier transform. Hence the method yields single-, double- and triple-quantum filtered images. The phase-rotation requires a minimum of 36 instead of six cycling steps. However, destructive interference is circumvented whilst maintaining full signal-to-noise efficiency for all coherences.

In response to public outrage stemming from exposs of animal abuse in research laboratories, the US Congress in 1985 mandated Institutional Animal Care and Use Committees (IACUCs) to oversee animal use at institutions receiving federal grants. IACUCs were enjoined to respect public concern about the treatment of animals in research, but they were not specifically instructed whether or not to perform ethical cost-benefit analyses of animal research protocols that IACUCs have chosen, with approval contingent upon a balancing of animal pain and suffering against a reasonable expectation of resultant human benefit. IACUCs have chosen not to make such ethical judgments but, rather, restrict themselves to an advisory role, often tweaking the details of animal-use protocols, but eventually approving all of them. This disinclination by IACUCs to take a broader ethical view of their authority and responsibilities may reflect a membership composition highly skewed towards animal researchers themselves (67%) and institutional veterinarians (15%), both with vested interests in continuing animal research. The resultant ethical monoculture may impair IACUC's ability to meet public concern for laboratory animal welfare. Psychological research has established that unconscious bias affects us all, that deliberations among the like-minded lead to adapting extremist positions, and that groupthink blinds organisations to alternatives that might be obvious to outsiders. Taken together, skewed IACUC membership composition and psychological research insights into unconscious bias and groupthink suggest that an infusion of ethical diversity by increasing the percentage of institutionally unaffiliated members on IACUCs would broaden their ethical perspectives and enable them to better address public concerns about laboratory animal welfare.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the antihyperglycemic and protective potential of crocin, a pharmacologically active constituent of Crocus sativus L., in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats. Rats were administered crocin intraperitoneally at doses of 15, 30, and 60 mg/kg of body weight for 6 weeks. The levels of thiobarbituric acid reactive substance (TBARS) and total thiol (SH) groups were measured in the liver and kidney at the end of 6 weeks. Under our experimental conditions, crocin at a dose of 60 mg/kg was found to significantly reduce the blood glucose level in diabetic animals. In addition, there was a significant increase in TBARS levels and decreased total thiol concentrations in the liver and kidney of diabetic animals. Crocin, at doses of 30 and 60 mg/kg, appears to exert an antioxidative activity demonstrated by a lowering of lipid peroxidation levels in these organs. In conclusion, our findings suggest that crocin has the hypoglycemic and antioxidative properties in streptozotocin-induced diabetes and it may be useful in the management of diabetic patients.

Retinal and choroidal vascular diseases constitute the most common causes of moderate and severe vision loss in developed countries. They can be divided into retinal vascular diseases, in which there is leakage and/or neovascularization (NV) from retinal vessels, and subretinal NV, in which new vessels grow into the normally avascular outer retina and subretinal space. The first category of diseases includes diabetic retinopathy, retinal vein occlusions, and retinopathy of prematurity, and the second category includes neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD), ocular histoplasmosis, pathologic myopia, and other related diseases. Retinal hypoxia is a key feature of the first category of diseases resulting in elevated levels of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) which stimulates expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), platelet-derived growth factor-B (PDGF-B), placental growth factor, stromal-derived growth factor-1 and their receptors, as well as other hypoxia-regulated gene products such as angiopoietin-2. Although hypoxia has not been demonstrated as part of the second category of diseases, HIF-1 is elevated and thus the same group of hypoxia-regulated gene products plays a role. Clinical trials have shown that VEGF antagonists provide major benefits for patients with subretinal NV due to AMD and even greater benefits are seen by combining antagonists of VEGF and PDGF-B. It is likely that addition of antagonists of other agents listed above will be tested in the future. Other appealing strategies are to directly target HIF-1 or to use gene transfer to express endogenous or engineered anti-angiogenic proteins. While substantial progress has been made, the future looks even brighter for patients with retinal and choroidal vascular diseases.
For the functional bacterial surface display of active enzyme of multimeric form, which is generally impossible due to molecular assembly of the monomer subunit subsequent to the secretion of displayed target protein outside the cell, a new surface display system based on B. subtilis spore was developed. Using cotE and cotG of B. subtilis as anchoring motives, beta-galactosidase, which is active in tetrameric form, was functionally displayed on the surface of B. subtilis spore. The surface localization of beta-galactosidase was verified by Miller assay of purified spore, protease accessibility test of purified spore, and flow cytometric analysis of spore expressing beta-galactosidase. While B. subtilis spore wall integrity, examined by lysozyme and heat treatments, was affected by the incorporation of CotE-LacZ fusion protein, it was not affected by the incorporation of CotG-lacZ fusion. Heat stability of displayed protein was similar with that of free enzyme.
Insight may vary across psychosis risk syndrome (PRS), first-episode schizophrenia (FES), or multiepisode schizophrenia (MES). We aimed to compare insight domains (awareness, relabeling, and compliance) in PRS, FES, and MES groups and to correlate scores with psychopathological measures. Insight was assessed in 48 (14 PRS, 16 FES, and 18 MES) patients using the Schedule for the Assessment of Insight-Expanded Version. We conducted psychopathological assessment through the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS). In the whole group, the BPRS psychosis factor correlated with all insight domains. In the MES group, the more severe the anxiety/depression, the higher the insight score in the symptom relabeling domain. Insight did not differ significantly between the PRS, FES, and MES groups. Our results suggest that, across different phases of the illness, lack of insight behaves like a trait and is modulated by positive symptom severity. Anxiety and depression may be associated with increased insight in patients with chronic schizophrenia.
Type B monoamine oxidase (MAO-B) is proposed to be involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, through oxidative stress and synthesis of neurotoxins. MAO-B inhibitors, rasagiline and selegiline [(-)deprenyl], protect neuronal cells by direct intervention in mitochondrial death signaling and induction of pro-survival Bcl-2 and neurotrophic factors. Recently, type A MAO (MAO-A) was found to mediate the induction of anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 by rasagiline, whereas MAO-A increases in neuronal death and also serves as a target of neurotoxins. These controversial results suggest that MAO-A may play a decisive role in neuronal survival and death. This paper reports that rasagiline and selegiline increased the mRNA, protein and catalytic activity of MAO-A in SH-SY5Y cells. Silencing MAO-A expression with small interfering (si)RNA suppressed rasagiline-dependent MAO-A expression, but MAO-B overexpression in SH-SY5Y cells did not affect, suggesting that MAO-A, not MAO-B, might be associated with MAO-A upregulation. Rasagiline reduced R1, a MAO-A specific repressor, but selegiline did not. Mithramycin-A, an inhibitor of Sp1 binding, and actinomycin-D, a transcriptional inhibitor, reduced the rasagiline-dependent upregulation of MAO-A mRNA, indicating that rasagiline induced MAO-A transcriptionally through R1-Sp1 pathway, whereas selegiline by another non-defined pathway. These results are discussed in relation to the role of MAO-A and these MAO-B inhibitors in neuronal death and neuroprotection.
G7 is enriched in striatum and forms a heterotrimeric complex with Golf /G, which is coupled to D1 receptor (D1R). Here, we attempted to characterize the pathophysiological, neurochemical, and pharmacological features of mice deficient of G7 gene. G7 knockout mice exhibited age-dependent deficiency in rotarod behavior and increased dystonia-like clasping reflex without loss of striatal neurons. The neurochemical basis for the motor manifestations using immunoblot analysis revealed increased levels of D1R, ChAT and NMDA receptor subunits (NR1 and NR2B) concurrent with decreased levels of D2R and Golf , possibly because of the secondary changes of decreased Golf /G7-mediated D1R transmission. These behavioral and neurochemical changes are closely related to those observed in Huntington's disease (HD) human subjects and HD model mice. Taking advantage of the finding of D2R down-regulation in G7 knockout mice and the dopamine-mediated synergistic relationship in the control of locomotion between D2R-striatopallidal and D1R-stritonigral neurons, we hypothesized that D2-agonist pramipexole would reverse behavioral dyskinesia caused by defective D1R/Golf signaling. Indeed, the rotarod deficiency and clasping reflex were reversed by pramipexole treatment under chronic administration. These findings suggest that G7 knockout mice could be a new type of movement disorders, including HD and useful for the evaluation of therapeutic candidates.
The N-type voltage-gated calcium channel (CaV2.2) is a clinically endorsed target in chronic pain treatments. As directly targeting the channel can lead to multiple adverse side effects, targeting modulators of CaV2.2 may prove better. We previously identified ST1-104, a short peptide from the collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2), which disrupted the CaV2.2-CRMP2 interaction and suppressed a model of HIV-related neuropathy induced by anti-retroviral therapy but not traumatic neuropathy. Here, we report ST2-104 -a peptide wherein the cell-penetrating TAT motif has been supplanted with a homopolyarginine motif, which dose-dependently inhibits the CaV2.2-CRMP2 interaction and inhibits depolarization-evoked Ca(2+) influx in sensory neurons. Ca(2+) influx via activation of vanilloid receptors is not affected by either peptide. Systemic administration of ST2-104 does not affect thermal or tactile nociceptive behavioral changes. Importantly, ST2-104 transiently reduces persistent mechanical hypersensitivity induced by systemic administration of the anti-retroviral drug 2',3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC) and following tibial nerve injury (TNI). Possible mechanistic explanations for the broader efficacy of ST2-104 are discussed.
High levels of resistance to spinosad, a macrocyclic lactone insecticide, have been reported previously in western flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis, an economically important insect pest of vegetables, fruit and ornamental crops. We have cloned the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) 6 subunit from F. occidentalis (Fo6) and compared the nucleotide sequence of Fo6 from susceptible and spinosad-resistant insect populations (MLFOM and R1S respectively). A single nucleotide change has been identified in Fo6, resulting in the replacement of a glycine (G) residue in susceptible insects with a glutamic acid (E) in resistant insects. The resistance-associated mutation (G275E) is predicted to lie at the top of the third -helical transmembrane domain of Fo6. Although there is no direct evidence identifying the location of the spinosad binding site, the analogous amino acid in the C. elegans glutamate-gated chloride channel lies in close proximity (4.4 ) to the known binding site of ivermectin, another macrocyclic lactone pesticide. The functional consequences of the resistance-associated mutation have been examined in the human nAChR 7 subunit. Introduction of an analogous (A272E) mutation in 7 abolishes the modulatory effects of spinosad whilst having no significant effect upon activation by acetylcholine, consistent with spinosad having an allosteric mechanism of action.
This issue of the Journal of Neuroimmune Pharmacology is dedicated, in part, to the proceedings of the First Insubria Autumn School on Neuroimmunopharmacology, organized by Marco Cosentino, Georges J.M. Maestroni, Franca Marino (University of Insubria, Varese, Italy), Manfred Schedlowsky (University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany) and Rainer H. Straub (University of Regensburg, Germany), which took place in November 2011 in Varese, Italy. The School was attended by 50 graduate students and postdoctoral fellows in medical and biological disciplines from 16 european universities and 25 faculties/departments.
Astrocytes, the most numerous glial cell in the brain, have multiple functions and are key to maintenance of homeostasis in the central nervous system. Microglia are the resident immunocompetent cells in the brain and share several functions with macrophages, including their phagocytic ability. Indeed microglia are the resident phagocytes in the brain and express numerous cell surface proteins which act to enable receptor-mediated phagocytosis. However recent evidence suggests that astrocytes express some genes which permit phagocytosis of phosphatidylserine-decorated cells and this probably explains sporadic reports in the literature which suggest that astrocytes become phagocytic following brain trauma. Here we examined the potential of astrocytes to phagocytose fluorescently-labelled latex beads and amyloid- (A) and report that they competently engulf both in a manner that relies on actin polymerization since it was inhibited by cytochalasin D. The data indicate that incubation of cultured astrocytes or microglia with A increased phagocytosis and markers of activation of both cell types. A was found to markedly increase expression of the putative A-binding receptors CD36 and CD47 in astrocytes, while it decreased expression of the receptor for advanced glycation endproducts (RAGE). It is demonstrated that blocking these receptors using a neutralizing antibody attenuated A-induced phagocytosis of latex beads by astrocytes. Interestingly blocking these receptors also decreased uptake of beads even in the absence of A. Here we demonstrate that astrocytes are competent phagocytes and are capable of engulfing A.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common age-related neurodegenerative disorder typified by tremor, rigidity, akinesia and postural instability due in part to the loss of dopamine within the nigrostriatal system. The pathologic features of this disorder include the loss of substantia nigra dopamine neurons and attendant striatal terminals, the presence of large protein-rich neuronal inclusions containing fibrillar -synuclein and increased numbers of activated microglia. Evidence suggests that both misfolded -synuclein and oxidative stress play an important role in the pathogenesis of sporadic PD. Here we review evidence that -synuclein activates glia inducing inflammation and that Nrf2-directed phase-II antioxidant enzymes play an important role in PD. We also provide new evidence that the expression of antioxidant enzymes regulated in part by Nrf2 is increased in a mouse model of -synuclein overexpression. We show that misfolded -synuclein directly activates microglia inducing the production and release of the proinflammatory cytokine, TNF-, and increasing antioxidant enzyme expression. Importantly, we demonstrate that the precise structure of -synuclein is important for induction of this proinflammatory pathway. This complex -synuclein-directed glial response highlights the importance of protein misfolding, oxidative stress and inflammation in PD and represents a potential locus for the development of novel therapeutics focused on induction of the Nrf2-directed antioxidant pathway and inhibition of protein misfolding.
Chemokines are chemotactic cytokines that were originally discovered as promoters of leukocyte proliferation and mobility. In recent years, however, evidence has demonstrated constitutive expression of chemokines and chemokine receptors in a variety of cells in the central and peripheral nervous system and has proposed a role for chemokines in neurodegenerative diseases characterized by inflammation and microglia proliferation. In addition, chemokine receptors, and in particular CXCR4 and CCR5, mediate human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV) infection of immunocompetent cells as well as microglia. Subsequently, HIV, through a variety of mechanisms, promotes synapto-dendritic alterations and neuronal loss that ultimately lead to motor and cognitive impairments. These events are accompanied by microglia activation. Nevertheless, a microglia-mediated mechanism of neuronal degeneration alone cannot fully explain some of the pathological features of HIV infected brain such as synaptic simplification. In this article, we present evidence that some of the microglia responses to HIV are beneficial and neuroprotective. These include the ability of microglia to release anti-inflammatory cytokines, to remove dying cells and to promote axonal sprouting.


In this review, we summarize advances in knowledge derived from the application of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based techniques to patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) published in the Journal of Neurology over the past year. We highlight the pivotal role played by conventional MRI techniques for a correct and early diagnosis of this condition and the exclusion of alternative disorders. Advanced MR methods have contributed to demonstrating how damage to selected brain structures is related to disease clinical manifestations, thus contributing to overcome the well-known &quot;clinical-radiological&quot; paradox of MS, and ameliorating the understanding of the mechanisms underlying the accumulation of irreversible disability. Finally, we discuss the use of MRI to assess treatment efficacy and optimize therapeutic approaches in this condition.
Spinocerebellar ataxias (SCA) are a genetically heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative diseases characterised by progressive cerebellar ataxia, dysarthria and oculomotor abnormalities. Recently the prodynorphin (PDYN) gene was identified as the cause of SCA23 in four Dutch families displaying progressive gait and limb ataxia. In this study we aimed to assess the frequency of PDYN gene defects and extend the phenotype of SCA23 patients in a UK ataxia series and also in patients from Greece, Egypt and India. We sequenced the coding and flanking intronic regions of the PDYN gene in a total of 852 ataxia patients, of which 356 were sporadic with no family history, 320 had a positive family history, and 176 probands had a positive family history and at least one family member had also been investigated. We also analysed 190 patients with multiple-system atrophy with cerebellar features (MSA-C), a phenocopy of SCA23. We identified a novel putative pathogenic heterozygous missense variant in the PDYN gene in an early onset SCA patient with an unknown family history. This variant was not present in 570 matched British controls. This is the first study to screen for SCA23 in UK patients and confirms that PDYN mutations are a very rare cause of spinocerebellar ataxia, accounting for~0.1% of ataxia cases but perhaps with a higher frequency in pure cerebellar ataxia. Given the rarity of PDYN mutations, front-line diagnostic evaluation of UK familial and early onset pure spinocerebellar ataxia patients should focus on other known ataxia genes.
Essential tremor (ET) is one of the most common movement disorders of adults, characterized by postural and kinetic tremor. It often causes embarrassment and more rarely serious disability, requiring treatment. To assess the current state of knowledge on ET therapy and produce recommendations based on the analysis of evidence the authors reviewed the literature regarding pharmacologic and surgical therapies, providing a quality assessment of the studies and the strength of recommendations for each treatment. A committee of experts selected clinical-based questions to guide the search. A systematic literature review was performed to identify all the studies conducted on patients with ET published until September 2010. Articles were classified according to GRADE evidence profile, a system for grading the quality of evidence and the strength of recommendation based on the quality of the studies. The quality of evidence was often rated as &quot;low&quot; or &quot;very low&quot; for the studies analyzed. Propranolol, long-acting propranolol, primidone, and topiramate are recommended as first-line therapy, with restrictions for their side effects. Arotinolol, sotalol, ICI 118.551 and LI 32.468 (experimental drugs), zonisamide, gabapentin, alprazolam, clozapine, and olanzapine are recommended as a second-line treatment. Botulinum toxin type A and thalamic deep-brain stimulation are recommended for refractory ET. The results highlight the need of well-designed direct comparison trials aimed at evaluating relative effectiveness and safety of the drugs currently used in clinical practice. Furthermore, additional controlled clinical trials are required to define other possible treatment strategies for ameliorating the management of ET.




Similar functions of L1, a cell adhesion molecule, and the cytokine neuregulin 1 (Nrg1) have been suggested in tumorigenesis and the promotion of metastasis. We studied the relationships of Nrg1 and L1 expression in human gliomas. Using immunofluorescence staining on a human glioma tissue microarray, we found a positive correlation between levels of L1 and Nrg1 or Nrg1 expression; expression tended to increase with increasing WHO (World Health Organization) tumor grade. L1 was also found to colocalize with either Nrg1 isoform. In cultures of U87-MG human glioblastoma and human U251 and SHG-44 glioma cells, the base levels of full-length L1 expression were increased by the 2 Nrg1 molecules in the nanomolar range, and Nrg1 siRNA downregulated full-length L1 expression in these tumor cell lines. U87-MG cells treated with either Nrg1 isoform also showed enhanced migration when compared with that treated with vehicle control. In addition, administration of either lapatinib (a dual inhibitor of both the epidermal growth factor receptor and ErbB-2) or erlotinib (an inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptor) in combination with either Nrg1 or Nrg1 inhibited the L1 expression elicited by these cytokines in U87-MG cells. Together, our data suggest that Nrg1 regulates L1 expression in gliomas, and that Nrg1 may contribute to malignancy by upregulating the L1 expression in glioblastoma cells, thereby enhancing their migration.
The input, processing, and output characteristics of inhibitory interneurons help shape information flow through layers 2/3 of the visual cortex. Parvalbumin (PV)-positive interneurons modulate and synchronize the gain and dynamic responsiveness of pyramidal neurons. To define the diversity of PV interneurons in layers 2/3 of the developing visual cortex, we characterized their passive and active membrane properties. Using Ward's and k-means multidimensional clustering, we identified four PV interneuron subgroups. The most notable difference between the subgroups was their firing patterns in response to moderate stimuli just above rheobase. Two subgroups showed regular and continuous firing at all stimulus intensities above rheobase. The difference between these two continuously firing subgroups was that one fired at much higher frequencies and transitioned into this high-frequency firing rate at or near rheobase. The two other subgroups showed irregular, stuttering firing patterns just above rheobase. Both of these subgroups typically transitioned to regular and continuous firing at intense stimulations, but one of these subgroups, the strongly stuttering subgroup, showed irregular firing across a wider range of stimulus intensities and firing frequencies. The four subgroups also differed in excitatory synaptic input, providing independent support for the classification of subgroups. The subgroups of PV interneurons identified here would respond differently to inputs of varying intensity and frequency, generating diverse patterns of PV inhibition in the developing neural circuit.
In hippocampal pyramidal neurons, voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels open in response to action potentials. This results in elevations in the intracellular concentration of Ca(2+) that are maximal in the proximal apical dendrites and decrease rapidly with distance from the soma. The control of these action potential-evoked Ca(2+) elevations is critical for the regulation of hippocampal neuronal activity. As part of Ca(2+) signaling microdomains, small-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (SK) channels have been shown to modulate the amplitude and duration of intracellular Ca(2+) signals by feedback regulation of synaptically activated Ca(2+) sources in small distal dendrites and dendritic spines, thus affecting synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. In this study, we investigated the effect of the activation of SK channels on Ca(2+) transients specifically induced by action potentials in the proximal processes of hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Our results, obtained by using selective SK channel blockers and enhancers, show that SK channels act in a feedback loop, in which their activation by Ca(2+) entering mainly through L-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels leads to a reduction in the subsequent dendritic influx of Ca(2+). This underscores a new role of SK channels in the proximal apical dendrite of hippocampal pyramidal neurons.
Chronic global N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) blockade leads to changes in glutamatergic transmission. The impact of more subunit-selective NMDAR inhibition on glutamatergic circuits remains incomplete. To this end, organotypic hippocampal slice cultures were treated for 17-21 days with the high-affinity competitive antagonist d-aminophosphonovaleric acid (d-APV), the allosteric GluN2B-selective antagonist Ro25-6981, or the newer competitive GluN2A-preferring antagonist NVP-AAM077. Electrophysiological recordings from dentate granule cells revealed that chronic d-APV treatment increased, whereas chronic Ro25-6981 reduced, epileptiform event-associated large-amplitude spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSC) compared with all other treatment groups, consistent with opposite effects on glutamatergic networks. Presynaptically, chronic d-APV or Ro25-6981 increased small-amplitude sEPSCs and AMPA/kainate receptor-mediated miniature EPSCs (mEPSCAMPAR) frequency. Chronic d-APV or NVP-AAM077, but not Ro25-6981, increased putative vGlut1-positive glutamatergic synapses. Postsynaptically, chronic d-APV dramatically increased mEPSCAMPAR and profoundly decreased NMDAR-mediated mEPSC (mEPSCNMDAR) measures, suggesting increased AMPAR/NMDAR ratio. Ro25-6981 decreased mEPSCAMPAR charge transfer and modestly decreased mEPSCNMDAR frequency and decay, suggesting downward scaling of AMPAR and NMDAR function without dramatically altering AMPAR/NMDAR ratio. Extrasynaptically, threo--benzyloxyaspartate-enhanced &quot;tonic&quot; NMDAR current amplitude and activated channel number estimates were significantly increased only by chronic Ro25-6981. For intrinsic excitability, action potential threshold was slightly more negative following chronic d-APV or NVP-AAM077. The predominant pro-excitatory effects of chronic d-APV are consistent with increased glutamatergic transmission and network excitability. The minor effects of chronic NVP-AAM077 on action potential threshold and synapse number are consistent with minimal effects on circuit function. The chronic Ro25-6981-induced downward scaling of synaptic AMPAR and NMDAR function is consistent with decreased postsynaptic glutamate receptors and reduced network excitability.
The production of movement sequences requires an accurate control of muscle activation in time. How does the nervous system encode the precise timing of these movements? One possibility is that the timing of movements (temporal sequence) is an emergent property of the dynamic state of the nervous system and therefore intimately linked to a representation of the sequence of muscle commands (ordinal sequence). Alternatively, timing may be represented independently of the motor effectors and would be transferable to a new ordinal sequence. Some studies have found that a learned temporal sequence cannot be transferred to a new ordinal sequence, thus arguing for an integrated representation. Others have observed temporal transfer across movement sequences and have advocated an independent representation of temporal information. Using a modified serial reaction time task, we tested alternative models of the representation of temporal structure and the interaction between the output of separate ordinal and temporal sequence representations. Temporal transfer depended on whether a novel ordinal sequence was fixed within each test block. Our results confirm the presence of an independent representation of temporal structure and advocate a nonlinear multiplicative neural interaction of temporal and ordinal signals in the production of movements.
In animals, the recovery of motoneuron excitability in the months following a complete spinal cord injury is mediated, in part, by increases in constitutive serotonin (5-HT2) and norepinephrine (1) receptor activity, which facilitates the reactivation of calcium-mediated persistent inward currents (CaPICs) without the ligands serotonin and norepinephrine below the injury. In this study we sought evidence for a similar role of constitutive monoamine receptor activity in the development of spasticity in human spinal cord injury. In chronically injured participants with partially preserved sensory and motor function, the serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram facilitated long-lasting reflex responses (spasms) previously shown to be mediated by CaPICs, suggesting that in incomplete spinal cord injury, functional descending sources of monoamines are present to activate monoamine receptors below the lesion. However, in participants with motor or motor/sensory complete injuries, the inverse agonist cyproheptadine, which blocks both ligand and constitutive 5-HT2/1 receptor activity, decreased long-lasting reflexes, whereas the neutral antagonist chlorpromazine, which only blocks ligand activation of these receptors, had no effect. When tested in noninjured control participants having functional descending sources of monoamines, chlorpromazine was effective in reducing CaPIC-mediated motor unit activity. On the basis of these combined results, it appears that in severe spinal cord injury, facilitation of persistent inward currents and muscle spasms is mainly mediated by the activation of constitutive 5-HT2 and 1 receptor activity. Drugs that more selectively block these constitutively active monoamine receptors may provide better oral control of spasticity, especially in motor complete spinal cord injury where reducing motoneuron excitability is the primary goal.
Activation of receptors by serotonin (5-HT1) and norepinephrine (2) on primary afferent terminals and excitatory interneurons reduces transmission in spinal sensory pathways. Loss or reduction of descending sources of serotonin and norepinephrine after spinal cord injury (SCI) and the subsequent reduction of 5-HT1/2 receptor activity contributes, in part, to the emergence of excessive motoneuron activation from sensory afferent pathways and the uncontrolled triggering of persistent inward currents that depolarize motoneurons during muscle spasms. We tested in a double-blind, placebo-controlled study whether facilitating 5-HT1B/D receptors with the agonist zolmitriptan reduces the sensory activation of motoneurons during an H-reflex in both noninjured control and spinal cord-injured participants. In both groups zolmitriptan, but not placebo, reduced the size of the maximum soleus H-reflex with a peak decrease to 59% (noninjured) and 62% (SCI) of predrug values. In SCI participants we also examined the effects of zolmitriptan on the cutaneomuscular reflex evoked in tibialis anterior from stimulation to the medial arch of the foot. Zolmitriptan, but not placebo, reduced the long-latency, polysynaptic component of the cutaneomuscular reflex (first 200 ms of reflex) by 50%. This ultimately reduced the triggering of the long-lasting component of the reflex (500 ms poststimulation to end of reflex) known to be mediated by persistent inward currents in the motoneuron. These results demonstrate that facilitation of 5-HT1B/D receptors reduces sensory transmission in both monosynaptic and polysynaptic reflex pathways to ultimately reduce long-lasting reflexes (spasms) after SCI.
Interpreting population responses in the primary visual cortex (V1) remains a challenge especially with the advent of techniques measuring activations of large cortical areas simultaneously with high precision. For successful interpretation, a quantitatively precise model prediction is of great importance. In this study, we investigate how accurate a spatiotemporal filter (STF) model predicts average response profiles to coherently drifting random dot motion obtained by optical imaging of intrinsic signals in V1 of anesthetized macaques. We establish that orientation difference maps, obtained by subtracting orthogonal axis-of-motion, invert with increasing drift speeds, consistent with the motion streak effect. Consistent with perception, the speed at which the map inverts (the critical speed) depends on cortical eccentricity and systematically increases from foveal to parafoveal. We report that critical speeds and response maps to drifting motion are excellently reproduced by the STF model. Our study thus suggests that the STF model is quantitatively accurate enough to be used as a first model of choice for interpreting responses obtained with intrinsic imaging methods in V1. We show further that this good quantitative correspondence opens the possibility to infer otherwise not easily accessible population receptive field properties from responses to complex stimuli, such as drifting random dot motions.
The concept of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) concerns a population of older individuals at high risk of developing probable Alzheimer's disease (AD). Impairments of the cognitive component of Theory of Mind (ToM), that is the inference about other people's beliefs, have been well documented in AD; on the contrary, controversial findings have been reported on the affective component of ToM (inference about other's feelings), a process mainly based on medial portions of the prefrontal cortex. The current study aimed at evaluating the affective component of ToM in aMCI subjects. Twenty aMCI subjects and 20 age-matched healthy controls (HC) underwent a standard neuropsychological assessment and the assessment of affective ToM with the full 36-item version of reading the mind in the eyes (RME). Although aMCI subjects had formal impaired performances only in memory tasks, HC outperformed aMCI subjects in several cognitive tasks, including also the RME (mean RME scores 21.7  3.0 vs. 17.0  3.8%; 60.3% of correct answers vs. 47.2%). The lower RME performance of aMCI patients provides the first empirical evidence that aMCI may be associated with difficulties in tasks of affective ToM, in accordance with recent findings of early difficulties of aMCI patients in other processes that are mainly dependent on the medial prefrontal cortex, such as reversal learning and decision making under ambiguity. Findings of the current study need further empirical confirmation in larger samples of aMCI patients and also the investigation of other MCI subtypes is needed.
In cancellation tasks, patients with unilateral spatial neglect typically fail to mark targets within the side of the sheet contralateral to the side of the lesion (contralesional). Moreover, they can show a perseverative behaviour, which consists in repeatedly cancelling stimuli, mainly in the side of the display ipsilateral to the side of the lesion (ipsilesional). We investigated in 13 right-brain-damaged patients with left spatial neglect and perseverative behaviour whether and how different densities of horizontal targets modulated omission and perseverative errors. We found that the density of targets modulated the patients' distribution of neglect (area of omission), but not its extent, as indexed by the percentage of omissions. Specifically, the area of omissions tightened when target density increased leftwards. On the other hand, target density did not affect the distribution of perseverative behaviour (area of perseveration), as well as its extent, as indexed by the percentage of perseverations. Correlation analyses showed that both the extent and the distribution of omissions were positively correlated to clinical measures of spatial neglect. Conversely, perseverations did not show such a correlation. These findings support the view that two different pathological mechanisms might be involved in left spatial neglect and in ipsilesional perseverative behaviour.
Cuprizone intoxication is one of several animal models used to study demyelination and remyelination. Early treatment protocols exposed mice to cuprizone for 6 weeks to induce demyelination; however, more recent reports have varied exposure times from 4 to 5 weeks. The goal of this study was to determine the minimal exposure of cuprizone in C57BL/6 mice that would induce a pathology of robust demyelination and gliosis similar to that described for a 5- or 6-week treatment. We found that an abbreviated insult of only 2 weeks of exposure to cuprizone induced significant demyelination 3 weeks later (5-week time point) but was somewhat variable. Three weeks of exposure to cuprizone produced extensive demyelination by week 5, equivalent to that observed with 5 weeks of exposure. The depletion of mature oligodendrocytes, as well as microglia and astrocyte accumulation, showed trends similar to those with 5-week exposure to cuprizone. Once mature oligodendrocytes are perturbed after a 3-week treatment, the progression to demyelination occurs without requiring further exposure. Furthermore, the early removal of cuprizone did not accelerate remyelination, suggesting that other sequences of events must follow before repair can occur. Thus, a short, &quot;hit and run&quot; CNS insult triggers a cascade of events leading to demyelination 2-3 weeks later.
The dysmyelinating mouse mutant quaking (qk) is thought to be a model of schizophrenia based on diminution of CNS myelin (Andreone et al., 2007) and downregulation of the Qk gene (Haroutunian et al., 2006) in the brains of schizophrenic patients. The purpose of this study was to identify specific structural defects in the qk mouse CNS that could compromise physiologic function and that in humans might account for some of the cognitive defects characteristic of schizophrenia. Ultrastructural analysis of qk mouse CNS myelinated fibers shows abnormalities in nodal, internodal, and paranodal regions, including marked variation in myelin thickness among neighboring fibers, spotty disruption of paranodal junctions, abnormal distribution of nodal and paranodal ion channel complexes, generalized thinning and incompactness of myelin, and on many axonal profiles complete absence of myelin. These structural defects are likely to cause abnormalities in conduction velocity, synchrony of activation, temporal ordering of signals, and other physiological parameters. We conclude that the structural abnormalities described are likely to be responsible for significant functional impairment both in the qk mouse CNS and in the human CNS with comparable myelin pathology.


Traumatic brain injury (TBI) may involve diverse injury mechanisms (e.g., focal impact vs. diffuse impact loading). Putative therapies developed in TBI models featuring a single injury mechanism may fail in clinical trials if the model does not fully replicate multiple injury subtypes, which may occur concomitantly in a given patient. We report development and characterization of a mixed contusion/concussion TBI model in mice using controlled cortical impact (CCI; 0.6 mm depth, 6 m/sec) and a closed head injury (CHI) model at one of two levels of injury (53 vs. 83 g weight drop from 66 in). Compared with CCI or CHI alone, sequential CCI-CHI produced additive effects on loss of consciousness (p&lt;0.001), acute cell death (p&lt;0.05), and 12-day lesion size (p&lt;0.05) but not brain edema or 48-h contusion volume. Additive effects of CHI and CCI on post-injury motor (p&lt;0.05) and cognitive (p&lt;0.005) impairment were observed with sequential CCI-CHI (83 g). The data suggest that concussive forces, which in isolation do not induce histopathological damage, exacerbate histopathology and functional outcome after cerebral contusion. Sequential CHI-CCI may model complex injury mechanisms that occur in some patients with TBI and may prove useful for testing putative therapies.
Abstract The molecular processes involved in axonal regeneration after traumatic brain injury (TBI) are still not fully understood. In this study, we have established a novel in vitro injury model of TBI based on microcontact printing (CP) that enables close-up investigations of injured neurons. The model is also suitable for quantitative measurements of axonal outgrowth, making it a useful tool in the studies of basic mechanisms behind axonal regeneration. Cortical neurons from mouse embryos are cultured on CP cover-slips for 8 days, and the neurons are then injured in a precise manner using a thin plastic tip that does not affect the CP pattern of extracellular matrix proteins. By close-up time-lapse experiments and immunostainings, we show that the neurons have a tremendous capacity to regenerate their neurites after injury. The cut induces growth cone formation, and the regenerating axons strictly follow the CP pattern. Moreover, by using the injury model, we demonstrate that hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) decreases axonal regeneration after injury without affecting the neurons' ability to form growth cones. Co-culture with glial cells does not rescue the axonal regeneration, indicating that the mechanism by which H2O2 affects axonal regeneration differ from its cytotoxic effect.

Lenalidomide, an immunomodulatory drug used in myeloma therapy, has been claimed to be less neurotoxic than thalidomide, but evidence is still weak. We prospectively assessed lenalidomide safety in myeloma patients to evaluate whether it would induce or modify a previously ensued chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN). Thirty consecutive patients (17 men, mean age 63.79.4) previously treated with bortezomib and/or thalidomide and starting on lenalidomide (25mg/day for 21-day cycles) for relapsed or refractory myeloma were assessed at baseline, 6, and 12months from the beginning of lenalidomide with Total Neuropathy Score clinical version (TNSc), Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status, and numeric rating scale (NRS) for pain. TNSc &gt;2 was considered significant for CIPN. TNSc changes of at least 4 points from baseline value were considered clinically relevant. At baseline 16 of the 30 patients (53.3%) had CIPN (mean TNSc 5.8, range 3-15). After 6months, 13 patients were unchanged, 1 improved, and 2 worsened. After 12months the patient who had improved persisted stable, and the two who had worsened returned to TNSc baseline value. The 14 patients without CIPN at baseline did not develop neuropathy. NRS and ECOG performance status persisted unchanged. Our results demonstrate lenalidomide safety and very low neurotoxicity also in patients with pre-existing CIPN treated for 1year.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic joint disorder whose principal symptom is chronic pain. Current analgesics are inadequate and the mechanisms contributing to this pain are poorly understood but likely to include both local joint changes and central consequences. These studies used monoamine receptor agents combined with behavioral studies and single-unit dorsal horn recordings to examine whether descending noradrenergic and serotonergic inhibitions are altered in the monosodium iodoacetate model of OA pain, and whether increasing these inhibitions with the serotonin/noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor milnacipran can attenuate the attendant hypersensitivity. Early and late in the course of this model, milnacipran (s.c.) reduced behavioral hypersensitivity, and inhibited evoked responses from sensitized dorsal horn neurons. In nave animals and the early, but not late, phase of the model, spinal administration of the (2)-adrenoceptor antagonist atipamezole fully reversed this neuronal inhibition, whereas atipamezole administered alone revealed that endogenous noradrenergic inhibition was reduced in the late phase. Blocking spinal 5-hydroxytryptamine-7 receptors with (2R)-1-[(3-hydroxyphenyl)sulfonyl]-2-[2-(4-methyl-1-piperidinyl)ethyl]pyrrolidine hydrochloride suggested that the effects of milnacipran in the late phase were partly mediated by these receptors, and that descending serotonergic inhibition was increased in this phase. An opioidergic mechanism behind the effects of milnacipran was indicated by a partial reversal of these effects with naloxone. These studies demonstrate antinociceptive effects for milnacipran in a model of OA pain, whose effects come via descending serotonergic and noradrenergic, as well as opioidergic, pathways. Variations in the activity of these pathways over the course of this model may contribute to the presence of behavioral hypersensitivity and determine through which endogenous systems milnacipran exerts its effects.
The assessment of voluntary activation of human muscles usually depends on measurement of the size of the twitch produced by an interpolated nerve or cortical stimulus. In many forms of fatiguing exercise the superimposed twitch increases and thus voluntary activation appears to decline. This is termed 'central' fatigue. Recent studies on isolated mouse muscle suggest that a peripheral mechanism related to intracellular calcium sensitivity increases interpolated twitches. To test whether this problem developed with human voluntary contractions we delivered maximal tetanic stimulation to the ulnar nerve (60 s at physiological motoneuronal frequencies, 30 and 15 Hz). During the tetani (at 30 Hz) in which the force declined by 42%, the absolute size of the twitches evoked by interpolated stimuli (delivered regularly or only in the last second of the tetanus) diminished progressively to less than 1%. With stimulation at 30 Hz, there was also a marked reduction in size and area of the interpolated compound muscle action potential (M wave). With a 15 Hz tetanus, a progressive decline in the interpolated twitch force also occurred (to 10%) but did so before the area of the interpolated M wave diminished. These results indicate that the increase in interpolated twitch size predicted from the mouse studies does not occur. Diminution in superimposed twitches occurred whether or not the M wave indicated marked impairment at sarcolemmal/t-tubular levels. Consequently, the increase in superimposed twitch, which is used to denote central fatigue in human fatiguing exercise, is likely to reflect low volitional drive to high-threshold motor units, which stop firing or are discharging at low frequencies.
The response to mechanical stimuli, i.e., tensegrity, plays an important role in regulating cell physiological and pathophysiological function, and the mechanical silencing observed in intensive care unit (ICU) patients leads to a severe and specific muscle wasting condition. This study aims to unravel the underlying mechanisms and the effects of passive mechanical loading on skeletal muscle mass and function at the gene, protein and cellular levels. A unique experimental rat ICU model has been used allowing long-term (weeks) time-resolved analyses of the effects of standardized unilateral passive mechanical loading on skeletal muscle size and function and underlying mechanisms. Results show that passive mechanical loading alleviated the muscle wasting and the loss of force-generation associated with the ICU intervention, resulting in a doubling of the functional capacity of the loaded versus the unloaded muscles after a 2-week ICU intervention. We demonstrate that the improved maintenance of muscle mass and function is probably a consequence of a reduced oxidative stress revealed by lower levels of carbonylated proteins, and a reduced loss of the molecular motor protein myosin. A complex temporal gene expression pattern, delineated by microarray analysis, was observed with loading-induced changes in transcript levels of sarcomeric proteins, muscle developmental processes, stress response, extracellular matrix/cell adhesion proteins and metabolism. Thus, the results from this study show that passive mechanical loading alleviates the severe negative consequences on muscle size and function associated with the mechanical silencing in ICU patients, strongly supporting early and intense physical therapy in immobilized ICU patients.
In adult rats (4-9 months), chronic nicotine infusion increases the basal level of acetylcholine (ACh) release in the cerebral cortex and enhances responses of cortical ACh release and cortical vasodilation elicited by nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM) stimulation. In the present study, we examined whether these effects of nicotine are detected in aged rats. Aged rats (27-30 months) received sustained subcutaneous nicotine (100 g/kg/h) or saline for 14 days. Under urethane anesthesia, ACh release and regional blood flow in the parietal cortex were measured. The basal level of ACh release in the cerebral cortex was not changed by chronic nicotine. In addition, the magnitudes of ACh release and vasodilation by NBM stimulation were similar between the saline-treated and nicotine-treated groups. The lack of an effect of chronic nicotine in aged rats may be due to a decrease in nicotinic receptors in the cerebral cortex during aging (Nordberg et al., J Neurosci Res 31:103-111, 1992).
Elevated peripheral levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6) are common findings in schizophrenia and depression. However, previous studies that measured cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) IL-6 levels in these disorders reported controversial results. The present study examined whether CSF IL-6 levels are altered in patients with schizophrenia and those with depression. Lumbar punctures were performed in 32 patients with schizophrenia, 30 with major depressive disorder (MDD), and 35 healthy controls. Serum samples were simultaneously collected from all subjects in the patient groups and from 32 of the control group. CSF and serum IL-6 levels were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Both the patients with schizophrenia and MDD had significantly higher CSF IL-6 levels compared to the controls (schizophrenia: P = 0.0027; MDD: P = 0.012). IL-6 levels were significantly higher in the CSF than in the serum. No significant correlation was observed between CSF and serum IL-6 levels. The present findings suggest that IL-6 of central origin is associated with the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and MDD, although confounding effect of smoking status can not be entirely excluded.
Approximately 50% of mood disorder patients exhibit hypercortisolism. Cortisol normally exerts its functions in the CNS via binding to mineralocorticoid receptors (MR) and glucocorticoid receptors (GR). Both MR and GR are highly expressed in human hippocampus and several studies have suggested that alterations in the levels of MR or GR within this region may contribute to the dysregulation in major depressive disorder (MDD). Studies have also shown functional heterogeneity across the hippocampus, with posterior hippocampus preferentially involved in cognitive processes and anterior hippocampus involved in stress, emotion and affect. We therefore hypothesize that GR and MR expression in hippocampus of control and MDD patients may vary not only with disease, but also with regional specificity along the anterior/posterior axis. Student's t-test analysis showed decreased expression of MR in the MDD group compared to controls in the anterior, but not the posterior hippocampus, with no significant changes in GR. Linear regression analysis showed a marked difference in MR:GR correlation between suicide and non-suicide patients in the posterior hippocampus. Our findings are consistent with previous reports of hippocampal corticosteroid receptor dysregulation in mood disorders, but extend those findings by analysis across the anterior/posterior axis of the hippocampus. A decrease in MR in the anterior but not posterior hippocampus of MDD patients emphasizes the important functional role of the anterior hippocampus in neuroendocrine regulation in humans.
Most of the commonly used antidepressants block monoamine reuptake transporters to enhance serotonergic or noradrenergic neurotransmission. Effects besides or downstream of monoamine reuptake inhibition are poorly understood and yet presumably important for the drugs' mode of action. In the present study we aimed at identifying hippocampal cellular pathway alterations in DBA/2 mice using paroxetine as a representative Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor (SSRI). Furthermore we identified biomarker candidates for the assessment of antidepressant treatment effects in plasma. Hippocampal protein levels were compared between chronic paroxetine- and vehicle-treated animals using in vivo(15)N metabolic labeling combined with mass spectrometry. We also studied the time course of metabolite level changes in hippocampus and plasma using a targeted polar metabolomics profiling platform. In silico pathway analyses revealed profound alterations related to hippocampal energy metabolism. Glycolytic metabolite levels acutely increased while Krebs cycle metabolite levels decreased upon chronic treatment. Changes in energy metabolism were influenced by altered glycogen metabolism rather than by altered glycolytic or Krebs cycle enzyme levels. Increased energy levels were reflected by an increased ATP/ADP ratio and by increased ratios of high-to-low energy purines and pyrimidines. In the course of our analyses we also identified myo-inositol as a biomarker candidate for the assessment of antidepressant treatment effects in the periphery. This study defines the cellular response to paroxetine treatment at the proteome and metabolome levels in the hippocampus of DBA/2 mice and suggests novel SSRI modes of action that warrant consideration in antidepressant development efforts.
Neuroimaging consistently reveals smaller hippocampal volume in recurrent or chronic major depressive disorder (MDD). The underlying cellular correlates of the smaller volume are not clearly known. Postmortem tissues from 17 pairs of depressed and control subjects were obtained at autopsy, and informant-based retrospective psychiatric assessment was performed. Formalin-fixed left temporal lobes were sectioned (40 m), stained for Nissl substance, and every 60th section selected throughout the entire hippocampus. Total volume of the hippocampal formation was calculated, and total numbers of pyramidal neurons (in hippocampal fields CA1, CA2/3, hilus), dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells, and glial cells were estimated stereologically. While hippocampal volume in all MDD subjects was not significantly smaller versus control subjects, in recurrent/chronic MDD, total volume decreased with duration of depressive illness (r = -0.696, p &lt; 0.026). There was no significant difference between MDD and controls in total number or density of pyramidal neurons/granule cells or glial cells in CA1, CA2/3, hilus, or DG. However, CA1 pyramidal neuron density increased with duration of illness in recurrent/chronic MDD (r = 0.840, p &lt; 0.002). Granule cell (r = 0.971, p &lt; 0.002) and glial cell numbers (r = 0.980, p &lt; 0.001) increased with age in those taking antidepressant medication (n = 6). Increasing DG granule cell and glial cell numbers with age in antidepressant-treated subjects may reflect proliferative effects of antidepressant medications. Decreasing total volume and increasing CA1 pyramidal neuron density with duration of illness in recurrent/chronic MDD lends support to the neuropil hypothesis of MDD.

There is evidence that subjective responses to psychoactive drugs are related to personality traits. Here, we extend previous findings by examining personality measures in relation to acute responses to d-amphetamine (AMPH) in a large sample of healthy volunteers. Healthy adults (n=286) completed the Multidimensional Personality Questionnaire Brief Form (MPQ-BF) and participated in four sessions during which they received oral AMPH (0, 5, 10, 20 mg), under double-blind conditions. Subjective responses to the drug were measured using the Profile of Mood States, Addiction Research Center Inventory, and Drug Effects Questionnaire. Drug responses were reduced via principal components analysis to three higher-order factors ('Euphoria', 'Arousal', 'Dysphoria'). Participants were rank ordered on selected MPQ-BF scales; the top and bottom third on each trait were compared on the drug response factors. High trait physical fearlessness was significantly associated with greater amphetamine-related Arousal, and high trait reward sensitivity was significantly associated with greater Euphoria. In addition, high trait impulsivity was significantly associated with greater Arousal and Euphoria. These results provide further evidence that individual differences in the subjective effects of AMPH are partially explained by differences in personality, and are consistent with the idea that both personality and responses to stimulants depend upon shared neurochemical systems.
Radiation therapies are commonly used for malignant or metastatic brain tumors for curative and palliative use. The radiation-induced neurotoxicity includes both parenchymal and vascular damage. Here we report the case of a 43-year-old woman who developed Multiple sclerosis (MS) 9 months after she underwent the last session of radiotherapy for the diagnosed meningioma. Conventional doses of radiation might trigger MS.
Epilepsy is more common in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) than in the general population, occurring in 2-3% of patients. Convulsions may be either tonic-clonic in nature or partial complex. In these individuals, seizures most likely result from lesions present in the cerebral cortex and subcortical white matter. A Jacksonian seizure is a type of simple partial seizure characterized by abnormal movements that begin in one group of muscles and progress to adjacent groups of muscles. We describe a case of Jacksonian seizure as the relapse symptom of MS. Focal motor seizures of this patient have been observed before and presumably marking the clinical onset or during acute bouts of MS. In this case, Jacksonian seizures appear to be the sign of a flare of MS, while the majority of seizures had been reported occur unrelated to MS relapses.














Using buprenorphine as a medication to treat opioid dependence is becoming more prevalent as illicit opiate use increases. Identifying the characteristics of opiate dependent individuals best suited to benefit from buprenorphine would improve guidelines for its administration. This study evaluates baseline and treatment participation variables for predicting positive response to short-term stabilization with buprenorphine. Data include demographic, drug use, and other variables collected from participants undergoing stabilization over a 4-week period before being tapered off buprenorphine in a short-term detoxification process. Outcome variables include opioid use and retention. Logistic regression results indicate several characteristics associated with opioid use at the end of the stabilization period. These include being older, having no criminal history, and less opiate use. Criminal activity and opioid use in the last 30 days were significantly associated with shorter treatment stays. The benefits of identifying individual characteristics that may predict treatment response are discussed.
Brief interventions are effective for problem drinking and reductions are known to occur in association with screening and assessment. The present study sought to assess, among participants (N=202) in a clinical trial, how much change occurred between baseline assessment and a one-session brief intervention (S1), and the predictors of early change. The primary focus was on changes in the Beck Depression Inventory Fast Screen scores and alcohol consumption (standard drinks per week) prior to random allocation to nine further sessions addressing either depression, alcohol, or both problems. There were large and clinically significant reductions between baseline and S1, with the strongest predictors being baseline scores in the relevant domain and change in the other domain. Client engagement was also predictive of early depression changes. Monitoring progress in both domains from first contact, and provision of empathic care, followed by brief intervention appear to be useful for this high prevalence comorbidity.
To examine the developmental timing of first drug treatment and its associations with 10-year drug use patterns, pooled data (N=1318) from four longitudinal studies conducted in California was used to compare individuals first treated during young adulthood (26%) to those first treated at an older age. Treatment timing was associated with particular participant characteristics and experiences. Matched data showed that most people in both age groups exhibited a low level of drug use after first treatment, albeit fewer who were first treated during young adulthood maintained a low drug use level over time. Receipt of more drug treatment over 10 years was associated with maintenance of low drug use levels among those first treated as young adults, but not among those first treated as older adults. Developmental timing of first drug treatment interacts with subsequent treatment experiences in ways that impact the course of drug use.
Microbial infections of the central nervous system (CNS) are often associated with local accumulation of antibody (Ab)-secreting cells (ASC). By providing a source of Ab at the site of infection, CNS-localized ASC play a critical role in acute viral control and in preventing viral recrudescence. Following coronavirus-induced encephalomyelitis, the CNS accumulation of ASC is chemokine (C-X-C motif) receptor 3 (CXCR3) dependent. This study demonstrates that CNS-expressed CXCR3 ligand CXCL10 is the critical chemokine regulating ASC accumulation. Impaired ASC recruitment in CXCL10(-/-) but not CXCL9(-/-) mice was consistent with reduced CNS IgG and -light chain mRNA and virus-specific Ab. Moreover, the few ASC recruited to the CNS in CXCL10(-/-) mice were confined to the vasculature, distinct from the parenchymal localization in wild-type and CXCL9(-/-) mice. However, neither CXCL9 nor CXCL10 deficiency diminished neutralizing serum Ab, supporting a direct role for CXCL10 in ASC migration. T cell accumulation, localization, and effector functions were also not affected in either CXCL9(-/-) or CXCL10(-/-) mice, consistent with similar control of infectious virus. There was also no evidence for dysregulation of chemokines or cytokines involved in ASC regulation. The distinct roles of CXCL9 and CXCL10 in ASC accumulation rather coincided with their differential localization. While CXCL10 was predominantly expressed by astrocytes, CXCL9 expression was confined to the vasculature/perivascular spaces. These results suggest that CXCL10 is critical for two phases: recruitment of ASC to the CNS vasculature and ASC entry into the CNS parenchyma.


The aim of this study was to investigate food intake, serum leptin levels, and leptin mRNA expression during the sexual cycle in rats. Female Wistar-Imamichi rats aged 8-10 weeks were used in this experiment. Food intake was measured during the light and dark phases (light on at 07:00 and off at 19:00) of the 4-day estrous cycle in female rats. Serum leptin levels were measured by ELISA, and leptin mRNA expression levels were analyzed using real-time PCR on diestrous- and proestrous-stage rats. Our results revealed that during the sexual cycle, food intake was significantly higher in the dark phase compared with the light phase. Food intake in proestrous females was significantly lower in the light and dark phases compared with the other groups. Serum leptin concentrations were significantly higher in both phases in proestrous rats compared with diestrous rats. There was a significant increase in leptin mRNA expression in adipose tissue during the proestrous period compared with the diestrous period. These findings suggest that increased leptin mRNA expression and serum leptin levels, which are induced by estrogen during the proestrous stage, may play a role in regulating appetitive behavior.
Two decades after the discovery that 20% of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) cases were linked to mutations in the superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) gene, a substantial proportion of the remainder of cases of familial ALS have now been traced to an expansion of the intronic hexanucleotide repeat sequence in C9orf72. This breakthrough provides an opportunity to re-evaluate longstanding concepts regarding the cause and natural history of ALS, coming soon after the pathological unification of ALS with frontotemporal dementia through a shared pathological signature of cytoplasmic inclusions of the ubiquitinated protein TDP-43. However, with profound clinical, prognostic, neuropathological, and now genetic heterogeneity, the concept of ALS as one disease appears increasingly untenable. This background calls for the development of a more sophisticated taxonomy, and an appreciation of ALS as the breakdown of a wider network rather than a discrete vulnerable population of specialised motor neurons. Identification of C9orf72 repeat expansions in patients without a family history of ALS challenges the traditional division between familial and sporadic disease. By contrast, the 90% of apparently sporadic cases and incomplete penetrance of several genes linked to familial cases suggest that at least some forms of ALS arise from the interplay of multiple genes, poorly understood developmental, environmental, and age-related factors, as well as stochastic events.

Head motion artifacts are a major problem in functional MRI that limit its use in neuroscience research and clinical settings. Real-time scan-plane correction by optical tracking has been shown to correct slice misalignment and nonlinear spin-history artifacts; however, residual artifacts due to dynamic magnetic field nonuniformity may remain in the data. A recently developed correction technique, Phase Labeling for Additional Coordinate Encoding, can correct for absolute geometric distortion using only the complex image data from two echo planar images with slightly shifted k-space trajectories. An approach is presented that integrates Phase Labeling for Additional Coordinate Encoding into a real-time scan-plane update system by optical tracking, applied to a tissue-equivalent phantom undergoing complex motion and an functional MRI finger tapping experiment with overt head motion to induce dynamic field nonuniformity. Experiments suggest that such integrated volume-by-volume corrections are very effective at artifact suppression, with potential to expand functional MRI applications.
Velocity-selective (VS) arterial spin labeling is a promising method for measuring perfusion in areas of slow or collateral flow by eliminating the bolus arrival delay associated with other spin labeling techniques. However, B(0) and B(1) inhomogeneities and eddy currents during the VS preparation hinder accurate quantification of perfusion with VS arterial spin labeling. In this study, it is demonstrated through simulations and experiments in healthy volunteers that eddy currents cause erroneous tagging of static tissue. Consequently, mean gray matter perfusion is overestimated by up to a factor of 2, depending on the VS preparation used. A novel eight-segment B(1) insensitive rotation VS preparation is proposed to reduce eddy current effects while maintaining the B(0) and B(1) insensitivity of previous preparations. Compared to two previous VS preparations, the eight-segment B(1) insensitive rotation is the most robust to eddy currents and should improve the quality and reliability of VS arterial spin labeling measurements in future studies.
Although tension-type headache is ubiquitous, only a relatively small percentage of the population has these headaches occurring with sufficient frequency and severity to cause them to seek out medical attention. This small group, however, may have substantial impact from their disease on productivity and quality of life. Assessment of the headaches includes assessment for other headache disorders that may overlap it, such as a chronic migraine. Additionally, coexisting diseases that may contribute to the process, such as mood disorders and mechanical disorders of the spine and neck, require investigation. Treatment is optimized by appropriate use of acute medications and preventive treatments that may include drugs in the antidepressant classes along with nonpharmacologic modalities and other alternative treatments ranging from biofeedback to manual therapy to the use of botulinum toxin type A injections.
We hypothesize the interaction between antipsychotic medications and regulation of extracellular glutamate which has gone largely unnoticed in the medical community has significant clinical importance. Typical antipsychotic medications such as haloperidol elevate extracellular glutamate because they exert antagonist effects on dopamine D(2) and serotonin 5HT(1A) receptors. In contrast, serotonin 5HT(2A) receptor antagonists inhibit glutamate release. Glutamate is potentially excitotoxic through effects on ionotropic receptor channels and may exert synergistic effects with other neurotoxic pathways. In contrast to typical antipsychotic drugs, pharmacological properties of atypical antipsychotic medications at dopamine D(2), serotonin 5HT(1A) and 5HT(2A) receptors limit extracellular glutamate and may theoretically be neuroprotective in certain clinical settings. In this review we discuss three common clinical settings in which typical antipsychotic medications may potentiate neurotoxicity by elevating extracellular glutamate. The most common clinical setting, hypoglycemia during combined use of antipsychotic medications and insulin, presents a theoretical risk for 35 million diabetic patients worldwide using antipsychotic medications. Antipsychotic medication treatment during hypoxic episodes in the intensive care unit and following traumatic brain injury are two other common clinical settings in which this interaction poses theoretical risk. Further study is needed to test hypothesized risk mechanisms, and determine clinical and epidemiological consequences of these exposures.
Creatine (Cr) is essential in safeguarding ATP levels and in moving ATP from its production site (mitochondria) to the cytoplasmic regions where it is used. Moreover, it has effects unrelated to energy metabolism, such as free radical scavenging, antiapoptotic action, and protection against excitotoxicity. Recent research has studied Cr-derived compounds (Cr benzyl ester and phos-pho-Cr-magnesium complex) that reproduce the neuroprotective effects of Cr while better crossing the neuronal plasma membrane and, hopefully, the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Intracellular levels of Cr can be increased by incubation with Cr or some of its derivatives, and this increase is protective against anoxic or ischemic damage. A large amount of experimental evidence shows that pretreatment with Cr is capable of reducing the damage induced by ischemia or anoxia in both heart and brain, and that such treatment may also be useful even after stroke or myocardial infarction (MI) has already occurred. Cr has been safely administered to patients affected by several neurological diseases, yet it has never been tested in human brain ischemia, the condition where its rationale is strongest. Phosphocreatine (PCr) has been administered after human MI, where it proved to be safe and probably helpful. Cr should be tested in the prophylactic protection against human brain ischemia and either Cr or PCr should be further tested in MI. Moreover, Cr- or PCr-derived drugs should be developed in order to overcome these molecules' limitations in crossing the BBB and the cell plasma membrane.
Leigh syndrome is a mitochondrial disease with considerable clinical and genetic variation. We present a 16-year-old boy with Leigh-like syndrome and broad developmental retardation, parkinsonism and hypogonadism. Sequencing of the entire mitochondrial DNA from blood revealed the m.4296G&gt;A mutation in the MT-TI gene. The mutation was heteroplasmic with a 95% proportion of the mutant genome, while the proportion was 58% in the blood of the patient's clinically healthy mother. Our results suggest that m.4296G&gt;A is pathogenic in humans, and that the phenotype related to this change includes Leigh-like syndrome in adolescence with parkinsonism and hypogonadism, in addition to the previously reported early infantile Leigh syndrome.

Neuroinflammation in now established as an important factor in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). At various time points, astrocytes and microglia are markedly activated, either producing neuroprotective or pro-inflammatory molecules, which can decrease or increase the rate of primary motor neuron degeneration respectively. Recent research has shown that this neuroinflammatory component is affected by the peripheral immune system; T lymphocytes in particular are able to cross into the brain and spinal cord parenchyma, where they interact with resident microglia, either inducing them to adopt an M1 (cytotoxic) or M2 (protective) phenotype, depending on the stage of disease. Clearly understanding the changes that occur to allow the interaction between peripheral and central immune responses will be essential in any attempt to manipulate the disease process via neuroinflammatory mechanisms. However, our understanding of the endothelial changes, which facilitate the infiltration of peripheral immune cells into the brain and spinal cord, is still in its infancy. There are suggestions, though, of up-regulation of cellular adhesion molecules, which are able to arrest circulating leukocytes and facilitate diapedesis into the brain parenchyma. In addition, tight junction proteins appear to be down-regulated, leading to an increase in vascular permeability, an effect that is amplified by vascular damage late in the disease process. This review summarises our current knowledge regarding neuroinflammation, peripheral immune involvement, and endothelial changes in ALS. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Neuroinflammation in neurodegeneration and neurodysfunction'.
Smoking is the most important preventable cause of mortality and morbidity worldwide. This nicotine addiction is mediated through the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR), expressed on most neurons, and also many other organs in the body. Even within the ventral tegmental area (VTA), the key brain area responsible for the reinforcing properties of all drugs of abuse, nicotine acts on several different cell types and afferents. Identifying the precise action of nicotine on this microcircuit, in vivo, is important to understand reinforcement, and finally to develop efficient smoking cessation treatments. We used a novel lentiviral system to re-express exclusively high-affinity nAChRs on either dopaminergic (DAergic) or -aminobutyric acid-releasing (GABAergic) neurons, or both, in the VTA. Using in vivo electrophysiology, we show that, contrary to widely accepted models, the activation of GABA neurons in the VTA plays a crucial role in the control of nicotine-elicited DAergic activity. Our results demonstrate that both positive and negative motivational values are transmitted through the dopamine (DA) neuron, but that the concerted activity of DA and GABA systems is necessary for the reinforcing actions of nicotine through burst firing of DA neurons. This work identifies the GABAergic interneuron as a potential target for smoking cessation drug development.
Neurogenetics research has begun to advance our understanding of how genetic variation gives rise to individual differences in brain function, which, in turn, shapes behavior and risk for psychopathology. Despite these advancements, neurogenetics research is currently confronted by three major challenges: (1) conducting research on individual variables with small effects, (2) absence of detailed mechanisms, and (3) a need to translate findings toward greater clinical relevance. In this review, we showcase techniques and developments that address these challenges and highlight the benefits of a neurogenetics approach to understanding brain, behavior and psychopathology. To address the challenge of small effects, we explore approaches including incorporating the environment, modeling epistatic relationships and using multilocus profiles. To address the challenge of mechanism, we explore how non-human animal research, epigenetics research and genome-wide association studies can inform our mechanistic understanding of behaviorally relevant brain function. Finally, to address the challenge of clinical relevance, we examine how neurogenetics research can identify novel therapeutic targets and for whom treatments work best. By addressing these challenges, neurogenetics research is poised to exponentially increase our understanding of how genetic variation interacts with the environment to shape the brain, behavior and risk for psychopathology.
Polymorphic drug-metabolizing enzymes (DMEs) are responsible for the metabolism of the majority of psychotropic drugs. By explaining a large portion of variability in individual drug metabolism, pharmacogenetics offers a diagnostic tool in the burgeoning era of personalized medicine. This review updates existing evidence on the influence of pharmacogenetic variants on drug exposure and discusses the rationale for genetic testing in the clinical context. Dose adjustments based on pharmacogenetic knowledge are the first step to translate pharmacogenetics into clinical practice. However, also clinical factors, such as the consequences on toxicity and therapeutic failure, must be considered to provide clinical recommendations and assess the cost-effectiveness of pharmacogenetic treatment strategies. DME polymorphisms are relevant not only for clinical pharmacology and practice but also for research in psychiatry and neuroscience. Several DMEs, above all the cytochrome P (CYP) enzymes, are expressed in the brain, where they may contribute to the local biochemical homeostasis. Of particular interest is the possibility of DMEs playing a physiological role through their action on endogenous substrates, which may underlie the reported associations between genetic polymorphisms and cognitive function, personality and vulnerability to mental disorders. Neuroimaging studies have recently presented evidence of an effect of the CYP2D6 polymorphism on basic brain function. This review summarizes evidence on the effect of DME polymorphisms on brain function that adds to the well-known effects of DME polymorphisms on pharmacokinetics in explaining the range of phenotypes that are relevant to psychiatric practice.
Maternal separation (MS) is an early life stress model that induces permanent changes in the central nervous system, impairing hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and spatial working memory. There are compelling evidences for a role of hippocampal adenosine A(2A) receptors in stress-induced modifications related to cognition, thus opening a potential window for therapeutic intervention. Here, we submitted rats to MS and evaluated the long-lasting molecular, electrophysiological and behavioral impairments in adulthood. We then assessed the therapeutic potential of KW6002, a blocker of A(2A) receptors, in stress-impaired animals. We report that the blockade of A(2A) receptors was efficient in reverting the behavior, electrophysiological and morphological impairments induced by MS. In addition, this effect is associated with restoration of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA-axis) activity, as both the plasma corticosterone levels and hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor expression pattern returned to physiological-like status after the treatment. These results reveal the involvement of A(2A) receptors in the stress-associated impairments and directly in the stress response system by showing that the dysfunction of the HPA-axis as well as the long-lasting synaptic and behavioral effects of MS can be reverted by targeting adenosine A(2A) receptors. These findings provide a novel evidence for the use of adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists as potential therapy against psychopathologies.


A characteristic feature of primary cervical dystonia is the presence of &quot;sensory tricks&quot; as well as the impairment of temporal and spatial sensory discrimination on formal testing. The aim of the present study was to test whether the amount of improvement of abnormal head deviation due to a sensory trick is associated with different performance of temporal sensory discrimination in patients with cervical dystonia. We recruited 32 patients with cervical dystonia. Dystonia severity was assessed using the Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale. Patients were rated according to clinical improvement to a sensory trick and assigned to 1 of the following groups: (1) no improvement (n = 6), (2) partial improvement (n = 17), (3) complete improvement (n = 9). Temporal discrimination thresholds were assessed for visual, tactile, and visuotactile modalities. Disease duration was shorter (P = .026) and dystonia severity lower (P = .033) in the group with complete improvement to sensory tricks compared with the group with partial improvement to sensory tricks. A significant effect for group and modality and a significant interaction between group  modality were found, with lower visuotactile discrimination thresholds in the group with complete improvement to sensory tricks compared with the other groups. In primary cervical dystonia, a complete resolution of dystonia during a sensory trick is associated with better visuotactile discrimination and shorter disease duration compared with patients with less effective sensory tricks, which may reflect progressive loss of adaptive mechanisms to basal ganglia dysfunction.
Impulse control disorders (ICDs) are potentially serious side effects of dopamine agonist therapy in Parkinson's disease (PD), but prospective data are lacking about their incidence, time course, and risk factors. This work was a 4-year, prospective cohort study of outpatients with PD and no previous ICDs (N = 164). All subjects treated with a dopamine agonist during the study were followed longitudinally for new-onset ICDs. Baseline characteristics were compared in groups with (ICD+) and without (ICD-) subsequent ICDs. Forty-six subjects were treated with a dopamine agonist, including 25 who were newly treated and 21 who received ongoing dopamine agonist therapy. Of these 46 subjects, 18 (39.1%) developed new-onset ICDs. The timing of ICD onset varied from 3.0 to 114.0 months (median, 23.0) after initiation of dopamine agonist therapy. Baseline demographic characteristics were similar in ICD+ and ICD- groups. At baseline, ICD+ subjects had a greater prevalence of motor complications (61.1% versus 25.0%; P = 0.01) than ICD- subjects, despite comparable total dopaminergic medication usage in both groups (median, 150.0 versus 150.0 levodopa equivalents; P = 0.61). Compared with ICD- subjects, ICD+ subjects had a greater baseline prevalence of caffeine use (100% versus 66.7%; P = 0.007) and higher lifetime prevalence of cigarette smoking (44.4% versus 14.3%; P = 0.04). Peak dopamine agonist doses were higher in ICD+ than ICD- subjects (median 300.0 versus 165.0 L-dopa equivalents; P = 0.03), but cumulative dopamine agonist exposure was similar in both groups. In summary, the timing of new-onset ICDs in PD is highly variable. Risk factors include cigarette smoking, caffeine use, motor complications, and higher peak dopamine agonist dosage.


Stem cells (SCs) are undifferentiated cells responsible for the growth, homeostasis and repair of many tissues. The maintenance and survival of SCs is strongly influenced by several stimuli from the local microenvironment. The majority of signaling molecules interact with SCs at the nanoscale level. Therefore, scaffolds with surface nanostructures have potential applications for SCs and in the field of regenerative medicine. Although some strategies have already reached the field of cell biology, strategies based on modification at nanoscale level are new players in the fields of SCs and tissue regeneration. The introduction of the possibility to perform such modifications to these fields is probably due to increasing improvements in nanomaterials for biomedical applications, as well as new insights into SC biology. The aim of the present review is to exhibit the most recent applications of nanostructured materials that drive the commitment of adult SCs for potential clinical applications.
Depression induces structural and functional synaptic plasticity in brain reward circuits, although the mechanisms promoting these changes and their relevance to behavioral outcomes are unknown. Transcriptional profiling of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) for Rho GTPase-related genes, which are known regulators of synaptic structure, revealed a sustained reduction in RAS-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate 1 (Rac1) expression after chronic social defeat stress. This was associated with a repressive chromatin state surrounding the proximal promoter of Rac1. Inhibition of class 1 histone deacetylases (HDACs) with MS-275 rescued both the decrease in Rac1 transcription after social defeat stress and depression-related behavior, such as social avoidance. We found a similar repressive chromatin state surrounding the RAC1 promoter in the NAc of subjects with depression, which corresponded with reduced RAC1 transcription. Viral-mediated reduction of Rac1 expression or inhibition of Rac1 activity in the NAc increases social defeat-induced social avoidance and anhedonia in mice. Chronic social defeat stress induces the formation of stubby excitatory spines through a Rac1-dependent mechanism involving the redistribution of synaptic cofilin, an actin-severing protein downstream of Rac1. Overexpression of constitutively active Rac1 in the NAc of mice after chronic social defeat stress reverses depression-related behaviors and prunes stubby spines. Taken together, our data identify epigenetic regulation of RAC1 in the NAc as a disease mechanism in depression and reveal a functional role for Rac1 in rodents in regulating stress-related behaviors.
Hearing impairment is the most common sensory disorder, with congenital hearing impairment present in approximately 1 in 1,000 newborns. Hereditary deafness is often mediated by the improper development or degeneration of cochlear hair cells. Until now, it was not known whether such congenital failures could be mitigated by therapeutic intervention. Here we show that hearing and vestibular function can be rescued in a mouse model of human hereditary deafness. An antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) was used to correct defective pre-mRNA splicing of transcripts from the USH1C gene with the c.216G&gt;A mutation, which causes human Usher syndrome, the leading genetic cause of combined deafness and blindness. Treatment of neonatal mice with a single systemic dose of ASO partially corrects Ush1c c.216G&gt;A splicing, increases protein expression, improves stereocilia organization in the cochlea, and rescues cochlear hair cells, vestibular function and low-frequency hearing in mice. These effects were sustained for several months, providing evidence that congenital deafness can be effectively overcome by treatment early in development to correct gene expression and demonstrating the therapeutic potential of ASOs in the treatment of deafness.
Hearing impairment is the most common sensory disorder, with congenital hearing impairment present in approximately 1 in 1,000 newborns. Hereditary deafness is often mediated by the improper development or degeneration of cochlear hair cells. Until now, it was not known whether such congenital failures could be mitigated by therapeutic intervention. Here we show that hearing and vestibular function can be rescued in a mouse model of human hereditary deafness. An antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) was used to correct defective pre-mRNA splicing of transcripts from the USH1C gene with the c.216G&gt;A mutation, which causes human Usher syndrome, the leading genetic cause of combined deafness and blindness. Treatment of neonatal mice with a single systemic dose of ASO partially corrects Ush1c c.216G&gt;A splicing, increases protein expression, improves stereocilia organization in the cochlea, and rescues cochlear hair cells, vestibular function and low-frequency hearing in mice. These effects were sustained for several months, providing evidence that congenital deafness can be effectively overcome by treatment early in development to correct gene expression and demonstrating the therapeutic potential of ASOs in the treatment of deafness.
A stimulus predicting reinforcement can trigger emotional responses, such as arousal, and cognitive ones, such as increased attention toward the stimulus. Neuroscientists have long appreciated that the amygdala mediates spatially nonspecific emotional responses, but it remains unclear whether the amygdala links motivational and spatial representations. To test whether amygdala neurons encode spatial and motivational information, we presented reward-predictive cues in different spatial configurations to monkeys and assessed how these cues influenced spatial attention. Cue configuration and predicted reward magnitude modulated amygdala neural activity in a coordinated fashion. Moreover, fluctuations in activity were correlated with trial-to-trial variability in spatial attention. Thus, the amygdala integrates spatial and motivational information, which may influence the spatial allocation of cognitive resources. These results suggest that amygdala dysfunction may contribute to deficits in cognitive processes normally coordinated with emotional responses, such as the directing of attention toward the location of emotionally relevant stimuli.
The medial temporal lobes, prefrontal cortex and parts of parietal cortex form the neural underpinnings of episodic memory, which includes remembering both where and when an event occurred. However, the manner in which these three regions interact during retrieval of spatial and temporal context remains untested. We employed simultaneous electrocorticographical recordings across multilobular regions in patients undergoing seizure monitoring while they retrieved spatial and temporal context associated with an episode, and we used phase synchronization as a measure of network connectivity. Successful memory retrieval was characterized by greater global connectivity compared with incorrect retrieval, with the medial temporal lobe acting as a hub for these interactions. Spatial versus temporal context retrieval resulted in prominent differences in both the spectral and temporal patterns of network interactions. These results emphasize dynamic network interactions as being central to episodic memory retrieval, providing insight into how multiple contexts underlying a single event can be recreated in the same network.
The timing of puberty is controlled by many genes. The elements coordinating this process have not, however, been identified. Here we show that an epigenetic mechanism of transcriptional repression times the initiation of female puberty in rats. We identify silencers of the Polycomb group (PcG) as principal contributors to this mechanism and show that PcG proteins repress Kiss1, a puberty-activating gene. Hypothalamic expression of two key PcG genes, Eed and Cbx7, decreased and methylation of their promoters increased before puberty. Inhibiting DNA methylation blocked both events and resulted in pubertal failure. The pubertal increase in Kiss1 expression was accompanied by EED loss from the Kiss1 promoter and enrichment of histone H3 modifications associated with gene activation. Preventing the eviction of EED from the Kiss1 promoter disrupted pulsatile gonadotropin-releasing hormone release, delayed puberty and compromised fecundity. Our results identify epigenetic silencing as a mechanism underlying the neuroendocrine control of female puberty.
To determine how hippocampal backprojections influence spatially periodic firing in grid cells, we recorded neural activity in the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) of rats after temporary inactivation of the hippocampus. We report two major changes in entorhinal grid cells. First, hippocampal inactivation gradually and selectively extinguished the grid pattern. Second, the same grid cells that lost their grid fields acquired substantial tuning to the direction of the rat's head. This transition in firing properties was contingent on a drop in the average firing rate of the grid cells and could be replicated by the removal of an external excitatory drive in an attractor network model in which grid structure emerges by velocity-dependent translation of activity across a network with inhibitory connections. These results point to excitatory drive from the hippocampus, and possibly other regions, as one prerequisite for the formation and translocation of grid patterns in the MEC.
Grid cells in layer II of the medial entorhinal cortex form a principal component of the mammalian neural representation of space. The firing pattern of a single grid cell has been hypothesized to be generated through attractor dynamics in a network with a specific local connectivity including both excitatory and inhibitory connections. However, experimental evidence supporting the presence of such connectivity among grid cells in layer II is limited. Here we report recordings from more than 600 neuron pairs in rat entorhinal slices, demonstrating that stellate cells, the principal cell type in the layer II grid network, are mainly interconnected via inhibitory interneurons. Using a model attractor network, we demonstrate that stable grid firing can emerge from a simple recurrent inhibitory network. Our findings thus suggest that the observed inhibitory microcircuitry between stellate cells is sufficient to generate grid-cell firing patterns in layer II of the medial entorhinal cortex.
Hair bundles of the inner ear have a specialized structure and protein composition that underlies their sensitivity to mechanical stimulation. Using mass spectrometry, we identified and quantified &gt;1,100 proteins, present from a few to 400,000 copies per stereocilium, from purified chick bundles; 336 of these were significantly enriched in bundles. Bundle proteins that we detected have been shown to regulate cytoskeleton structure and dynamics, energy metabolism, phospholipid synthesis and cell signaling. Three-dimensional imaging using electron tomography allowed us to count the number of actin-actin cross-linkers and actin-membrane connectors; these values compared well to those obtained from mass spectrometry. Network analysis revealed several hub proteins, including RDX (radixin) and SLC9A3R2 (NHERF2), which interact with many bundle proteins and may perform functions essential for bundle structure and function. The quantitative mass spectrometry of bundle proteins reported here establishes a framework for future characterization of dynamic processes that shape bundle structure and function.
Functional dyspepsia refers to painful and nonpainful symptoms that are perceived to arise in the upper digestive tract but are not secondary to organic, systemic or metabolic diseases. The symptoms of this syndrome often overlap with those of GERD and IBS, making its management far from simple. If Helicobacter pylori infection is diagnosed in patients with functional dyspepsia, it should be treated. In patients with mild or intermittent symptoms, reassurance and lifestyle advice might be sufficient; in patients not responding to these measures, or in those with more severe symptoms, drug therapy should be considered. Both PPIs and prokinetics can be used in initial empirical pharmacotherapy based on symptom patterns--a PPI is more likely to be effective in the presence of retrosternal or epigastric burning or epigastric pain, whereas a prokinetic is more effective in dyspepsia with early satiation or postprandial fullness. Although combinations of PPIs and prokinetics might have additive symptomatic effects, single-drug therapy is initially preferable. Antidepressants or referral to a psychiatrist or psychotherapist can be considered in nonresponders and in those whose symptoms have a marked effect on daily functioning. Despite extensive research, functional dyspepsia treatment often remains unsatisfactory. Better characterization of dyspeptic subgroups and understanding of underlying mechanisms will enable treatment advances to be made in the future.
Subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) is a form of stroke that is associated with substantial morbidity, often as a result of cerebral ischaemia that occurs in the following days. These delayed deficits in blood flow have been traditionally attributed to cerebral vasospasm (the narrowing of large arteries), which can lead to cerebral infarction and poor neurological outcome. Data from recent studies, however, show that treatment of vasospasm in patients with SAH, using targeted medication, does not translate to better neurological outcomes, and argue against vasospasm being the sole cause of the delayed ischaemic complications. Cerebral autoregulation-a mechanism that maintains stability of cerebral blood flow in response to changes in cerebral perfusion pressure-has been reported to fail after SAH, often before vasospasm becomes apparent. Failure of autoregulation, therefore, has been implicated in development of delayed cerebral ischaemia. In this Review, we summarize current knowledge about the clinical effect of disturbed cerebral autoregulation following aneurysmal SAH, with emphasis on development of delayed cerebral ischaemia and clinical outcome, and provide a critical assessment of studies of cerebral autoregulation in SAH with respect to the method of blood-flow measurement. Better understanding of cerebral autoregulation following SAH could reveal mechanisms of blood-flow regulation that could be therapeutically targeted to improve patient outcome.
The specialized architecture of neurons necessitates unique modes of intracellular communication to allow for cell survival, the ability to detect and respond to injury and aspects of neuronal development, such as axon and dendrite growth, plasticity, and synapse and circuit formation. Many of these neuronal processes rely on signal transduction pathways and transcriptional programmes that are activated by retrograde signals originating from target-derived cues that act on distal axons. Here, we review the many functions of long-range distal axon-to-cell body signalling and discuss mechanisms of retrograde target-derived growth factor signalling.
The role of angiogenesis in the growth of lymphomas and survival of patients with leukemias and other hematological malignancies has become evident since 1994. Angiogenic factors, such as vascular endothelial growth factor and its receptors together with other tumor microenvironment components, including myelo-monocytic cell, mast cells, endothelial progenitor cells, and circulating endothelial cells, have been shown to be important in the progression and maintenance of lymphoproliferative disorders. In this review article, we present an overview of the literature focusing on the relationship between angiogenesis and disease progression and the recent advantages in the antiangiogenic treatment in human non-Hodgkin lymphomas.
Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are useful tools for learning nonlinear relationships between time-varying inputs and outputs with complex temporal dependencies. Recently developed algorithms have been successful at training RNNs to perform a wide variety of tasks, but the resulting networks have been treated as black boxes: their mechanism of operation remains unknown. Here we explore the hypothesis that fixed points, both stable and unstable, and the linearized dynamics around them, can reveal crucial aspects of how RNNs implement their computations. Further, we explore the utility of linearization in areas of phase space that are not true fixed points but merely points of very slow movement. We present a simple optimization technique that is applied to trained RNNs to find the fixed and slow points of their dynamics. Linearization around these slow regions can be used to explore, or reverse-engineer, the behavior of the RNN. We describe the technique, illustrate it using simple examples, and finally showcase it on three high-dimensional RNN examples: a 3-bit flip-flop device, an input-dependent sine wave generator, and a two-point moving average. In all cases, the mechanisms of trained networks could be inferred from the sets of fixed and slow points and the linearized dynamics around them.
Optimization models explain many aspects of biological goal-directed movements. However, most such models use a finite-horizon formulation, which requires a prefixed movement duration to define a cost function and solve the optimization problem. To predict movement duration, these models have to be run multiple times with different prefixed durations until an appropriate duration is found by trial and error. The constrained minimum time model directly predicts movement duration; however, it does not consider sensory feedback and is thus applicable only to open-loop movements. To address these problems, we analyzed and simulated an infinite-horizon optimal feedback control model, with linear plants, that contains both control-dependent and control-independent noise and optimizes steady-state accuracy and energetic costs per unit time. The model applies the steady-state estimator and controller continuously to guide an effector to, and keep it at, target position. As such, it integrates movement control and posture maintenance without artificially dividing them with a precise, prefixed time boundary. Movement pace is determined by the model parameters, and the duration is an emergent property with trial-to-trial variability. By considering the mean duration, we derived both the log and power forms of Fitts's law as different approximations of the model. Moreover, the model reproduces typically observed velocity profiles and occasional transient overshoots. For unbiased sensory feedback, the effector reaches the target without bias, in contrast to finite-horizon models that systematically undershoot target when energetic cost is considered. Finally, the model does not involve backward and forward sweeps in time, its stability is easily checked, and the same solution applies to movements of different initial conditions and distances. We argue that biological systems could use steady-state solutions as default control mechanisms and might seek additional optimization of transient costs when justified or demanded by task or context.
Recent studies suggest a variety of factors characterize substantia nigra neurons vulnerable to Parkinson's disease, including the transcription factors pituitary homeobox 3 (Pitx3) and orthodenticle homeobox 2 (Otx2) and the trophic factor receptor deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC), but there is limited information on their expression and localization in adult humans. Pitx3, Otx2, and DCC were immunohistochemically localized in the upper brainstem of adult humans and mice and protein expression assessed using relative intensity measures and online microarray data. Pitx3 was present and highly expressed in most dopamine neurons. Surprisingly, in our elderly subjects no Otx2 immunoreactivity was detected in dopamine neurons, although Otx2 gene expression was found in younger cases. Enhanced DCC gene expression occurred in the substantia nigra, and higher amounts of DCC protein characterized vulnerable ventral nigral dopamine neurons. Our data show that, at the age when Parkinson's disease typically occurs, there are no significant differences in the expression of transcription factors in brainstem dopamine neurons, but those most vulnerable to Parkinson's disease rely more on the trophic factor receptor DCC than other brainstem dopamine neurons.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) disrupts functional connectivity in distributed cortical networks. We analyzed changes in the S-estimator, a measure of multivariate intraregional synchronization, in electroencephalogram (EEG) source space in 15 mild AD patients versus 15 age-matched controls to evaluate its potential as a marker of AD progression. All participants underwent 2 clinical evaluations and 2 EEG recording sessions on diagnosis and after a year. The main effect of AD was hyposynchronization in the medial temporal and frontal regions and relative hypersynchronization in posterior cingulate, precuneus, cuneus, and parietotemporal cortices. However, the S-estimator did not change over time in either group. This result motivated an analysis of rapidly progressing AD versus slow-progressing patients. Rapidly progressing AD patients showed a significant reduction in synchronization with time, manifest in left frontotemporal cortex. Thus, the evolution of source EEG synchronization over time is correlated with the rate of disease progression and should be considered as a cost-effective AD biomarker.
Normal cognitive aging is associated with deficits in memory processes dependent on the hippocampus, along with large-scale changes in the hippocampal expression of many genes. Histone acetylation can broadly influence gene expression and has been recently linked to learning and memory. We hypothesized that CREB-binding protein (CBP), a key histone acetyltransferase, may contribute to memory decline in normal aging. Here, we quantified CBP protein levels in the hippocampus of young, aged unimpaired, and aged impaired rats, classified on the basis of spatial memory capacity documented in the Morris water maze. First, CBP-immunofluorescence was quantified across the principal cell layers of the hippocampus using both low and high resolution laser scanning imaging approaches. Second, digital images of CBP immunostaining were analyzed by a multipurpose classifier algorithm with validated sensitivity across many types of input materials. Finally, CBP protein levels in the principal subfields of the hippocampus were quantified by quantitative Western blotting. CBP levels were equivalent as a function of age and cognitive status in all analyses. The sensitivity of the techniques used was substantial, sufficient to reveal differences across the principal cell fields of the hippocampus, and to correctly classify images from young and aged animals independent of CBP immunoreactivity. The results are discussed in the context of recent evidence suggesting that CBP decreases may be most relevant in conditions of aging that, unlike normal cognitive aging, involve significant neuron loss.
Parkinson's disease (PD) patients often exhibit impaired regulation of heart rate by the autonomic nervous system (ANS) that may precede motor symptoms in many cases. Results of autopsy studies suggest that brainstem pathology, including the accumulation of -synuclein, precedes damage to dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra in PD. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms responsible for the early dysfunction of brainstem autonomic neurons are unknown. Here we report that mice expressing a mutant form of -synuclein that causes familial PD exhibit aberrant autonomic control of the heart characterized by elevated resting heart rate and an impaired cardiovascular stress response, associated with reduced parasympathetic activity and accumulation of -synuclein in the brainstem. These ANS abnormalities occur early in the disease process. Adverse effects of -synuclein on the control of heart rate are exacerbated by a high energy diet and ameliorated by intermittent energy restriction. Our findings establish a mouse model of early dysregulation of brainstem control of the cardiovascular system in PD, and further suggest the potential for energy restriction to attenuate ANS dysfunction, particularly in overweight individuals.
The retinal degeneration Pde6b(rd1) (rd) mutation can be a major pitfall in behavioral studies using tg2576 mice bred on a B6:SJL genetic background, 1 of the most widely used models of Alzheimer's disease. After a pilot study in wild type mice, performance of 8- and 16-month-old tg2576 mice were assessed in several behavioral tasks with the challenge of selecting 1 or more task(s) showing robust memory deficits on this genetic background. Water maze acquisition was impossible in rd homozygotes, whereas Y-maze alternation, object recognition, and olfactory discrimination were unaffected by both the transgene and the rd mutation. Spatial memory retention of 8- and 16-month-old tg2576 mice, however, was dramatically affected independently of the rd mutation when mice had to recognize a spatial configuration of objects or to perform the Barnes maze. Thus, the latter tasks appear extremely useful to evaluate spatial memory deficits and to test cognitive therapies in tg2576 mice and other mouse models bred on a background susceptible to visual impairment.
Both cholinergic and GABAergic projections from the rostral basal forebrain contribute to hippocampal function and mnemonic abilities. While dysfunction of cholinergic neurons has been heavily implicated in age-related memory decline, significantly less is known regarding how age-related changes in codistributed GABAergic projection neurons contribute to a decline in hippocampal-dependent spatial learning. In the current study, confocal stereology was used to quantify cholinergic (choline acetyltransferase [ChAT] immunopositive) neurons, GABAergic projection (glutamic decarboxylase 67 [GAD67] immunopositive) neurons, and total (neuronal nuclei [NeuN] immunopositive) neurons in the rostral basal forebrain of young and aged rats that were first characterized on a spatial learning task. ChAT immunopositive neurons were significantly but modestly reduced in aged rats. Although ChAT immunopositive neuron number was strongly correlated with spatial learning abilities among young rats, the reduction of ChAT immunopositive neurons was not associated with impaired spatial learning in aged rats. In contrast, the number of GAD67 immunopositive neurons was robustly and selectively elevated in aged rats that exhibited impaired spatial learning. Interestingly, the total number of rostral basal forebrain neurons was comparable in young and aged rats, regardless of their cognitive status. These data demonstrate differential effects of age on phenotypically distinct rostral basal forebrain projection neurons, and implicate dysregulated cholinergic and GABAergic septohippocampal circuitry in age-related mnemonic decline.
Brain imaging studies in Alzheimer's disease research have demonstrated structural and functional perturbations in the hippocampus and default mode network (DMN). Additional evidence suggests risk for pathological brain aging in association with insulin resistance (IR). This study piloted investigation of associations of IR with DMN-hippocampal functional connectivity among postmenopausal women at risk for Alzheimer's disease. Twenty middle-aged women underwent resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging. Subjects were dichotomized relative to fasting plasma insulin levels (i.e., &gt; 8 IU/mL [n = 10] and &lt; 8 IU/mL [n = 10]), and functional connectivity analysis contrasted their respective blood oxygen level-dependent signal correlation between DMN and hippocampal regions. Higher-insulin women had significantly reduced positive associations between the medial prefrontal cortex and bilateral parahippocampal regions extending to the right hippocampus, and conversely, between the left and right hippocampus and medial prefrontal cortex. Neuropsychological data (all within normal ranges) also showed significant differences with respect to executive functioning and global intelligence. The results provide further evidence of deleterious effects of IR on the hippocampus and cognition. Further imaging studies of the IR-related perturbations in DMN-hippocampal functional connectivity are needed.
Radiotherapy has shown some efficacy for epilepsies but the insufficient confinement of the radiation dose to the pathological target reduces its indications. Synchrotron-generated X-rays overcome this limitation and allow the delivery of focalized radiation doses to discrete brain volumes via interlaced arrays of microbeams (IntMRT). Here, we used IntMRT to target brain structures involved in seizure generation in a rat model of absence epilepsy (GAERS). We addressed the issue of whether and how synchrotron radiotherapeutic treatment suppresses epileptic activities in neuronal networks. IntMRT was used to target the somatosensory cortex (S1Cx), a region involved in seizure generation in the GAERS. The antiepileptic mechanisms were investigated by recording multisite local-field potentials and the intracellular activity of irradiated S1Cx pyramidal neurons in vivo. MRI and histopathological images displayed precise and sharp dose deposition and revealed no impairment of surrounding tissues. Local-field potentials from behaving animals demonstrated a quasi-total abolition of epileptiform activities within the target. The irradiated S1Cx was unable to initiate seizures, whereas neighboring non-irradiated cortical and thalamic regions could still produce pathological oscillations. In vivo intracellular recordings showed that irradiated pyramidal neurons were strongly hyperpolarized and displayed a decreased excitability and a reduction of spontaneous synaptic activities. These functional alterations explain the suppression of large-scale synchronization within irradiated cortical networks. Our work provides the first post-irradiation electrophysiological recordings of individual neurons. Altogether, our data are a critical step towards understanding how X-ray radiation impacts neuronal physiology and epileptogenic processes.

Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids have been shown to have therapeutic potential in a variety of neurological disorders, including acute traumatic injury of the spinal cord. We addressed the question whether the neuroprotective effect of these compounds after spinal cord injury could also be seen when their level is raised in tissues prophylactically, prior to injury. In this study we used transgenic fat-1 mice to examine whether enriching spinal cord tissue in endogenous omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids has an effect on the outcome after compression spinal cord injury. The results demonstrate that after thoracic compression spinal cord injury, fat-1 mice display better locomotor recovery compared with the wild-type mice on a high omega-6 diet (high omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids in tissues), and wild-type mice on a normal diet (controls). This is associated with a significant increase in neuronal and oligodendrocyte survival and a decrease in non-phosphorylated neurofilament loss. The protection from spinal cord injury in fat-1 mice was also correlated with a reduction in microglia/macrophage activation and in pro-inflammatory mediators. In vitro experiments in dorsal root ganglia primary sensory neurons further demonstrated that a fat-1 tissue background confers robust neuroprotection against a combined mechanical stretch and hypoxic injury. In conclusion, our studies support the hypothesis that a raised omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid level and an altered tissue omega-6/omega-3 ratio prior to injury leads to a much improved outcome after spinal cord injury.
The neural structures that support the retention of memories over time has been a subject of intense research in cognitive neuroscience. However, recently much attention has turned to pattern separation, the putative process by which memories are stored as unique representations that are resistant to confusion. It remains unclear, however, to what extent these two processes can be neurally dissociated. The trial-unique delayed nonmatching-to-location (TUNL) task was developed to assess spatial working memory and pattern separation function using trial-unique locations on a touch-sensitive screen (Talpos, McTighe, Dias, Saksida, &amp; Bussey, 2010). Using this task, Talpos et al. (2010) showed that lesions of the hippocampus led to both impairments with a 6s delay, and impairments in pattern separation. The present study shows that lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex lead to a different pattern of effects: impairment at the same, 6s delay, but no hint of impairment in pattern separation. In addition, rats with medial prefrontal lesions were more susceptible to interference in this task. When compared with previously published results, these data show that whereas the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus likely interact in the service of working memory across a delay, only the hippocampus and not the medial prefrontal cortex is essential for pattern separation.
Difficulties to treat fear-associated disorders, including posttraumatic stress disorder, are thought to result from dysfunction in fear extinction learning and/or memory. Animal studies on extinction modulation are therefore promising for the development of new treatments. Recent rat studies, including ones using low-frequency stimulation (LFS), have demonstrated that the ventral hippocampus (VH) modulates extinction memory. The present study explores whether the VH also modulates extinction learning. For this, rats were implanted with stimulating electrodes in the VH and experienced contextual fear conditioning, followed 6 or 24 h later by VH LFS and three sessions of extinction training. We found that, whatever the delay used (6 or 24 h), animals that received VH LFS displayed persistent low levels of freezing from the second extinction session, whereas control rats showed low levels of freezing only during the third session. In animals submitted to a stress condition (provoked by a single inescapable foot-shock followed by three sessions of situational reminders) prior to fear conditioning, VH LFS also reduced freezing levels, which, in contrast, remained high in control rats during the course of extinction training. These data suggest that LFS, targeting the VH, may be useful in reducing fear responses during extinction learning.
Statins are widely used cholesterol-lowering drugs that may reduce the incidence of stroke and the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, how statins exert these beneficial effects remains poorly understood. Thus, this study evaluated the roles of Rac1 geranylgeranylation and the relationship between Rac1 and N-catenin in the protective activity of atorvastatin (ATV) in a cortical neuronal culture model of glutamate (GLU) excitotoxicity. We found that ATV-induced neuroprotection and plasticity were blocked by isoprenoids, such as farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) and geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP), inhibition of farnesylation (FTI-277) and geranylgeranylation (GGTI-286), down-regulation of GGTase-I and Rac activity and promotion of active RhoA. Additionally, ATV rescued the distribution of dendritic N-catenin and increased the number and length of dendritic branches; these effects were reversed by GGTI-286, GGTase-I shRNA, Rac1 shRNA and a dominant-negative version of Rac1 (T17N). In summary, our findings suggest that ATV requires GGTase-I, prenylation and active Rac1 to induce protection and plasticity. In this regard, N-catenin is a marker for stable interactions between adhesion proteins and the actin cytoskeleton and is necessary for the neuroprotective action of ATV.
Several evidences have demonstrated that oxidative stress has a central role in bipolar disorder (BD). Recently, studies have been suggested histone deacetylases (HDAC) as a possible target for new medications in treatment of mood disorders. In this study, we investigated the effects of sodium butyrate (SB, a histone deacetilase inhibitor) on oxidative stress in rats submitted to an animal model of mania induced by d-amphetamine (d-AMPH). Wistar rats were first given d-AMPH or saline (Sal) for 14 days, and then, between days 8 and 14, rats were treated with SB or Sal. Locomotor activity and risk-taking behavior were assessed by open-field test and oxidative stress was measured in prefrontal cortex, amygdala, hippocampus and striatum. The results showed that SB reversed and prevented d-AMPH-induced behavioral effects. The d-AMPH administration induced oxidative damage in all brain structures analyzed. Depending on the cerebral area and technique, SB was able to reverse this impairment. The present study reinforces the need for more studies of HDAC inhibitors as possible target for new medications in treatment for BD.
Tissue transglutaminase (tTG) is a cross-linking enzyme involved in protein aggregation during Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. Autophagy is inhibited by tTG activation via a mechanism in which cross-linking of beclin 1, an autophagy initiator at the level of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), has been implicated. We reported increased tTG protein levels and activity at the ER in both PD brain and in a PD-mimicking cell system. Here we characterized the interaction between tTG and beclin 1 at the ER membrane and the role of tTG in reduced autophagy in an in vitro model of PD, using differentiated SH-SY5Y neurons treated with the PD-mimic MPP(+). We found that under PD-mimicking conditions, beclin 1 and tTG partially colocalized at the ER, beclin 1 levels increased at the ER, and tTG readily cross-linked beclin 1 which was prevented by enzymatic blockade of tTG. Under these conditions, accumulation of beclin 1 at the ER was enhanced by inhibition of tTG activity. In line with these observations and the role of beclin 1 in autophagy, levels of the autophagy marker protein LC3II in MPP(+)-treated cells, were significantly increased by inhibition of tTG activity. Our data provide first evidence for a role of tTG-mediated regulation of beclin 1 and autophagy in MPP(+)-treated human SH-SY5Y cells.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a complex neuropsychiatric syndrome that typically develops as a result of acute liver failure or chronic liver disease. Brain edema is a common feature associated with HE. In acute liver failure, brain edema contributes to an increase in intracranial pressure, which can fatally lead to brain stem herniation. In chronic liver disease, intracranial hypertension is rarely observed, even though brain edema may be present. This discrepancy in the development of intracranial hypertension in acute liver failure versus chronic liver disease suggests that brain edema plays a different role in relation to the onset of HE. Furthermore, the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in the development of brain edema in acute liver failure and chronic liver disease are dissimilar. This review explores the types of brain edema, the cells, and pathogenic factors involved in its development, while emphasizing the differences in acute liver failure versus chronic liver disease. The implications of brain edema developing as a neuropathological consequence of HE, or as a cause of HE, are also discussed.
The MPTP-lesioned monkey is considered as the best animal model for Parkinson's disease (PD). It has damage to dopaminergic cell groups and motor dysfunction similar to that seen in PD. Correlations between these two parameters have been described but there is a lack of formal statistical analyses on dopaminergic function as assessed by [(18)F]-F-DOPA PET and objectively rated motor behavior in longitudinal experiments. Eight rhesus monkeys received two MPTP infusions: first in one carotid artery, and after eight weeks in the other. Motor behavior and [(18)F]-F-DOPA uptake were measured at three stages: baseline, unilateral and bilateral. We correlated movement with radiotracer uptake across these three stages. MPTP caused the expected parkinsonian motor signs which were accompanied by lower radioactivity concentrations in the striatum. There were significant correlations between dopaminergic function and behavior. In conclusion, striatal [(18)F]-F-DOPA uptake correlates inversely with the severity of motor impairment in MPTP-lesioned non-human primates. Both behavioral scoring and [(18)F]-F-DOPA PET scans are useful and sensitive methods to monitor dopaminergic degeneration within subjects.
Prenatal exposure to alcohol has consistently been associated with adverse effects on neurodevelopment, which is collectively called fetal alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD). Increasing evidence suggest that prenatal exposure to alcohol increases the risk of developing attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder-like behavior in human. In this study, we investigated the behavioral effects of prenatal exposure to EtOH in offspring mice and rats focusing on hyperactivity and impulsivity. We also examined changes in dopamine transporter and MeCP2 expression, which may underlie as a key neurobiological and epigenetic determinant in FASD and hyperactive, inattentive and impulsive behaviors. Mouse or rat offspring born from dam exposed to alcohol during pregnancy (EtOH group) showed hyper locomotive activity, attention deficit and impulsivity. EtOH group also showed increased dopamine transporter and norepinephrine transporter level compared to control group in the prefrontal cortex and striatum. Prenatal exposure to EtOH also significantly decreased the expression of MeCP2 in both prefrontal cortex and striatum. These results suggest that prenatal exposure to EtOH induces hyperactive, inattentive and impulsive behaviors in rodent offspring that might be related to global epigenetic changes as well as aberration in catecholamine neurotransmitter transporter system.
Statins, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors, have been reported to attenuate amyloid- peptide (A) production in various cellular models. However, the mechanisms by which statins affect neuronal A production have not yet been clarified. Here, we investigated this issue in rat primary cortical neurons using two statins, pitavastatin (PV) and atorvastatin (AV). Treatment of neurons with 0.2-2.5M PV or AV for 4days induced a concentration- and time-dependent reduction in the secretion of both A40 and A42. Moreover, Western blot analyses of cell lysates showed that treatment with PV or AV significantly reduced expression levels of the mature form of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and Thr668-phosphorylated APP (P-APP), but not immature form of APP; the decreases in P-APP levels were more notable than those of mature APP levels. The statin treatment did not alter expression of BACE1 (-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1) or -secretase complex proteins (presenilin 1, nicastrin, APH-1, and PEN-2). In neurons overexpressing APP via recombinant adenoviruses, PV or AV similarly reduced A secretion and the levels of mature APP and P-APP. Statins also markedly reduced cellular cholesterol content in neurons in a concentration-dependent manner. Co-treatment with mevalonate reversed the statin-induced decreases in A secretion and mature APP and P-APP levels, whereas co-treatment with cholesterol did not, despite recovery of cellular cholesterol levels. Finally, cell-surface biotinylation experiments revealed that both statins significantly reduced the levels of cell-surface P-APP without changing those of cell surface mature APP. These results suggest that statins reduce A production by selectively modulating APP maturation and phosphorylation through a mechanism independent of cholesterol reduction in cultured neurons.


The simultaneous acquisition of electroencephalographic (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data has gained momentum in recent years due to the synergistic effects of the two modalities with regard to temporal and spatial resolution. Currently, only EEG-data recorded in fields of up to 7 T have been reported. We investigated the feasibility of recording EEG inside a 9.4 T static magnetic field, specifically to determine whether meaningful EEG information could be recovered from the data after removal of the cardiac-related artefact. EEG-data were recorded reliably and reproducibly at 9.4 T and the cardiac-related artefact increased in amplitude with increasing B0, as expected. Furthermore, we were able to correct for the cardiac-related artefact and identify auditory event related responses at 9.4 T in 75% of subjects using independent component analysis (ICA). Also by means of ICA we detected event related spectral perturbations (ERSP) in subjects at 9.4 T in response to opening/closing the eyes comparable with the response at 0 T. Overall our results suggest that it is possible to record meaningful EEG data at ultra-high magnetic fields. The simultaneous EEG-fMRI approach at ultra-high-fields opens up the horizon for investigating brain dynamics at a superb spatial resolution and a temporal resolution in the millisecond domain.
Previous research suggests that oscillatory coupling between cortex, basal ganglia and muscles plays an important role in motor behavior. Furthermore, there is evidence that oscillatory coupling is altered in patients with movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study, we performed simultaneous magnetoencephalography (MEG), local field potential (LFP) and electromyogram (EMG) recordings in PD patients selected for therapeutic subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation. Patients were recorded (i) after withdrawal of anti-parkinsonian medication (OFF) and (ii) after levodopa administration (ON). We analyzed STN-cortical and cortico-muscular coherence during static forearm contraction and repetitive hand movement in order to evaluate modulations of coherence by movement and medication. Based on previous results from studies investigating resting state coherence in PD patients, we selected primary motor cortex (M1) and superior temporal gyrus (STG) as regions of interest. We found beta coherence between M1 and STN to be suppressed by administration of levodopa. M1-muscular coherence was strongly reduced in the alpha and beta band during repetitive movement compared to static contraction, but was unaffected by administration of levodopa. Strong STG-STN but not STG-muscular coherence could be observed in the alpha band. Coherence with STG was modulated neither by movement nor by medication. Finally, we found both M1-STN and M1-muscular beta coherence to be negatively correlated with UPDRS akinesia and rigidity sub-scores in the OFF state. The present study provides new insights into the functional roles of STN-cortical and cortico-muscular coherence and their relationship to PD symptoms. The results indicate that STN-cortical and cortico-muscular coupling are correlated, but can be modulated independently. Moreover, they show differences in their frequency-specific topography. We conclude that they represent partly independent sub-loops within the motor system. Given their negative correlation with akinesia, neither can be considered &quot;antikinetic&quot;.
The human brain's ability to adapt to environmental changes is obvious in specific sensory domains of experts, and olfaction is one of the least investigated senses. As we have previously demonstrated that olfactory expertise is related to functional brain modifications, we investigated here whether olfactory expertise is also coupled with structural changes. We used voxel-based morphometry to compare the gray-matter volume in student and professional perfumers, as well as untrained control subjects, and accounted for all methodological improvements that have been recently developed to limit possible errors associated with image processing. In all perfumers, we detected an increase in gray-matter volume in the bilateral gyrus rectus/medial orbital gyrus (GR/MOG), an orbitofrontal area that surrounds the olfactory sulcus. In addition, gray-matter volume in the anterior PC and left GR/MOG was positively correlated with experience in professional perfumers. We concluded that the acute olfactory knowledge acquired through extensive olfactory training leads to the structural reorganization of olfactory brain areas.
Magnetoencephalography (MEG) is measured above the head, which makes it sensitive to variations of the head position with respect to the sensors. Head movements blur the topography of the neuronal sources of the MEG signal, increase localization errors, and reduce statistical sensitivity. Here we describe two novel and readily applicable methods that compensate for the detrimental effects of head motion on the statistical sensitivity of MEG experiments. First, we introduce an online procedure that continuously monitors head position. Second, we describe an offline analysis method that takes into account the head position time-series. We quantify the performance of these methods in the context of three different experimental settings, involving somatosensory, visual and auditory stimuli, assessing both individual and group-level statistics. The online head localization procedure allowed for optimal repositioning of the subjects over multiple sessions, resulting in a 28% reduction of the variance in dipole position and an improvement of up to 15% in statistical sensitivity. Offline incorporation of the head position time-series into the general linear model resulted in improvements of group-level statistical sensitivity between 15% and 29%. These tools can substantially reduce the influence of head movement within and between sessions, increasing the sensitivity of many cognitive neuroscience experiments.
Group level statistical maps of blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signals acquired using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have become a basic measurement for much of systems, cognitive and social neuroscience. A challenge in making inferences from these statistical maps is the noise and potential confounds that arise from the head motion that occurs within and between acquisition volumes. This motion results in the scan plane being misaligned during acquisition, ultimately leading to reduced statistical power when maps are constructed at the group level. In most cases, an attempt is made to correct for this motion through the use of retrospective analysis methods. In this paper, we use a prospective active marker motion correction (PRAMMO) system that uses radio frequency markers for real-time tracking of motion, enabling on-line slice plane correction. We show that the statistical power of the activation maps is substantially increased using PRAMMO compared to conventional retrospective correction. Analysis of our results indicates that the PRAMMO acquisition reduces the variance without decreasing the signal component of the BOLD (beta). Using PRAMMO could thus improve the overall statistical power of fMRI based BOLD measurements, leading to stronger inferences of the nature of processing in the human brain.
The neurobiological processes resulting in epilepsy, known as epileptogenesis, are incompletely understood. Manganese-enhanced MRI (MEMRI) can potentially aide in this quest as it provides superior tissue contrast, particularly of the hippocampal subregions. This longitudinal study aims to characterise the changes in the hippocampus of the post kainic acid-induced status epilepticus (KASE) rat model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy using MEMRI in vivo. Serial acquisition of T(1)-weighted MEMRI images were taken before, 2 days and 6 weeks after KASE (10-30 mg/kg, i.p.) in 14 rats and in 11 control rats, while a second cohort of control (N=6) and epileptic animals (N=10) was imaged at 2 months post KASE only. MnCl(2) (50 mM, 10 l) was administered in the right lateral ventricle 1 day before scanning. Regions of interest were drawn around the hippocampus and several subregions of the hippocampus (CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus). Markers of epilepsy such as spontaneous recurrent seizures, hippocampal neuronal loss and mossy fiber sprouting were quantified. A persistent increase in MEMRI signal intensity was found in the hippocampus, CA1 and dentate gyrus in the KASE group compared to the control group (ANOVA P&lt;0.05). The intensity signal in the hippocampus and subregions correlated inversely with the frequency of spontaneous recurrent seizures in the chronic epileptic phase, however there was no relationship observed between histopathological changes such as cell loss and mossy fiber sprouting with seizures. This study demonstrates that MEMRI is able to detect imaging changes in the hippocampus during the course of epileptogenesis relevant for seizure expression. These data strongly indicate a relationship between manganese enhancement and spontaneous seizure outcome, suggesting that MEMRI could provide a preclinical biomarker for the severity of epileptogenesis in vivo in animal models.
The role of gamma-band (typically 30-100 Hz) oscillations in visual processing is a topic of increasing interest. One hypothesis is that gamma oscillations reflect the action of GABAergic inhibitory processes in the visual cortex responsible for surround-suppression. Evidence from primate neurophysiology [Gieselmann &amp; Thiele, A., 2008. European Journal of Neuroscience 28, 447-459.] suggests that the amplitude of the gamma-band response increases as a visual grating stimulus expands outside of the classical receptive field into the inhibitory surround; with the amplitude of the response increasing, and the frequency of the response decreasing, monotonically with stimulus size. In this study, we tested the relationship between the gamma-band response and the size of visual grating stimuli in humans using MEG. In two initial experiments we found that, while the absolute magnitude of the gamma-band response varied considerably across participants, in all cases the amplitude of the response had a monotonically increasing relationship with size. In contrast, we did not find any relationship between the frequency of the response and the size of the stimulus. Previously, the frequency of the visual gamma-band response has been found to correlate across individuals with the surface area of cortical area V1 [Schwarzkopf et al., 2012. Journal of Neuroscience 32, 1507-12.] We, however, were unable to find any correlation between the frequency or the magnitude of the gamma-band response and the dimensions of V1 cortical gray matter as measured from participants' MR images. Consistent with a saturation of the gamma-band response found for some individuals in the first two experiments, in a third experiment we found that the magnitude of the response to our largest stimulus (8) was less than that predicted from the response to the stimulus' parts.




A condition called &quot;chronic cerebrospinal venous insufficiency&quot; (CCSVI) has been postulated to play a role in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). This hypothesis implies that a complex pattern of extracranial venous stenosis determines a venous reflux into the brain of MS patients, followed by increased intravenous pressure, blood-brain barrier breakdown and iron deposition into the brain parenchyma, thus triggering a local inflammatory response. In this review, we critically analyze the scientific basis of CCSVI, the current literature on the relationship between CCSVI and MS, as well as the ultrasound methodology that has been claimed to provide evidence of impaired cerebral venous drainage. We show that no piece of the CCSVI theory has a solid supportive scientific evidence. The CCSVI appears to be a rather alien condition and its existence should be definitely questioned. Finally, no proven (i.e., based on strict scientific methodology and on the rules of evidence-based medicine) therapeutic effect of the &quot;liberation&quot; procedure (unblocking the extracranial venous obstruction using angioplasty) has been shown up to date.
Molecular processes regulating cholinergic functions play an important role in the control of respiration under neonatal hypoxia. The present study evaluates neonatal hypoxic insult-mediated cholinergic alterations and the protective role of glucose, oxygen and epinephrine resuscitation. The changes in total muscarinic, muscarinic M1, M2, M3 receptors and the enzymes involved in acetylcholine metabolism--cholineacetyl transferase and acetylcholine easterase in the brain stem were analyzed. Hypoxic stress decreased total muscarinic receptors along with a reduction in muscarinic M1, M2 and M3 receptor genes in the brain stem. The reduction in acetylcholine metabolism is indicated by the down regulated cholineacetyl transferase and up regulated acetylcholine easterase expression. These cholinergic disturbances in the brain stem were reversed by glucose resuscitation to hypoxic neonates. The adverse effects of immediate oxygenation and epinephrine administration were also reported. This has immense clinical significance in establishing a proper resuscitation for the management of neonatal hypoxia.
We tried to identify the target/s of autoantibodies to basal ganglia neurons found in a patient with hyperkinetic movement disorders (HMD) characterized by rapid, rhythmic involuntary movements or spasms in both face and neck. Patient and control sera were used in Western blot to probe mouse brain homogenates. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) SDS-PAGE protein spots recognized by the patient's antibodies were excised and sequenced by mass spectrometry analysis, and the glycolytic enzyme aldolase A was identified as the antigen recognized by the patient's autoantibodies. To assess relevance and specificity of these antibodies to the identified targets as biomarkers of autoimmunity in movement disorders, autoantibody responses to the identified target were then measured by ELISA in various diseases of the central nervous system. Anti-aldolase A autoantibodies were associated mainly with HMD (7/17, 41%) and Parkinson's disease (4/30, 13%) patients, and undetectable in subjects with other inflammatory and non-inflammatory central nervous system diseases. We, thus, identified aldolase A as an autoantigen in a sub-group of patients with HMD, a clinically ill-defined syndrome. Anti-aldolase A antibodies may represent a useful biomarker of autoimmunity in HMD patients.

Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) reflect brain biochemistry. Using combined immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry, we have shown that amyloid beta 1-15 (A1-15) is produced by concerted - and -secretase cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and that the relative levels of A1-16 in AD compared to controls are increased. Furthermore, drug-induced -secretase inhibition enhances the relative levels of A1-15 and A1-16. Here, we investigate a novel immunoassay for A1-15/16 in a broad range of neurodegenerative conditions. The CSF level of A1-15/16 was measured by the bead-based amplified luminescent proximity homogeneous assay (Alpha technology). Concentrations of A1-15/16 were analyzed in subjects with Parkinson disease (PD; n = 90), PD with dementia (PDD) (n = 32), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) (n = 68), AD (n = 48), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) (n = 45), multiple system atrophy (MSA) (n = 46), and corticobasal degeneration (CBD) (n = 12). The detecting antibody is specific to the C-terminal epitope of A15. We found that a carboxypeptidase (CPB) present in fetal bovine serum (FBS), a component of the buffers used, degrades A1-16 to A1-15, which is then detected by the A1-15/16 assay. Significantly, lower levels of A1-15/16 were detected in PD, PDD, PSP, and MSA compared to other neurodegenerative diseases and controls. Using the specific A1-15/16 assay, a reliable quantification of A1-15 or A1-15/16 in CSF samples is obtained. We found reduced levels of A1-15 in parkinsonian disease groups. The molecular mechanism behind this reduction is at present unknown.
DNAJB6, which encodes DnaJ homolog, subfamily B, member 6 (DNAJB6) was recently identified as a causative gene for limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1D (LGMD1D). DNAJB6 is a member of heat shock protein 40 and contains a J domain, G/F domain and C-terminal domain. Only three different mutations have been identified in 11 families. In this study, we identified seven Japanese individuals from four unrelated families who carried a DNAJB6 mutation. We found a novel p.Phe96Ile substitution and a previously reported p.Phe96Leu change in the G/F domain of DNAJB6. All affected individuals showed slowly progressive muscle weakness, mainly in their legs, and their muscle pathology showed cytoplasmic inclusions and rimmed vacuoles. Our immunohistochemical analysis detected cytoplasmic accumulations associated with chaperone-assisted selective autophagy together with intranuclear accumulations of DNAJB6 and heat shock 22-kD protein 8 (HSPB8). This is the first report of Asian patients with LGMD1D. Our new findings may contribute to understanding the pathological mechanisms of this myopathy.
Autosomal recessive Emery Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (AR-EDMD) is rare, with few reports in the medical literature. We describe the first cases of AR-EDMD and autosomal dominant familial partial lipodystrophy (FPLD) in the Hutterite population resulting from homozygous or heterozygous R482Q mutations in the lamin A/C gene (LMNA). Heterozygosity for LMNA R482Q mutation causes FPLD, which is associated with increased risk of hyperlipidemia and hypertension. The overall carrier frequency of the R482Q mutation in Dariusleut and Leherleut Hutterites in Alberta was found to be 1.45%. Homozygosity for this mutation has not been previously reported and here resulted in a combination of generalized lipodystrophy and EDMD. Knowledge that the LMNA R482Q mutation is present in this population is important for genetic counseling, surveillance, and management of the associated disorders.
Group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), which are generally located presynaptically, modulate synaptic transmission by regulating neurotransmitter release. Previously we showed enhanced amygdala-dependent cued fear conditioning in mGluR4(-/-) mice 24 h following training involving two tone-shock pairings. In this study, we assessed the effects of modulating mGluR4 signaling on acquisition and extinction of conditioned fear. mGluR4(-/-) and wild-type female and male mice received 10 tone-shock pairings during training. Compared to wild-type mice, mGluR4(-/-) mice showed enhanced acquisition and extinction of cued fear. Next, we assessed whether acute pharmacological stimulation of mGluR4 with the specific orthosteric mGluR4 agonist LSP1-2111 also affects acquisition and extinction of cued fear. Consistent with the enhanced acquisition of cued fear in mGluR4(-/-), LSP1-2111, at 2.5 and 5 mg/kg, inhibited acquisition of cued fear conditioning in wild-type male mice. The drug's effect on extinction was less clear and only a subtle effect was seen at 5 mg/kg. Finally, analysis of microarray data of amygdala tissues from mGluR4(-/-) versus wild-type and from wild-type mice treated with a mGluR4 agonist versus saline revealed a significant overlap in pattern of gene expression. Together, these data support a role for mGluR4 signaling in acquisition of fear learning and memory. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'.
Restoring the balance between excitatory and inhibitory circuits in the basal ganglia, following the loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta, represents a major challenge to treat patients affected by Parkinson's disease (PD). The imbalanced situation in favor of excitation in the disease state may also accelerate excitotoxic processes, thereby representing a potential target for neuroprotective therapies. Reducing the excitatory action of glutamate, the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the basal ganglia, should lead to symptomatic improvement for PD patients and may promote the survival of DA neurons. Recent studies have focused on the modulatory action of metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors on neurodegenerative diseases including PD. Group III mGlu receptors, including subtypes 4, 7 and 8, are largely expressed in the basal ganglia. Recent studies highlight the use of selective mGlu4 receptor positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) for the treatment of PD. Here we review the effects of newly-designed group-III orthosteric agonists on neuroprotection, neurorestoration and reduction of l-DOPA induced dyskinesia in animal models of PD. The combination of orthosteric mGlu4 receptor selective agonists with PAMs may open new avenues for the symptomatic treatment of PD. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'.
The group II metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors comprised of the mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptor subtypes have gained recognition in recent years as potential targets for psychiatric disorders, including anxiety and schizophrenia. In addition to studies already indicating which subtype mediates the anxiolytic and anti-psychotic effects observed in disease models, studies to help further define the preferred properties of selective group II mGlu receptor ligands will be essential. Comparison of the in vitro properties of these ligands to their in vivo efficacy and tolerance profiles may help provide these additional insights. We have developed a relatively high-throughput native group II mGlu receptor functional assay to aid this characterisation. We have utilised dissociated primary cortical neuronal cultures, which after 7 days in vitro have formed functional synaptic connections and display periodic and spontaneous synchronised calcium (Ca(2+)) oscillations in response to intrinsic action potential bursts. We herein demonstrate that in addition to non-selective group II mGlu receptor agonists, (2R,4R)-APDC, LY379268 and DCG-IV, a selective mGlu2 agonist, LY541850, and mGlu2 positive allosteric modulators, BINA and CBiPES, inhibit the frequency of synchronised Ca(2+) oscillations in primary cultures of rat and mouse cortical neurons. Use of cultures from wild-type, mGlu2(-/-), mGlu3(-/-) and mGlu2/3(-/-) mice allowed us to further probe the contribution of mGlu2 and mGlu3, and revealed LY541850 to be a partial mGlu2 agonist and a full mGlu3 antagonist. Overnight pre-treatment of cultures with these ligands revealed a preferred desensitisation profile after treatment with a positive allosteric modulator. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'.
Evidence suggests that 30-50% of patients suffering from major depressive disorder (MDD) are classified as suffering from treatment resistant depression (TRD) as they have an inadequate response to standard antidepressants. A key feature of this patient population is the increased incidence of co-morbid symptoms like anxiety and pain. Recognizing that current standards of care are largely focused on monoaminergic mechanisms of action (MOAs), innovative approaches to drug discovery for TRD are targeting glutamate hyperfunction. Here we describe the in vitro and in vivo profile of GRN-529, a novel negative allosteric modulator (NAM) of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5). In cell based pharmacology assays, GRN-529 is a high affinity (Ki 5.4 nM), potent (IC50 3.1 nM) and selective (&gt;1000-fold selective vs mGluR1) mGluR5 NAM. Acute administration of GRN-529 (0.1-30 mg/kg p.o.) had dose-dependent efficacy across a therapeutically relevant battery of animal models, comprising depression (decreased immobility time in tail suspension and forced swim tests) and 2 of the co-morbid symptoms overrepresented in TRD, namely anxiety (attenuation of stress-induced hyperthermia, and increased punished crossings in the four plate test) and pain (reversal of hyperalgesia due to sciatic nerve ligation or inflammation). The potential side effect liability of GRN-529 was also assessed using preclinical models: GRN-529 had no effect on rat sexual behavior or motor co-ordination (rotarod), however it impaired cognition in mice (social odor recognition). Efficacy and side effects of GRN-529 were compared to standard of care agents (antidepressant, anxiolytic or analgesics) and the tool mGluR5 NAM, MTEP. To assess the relationship between target occupancy and efficacy, ex vivo receptor occupancy was measured in parallel with efficacy testing. This revealed a strong correlation between target engagement, exposure and efficacy across behavioral endpoints, which supports the potential translational value of PET imaging to dose selection in patients. Collectively this broad spectrum profile of efficacy of GRN-529 supports our hypothesis that negative allosteric modulation of mGluR5 could represent an innovative therapeutic approach to the treatment of TRD. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) serves executive cognitive functions such as decision-making that are impaired in neuropsychiatric disorders and pain. We showed previously that amygdala-driven abnormal inhibition and decreased output of mPFC pyramidal cells contribute to pain-related impaired decision-making (Ji et al., 2010). Therefore, modulating pyramidal output is desirable therapeutic goal. Targeting metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype mGluR5 has emerged as a cognitive-enhancing strategy in neuropsychiatric disorders, but synaptic and cellular actions of mGluR5 in the mPFC remain to be determined. The present study determined synaptic and cellular actions of mGluR5 to test the hypothesis that increasing mGluR5 function can enhance pyramidal cell output. Whole-cell voltage- and current-clamp recordings were made from visually identified pyramidal neurons in layer V of the mPFC in rat brain slices. Both the prototypical mGluR5 agonist CHPG and a positive allosteric modulator (PAM) for mGluR5 (VU0360172) increased synaptically evoked spiking (E-S coupling) in mPFC pyramidal cells. The facilitatory effects of CHPG and VU0360172 were inhibited by an mGluR5 antagonist (MTEP). CHPG, but not VU0360172, increased neuronal excitability (frequency-current [F-I] function). VU0360172, but not CHPG, increased evoked excitatory synaptic currents (EPSCs) and amplitude, but not frequency, of miniature EPSCs, indicating a postsynaptic action. VU0360172, but not CHPG, decreased evoked inhibitory synaptic currents (IPSCs) through an action that involved cannabinoid receptor CB1, because a CB1 receptor antagonist (AM281) blocked the inhibitory effect of VU0360172 on synaptic inhibition. VU0360172 also increased and prolonged CB1-mediated depolarization-induced suppression of synaptic inhibition (DSI). Activation of CB1 with ACEA decreased inhibitory transmission through a presynaptic mechanism. The results show that increasing mGluR5 function enhances mPFC output. This effect can be accomplished by increasing excitability with an orthosteric agonist (CHPG) or by increasing excitatory synaptic drive and CB1-mediated presynaptic suppression of synaptic inhibition (&quot;dis-inhibition&quot;) with a PAM (VU0360172). Therefore, mGluR5 may be a useful target in conditions of impaired mPFC output. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'.
Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), which comprise mGlu1Rs and mGlu5Rs, are enriched in striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs), where they modulate glutamatergic transmission. Here, we have examined the effect of group I mGluRs on the regulation of the state of phosphorylation of the GluA1 subunit of the AMPA glutamate receptor. We found that incubation of mouse striatal slices with the group I mGluR agonist (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) promotes GluA1 phosphorylation at the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) site, Ser845. This effect is prevented by 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine hydrochloride (MPEP), a selective mGlu5R antagonist. The increase in GluA1 phosphorylation produced by DHPG is also prevented by blockade of adenosine A2A receptors (A2ARs), which are known to promote cAMP signaling specifically in striatopallidal MSNs, as well as by enzymatic degradation of endogenous adenosine, achieved with adenosine deaminase. The ability of DHPG to increase PKA-dependent phosphorylation of GluA1 depends on concomitant activation of the dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of 32kDa (DARPP-32). Thus, inactivation of the PKA phosphorylation site of DARPP-32 abolishes the effect of DHPG. Moreover, cell-specific knock out of DARPP-32 in striatopallidal, but not in striatonigral, MSNs prevents the increase in Ser845 phosphorylation induced by DHPG. These results indicate that activation of mGlu5Rs promotes PKA/DARPP-32-dependent phosphorylation of downstream target proteins in striatopallidal MSNs and that this effect is exerted via potentiation of tonic A2AR transmission. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'.
Xanthurenic acid (XA), a molecule arising from tryptophan metabolism by transamination of 3-hydroxykynurenine, has recently been identified as an endogenous Group II (mGlu2 and mGlu3) metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptor ligand in vitro. Impairments in Group II mGlu receptor expression and function have been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, as have multiple steps in the kynurenine metabolism pathway. Therefore, we examined XA in vivo to further investigate its potential as a Group II mGlu receptor ligand using a preparation that has been previously demonstrated to efficiently reveal the action of other Group II mGlu receptor ligands in vivo. Extracellular single-neurone recordings were made in the rat ventrobasal thalamus (VB) in conjunction with iontophoresis of agonists, an antagonist and a positive allosteric modulator and/or intravenous (i.v.) injection of XA. We found the XA effect on sensory inhibition, when applied iontophoretically and i.v., was similar to that of other Group II mGlu receptor agonists in reducing inhibition evoked in the VB from the thalamic reticular nucleus upon physiological sensory stimulation. Furthermore, we postulate that XA may be the first potential endogenous allosteric agonist (termed 'endocoid') for the mGlu receptors. As the Group II receptors and kynurenine metabolism pathway have both been heavily implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, XA could play a pivotal role in antipsychotic research as this potential endocoid represents both a convergence within these two biological parameters and a novel class of Group II mGlu receptor ligand. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGlus) are a group of Family C Seven Transmembrane Spanning Receptors (7TMRs) that play important roles in modulating signaling transduction, particularly within the central nervous system. mGlu(4) belongs to a subfamily of mGlus that is predominantly coupled to G(i/o) G proteins. We now report that the ubiquitous autacoid and neuromodulator, histamine, induces substantial glutamate-activated calcium mobilization in mGlu(4)-expressing cells, an effect which is observed in the absence of co-expressed chimeric G proteins. This strong induction of calcium signaling downstream of glutamate activation of mGlu(4) depends upon the presence of H(1) histamine receptors. Interestingly, the potentiating effect of histamine activation does not extend to other mGlu(4)-mediated signaling events downstream of G(i/o) G proteins, such as cAMP inhibition, suggesting that the presence of G(q) coupled receptors such as H(1) may bias normal mGlu(4)-mediated G(i/o) signaling events. When the activity induced by small molecule positive allosteric modulators of mGlu(4) is assessed, the potentiated signaling of mGlu(4) is further biased by histamine toward calcium-dependent pathways. These results suggest that G(i/o)-coupled mGlus may induce substantial, and potentially unexpected, calcium-mediated signaling events if stimulation occurs concomitantly with activation of G(q) receptors. Additionally, our results suggest that signaling induced by small molecule positive allosteric modulators may be substantially biased when G(q) receptors are co-activated. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'.
Group II metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptor agonists were efficacious in randomized clinical research trials for schizophrenia and generalized anxiety disorder. The regional quantification of mGlu(2) and mGlu(3) receptors remains unknown. A selective and structurally novel mGlu(2/3) receptor agonist, 2-amino-4-fluorobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-2,6-dicarboxylic acid (LY459477) was tritiated and the distribution of mGlu(2) and mGlu(3) receptors was studied in transgenic mice lacking either mGlu(2), mGlu(3) or both receptors. LY459477 is an agonist with 1-2 nM potency for rodent and human mGlu(2) and mGlu(3) receptors. The functional selectivity of LY459477 was demonstrated by over 640-fold selectivity and the displacement binding selectivity was greater than 320-fold for all glutamate receptors except mGlu(6) (230-fold). More than 1000-fold selectivity was demonstrated for all non-glutamate receptors known to be targeted by antipsychotic drugs. Like atypical antipsychotic drugs, LY459477 reversed in vitro electrophysiological effects of a serotonergic hallucinogen and behavioral effects of phencyclidine or amphetamine. There was virtually no binding of [(3)H]LY459477 to any brain region in mice with a deletion of both mGlu(2) and mGlu(3) receptors. Regions enriched in mGlu(2) receptors included the medial prefrontal cortex, select hippocampal regions, the medial mammillary nucleus, the medial habenula, and the cerebellar granular cell layer. Regions enriched in mGlu(3) receptors were the dorsolateral entorhinal cortex, the hippocampal CA1 field, the piriform cortex, the substantia nigra, the thalamic reticular nucleus, and primary sensory thalamic nuclei. These findings suggest [(3)H]LY459477 should be a useful tool to further define the role of mGlu(2) and mGlu(3) receptors throughout the brain with respect to major neuropsychiatric syndromes. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'.
Neurocognitive impairments are prevalent in persons seeking treatment for alcohol use disorders (AUDs). These impairments and their physical, social, psychological and occupational consequences vary in severity across persons, much like those resulting from traumatic brain injury; however, due to their slower course of onset, alcohol-related cognitive impairments are often overlooked both within and outside of the treatment setting. Evidence suggests that cognitive impairments can impede treatment goals through their effects on treatment processes. Although some recovery of alcohol-related cognitive impairments often occurs after cessation of drinking (time-dependent recovery), the rate and extent of recovery is variable across cognitive domains and individuals. Following a long hiatus in scientific interest, a new generation of research aims to facilitate treatment process and improve AUD treatment outcomes by directly promoting cognitive recovery (experience-dependent recovery). This review updates knowledge about the nature and course of cognitive and brain impairments associated with AUD, including cognitive effects of adolescent AUD. We summarize current evidence for indirect and moderating relationships of cognitive impairment to treatment outcome, and discuss how advances in conceptual frameworks of brain-behavior relationships are fueling the development of novel AUD interventions that include techniques for cognitive remediation. Emerging evidence suggests that such interventions can be effective in promoting cognitive recovery in persons with AUD and other substance use disorders, and potentially increasing the efficacy of AUD treatments. Finally, translational approaches based on cognitive science, neurophysiology, and neuroscience research are considered as promising future directions for effective treatment development that includes cognitive rehabilitation.
Previous work has shown that both declarative and non-declarative strategies can be engaged in probabilistic classification learning. With respect to the neural correlates of these strategies, earlier studies have focused on the classification process itself. In the present experiment, we asked whether the feedback for classification performance is processed differently by declarative and non-declarative learners. We recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) while participants performed a modified version of the weather prediction task, a well-known probabilistic classification learning task. ERP analysis focused on two ERP components typically associated with feedback processing, the feedback-related negativity (FRN) and the P300. FRN amplitude was not affected by learning strategy. The P300, however, was more pronounced in declarative learners, particularly at frontal electrode site Fz. In addition, P300 topography was different in declarative learners, with amplitude differences between negative and positive feedback being more pronounced over the frontal than the parietal cortex. Differences in feedback processing between groups were still seen after declarative learners had switched to a non-declarative strategy in later phases of the task. Our findings provide evidence for different neural mechanisms of feedback processing in declarative and non-declarative learning. This difference emerges at later stages of feedback processing, after the typical time window of the FRN.
Experiencing feelings of helplessness has repeatedly been reported to contribute to depressive symptoms and negative affect. In turn, depression and negative affective states are associated, among others, with impairments in performance monitoring. Thus, the question arises whether performance monitoring is also affected by feelings of helplessness. To this end, after the induction of feelings of helplessness via an unsolvable reasoning task, 37 participants (20 females) performed a modified version of a Flanker task. Based on a previously validated questionnaire, 17 participants were classified as helpless and 20 as not-helpless. Behavioral measures revealed no differences between helpless and not-helpless individuals. However, we observed enhanced Error-Related Negativity (ERN) amplitude differences between erroneous and correct responses in the helpless compared to the not-helpless group. Furthermore, correlational analysis revealed that higher scores of helplessness were associated with increased ERN difference scores. No influence of feelings of helplessness on later stages of performance monitoring was observed as indicated by Error-Positivity (Pe) amplitude. The present study is the first to demonstrate that feelings of helplessness modulate the neuronal correlates of performance monitoring. Thus, even a short-lasting subjective state manipulation can lead to ERN amplitude variation, probably via modulation of mesencephalic dopamine activity.

Bipolar disorder is a psychiatric disorder characterized by recurrent episodes of mania/hypomania and depression. Progressive cognitive dysfunction such as impairments in executive function and verbal memory is common in euthymic bipolar patients. The cerebrospinal fluid has previously been used to study neurodegenerative processes in Alzheimer's disease, from which changes in three core biomarkers have emerged as indicative of degeneration: amyloid , total tau, and hyperphosphorylated tau. Here, neurodegeneration in bipolar disorder was investigated by assessing the association between bipolar disorder and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers for neurodegenerative processes. Cerebrospinal fluid was obtained from 139 bipolar disorder patients and 71 healthy controls. Concentrations of total and phosphorylated tau, amyloid 1-42, amyloid 38/40/42, and the soluble forms of amyloid precursor protein were measured in patients vs controls. The concentrations of the soluble forms of amyloid precursor protein were significantly lower in bipolar patients compared with controls. The amyloid 42/amyloid 38 and the amyloid 42/amyloid 40 ratios were higher in bipolar patients than controls. There were no discernible differences in the concentrations of total/phosphorylated tau, amyloid 1-42, or amyloid 38/40/42. The concentrations of the biomarkers within the bipolar patient group were further associated with different ongoing medical treatments and diagnostic subgroups. The findings suggest that the amyloid precursor protein metabolism is altered in bipolar disorder. The results may have implications for the understanding of the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder and for the development of treatment strategies. Importantly, there were no signs of an Alzheimer-like neurodegenerative process among bipolar patients.
Negative affect promotes dysregulated alcohol consumption in non-dependent and alcohol-dependent animals, and cues associated with negative affective states induce withdrawal-like symptoms in rats. This study was designed to test the hypotheses that: (1) the kappa-opioid receptor (KOR) system mediates phenotypes related to alcohol withdrawal and withdrawal-like negative affective states and (2) cues associated with negative affective states would result in dysregulated alcohol consumption when subsequently presented alone. To accomplish these goals, intracerebroventricular infusion of the KOR antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI) was assessed for the ability to attenuate the increase in 22-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) associated with alcohol withdrawal and KOR activation in adult male wistar rats. Furthermore, cues associated with a KOR agonist-induced negative affective state were assessed for the ability to dysregulate alcohol consumption and the efficacy of intracerebroventricular KOR antagonism to reduce such dysregulation was evaluated. KOR antagonism blocked the increased number of 22-kHz USVs observed during acute alcohol withdrawal and a KOR agonist (U50,488) resulted in a nor-BNI reversible increase in 22-kHz USVs (mimicking an alcohol-dependent state). Additionally, cues associated with negative affective states resulted in escalated alcohol self-administration, an effect that was nor-BNI sensitive. Taken together, this study implicates negative affective states induced by both alcohol withdrawal and conditioned stimuli as being produced, in part, by activity of the DYN/KOR system.
Personality traits have been shown to interact with environmental cues to modulate biological responses including treatment responses, and potentially having a role in the formation of placebo effects. Here, we assessed psychological traits in 50 healthy controls as to their capacity to predict placebo analgesic effects, placebo-induced activation of -opioid neurotransmission and changes in cortisol plasma levels during a sustained experimental pain challenge (hypertonic saline infused in the masseter muscle) with and without placebo administration. Statistical analyses showed that an aggregate of scores from Ego-Resiliency, NEO Altruism, NEO Straightforwardness (positive predictors) and NEO Angry Hostility (negative predictor) scales accounted for 25% of the variance in placebo analgesic responses. Molecular imaging showed that subjects scoring above the median in a composite of those trait measures also presented greater placebo-induced activation of -opioid neurotransmission in the subgenual and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), orbitofrontal cortex, insula, nucleus accumbens, amygdala and periaqueductal gray (PAG). Endogenous opioid release in the dorsal ACC and PAG was positively correlated with placebo-induced reductions in pain ratings. Significant reductions in cortisol levels were observed during placebo administration and were positively correlated with decreases in pain ratings, -opioid system activation in the dorsal ACC and PAG, and as a trend, negatively with NEO Angry Hostility scores. Our results show that personality traits explain a substantial proportion of the variance in placebo analgesic responses and are further associated with activations in endogenous opioid neurotransmission, and as a trend cortisol plasma levels. This initial data, if replicated in larger sample, suggest that simple trait measures easily deployable in the field could be utilized to reduce variability in clinical trials, but may also point to measures of individual resiliency in the face of aversive stimuli such as persistent pain and potentially other stressors.
Cognitive impairments associated with dysfunction of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) are prominent in stress-related psychiatric disorders. We have shown that enhancing noradrenergic tone acutely in the rat mPFC facilitated extra-dimensional (ED) set-shifting on the attentional set-shifting test (AST), whereas chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) impaired ED. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that the acute facilitatory effect of norepinephrine (NE) in mPFC becomes detrimental when activated repeatedly during CUS. Using microdialysis, we showed that the release of NE evoked in mPFC by acute stress was unchanged at the end of CUS treatment. Thus, to then determine if repeated elicitation of this NE activity in mPFC during CUS may have contributed to the ED deficit, we infused a cocktail of (1)-, (1)-, and (2)-adrenergic receptor antagonists into the mPFC prior to each CUS session, then tested animals drug free on the AST. Antagonist treatment prevented the CUS-induced ED deficit, suggesting that NE signaling during CUS compromised mPFC function. We confirmed that this was not attributable to sensitization of adrenergic receptor function following chronic antagonist treatment, by administering an additional microinjection into the mPFC immediately prior to ED testing. Acute antagonist treatment did not reverse the beneficial effects of chronic drug treatment during CUS, nor have any effect on baseline ED performance in chronic vehicle controls. Thus, we conclude that blockade of noradrenergic receptors in mPFC protected against the detrimental cognitive effects of CUS, and that repeated elicitation of noradrenergic facilitatory activity is one mechanism by which chronic stress may promote mPFC cognitive dysfunction.


Altered empathic responding in social interactions in concert with a reduced capacity to come up with effective solutions for interpersonal problems have been discussed as relevant factors contributing to the development and maintenance of psychiatric disorders. The aim of the current work was to review and evaluate 30 years of empirical evidence of impaired empathy and social problem solving skills in alcohol dependence, mood disorders and selected personality disorders (borderline, narcissistic, antisocial personality disorders/psychopathy), which have until now received considerably less attention than schizophrenia or autism in this realm. Overall, there is tentative evidence for dissociations of cognitive (e.g. borderline personality disorder) vs. emotional (e.g. depression, narcissism, psychopathy) empathy dysfunction in some of these disorders. However, inconsistencies in the definition of relevant concepts and their measurement, scarce neuroimaging data and rare consideration of comorbidities limit the interpretation of findings. Similarly, although impaired social problem solving appears to accompany all of these disorders, the concept has not been well integrated with empathy or other cognitive dysfunctions as yet.
Cortical oscillatory synchrony in the gamma range has been attracting increasing attention in cognitive neuroscience ever since being proposed as a solution to the so-called binding problem. This growing literature is critically reviewed in both its basic neuroscience and cognitive aspects. A physiological &quot;default assumption&quot; regarding these oscillations is introduced, according to which they signal a state of physiological activation of cortical tissue, and the associated need to balance excitation with inhibition in particular. As such these oscillations would belong among a variety of generic neural control operations that enable neural tissue to perform its systems level functions, without implementing those functions themselves. Regional control of cerebral blood flow provides an analogy in this regard, and gamma oscillations are tightly correlated with this even more elementary control operation. As correlates of neural activation they will also covary with cognitive activity, and this typically suffices to account for the covariation between gamma activity and cognitive task variables. A number of specific cases of gamma synchrony are examined in this light, including the original impetus for attributing cognitive significance to gamma activity, namely the experiments interpreted as evidence for &quot;binding by synchrony&quot;. This examination finds no compelling reasons to assign functional roles to oscillatory synchrony in the gamma range beyond its generic functions at the level of infrastructural neural control.
Affective neuroscience is concerned with identifying the neural bases of emotion. For historical and methodological reasons, models describing the brain architecture that supports emotional processes in humans have tended to neglect the basal ganglia, focusing instead on cortical and amygdalar mechanisms. Now, however, deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN), a neurosurgical treatment for Parkinson's disease and obsessive-compulsive disorder, is helping researchers explore the possible functional role of this particular basal ganglion in emotional processes. After reviewing studies that have used DBS in this way, we propose a model in which the STN plays a crucial role in producing temporally organized neural co-activation patterns at the cortical and subcortical levels that are essential for generating emotions and related feelings.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) potentiates the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) in brain regions implicated in schizophrenia, making it a viable therapeutic target for the treatment of this disorder. mGluR5 positive allosteric modulators may represent a valuable novel strategy for schizophrenia treatment, given the favourable profile of effects in preclinical paradigms. However it remains unclear whether mGluR5 also plays a causal or epiphenomenal role in NMDAR dysfunction in schizophrenia. Animal and cellular data suggest involvement of mGluR5, whilst post-mortem human studies remain inconclusive. This review will explore the molecular, animal and human data to support and refute the involvement of mGluR5 in the pathology of schizophrenia. Furthermore, this review will discuss the potential of mGluR5 modulators in the therapy of schizophrenia as well as aspects of mGluR5 that require further characterisation.
-Catenin is a component of the cadherin-catenin cell adhesion complex and its loss has been implicated in the mental retardation associated with the Cri du chat syndrome. We have previously demonstrated that loss of -catenin in a murine model during development results in excessive spine and synaptic density and function. In order to examine the role of potential molecules that might cooperate with -catenin to regulate spine density, we focused on Mef2. Our data demonstrate that while loss of -catenin does not alter the expression levels of endogenous Mef2, expression of Mef2 in neurons that are knocked down for -catenin promotes spine elimination. These results establish a molecular mechanism by which excessive spines in the absence of -catenin may be eliminated and may point toward pharmacological therapy for the Cri du chat syndrome.
The post-weaning social environment has profound effects on behavior and physiology in rodents. Social isolation increases anxiety-like behaviors and novelty-induced locomotor activity, while environmental enrichment decreases these behaviors. In some cases, the effects of social isolation are ameliorated by repeated handling. The goal of the present study was to determine whether the effects of handling differ in rats reared in social isolation and those reared in an enriched environment. After weaning, male Long-Evans rats were housed individually (ISO)(3) or in groups in an enriched environment (EE). During adulthood, rats from each housing condition received four, once-daily, brief handling sessions or remained undisturbed in the home cage. All rats were then tested in the open field, elevated plus maze, and for behavioral responses to d-amphetamine (1.0mg/kg). EE rats spent more time on the open arms of the elevated plus maze and were more likely than ISO rats to emerge from the start box in the open field, suggesting lower anxiety. Handling significantly decreased open arm time in EE rats and marginally increased open arm time in ISO rats. Housing condition did not affect amphetamine-stimulated locomotor activity, but handling altered the time course of the amphetamine response. ISO rats exhibited significantly fewer stereotyped behaviors than did EE rats, but repeated handling eliminated this difference. These findings support previously published studies that suggest brief handling of adult rats may at least partially ameliorate the effects of post-weaning social isolation on anxiety-like behaviors and psychostimulant sensitivity. Furthermore, there are complex interactions between the effects of housing environment and handling, suggesting that handling may be perceived and/or processed differently, depending on the animal's housing environment.
Axonal injury and demyelination are observed in demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis. However, pathological changes that underlie these morphologies are not fully understood. We examined in vivo morphological changes using a new histological technique, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) with osmium maceration method to observe three-dimensional structures such as myelin and axons in the spinal cord. Myelin basic protein-deficient shiverer mice and mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) were used to visualize how morphological changes in myelin and axons are induced by dysmyelination and demyelination. SEM revealed following morphological changes during dysmyelination of shiverer mice. First, enriched mitochondria and well-developed sER in axons were observed in shiverer, but not in wild-type mice. Second, the processes from some perinodal glial cells ran parallel to internodes of axons in addition to the process that covered the nodal region of the axon in shiverer mice. Last, this technique left myelin and axonal structures undisturbed. Moreover, SEM images showed clear variations in the ultrastructural abnormalities of myelin and axons in the white matter of the EAE spinal cord. This technique will be a powerful tool for identifying the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis in demyelination.

Carlo Giacomini (1840-1898) was a prominent Italian anatomist, neuroscientist, and professor at the University of Turin. Early in his career, he conducted clinical investigations with the physiologist Angelo Mosso (1846-1910) that culminated in the first recording of brain pulsations in a human subject. Anatomic features named after him include the limbus Giacomini, Giacomini vertebrae, and the vein of Giacomini. Pushing anatomy research to reconsider anthropological studies of the late 19th century, Giacomini strongly refuted the theory connecting criminality to atavistic morphological characteristics. A tireless scientist, he was the first to describe the os odontoideum in 1886 and to suggest that the presence of an incompetent odontoid process may alter the motion of craniovertebral junction, anticipating the concept of spinal instability. In this essay, we highlight the life and scientific contributions of Carlo Giacomini, with emphasis on his contributions to neuroscience.


Valproic acid (VPA) is both an anti-convulsant and a mood stabilizer. Clinical studies over the past 40 years have shown that exposure to VPA in utero is associated with birth defects, cognitive deficits, and increased risk of autism. Two recent FDA warnings related to use of VPA in pregnancy emphasize the need to reevaluate its use clinically during child-bearing years. The emerging clinical evidence showing a link between VPA exposure and both cognitive function and risk of autism brings to the forefront the importance of understanding how VPA exposure influences neurodevelopment. In the past 10 years, animal studies have investigated anatomical, behavioral, molecular, and physiological outcomes related to in utero VPA exposure. Behavioral studies show that VPA exposure in both rats and mice leads to autistic-like behaviors in the offspring, including social behavior deficits, increased repetitive behaviors, and deficits in communication. Based on this work VPA maternal challenge in rodents has been proposed as an animal model to study autism. This model has both face and construct validity; however, like all animal models there are limitations to its translation to the clinical setting. Here we provide a review of clinical studies that examined pregnancy outcomes of VPA use as well as the related animal studies.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a behaviourally defined brain disorder affecting approximately 1 in 88 children. Many pathological studies have shown that ASD is frequently associated with grey and white matter changes that can be described by their deviations from the normal trajectory of cortical maturation. For example, during the early (i.e. &lt;2 years) postnatal period there is marked and selective tissue overgrowth in the higher-order temporal and frontal networks involved in emotional, social, and communication functions. In this focused review we first summarize some basic principles of neocortical neural organization and how they are disrupted in ASD. We will then highlight some of the potential mechanisms by which the normal developmental trajectory and organization of neocortical networks can be altered based on animal studies of valproic acid, a teratogen widely used in animal models of ASD. We argue that the trajectory of postnatal cerebral neocortex development may be influenced by several cellular and molecular mechanisms that may all converge to produce a neuropathology characterized by premature or accelerated neuronal growth.
Some meta-analysis on smoking and risk of stroke showed that current smoking raised risks of total stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage, and ischemic stroke but did not raise risk of intraparenchymal hemorrhage. On the other hand, previous meta-analysis showed that smoking was inversely associated with risk of Parkinson's disease. Early research found that nicotine improved short-term cognitive function and inhibited amyloid formation. More recently, it has showed with meta-analysis that smoking raised risk of Alzheimer's disease. Cigarette smoking has a disadvantage for neurological disorders.



L-Theanine, an ethylamide derivate of glutamate found in abundance in green tea, has been shown to exert beneficial actions in animal models for several neurological disorders. We here investigated for the first time the effect of L-theanine intake on seizure susceptibility using acute pilocarpine and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) mouse models for studying, respectively, limbic seizures or primarily generalized seizures. Moreover, we studied the effect of l-theanine intake on extracellular hippocampal and cortical glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels, using in vivo microdialysis. Feeding mice with a 4% L-theanine solution significantly decreased their susceptibility to pilocarpine-induced seizures whereas susceptibility to PTZ-induced seizures was increased. The latter effect was linked to decreased extracellular GABA concentrations in frontal cortex.



Bone cancer pain has a strong impact on the quality of life of patients, but is difficult to treat. Better understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms underlying bone cancer pain will likely lead to the development of more effective treatments. In the present study, we investigated whether inhibition of KCNQ/M channels contributed to the hyperexcitability of primary sensory neurons and to the pathogenesis of bone cancer pain. By using a rat model of bone cancer pain based on intratibial injection of MRMT-1 tumour cells, we documented a prominent decrease in expression of KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 proteins and a reduction of M-current density in small-sized dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons, which were associated with enhanced excitability of these DRG neurons and the hyperalgesic behaviours in bone cancer rats. Coincidently, we found that inhibition of KCNQ/M channels with XE-991 caused a robust increase in the excitability of small-sized DRG neurons and produced an obvious mechanical allodynia in normal rats. On the contrary, activation of the KCNQ/M channels with retigabine not only inhibited the hyperexcitability of these small DRG neurons, but also alleviated mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia in bone cancer rats, and all of these effects of retigabine could be blocked by KCNQ/M-channel antagonist XE-991. These results suggest that repression of KCNQ/M channels leads to the hyperexcitability of primary sensory neurons, which in turn causes bone cancer pain. Thus, suppression of KCNQ/M channels in primary DRG neurons plays a crucial role in the development of bone cancer pain.
Context can influence the experience of any event. For instance, the thought that &quot;it could be worse&quot; can improve feelings towards a present misfortune. In this study we measured hedonic feelings, skin conductance, and brain activation patterns in 16 healthy volunteers who experienced moderate pain in two different contexts. In the &quot;relative relief context,&quot; moderate pain represented the best outcome, since the alternative outcome was intense pain. However, in the control context, moderate pain represented the worst outcome and elicited negative hedonic feelings. The context manipulation resulted in a &quot;hedonic flip,&quot; such that moderate pain elicited positive hedonics in the relative relief context. Somewhat surprisingly, moderate pain was even rated as pleasant in this context, despite being reported as painful in the control context. This &quot;hedonic flip&quot; was corroborated by physiological and functional neuroimaging data. When moderate pain was perceived as pleasant, skin conductance and activity in insula and dorsal anterior cingulate were significantly attenuated relative to the control moderate stimulus. &quot;Pleasant pain&quot; also increased activity in reward and valuation circuitry, including the medial orbitofrontal and ventromedial prefrontal cortices. Furthermore, the change in outcome hedonics correlated with activity in the periacqueductal grey (PAG) of the descending pain modulatory system (DPMS). The context manipulation also significantly increased functional connectivity between reward circuitry and the PAG, consistent with a functional change of the DPMS due to the altered motivational state. The findings of this study point to a role for brainstem and reward circuitry in a context-induced &quot;hedonic flip&quot; of pain.

Neuropathic pain conditions are common after nerve injuries and are suggested to be regulated in part by genetic factors. We have previously demonstrated a strong genetic influence of the rat major histocompatibility complex on development of neuropathic pain behavior after peripheral nerve injury. In order to study if the corresponding human leukocyte antigen complex (HLA) also influences susceptibility to pain, we performed an association study in patients that had undergone surgery for inguinal hernia (n=189). One group had developed a chronic pain state following the surgical procedure, while the control group had undergone the same type of operation, without any persistent pain. HLA DRB1genotyping revealed a significantly increased proportion of patients in the pain group carrying DRB1*04 compared to patients in the pain-free group. Additional typing of the DQB1 gene further strengthened the association; carriers of the DQB1*03:02 allele together with DRB1*04 displayed an increased risk of postsurgery pain with an odds risk of 3.16 (1.61-6.22) compared to noncarriers. This finding was subsequently replicated in the clinical material of patients with lumbar disc herniation (n=258), where carriers of the DQB1*03:02 allele displayed a slower recovery and increased pain. In conclusion, we here for the first time demonstrate that there is an HLA-dependent risk of developing pain after surgery or lumbar disc herniation; mediated by the DRB1*04 - DQB1*03:02 haplotype. Further experimental and clinical studies are needed to fine-map the HLA effect and to address underlying mechanisms.
Pain is a negative emotional experience that is modulated by a variety of psychological factors through different inhibitory systems. For example, endogenous opioids and cannabinoids have been found to be involved in stress and placebo analgesia. Here we show that when the meaning of the pain experience is changed from negative to positive through verbal suggestions, the opioid and cannabinoid systems are co-activated and these, in turn, increase pain tolerance. We induced ischemic arm pain in healthy volunteers, who had to tolerate the pain as long as possible. One group was informed about the aversive nature of the task, as done in any pain study. Conversely, a second group was told that the ischemia would be beneficial to the muscles, thus emphasizing the usefulness of the pain endurance task. We found that in the second group pain tolerance was significantly higher compared to the first one, and that this effect was partially blocked by the opioid antagonist naltrexone alone and by the cannabinoid antagonist rimonabant alone. However, the combined administration of naltrexone and rimonabant antagonized the increased tolerance completely. Our results indicate that a positive approach to pain reduces the global pain experience through the co-activation of the opioid and cannabinoid systems. These findings may have a profound impact on clinical practice. For example, postoperative pain, which means healing, can be perceived as less unpleasant than cancer pain, which means death. Therefore, the behavioral and/or pharmacological manipulation of the meaning of pain can represent an effective approach to pain management.
The intensity and submodality of pain are widely attributed to stimulus encoding by peripheral and subcortical spinal/trigeminal portions of the somatosensory nervous system. Consistent with this interpretation are studies of surgically anesthetized animals, demonstrating that relationships between nociceptive stimulation and activation of neurons are similar at subcortical levels of somatosensory projection and within the primary somatosensory cortex (in cytoarchitectural areas 3b and 1 of somatosensory cortex, SI). Such findings have led to characterizations of SI as a network that preserves, rather than transforms, the excitatory drive it receives from subcortical levels. Inconsistent with this perspective are images and neurophysiological recordings of SI neurons in lightly anesthetized primates. These studies demonstrate that an extreme anterior position within SI (area 3a) receives input originating predominantly from unmyelinated nociceptors, distinguishing it from posterior SI (areas 3b and 1), long recognized as receiving input predominantly from myelinated afferents, including nociceptors. Of particular importance, interactions between these subregions during maintained nociceptive stimulation are accompanied by an altered SI response to myelinated and unmyelinated nociceptors. A revised view of pain coding within SI cortex is discussed, and potentially significant clinical implications are emphasized.
The role of levodopa in the treatment of dysphagia in Parkinson's disease (PD) has recently been questioned. There are good reasons, however, to &quot;question the question.&quot; In this essay, evidence from published literature and clinical experience is presented, as well as a critical review of the first meta-analysis to explore this issue. The evidence presented supports the traditional view that PD dysphagia is responsive to levodopa.
Mutations of the TARDBP gene encoding TDP-43 protein have been shown to cause amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and have been reported to present with clinical heterogeneity including parkinsonism. In addition, TDP-43 pathology has been observed across a spectrum of neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Herein we report the presence of a TDP-43 mutation in a patient with a clinical diagnosis of Parkinson's disease. The TDP-43 p.N267S substitution has been previously implicated in both amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia. Our findings widen the phenotypic presentation for the TDP-43 p.N267S substitution and support a possible role for rare TDP-43 mutations presenting with Parkinson's disease.





Optogenetics arises from the innovative application of microbial opsins in mammalian neurons and has since been a powerful technology that fuels the advance of our knowledge in neuroscience. In recent years, there has been growing interest in designing optogenetic tools extendable to broader cell types and biochemical signals. To date, a variety of photoactivatable proteins (refers to induction of protein activity in contrast to fluorescence) have been developed based on the understanding of plant and microbial photoreceptors including phototropins, blue light sensors using flavin adenine dinucleotide proteins, cryptochromes, and phytochromes. Such tools offered researchers reversible, quantitative, and precise spatiotemporal control of enzymatic activity, protein-protein interaction, protein translocation, as well as gene transcription in cells and in whole animals. In this review, we will briefly introduce these photosensory proteins, describe recent developments in optogenetics, and compare and contrast different methods based on their advantages and limitations.
Re-exposure to drug-associated cues causes significant drug craving in recovering addicts, which may precipitate relapse. In animal models of craving, drug-seeking responses for contingent delivery of drug-associated cues sensitizes or &quot;incubates&quot; across drug withdrawal. To date there is limited evidence supporting an incubation effect for behaviors mediated by non-contingent presentation of drug-associated cues. Here we used a model of cue-induced conditioned activity to determine if the conditioned locomotor response to a non-contingent presentation of a drug-associated cue sensitizes across drug withdrawal. In addition, because cue-induced drug-seeking responses are mediated by the rostral basolateral amygdala (BLA), we investigated whether this structure is critical for the expression of cue-induced conditioned activity. A conditioned association between cocaine (15mg/kg) and a compound discrete cue (flashing bicycle light+a metronome) was established over 12 conditioning sessions in male Sprague-Dawley rats. In experiment 1, cue-induced conditioned activity was assessed on 3 occasions: 3, 14 and 28days following the final drug-cue conditioning session. Cocaine-conditioned rats demonstrated reliable cue-induced conditioned activity across all 3 test sessions, however there was no evidence of an incubation effect. To determine whether repeated testing prevented the observation of an incubation effect, rats in experiment 2 were tested either 3days or 28days following conditioning; again no incubation effect was observed. In experiment 3, either saline or the GABAA receptor agonist muscimol was infused prior to testing. Intra-BLA infusions of muscimol prevented the expression of cue-induced conditioned activity. These data support the role of the rBLA in mediating conditioned responses to drug-associated cues. The failure to observe an incubation effect for cue-induced conditioned activity may point to a fundamental difference in the manner by which contingent and non-contingent presentations of drug-associated cues influence behavior.
The continuous two-bottle choice test is the most common measure of alcohol consumption but there is remarkably little information about the development of tolerance or dependence with this procedure. We showed that C57BL/6J  FVB/NJ and FVB/NJC57BL/6JF1 hybrid mice demonstrate greater preference for and consumption of alcohol than either parental strain. In order to test the ability of this genetic model of high alcohol consumption to produce neuroadaptation, we examined development of alcohol tolerance and dependence after chronic self-administration using a continuous access two-bottle choice paradigm. Ethanol-experienced mice stably consumed about 16-18 g/kg/day of ethanol. Ethanol-induced withdrawal severity was assessed (after 59 days of drinking) by scoring handling-induced convulsions; withdrawal severity was minimal and did not differ between ethanol-experienced and -nave mice. After 71 days of drinking, the rate of ethanol clearance was similar for ethanol-experienced and -nave mice. After 77 days of drinking, ethanol-induced loss of righting reflex (LORR) was tested daily for 5 days. Ethanol-experienced mice had a shorter duration of LORR. For both ethanol-experienced and -nave mice, blood ethanol concentrations taken at gain of righting reflex were greater on day 5 than on day 1, indicative of tolerance. After 98 days of drinking, ethanol-induced hypothermia was assessed daily for 3 days. Both ethanol-experienced and -nave mice developed rapid and chronic tolerance to ethanol-induced hypothermia, with significant group differences on the first day of testing. In summary, chronic, high levels of alcohol consumption in F1 hybrid mice produced rapid and chronic tolerance to both the sedative/hypnotic and hypothermic effects of ethanol; additionally, a small degree of metabolic tolerance developed. The development of tolerance supports the validity of using this model of high alcohol consumption in genetic studies of alcoholism.
The present studies evaluated the role of 1 and 5 subunit-containing GABAA receptors (1GABAA and 5GABAA receptors, respectively) in the ability of benzodiazepine (BZ)-type drugs to alter performance in the cognitive domain of executive function. Five adult female rhesus monkeys (ages of 9-17years old) were trained on the object retrieval with detours (ORD) task of executive function. For the ORD task, the monkeys were required to retrieve food items from a clear box with one open end that was rotated to different positions along with varying placements of food. When the non-selective BZ triazolam and the 1GABAA-preferring agonists zolpidem and zaleplon were evaluated in the ORD task, deficits in performance occurred at doses that did not increase the latency of monkeys to initiate responding and/or increase the percentage of reaches that were incorrect (i.e., reaches in which food was not obtained). Cognition-impairing effects of triazolam and zolpidem in ORD were blocked by the 1GABAA-preferring antagonist, CCT, whereas the 5GABAA-preferring antagonist XLi-093 blocked the effects of triazolam but not zolpidem. While these findings suggest a role for both 1GABAA and 5GABAA receptor mechanisms, 1GABAA receptor mechanisms appear to be sufficient for impairments in executive function induced by BZ-type drugs.
There is clear evidence that CB(2), historically referred to as the peripheral cannabinoid receptor, mediates many of the immune modulatory effects of cannabinoids. However, cannabinoid receptors cannot be classified simply as central or peripheral since CB(2) has been shown to play a role in the central nervous system (CNS) and CB(1) mediates many immune system effects. Although Cnr1 mRNA and CB(1) protein expression is lower than Cnr2 mRNA or CB(2) protein expression in cells of the immune system, several studies have shown direct modulation of immune function via CB(1) by endogenous and exogenous cannabinoids in T cells, innate cells, and to a lesser extent, B cells. In addition, indirect, but CB(1)-dependent, mechanisms of immune modulation exist. In fact, the mechanism by which cannabinoids attenuate neuroinflammation via CB(1) is likely a combination of immune suppression and neuroprotection. Although many studies demonstrate that agonists for CB(1) are immune suppressive and anti-inflammatory, CB(1) antagonists also exhibit anti-inflammatory properties. Overall, the data demonstrate that many of the immune modulatory effects of cannabinoids are mediated via CB(1).


Human bone blood flow, mean blood speed and the number of moving red blood cells were assessed (in arbitrary units), as a function of time, during one cardiac cycle. The measurements were obtained non-invasively on five volunteers by laser-Doppler flowmetry at large interoptode spacing. The investigated bones included: patella, clavicle, tibial diaphysis and tibial malleolus. As hypothesized, we found that in all bones the number of moving cells remains constant during cardiac cycles. Therefore, we concluded that the pulsatile nature of blood flow must be completely determined by the mean blood speed and not by changes in blood volume (vessels dilation). Based on these results, it is finally demonstrated using a mathematical model (derived from the radiative transport theory) that photoplethysmographic (PPG) pulsations observed by others in the literature, cannot be generated by oscillations in blood oxygen saturation, which is physiologically linked to blood speed. In fact, possible oxygen saturation changes during pulsations decrease the amplitude of PPG pulsations due to specific features of the PPG light source. It is shown that a variation in blood oxygen saturation of 3% may induce a negative change of 1% in the PPG signal. It is concluded that PPG pulsations are determined by periodic 'positive' changes of the reduced scattering coefficient of the tissue and/or the absorption coefficient at constant blood volume. No explicit experimental PPG measurements have been performed. As a by-product of this study, an estimation of the arterial pulse wave velocity obtained from the analysis of the blood flow pulsations give a value of 7.8m s(-1) (95% confidence interval of the sample mean distribution: [6.7, 9.5] m s(-1)), which is perfectly compatible with data in the literature. We hope that this note will contribute to a better understanding of PPG signals and to further develop the domain of the vascular physiology of human bone.
Recent evidence suggests that the mechano-sensitivity of the vascular network may underlie rapid dilatory events in skeletal muscles. Previous investigations have been mostly based either on in vitro or on whole-limb studies, neither preparation allowing one to assess the musculo-vascular specificity under physiological conditions. The aim of this work is to characterize the mechano-sensitivity of an exclusively-muscular vascular bed in vivo. In five anesthetized rabbits, muscle blood flow was continuously monitored in the masseteric artery, bilaterally (n = 10). Hyperaemic responses were evoked by compressive stimuli of different extent (50, 100 and 200 mm Hg) and duration (0.5, 1, 2 and 5 s) exerted by a servo-controlled motor on the masseter muscle. Peak amplitude of the hyperaemic response ranged from 340  30% of baseline (at 50 mm Hg) to 459  57% (at 200 mm Hg) (P &lt; 0.05), did not depend on stimulus duration and exhibited very good reliability (ICC = 0.98) when reassessed at 30 min intervals. The time course of the response depended neither on applied pressure nor on the duration of the stimulus. In conclusion, for its high sensitivity and reliability this technique is adequate to characterize mechano-vascular reactivity and may prove useful in the investigation of the underlying mechanisms, with implications in the control of vascular tone and blood pressure in health and disease.
Craniopharyngiomas are benign but locally invasive tumours of the sellar region that occur as two subtypes. The adamantinomatous type (aCP) occurs mainly during childhood while the papillary type (pCP) is found almost exclusively in adults. It is thought that aCPs arise from ectopic embryonic remnants of Rathke's pouch and these tumours share features with odontogenic tumours suggesting a common origin. The pathogenesis of pCPs is less understood but these tumours may arise from metaplastic transformation of anterior pituitary epithelial cells. Mutations in CTNNB1 that encodes -catenin are found in around 70% of aCPs. These mutations stabilise -catenin, which evades destruction and accumulates in the nucleus and cytosol leading to constitutive activation of the Wnt signaling pathway. Expression of mutant -catenin early in mouse pituitary development promotes the formation of tumours similar to aCPs. However, accumulation of -catenin occurs only in small clusters of tumour cells even though the mutation is ubiquitous. These cell clusters are slow-growing and share some characteristics with pituitary stem cells. They are often present at the invading edge and express growth factors that may participate in paracrine signaling to surrounding cells. -Catenin nuclear translocation may also occur in the absence of CTNNB1 mutations, suggesting that other genetic or epigenetic events can activate Wnt signaling in aCP. These mechanisms, as well as those underlying the molecular pathogenesis of pCPs remain to be identified.
A mannosylglycerate synthase (MgS) gene detected in the genome of Selaginella moellendorffii was expressed in E. coli and the recombinant enzyme was purified and characterized. A remarkable and unprecedented feature of this enzyme was the ability to efficiently synthesize mannosylglycerate (MG) and glucosylglycerate (GG) alike, with maximal activity at 50 C, pH 8.0 and with Mg(2+) as reaction enhancer. We have also identified a novel glycoside hydrolase gene in this plant's genome, which was functionally confirmed to be highly specific for the hydrolysis of MG and GG and named MG hydrolase (MgH), due to its homology with bacterial MgHs. The recombinant enzyme was maximally active at 40 C and at pH 6.0-6.5. The activity was independent of cations, but Mn(2+) was a strong stimulator. Regardless of these efficient enzymatic resources we could not detect MG or GG in S. moellendorffii or in the extracts of five additional Selaginella species. Herein, we describe the properties of the first eukaryotic enzymes for the synthesis and hydrolysis of the compatible solutes, MG and GG.

Since their discovery in 1971, the polyomaviruses JC (JCPyV) and BK (BKPyV), isolated from patients with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy and polyomavirus-associated nephropathy, respectively, remained for decades as the only known members of the Polyomaviridae family of viruses of human origin. Over the past five years, the application of new genomic amplification technologies has facilitated the discovery of several novel human polyomaviruses (HPyVs), bringing the present number to 10. These HPyVs share many fundamental features in common such as genome size and organization. Infection by all HPyVs is widespread in the human population, but they show important differences in their tissue tropism and association with disease. Much remains unknown about these new viruses. In this review, we discuss the problems associated with studying HPyVs, such as the lack of culture systems for the new viruses and the gaps in our basic understanding of their biology. We summarize what is known so far about their distribution, life cycle, tissue tropism, their associated pathologies (if any), and future research directions in the field.
Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the ubiquilin-1 gene may confer risk for late-onset Alzheimer disease (AD). We have shown previously that ubiquilin-1 functions as a molecular chaperone for the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and that protein levels of ubiquilin-1 are decreased in the brains of AD patients. We have recently found that ubiquilin-1 regulates APP trafficking and subsequent secretase processing by stimulating non-degradative ubiquitination of a single lysine residue in the cytosolic domain of APP. Thus, ubiquilin-1 plays a central role in regulating APP biosynthesis, trafficking and ultimately toxicity. As ubiquilin-1 and other ubiquilin family members have now been implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous neurodegenerative diseases, these findings provide mechanistic insights into the central role of ubiquilin proteins in maintaining neuronal proteostasis.
The degeneration of pre-synaptic boutons in the stratum radiatum of the dorsal hippocampus is one of earliest components of neurodegeneration in several models of murine prion disease. We recently showed that blockade of synaptic transmission by infusion of botulinum neurotoxin A (BoNT/A) into the hippocampus several weeks prior to the onset of degeneration, had no detectable impact on the extent of the synaptic degeneration. ( 1) We elaborate here on the rationale for these experiments and highlight why we believe that this negative result is interesting and important. We also discuss new observations that might provide insights into the molecular events that underlie synapse degeneration.
Many neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease show similar characteristics. They typically show deposits of protein aggregates, the formation of which is considered important in their pathogenesis. Recently, aggregation-prone proteins have been shown to spread between cells and so may contribute to the pathogenesis of diseases like prion disease. Such a pathogenesis pathway is possibly common to many neurodegenerative diseases. If confirmed, it could allow the development of therapeutic interventions against many such diseases. In Parkinson disease, -synuclein, a major component of cytosolic protein inclusions named Lewy body, has been shown to be released and taken up by cells, which may facilitate its progressive pathological spreading between cells. Accordingly, inhibition of spreading by targeting extracellular -synuclein may represent a new therapy against Parkinson disease. Research into the intercellular spreading of extracellular protein aggregations of -synuclein and its clearance pathway are reviewed here with a focus on the proteolytic clearance pathway as a therapeutic target for the treatment of Parkinson disease. Considering the similar characteristics of aggregation-prone proteins, these clearance systems might allow treatment of other neurodegenerative diseases beyond Parkinson disease.
Ciona intestinalis (the common sea squirt) is the closest living chordate relative to vertebrates with cosmopolitan presence worldwide. It has a relatively simple nervous system and development, making it a widely studied alternative model system in neuroscience and developmental biology. The use of Ciona as a model organism has increased significantly after the draft genome was published. In this study, we describe the first proteome map of the neural complex of C. intestinalis. A total of 544 proteins were identified based on 1DE and 2DE FTMS/ITMSMS analyses. Proteins were annotated against the Ciona database and analyzed to predict their molecular functions, roles in biological processes, and position in constructed network pathways. The identified Ciona neural complex proteome was found to map onto vertebrate nervous system pathways, including cytoskeleton remodeling neurofilaments, cell adhesion through the histamine receptor signaling pathway, -aminobutyric acid-A receptor life cycle neurophysiological process, glycolysis, and amino acid metabolism. The proteome map of the Ciona neural complex is the first step toward a better understanding of several important processes, including the evolution and regeneration capacity of the Ciona nervous system.
Ginkgo biloba special extract (EGb761) is used in most randomized control trials. Indications include cognition and memory in Alzheimer disease, age-associated dementia, cerebral insufficiency, intermittent claudication, schizophrenia, and multi-infarct dementia. Dosages range from 80 to 720 mg/d for durations of 2 weeks to 2 years. Mechanisms of action include increasing cerebral blood flow, antioxidant and antiinflammatory effects, with antiplatelet effects attributed to flavone and terpene lactones. Possible interactions with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, alprazolam, haloperidol, warfarin, and nifedipine have been reported. Optimal dosage/duration, dose-response characteristics, drug interactions, bioavailability, long-term effects, and optimal intervention timing should be the focus of future work.

We tested 44 participants with respect to their working memory (WM) performance on alcohol-related versus neutral visual stimuli. Previously an alcohol attentional bias (AAB) had been reported using these stimuli, where the attention of frequent drinkers was automatically drawn toward alcohol-related items (e.g., beer bottle). The present study set out to provide evidence for an alcohol memory bias (AMB) that would persist over longer time-scales than the AAB. The WM task we used required memorizing 4 stimuli in their correct locations and a visual interference task was administered during a 4-sec delay interval. A subsequent probe required participants to indicate whether a stimulus was shown in the correct or incorrect location. For each participant we calculated a drinking score based on 3 items derived from the Alcohol Use Questionnaire, and we observed that higher scorers better remembered alcohol-related images compared with lower scorers, particularly when these were presented in their correct locations upon recall. This provides first evidence for an AMB. It is important to highlight that this effect persisted over a 4-sec delay period including a visual interference task that erased iconic memories and diverted attention away from the encoded items, thus the AMB cannot be reduced to the previously reported AAB. Our finding calls for further investigation of alcohol-related cognitive biases in WM, and we propose a preliminary model that may guide future research.
This study examined the psychometric properties of the Therapeutic Alliance Scale for Caregivers and Parents (TASCP) in a sample of 209 caregivers whose children (4-13 years of age) presented with disruptive behavior problems to a publicly funded outpatient mental health clinic in San Diego County. Information about therapeutic alliance was collected from caregivers, children, and their therapists across the course of therapy (up to 16 months). Results support the reliability, temporal stability, convergent validity, and discriminant validity of scores on the TASCP. The multilevel factor structure of this new measure was consistent with the parallel child-report version, with 2 within-level factors and 1 between-level factor. Furthermore, predictive validity was strong, with stronger caregiver-reported alliance associated with less treatment dropout, more sessions attended, and greater satisfaction with perceived improvement.
Mixed Group Validation (MGV) is an approach for estimating the diagnostic accuracy of tests. MGV is a promising alternative to the more commonly used Known Groups Validation (KGV) approach for estimating diagnostic accuracy. The advantage of MGV lies in the fact that the approach does not require a perfect external validity criterion or gold standard. However, the research designs where MGV is most appropriate have not been thoroughly explored. We give a brief description of the ideal research design to minimize error for MGV studies, test whether the MGV assumptions hold with clinical data, evaluate whether there is evidence of assumption violation among published MGV studies, give a practical description of the MGV assumptions, and describe an example of an optimal use of MGV. Ultimately, we conclude that MGV is not generally superior to KGV but may be used in some cases where the assumptions and standard error have been considered appropriately.
Mentalizing is an aspect of social cognition that is garnering increased interest. Although a wide variety of experimental tasks are available to measure mentalizing abilities in adults, the most widely used tasks typically focus on specific aspects of mentalizing, and mentalizing judgments are performed based on a limited set of information about the agent and the context. Here, we present the Eight Sources of Information Framework (8-SIF), a model that describes the sources of information that can contribute to mentalizing judgments both in real life and in the context of mentalizing tasks. This model is then used to systematically review and analyze the most classical mentalizing tasks, with a particular focus on the sources of information provided as a basis for mentalizing judgments in these tasks. Next, mentalizing tasks with improved ecological validity are also examined, highlighting the greater richness and diversity of the sources of information provided in such tasks relative to the most classical tasks. We believe that the 8-SIF is an important first step to increase awareness of the sources of information that can contribute to mentalizing judgments and to favor investigations of the potential impact of these sources of information on mentalizing performance in different populations.


Inhibition in task switching is inferred from slower reaction times returning to a recently performed task after one intervening trial (i.e. an ABA sequence) compared to returning to a task not recently performed (CBA sequence). These n-2 repetition costs are thought to reflect the persisting inhibition of a task after its disengagement. As such, the n-2 repetition cost is an attractive tool for the researcher interested in inhibitory functioning in clinical/neurological/neuroscience disciplines. In the literature, an absence of this cost is often interpreted as an absence of inhibition, an assumption with strong implications for researchers. The current paper argues that this is not necessarily an accurate interpretation, as an absence of inhibition should lead to an n-2 repetition benefit as a task's activation level will prime performance. This argument is supported by three instances of a computational cognitive model varying the degree of inhibition present. An inhibition model fits human n-2 repetition costs well. Removal of the inhibition-the activation-only model-predicts an n-2 repetition benefit. For the model to produce a null n-2 repetition cost, small amounts of inhibition were required-the reduced-inhibition model. The authors also demonstrate that a lateral-inhibition locus of the n-2 repetition cost cannot account for observed human data. The authors conclude that a null n-2 repetition cost provides no evidence on its own for an absence of inhibition, and propose reporting of a significant n-2 repetition benefit to be the best evidence for a lack of inhibition. Implications for theories on task switching are discussed.
The stop-signal paradigm is a popular method for examining response inhibition and impulse control in psychology, cognitive neuroscience, and clinical domains because it allows the estimation of the covert latency of the stop process: the stop-signal reaction time (SSRT). In three sets of simulations, we examined to what extent SSRTs that were estimated with the popular mean and integration methods were influenced by the skew of the reaction time distribution and the gradual slowing of the response latencies. We found that the mean method consistently overestimated SSRT. The integration method tended to underestimate SSRT when response latencies gradually increased. This underestimation bias was absent when SSRTs were estimated with the integration method for smaller blocks of trials. Thus, skewing and response slowing can lead to spurious inhibitory differences. We recommend that the mean method of estimating SSRT be abandoned in favor of the integration method.







The event-related potential (ERP) correlates of sound detection are attenuated when eliciting sounds coincide with our own actions. The role of attention in this effect was investigated in two experiments by presenting tones separated by random intervals. In the homogeneous condition of Experiments 1 and 2, the same tone was repeated, whereas in the mixed condition of Experiment 1, tones with five different frequencies were presented. Participants performed a time-interval production task by marking intervals with keypresses in Experiment 1, and tried to produce keypress-tone coincidences in Experiment 2. Although the auditory ERPs were attenuated for coincidences, no modulation by the multiplicity of tone frequencies in Experiment 1, or by the task-relevancy of tones and coincidences in Experiment 2, was found. This suggests that coincidence-related ERP attenuation cannot be fully explained by voluntary attentional mechanisms.
A knockin (KI) mouse model with the R192Q missense mutation in the Cacna1a gene commonly detected in familial hemiplegic migraine was used to study whether trigeminal ganglia showed a basal inflammatory profile that could be further enhanced by the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) toxin. Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP)-gated purinergic ionotropic receptor 3 (P2X3) currents expressed by the large majority of trigeminal sensory neurons were taken as functional readout. Cultured R192Q KI trigeminal ganglia showed higher number of active macrophages, basal release of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF), and larger P2X3 receptor currents with respect to wild type (WT) cells. After 5h application of LPS in vitro, both WT and R192Q KI cultures demonstrated significant increase in macrophage activation, very large rise in TNF mRNA content, and ambient protein levels together with fall in TNF precursor, suggesting potent release of this inflammatory mediator. Notwithstanding the unchanged expression of P2X3 receptor protein in WT or R192Q KI cultures, LPS evoked a large rise in WT neuronal currents that recovered faster from desensitization. Basal R192Q KI currents were larger than WT ones and could not be further augmented by LPS. These data suggest that KI cultures had a basal neuroinflammatory profile that might facilitate the release of endogenous mediators (including ATP) to activate constitutively hyperfunctional P2X3 receptors and amplify nociceptive signaling by trigeminal sensory neurons.
Previous data suggest that nucleotides are important mitogens in the developing retina. Here, the effect of ATP on the death of cultured chick embryo retina cells was investigated. In cultures obtained from retinas of 7-day-old chick embryos (E7) that were cultivated for 2days (E7C2), both ATP and BzATP induced a 30% decrease in cell viability that was time- and dose-dependent and that could be blocked by 0.2mM oxidized ATP or 0.3M KN-62. An increase in cleaved caspase-3 levels and in the number of TUNEL-positive cells was observed when cultures were incubated with 3mM ATP and immunolabeling for cleaved-caspase 3 was observed over neurons but not over glial cells. ATP-dependent cell death was developmentally regulated, the maximal levels being detected by E7C2-3. Nucleotides were able to increase neuronal ethidium bromide and sulforhodamine B uptake in mixed and purified neuronal cultures, an effect that was blocked by the antagonists Brilliant Blue G and oxidized ATP. In contrast, nucleotide-induced cell death was observed only in mixed cultures, but not in purified cultures of neurons or glia. ATP-induced neuronal death was blocked by the glutamatergic antagonists MK801 and DNQX and activation of P2X7 receptors by ATP decreased the uptake of [(3)H]-D-aspartate by cultured glial cells with a concomitant accumulation of it in the extracellular medium. These results suggest that ATP induces apoptosis of chick embryo retinal neurons in culture through activation of P2X7 and glutamate ionotropic receptors. Involvement of a P2X7 receptor-mediated inhibition of the glial uptake of glutamate is suggested.
Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is an extremely sensitive modality for detecting focal changes to the white matter (WM) in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). For this reason, it has become an integral part of the diagnostic workup of patients with clinically isolated syndromes who are at risk of developing definite MS, and it is always recommended in patients with definite MS to confirm the diagnosis and monitor the disease course. Crucial to the use of MR imaging for diagnostic purposes is the identification of lesion features - in terms of site, shape and size - that may be considered suggestive or typical for MS, and thus help in the differential diagnosis with other neurological diseases with similar clinical presentation to MS. This need has led to the publication of several guidelines for characterising MS lesions on both dual-echo (T2 and proton density) and T1-weighted sequences after administration of contrast material. Developments in clinical research into MS have highlighted the need to formulate a diagnosis as far as possible on the basis of objective and reproducible criteria. Currently, when making a clinical diagnosis and monitoring patients with suspected MS, neurologists and neuroradiologists make use of specific diagnostic criteria that have changed over the years and will probably continue to be updated. It is therefore crucial for radiologists to become familiar with these criteria in order to improve the quality of their diagnostic assessment. In patients with a definite diagnosis of MS, on the other hand, the main problem is to define standard procedures for monitoring the course of the disease and response to pharmacological treatments. even though no guidelines currently exist, it is possible to suggest some strategies to improve the assessment in this setting.

The origins of evidence-based medicine as understood today are traceable to 1972 and the publication of Archie Cochranes book Effectiveness and Efficiency: Random Reflections on Health Services. This book attempted to bridge the divide between scientific medicine and clinical judgment that had developed since the mid-19th century. Its genesis was stimulated by Cochranes experiences as a prisoner-of-war medical officer and of the demands placed after the 1939-1945 war on the UK National Health Service. In the 1960s, reproductive medicine was considered by the UK Medical Research Council to be relatively unscientific in its approach to care delivery and was described as such by Cochrane in the 1970s. Evidence is presented here that reproductive medicine responded, becoming by 1989 a pioneering clinical discipline in the application of evidence to practice. This was achieved largely through the efforts of Iain Chalmers, who was a key player in the development of the systematic review and in the foundation of the Cochrane collection.
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a disorder with extremely complex etiology, not yet well defined but certainly multi-factorial. This study investigated the possible etiopathogenetic role of ADHD symptoms and psychopathology disorders in parents of children with ADHD. We present a case-control study of parents of 50 children affected by ADHD and of 45 healthy children, matched to age and gender. Parents of ADHD children reported higher levels of ADHD symptoms, depressive disorders and Depressive Personality Disorders than parents of healthy children. Mothers displayed greater presence of depression, while fathers showed problems concerning alcohol use. The occurrence of ADHD symptoms, psychopathology and personality disorders in parents highlights the importance to integrate the treatment programs in the ADHD children with the screening and treatment for psychopathological symptoms of the parents.



The study of the cerebral mechanisms underlying empathy lies currently at the heart of neuroscience research. This process which can be defined as &quot;the ability to put oneself into other's shoes in order to feel his emotions and feelings&quot;, constitutes a basic skill in any interpersonal relationship, particularly in the caregiver-patient relationship. In addition, the study of empathy impairements offers new ways to approach diverse mental disorders such as autism or psychopathy. However, it is essential to identify how the brain processes empathy in healthy subjects before studying its impairements. The purpose of this paper will then be to synthesize what the neuroscience research already identified thanks to the numerous works in neurophysiology, neuroimaging and lesion studies. We will also mention some limitations of this field of research and end the paper with its future perspectives.
INTRODUCTION. We present a series of children who underwent a video-polysomnographic recording at our Sleep and Epilepsy Unit, who received a diagnosis of nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (NFLE). AIMS. To describe electroclinical and video polygraphic features of paediatric NFLE that differentiate this condition from other sleep disorders that overlap and mimic the sleep motor and autonomic events of NFLE. PATIENTS AND METHODS. The inclusion criterion was that the patients have their first video-EEG-PSG recording in our laboratory. RESULTS. Twenty-four out of 190 children were diagnosed with NFLE (group 1); while 166 had other sleep disorders (group 2). Among children diagnosed with NFLE, seven were referred for sleep-disordered breathing, seven for parasomnias, two for insomnia, two for hypersomnia, and one for periodic limb movements, while five were referred for epilepsy. In group 1, perinatal history was normal in most cases (21 out of 24) and a familiar history of epilepsy was found in four cases. Sleep-disordered breathing was diagnosed as a comorbid condition in four children. Standard EEG was normal in 21 cases. Interictal EEG showed epileptic discharges in four cases, while ictal EEG was expressed by a rhythmic theta activity preceded by an arousal and/or a short background desynchronization, movement artifacts, and autonomic changes. All seizures, repeated highly stereotyped motor events, were followed by stage shifts and/or a postural change and, by short awakenings. CONCLUSIONS. We found a high percentage of children with NFLE, often misdiagnosed or associated with other sleep disorders, which may be a trigger for nocturnal seizures.


The onset of schizophrenic disorders generally occurs in late adolescence/early adulthood. However, in 75% of the cases, the onset is preceded by a prodromal stage. Subjects concerned by these prodromal symptoms are defined at &quot;high risk&quot; for psychosis (30% of conversion to psychosis in the next year). Early detection programs aim at improving the recognition of the prodromal symptoms in order to develop appropriate early interventions that will delay or prevent conversion to psychosis or reduce the duration of untreated psychosis (DUP). Atypical antipsychotics are not recommended when psychotic symptoms are only attenuated, while they must be rapidly prescribed when a franc psychotic episode is present. Early identification of patients with schizophrenia is a general practitioners' task provided that they can rely on a supportive specialized psychiatric team. Early intervention should be based on a comprehensive assessment of the subject, in order to propose personalized care that include cognitive therapy, psycho-education, and treatment of associated disorders (depression, substance abuse). The reduction of duration of untreated psychosis will also require sensibilization campaigns in the community with the hope to improve access to care and service delivery.

Steroid-responsive encephalopathy associated with autoimmune thyroiditis (SREAT), also known as Hashimoto encephalopathy, represents a rare disorder of presumed autoimmune origins that can be diagnosed when a protean variety of psychiatric symptoms are present in association with elevated titers of anti-thyroid antibodies. Symptoms can have a rapid and complete remission with corticosteroid treatment. A 19-year-old girl, with clinical history of Basedow-Graves disease, has been admitted to our department after presenting acute psychiatric symptomatology. Clinical and serological findings were used to formulate the diagnosis of SREAT, confirmed by subsequent positive response to corticosteroid treatment. SREAT can mimic an acute psychiatric symptomatology, thus it seems extremely relevant for psychiatrists to consider this syndrome in differential diagnosis algorithm, especially in those patients presenting a history of autoimmune thyroid disorder, in order to ensure adequate diagnosis and treatment.

RNA decapping is an important contributor to gene expression and is a critical determinant of mRNA decay. The recent demonstration that mammalian cells harbor at least two distinct decapping enzymes that preferentially modulate a subset of mRNAs raises the intriguing possibility of whether additional decapping enzymes exist. Because both known decapping proteins, Dcp2 and Nudt16, are members of the Nudix hydrolase family, we set out to determine whether other members of this family of proteins also contain intrinsic RNA decapping activity. Here we demonstrate that six additional mouse Nudix proteins--Nudt2, Nudt3, Nudt12, Nudt15, Nudt17, and Nudt19--have varying degrees of decapping activity in vitro on both monomethylated and unmethylated capped RNAs. The decapping products from Nudt17 and Nudt19 were analogous to Dcp2 and predominantly generated mGDP, while cleavage by Nudt2, Nudt3, Nudt12, and Nudt15 was more pleiotropic and generated both mGMP and mGDP. Interestingly, all six Nudix proteins as well as both Dcp2 and Nudt16 could hydrolyze the cap of an unmethylated capped RNA, indicating that decapping enzymes may be less constrained for the presence of the methyl moiety. Investigation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Nudix proteins revealed that the yeast homolog of Nudt3, Ddp1p, also possesses decapping activity in vitro. Moreover, the bacterial Nudix pyrophosphohydrolase RppH displayed RNA decapping activity and released mGDP product comparable to Dcp2, indicating that decapping is an evolutionarily conserved activity that preceded mammalian cap formation. These findings demonstrate that multiple Nudix family hydrolases may function in mRNA decapping and mRNA stability.
An unusual case of apparent Parkinson's disease caused by a brain tumor (meningioma) is presented. The role of brain imaging in the evaluation of a patient with Parkinson's symptoms is discussed.

Delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) is reduced when the same exercise is repeated after a certain interval. However, the mechanism for this adaptation, called a repeated bout effect, is still not well understood. Recently, we showed that upregulated nerve growth factor (NGF) triggered by B2 bradykinin receptor (B2R) activation in exercised muscle was responsible for DOMS. In this study, we investigated whether NGF upregulation was reduced after repeated bouts of exercise in rats, and if so, whether this change occurred upstream of B2R. A bout of 500 lengthening contractions (LC) was applied on day 0 and again 5 days later. DOMS was evaluated by the mechanical withdrawal threshold of the exercised extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscle. Mechanical hyperalgesia and NGF mRNA upregulation in EDL were observed after the first LC, but not after the second LC. We then injected HOE140, a B2R antagonist with effects lasting only several hours, once before the first LC. This blocked the development of mechanical hyperalgesia and NGF mRNA upregulation not only after the first LC but also after the second LC. This suggests that adaptation occurred upstream of B2R, as the influence of the first LC was limited to that area by HOE140.
We investigated the existence of a temporal association between age at initiation of cannabis use and age at onset of psychotic illness in 997 participants from the 2010 Survey of High Impact Psychosis (SHIP) in Australia. We tested for group differences in age at onset of psychotic illness and in the duration of premorbid exposure to cannabis (DPEC). Analyses were repeated in subgroups of participants with a schizophrenia-spectrum disorder (SSD), a diagnosis of lifetime cannabis dependence (LCD), and a comorbid SSD/LCD diagnosis. The association between age at initiation of cannabis use and age at onset of psychotic illness was linear and significant, F(11, 984) = 13.77, P &lt; .001, even after adjusting for confounders. The effect of age at initiation of cannabis use on DPEC was not significant (mean duration of 7.8 years), and this effect was similar in participants with a SSD, LCD, and comorbid SSD/ LCD diagnosis although a shift toward shorter premorbid exposure to cannabis was noted in the SSD/LCD subgroup (mean duration of 7.19 years for SSD/LCD). A temporal direct relationship between age at initiation of cannabis use and age at onset of psychotic illness was detected with a premorbid exposure to cannabis trend of 7-8 years, modifiable by higher severity of premorbid cannabis use and a diagnosis of SSD. Cannabis may exert a cumulative toxic effect on individuals on the pathway to developing psychosis, the manifestation of which is delayed for approximately 7-8 years, regardless of age at which cannabis use was initiated.
Questions concerning both the ontology and epistemology of the &quot;psychiatric object&quot; (symptoms and signs) should be at the forefront of current concerns of psychiatry as a clinical neuroscience. We argue that neglect of these issues is a crucial source of the stagnation of psychiatric research. In honor of the centenary of Karl Jaspers' book, General Psychopathology, we offer a critique of the contemporary &quot;operationalist&quot; epistemology, a critique that is consistent with Jaspers' views. Symptoms and signs cannot be properly understood or identified apart from an appreciation of the nature of consciousness or subjectivity, which in turn cannot be treated as a collection of thing-like, mutually independent objects, accessible to context-free, &quot;atheoretical&quot; definitions or unproblematic forms of measurement (as is often assumed in structured interviewing). Adequate and faithful distinctions in the phenomenal or experiential realm are therefore a fundamental prerequisite for classification, treatment, and research. This requires a multidisciplinary approach, incorporating (among other things) insights provided by psychology, phenomenological philosophy, and the philosophy of mind.
The &quot;generalized cognitive deficit problem&quot; refers to a situation in which a generalized deficit gives the false appearance of a specific deficit due to the psychometric properties of tests, and it is an important methodological consideration in schizophrenia research. However, it also generates considerable confusion and is often used indiscriminately as a scientific criticism, even in situations to which it does not apply. Further, the generalized deficit problem creates few concerns in interpretation for many central questions in contemporary schizophrenia research. The research literature has shifted away from the traditional goal of identifying generalized vs differential deficits, and the field now demonstrates (1) increased recognition that a generalized deficit, broadly defined, probably does not exist in schizophrenia, (2) increased emphasis on explaining both shared and unique variance across measures to understand the mechanisms through which cognition relates to external variables (eg, functional outcome), and (3) increased use of neuroscientific methods to explore cognition in schizophrenia in which the structure and richness of data can be used to minimize misinterpretation of the sort that can occur when using only behavioral measures. Clearly, consideration of the generalized deficit still remains essential in certain experimental contexts, but criticisms based on this concern are unwarranted in many other situations in schizophrenia research. This commentary is intended to help clarify the distinctions between these 2 situations so that concerns will be expressed in a more selective, less reflexive, manner.



Insight problem solving is characterized by mental impasses, states of mind in which the problem solver does not know what to do next. Although many studies have investigated the neural correlates of insight problem solving, however, the question when mental impasses occur during insight problem solving has been rarely studied. The present study adopted high temporal resolution ERPs to investigate the temporal dynamics of an impasse underlying insight problem solving. Time locked ERPs were recorded associated with problems with impasses (PWI) and problems without impasses (POI). The problem types were determined by participants' subjective responses. The results revealed an early frontocentral P2 was linked with the preconscious awareness of mental impasses and a P3a was associated with fixed attention when the impasse formed. These findings suggest the impasse may occur initially at a relatively early stage and metacognition plays an important role in insight problem solving.



The peripheral sensory organ of the gustatory system, the taste bud, contains a heterogeneous collection of sensory cells. These taste cells can differ in the stimuli to which they respond and the receptors and other signaling molecules they employ to transduce and encode those stimuli. This molecular diversity extends to the expression of a varied repertoire of bioactive peptides that appear to play important functional roles in signaling taste information between the taste cells and afferent sensory nerves and/or in processing sensory signals within the taste bud itself. Here, we review studies that examine the expression of bioactive peptides in the taste bud and the impact of those peptides on taste functions. Many of these peptides produced in taste buds are known to affect appetite, satiety or metabolism through their actions in the brain, pancreas and other organs, suggesting a functional link between the gustatory system and the neural and endocrine systems that regulate feeding and nutrient utilization.
Semaphorins form a large, evolutionary conserved family of cellular guidance signals. The semaphorin family contains several secreted and transmembrane proteins, but only one GPI-anchored member, Semaphorin7A (Sema7A). Although originally identified in immune cells, as CDw108, Sema7A displays widespread expression outside the immune system. It is therefore not surprising that accumulating evidence supports roles for this protein in a wide variety of biological processes in different organ systems and in disease. Well-characterized biological effects of Sema7A include those during bone and immune cell regulation, neuron migration and neurite growth. These effects are mediated by two receptors, plexinC1 and integrins. However, most of what is known today about Sema7A signaling concerns Sema7A-integrin interactions. Here, we review our current knowledge of Sema7A function and signaling in different organ systems, highlighting commonalities between the cellular effects and signaling pathways activated by Sema7A in different cell types. Furthermore, we discuss a potential role for Sema7A in disease and provide directions for further research.
Taste receptor cells play a major role in detection of chemical compounds in the oral cavity. Information derived from taste receptor cells, such as sweet, bitter, salty, sour and umami is important for evaluating the quality of food components. Among five basic taste qualities, sweet taste is very attractive for animals and influences food intake. Recent studies have demonstrated that sweet taste sensitivity in taste receptor cells would be affected by leptin and endocannabinoids. Leptin is an anorexigenic mediator that reduces food intake by acting on leptin receptor Ob-Rb in the hypothalamus. Endocannabinoids such as anandamide [N-arachidonoylethanolamine (AEA)] and 2-arachidonoyl glycerol (2-AG) are known as orexigenic mediators that act via cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1) in the hypothalamus and limbic forebrain to induce appetite and stimulate food intake. At the peripheral gustatory organs, leptin selectively suppresses and endocannabinoids selectively enhance sweet taste sensitivity via Ob-Rb and CB1 expressed in sweet sensitive taste cells. Thus leptin and endocannabinoids not only regulate food intake via central nervous systems but also modulate palatability of foods by altering peripheral sweet taste responses. Such reciprocal modulation of leptin and endocannabinoids on peripheral sweet sensitivity may play an important role in regulating energy homeostasis.


Studies in psychiatry and cognitive neuroscience have reported an important relationship between individual interoceptive accuracy and anxiety level. This indicates that greater attention to one's bodily state may contribute to the development of intense negative emotions and anxiety disorders. We hypothesized that reactivity in the anterior insular cortex underlies the intensity of interoceptive awareness and anxiety. To elucidate this triadic mechanism, we conducted functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and mediation analyses to examine the relationship between emotional disposition and activation in the anterior insular cortex while participants evaluated their own emotional and bodily states. Our results indicated that right anterior insular activation was positively correlated with individual levels of social anxiety and neuroticism and negatively correlated with agreeableness and extraversion. The results of the mediation analyses revealed that activity in the right anterior insula mediated the activity of neural correlates of interoceptive sensibility and social fear. Our findings suggest that attention to interoceptive sensation affects personality traits through how we feel emotion subjectively in various situations.
A functional polymorphism within the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) has been reported to modulate emotionality and risk for affective disorders. The short (S) allele has less functional efficacy than the long (L) allele and has been associated with enhanced emotional reactivity. One possible contributing factor to the high emotionality in S carriers may be inefficient use of cognitive strategies such as reappraisal to regulate emotional responses. The aim of the present study was to test whether the 5-HTTLPR genotype modulates the neural correlates of emotion regulation. To determine neural differences between S and L allele carriers during reappraisal of negative emotions, 15 homozygous S (S'/S') and 15 homozygous L (L'/L') carriers underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), while performing an instructed emotion regulation task including downregulation, upregulation and passive viewing of negative emotional pictures. Compared to L'/L' allele carriers, subjects who carry the S'/S' allele responded with lower posterior insula and prefrontal brain activation during passive perception of negative emotional information but showed greater prefrontal activation and anterior insula activation during down- and upregulation of negative emotional responses. The current results support and extend previous findings of enhanced emotionality in S carriers by providing additional evidence of 5-HTTLPR modulation of volitional emotion regulation.
Neuroscience research on the social evaluation of faces has accumulated over the last decade, yielding divergent results. We used a meta-analytic technique, multi-level kernel density analysis (MKDA), to analyze 29 neuroimaging studies on face evaluation. Across negative face evaluations, we observed the most consistent activations in bilateral amygdala. Across positive face evaluations, we observed the most consistent activations in medial prefrontal cortex, pregenual anterior cingulate cortex (pgACC), medial orbitofrontal cortex (mOFC), left caudate and nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Based on additional analyses comparing linear and non-linear responses, we propose a ventral/dorsal dissociation within the amygdala, wherein separate populations of neurons code for face valence and intensity, respectively. Finally, we argue that some of the differences between studies are attributable to differences in the typicality of face stimuli. Specifically, extremely attractive faces are more likely to elicit responses in NAcc/caudate and mOFC.
A great deal of evidence suggests that reminders of mortality increase in-group support and worldview defense, presumably in order to deal with the potential for anxiety that roots in the knowledge that death is inevitable. Interestingly, these effects are obtained solely when thoughts of death are not in the focus of consciousness. When conscious, death-related thoughts are usually defended against using proximal defenses, which entail distraction or suppression. The present study aimed at demonstrating neurophysiological correlates of proximal defenses. We focused on the late positive potential (LPP), which is thought to reflect an increased allocation of attention toward, and processing of, motivationally relevant stimuli. Our prediction was that the LPP should be increased for death-related relative to death-unrelated, but equally unpleasant stimulus words. In Experiment 1, this prediction was confirmed. This finding was replicated in Experiment 2, which used a target word detection task. In Experiment 2, both death-related and pleasant words elicited an enhanced LPP, presumably because during the less demanding task, people might have distracted themselves from the mortality reminders by focusing on pleasant words. To summarize, we were able to identify a plausible neurophysiological marker of proximal defenses in the form of an increased LPP to death-related words.
Social expectations play a critical role in everyday decision-making. However, their precise neuro-computational role in the decision process remains unknown. Here we adopt a decision neuroscience framework by combining methods and theories from psychology, economics and neuroscience to outline a novel, expectation-based, computational model of social preferences. Results demonstrate that this model outperforms the standard inequity-aversion model in explaining decision behavior in a social interactive bargaining task. This is supported by fMRI findings showing that the tracking of social expectation violations is processed by anterior cingulate cortex, extending previous computational conceptualizations of this region to the social domain. This study demonstrates the usefulness of this interdisciplinary approach in better characterizing the psychological processes that underlie social interactive decision-making.


Current explanations of social class gaps in children's early academic skills tend to focus on non-cognitive skills that more advantaged children acquire in the family. Accordingly, social class matters because the cultural resources more abundant in advantaged families cultivate children's repertories and tool kits, which allow them to more easily navigate social institutions, such as schools. Within these accounts, parenting practices matter for children's academic success, but for seemingly arbitrary reasons. Alternatively, findings from current neuroscience research indicate that family context matters for children because it cultivates neural networks that assist in learning and the development of academic skills. That is, children's exposure to particular parenting practices and stimulating home environments contribute to the growth in neurocognitive skills that affect later academic performance. We synthesize sociological and neuroscience accounts of developmental inequality by focusing on one such skill-fine motor skills-to illustrate how family context alters children's early academic performance. Our findings support an interdisciplinary account of academic inequality, and extend current accounts of the family's role in the transmission of social inequality.
Cancer stem cells (CSCs) represent a minor population of self-renewing cancer cells that fuel tumor growth. As CSCs are generally spared by conventional treatments, this population is likely to be responsible for relapses that are observed in most cancers. In this work, we analyzed the preventive efficiency of a CSC-based vaccine on the development of liver metastasis from colon cancer in a syngeneic rat model. We isolated a CSC-enriched population from the rat PROb colon carcinoma cell line on the basis of the expression of the aldehyde dehydrogenase-1 (ALDH1) marker. Comparative analysis of vaccines containing lysates of PROb or ALDH(high) cells by mass spectrometry identifies four proteins specifically expressed in the CSC subpopulation. The expression of two of them (heat shock protein 27-kDa and aldose reductase) is already known to be associated with treatment resistance and poor prognosis in colon cancer. Preventive intraperitoneal administration of vaccines was then performed before the intrahepatic injection of PROb cancer cells. While no significant difference in tumor occurrence was observed between control and PROb-vaccinated groups, 50% of the CSC-based vaccinated animals became resistant to tumor development. In addition, CSC-based vaccination induced a 99.5% reduction in tumor volume compared to the control group. To our knowledge, this study constitutes the first work analyzing the potential of a CSC-based vaccination to prevent liver metastasis development. Our data demonstrate that a CSC-based vaccine reduces efficiently both tumor volume and occurrence in a rat colon carcinoma syngeneic model.
This report synthesizes the discussions during a workshop convened April 24-25, 2012, by the National Institute of Mental Health and the Foundation for the NIH in Bethesda, Maryland, that focused on progress and challenges in the use of patient-derived reprogrammed cells for basic biological discovery, target identification, screening, and drug development for mental illnesses such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and autism spectrum disorders. The workshop revealed that the greatest progress has been made in reprogramming methods and agreed-upon standards for validating the resulting induced pluripotent stem cell lines. However, challenges remain in several areas, including efficiently generating and validating specific neural cell types with respect to regional identity, establishing assays with predictive validity to mental illness pathophysiology, and generating sufficient statistical power and data reproducibility across laboratories. A brainstorming session yielded a number of suggestions, including calls to (a) facilitate the replication of results by standardizing protocols and samples used across laboratories; (b) improve technology by generating cheaper/faster targeting methods, reporters, and assays; and (c) improve resource sharing and collaboration, with an emphasis on rapid sharing of new cell lines, technologies, and best practices, possibly incorporated into a public-private partnership. The meeting provided an important venue for academic, government, and private sector scientists to address potential opportunities for translational and clinical applications of reprogrammed cell research. A number of activities since the workshop have reflected the feedback from meeting participants.
Occupational stress is a multivariate process involving sources of pressure, psycho-physiological distress, locus of control, work dissatisfaction, depression, anxiety, mental health disorders, hopelessness, and suicide ideation. Healthcare professionals are known for higher rates of occupational-related distress (burnout and compassion fatigue) and higher rates of suicide. The purpose of this study was to explain the relationships between occupational stress and some psychopathological dimensions in a sample of health professionals. We investigated 156 nurses and physicians, 62 males and 94 females, who were administered self-report questionnaires to assess occupational stress [occupational stress inventory (OSI)], temperament (temperament evaluation of Memphis, Pisa, Paris, and San Diego autoquestionnaire), and hopelessness (Beck hopelessness scale). The best Multiple Indicators Multiple Causes model with five OSI predictors yielded the following results: 2(9) = 14.47 (p = 0.11); 2/df = 1.60; comparative fit index = 0.99; root mean square error of approximation = 0.05. This model provided a good fit to the empirical data, showing a strong direct influence of casual variables such as work dissatisfaction, absence of type A behavior, and especially external locus of control, psychological and physiological distress on latent variable psychopathology. Occupational stress is in a complex relationship with temperament and hopelessness and also common among healthcare professionals.


We observed an arterial ring communicating the superior and inferior gluteal arteries in the left half of the pelvis of an 88-year-old male. Although many previous studies have shown variations in the internal iliac artery, there has been no literature describing the fenestration. Therapeutic embolization is commonly performed for intractable bleeding in pelvic region. Surgeons should be aware of the arterial ring formation because of possible danger in the intravascular treatments. In patients with similar arterial rings, embolization of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac artery could be insufficient when blood runs through the circle of the arterial ring.
The positive allosteric modulator (PAM) binding site for metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu(5)) lacks a readily available radio-labeled tracer fordetailed structure-activity studies. This communication describes a selective mGlu(5) compound, 7-methyl-2-(4-(pyridin-2-yloxy)benzyl)-5-(pyridin-3-yl)isoindolin-1-one (PBPyl) that binds with high affinity to human mGlu(5) and exhibits functional PAM activity. Analysis of PBPyl by FLIPR revealed an EC(50) of 87 nM with an 89% effect in transfected HEK293 cells and an EC(50) of 81 nM with a 42% effect in rat primary neurons. PBPyl exhibited 5-fold higher functional selectivity for mGlu(5) in a full mGlu receptor panel. Unlabeled PBPyl was tested for specific binding using a liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS)-based filtration binding assay and exhibited 40% specific binding in recombinant membranes, a value higher than any candidate compound tested. In competition binding studies with [(3)H]MPEP, the mGlu(5) receptor negative allosteric modulator (NAM), PBPyl exhibited a k(i) value of 34 nM. PBPyl also displaced [(3)H]ABP688, a mGluR(5) receptor NAM, in tissue sections from mouse and rat brain using autoradiography. Areas of specific binding included the frontal cortex, striatum and nucleus accumbens. PBPyl was radiolabeled to a specific activity of 15 Ci/mmol and tested for specific binding in a filter plate format. In recombinant mGlu(5b) membranes, [(3)H] PBPyl exhibited saturable binding with a K(d) value of 18.6 nM. In competition binding experiments, [(3)H] PBPyl was displaced by high affinity mGlu(5) positive and negative modulators. Further tests showed that PBPyl displays less than optimal characteristics as an in vivo tool, including a high volume of distribution and ClogP, making it more suitable as an in vitro compound. However, as a first report of direct binding of an mGlu(5) receptor PAM, this study offers value toward the development of novel PET imaging agents for this important therapeutic target.
Therapeutic hypothermia is a promising neuroprotective therapy with multiple mechanisms of action. Previously, we demonstrated the feasibility of thrombolysis combined with endovascular hypothermia and an antishivering regimen, but pneumonia occurred more often in cooled patients. We sought to identify whether any factors could be identified that increased pneumonia risk. We examined 26 patients who underwent endovascular hypothermia. Pneumonia was assessed and scored as present by the treating physician without prespecified definitions or surveillance protocols. Using logistic regression, we examined the risk of pneumonia; the effects of age, weight, body mass index (BMI), body surface area, respiration rate, heart rate, blood pressure, baseline National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS), gender, shivering, and area under the curve below 34C; and total meperidine dose, individually and in a multivariable model. Pneumonia was reported by site investigators in 13 subjects (50%). In univariate analyses, BMI and baseline NIHSS emerged as the baseline variables that were independently associated with risk of pneumonia. Multivariable logistic regression analysis identified baseline NIHSS as marginally associated with risk of pneumonia, after adjustment for BMI (OR: 1.19, 95% CI: 0.98, 1.43; p=0.0740). In a group of hypothermia patients suffering a 50% reported incidence of pneumonia, we found no variables that explained risk other than baseline NIHSS. Future trials should include rigorous definitions of pneumonia and prespecified surveillance methods to minimize case ascertainment bias. Measures to prevent pneumonia are needed in all patients treated with hypothermia.

In many respects tetrodotoxin (TTX) is the quintessential natural toxin. It is unequivocally toxic to mammals with LD(50) values for mice in the range of 10g/kg (intraperitoneal), 16g/kg (subcutaneous), and 332g/kg (oral) (Kao, 1966). Its biothreat status is recognized by its listing as a &quot;Select Agent&quot; by the US Department of Health and Human Services which includes regulated agents &quot;determined to have the potential to pose a severe threat to both human and animal health&quot; (http://www.selectagents.gov/). It has a well-defined cellular target (i.e., NaV channels) and pharmacological mode of action (i.e., block of nerve and muscle action potentials), and it is an indispensable chemical tool in neuroscience. It is widely distributed in marine and terrestrial ecosystems where it plays a role in the chemical ecology of predator-prey relationships and drives evolutionary selection of TTX-resistance (Hanifin, 2010; Williams, 2010; Zimmer and Ferrer, 2007). Lastly, TTX has acquired a certain mystique in scientific lore attributable to many fascinating aspects of its natural history and molecular interactions as presented in selected summary below. Additional information may be found in other excellent reviews (Fozzard and Lipkind, 2010; Kao, 1966; Lee and Ruben, 2008; Narahashi, 2001, 2008).
Neurotrophins and other growth factors have been advanced as critical modulators of depressive behavior. Support for this model is based on analyses of knockout and transgenic mouse models, human genetic studies, and screens for gene products that are regulated by depressive behavior and/or antidepressants. Even subtle alteration in the regulated secretion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), for example, due to a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-encoded Val-Met substitution in proBDNF that affects processing and sorting, impacts behavior and cognition. Alterations in growth factor expression result in changes in neurogenesis as well as structural changes in neuronal cytoarchitecture, including effects on dendritic length and spine density, in the hippocampus, nucleus accumbens, and prefrontal cortex. These changes have the potential to impact the plasticity and stability of synapses in the CNS, and the complex brain circuitry that regulates behavior. Here we review the role that neurotrophins play in the modulation of depressive behavior, and the downstream signaling targets they regulate that potentially mediate these behavioral pro-depressant and antidepressant effects.

A fundamental feature of human memory is the propensity for beneficial changes in information storage after initial encoding. Recent research findings favor the possibility that memory consolidation during sleep is instrumental for actively maintaining the storehouse of memories that individuals carry through their lives. The information that ultimately remains available for retrieval may tend to be that which is reactivated during sleep. A novel source of support for this idea comes from demonstrations that neurocognitive processing during sleep can benefit memory storage when memories are covertly cued via auditory or olfactory stimulation. Investigations of these subtle manipulations of memory processing during sleep can help elucidate the mechanisms of memory preservation in the human brain.
Neuroscience is increasingly poised to play a role in legal proceedings. One persistent concern, however, is the intuition that brain images may bias, mislead, or confuse jurors. Initially, empirical research seemed to support this intuition. New findings contradict those expectations, prompting a rethinking of the 'threat' of neuroscience in the courtroom.
The role of microglia in central nervous system (CNS) pathology has been studied extensively, and more recently, examination of microglia in the healthy brain has yielded important insights into their many functions. It was long assumed that microglia were essentially quiescent cells, unless provoked into activation, which was considered a hallmark of disease. More recently, however, it has become increasingly clear that they are extraordinarily dynamic cells, constantly sampling their environment and adjusting to exquisitely delicate stimuli. Along these lines, our laboratory has identified a new and unexpected role for microglial phagocytosis - or lack thereof - in the pathophysiology of Rett syndrome, a neurodevelopmental disease caused by mutation of the gene encoding methyl-CpG binding protein (MECP)2. We have shown that specific expression of wild type Mecp2 in myeloid cells of Mecp2-null mice is sufficient to arrest major symptoms associated with this devastating disease. This beneficial effect, however, is abolished if phagocytic activity of microglia is inhibited. Here, we discuss microglial origins, the role of microglia in brain development and maintenance, and the phenomenon of microglial augmentation by myeloid progenitor cells in the adult brain. Finally, we address in some detail the beneficial roles of microglia as clinical targets in Rett syndrome and other neurological disorders.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease and is characterized by the selective loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta and the accumulation of intracellular inclusions containing -synuclein (Syn). Growing evidence from studies in human PD brain, in addition to genetic and toxicological models, indicates that endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is a common feature of the disease and contributes to neurodegeneration. Recent reports place ER dysfunction as an early component of PD pathogenesis, and in this article we review the impact of ER stress in PD models and discuss the multiple mechanisms underlying the perturbation of secretory pathway function. Possible therapeutic strategies to mitigate ER stress in the context of PD are also discussed.
Chronic neuroinflammation is associated with the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease, a movement disorder characterised by deterioration of the nigrostriatal system of the brain. Recent studies have yielded important insights into the regulation of inflammation by nuclear receptors, a superfamily of ligand-activated transcription factors. Certain nuclear receptors are also emerging as regulators of neurodegeneration, including the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease, and the importance of transcriptional control in this process is becoming increasingly apparent. Here, we discuss the role of Nurr1, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs), retinoic acid receptors, and glucocorticoid receptors in neuroinflammatory processes that contribute to dopaminergic neuronal degeneration. We examine current evidence providing insight into the potential of these important players as therapeutic targets for Parkinson's disease.
Rapid information processing in our nervous system relies on high-frequency fusion of transmitter-filled vesicles at chemical synapses. Some sensory synapses possess prominent electron-dense ribbon structures that provide a scaffold for tethering synaptic vesicles at the active zone (AZ), enabling sustained vesicular release. Here, we review functional data indicating that some central and neuromuscular synapses can also sustain vesicle-fusion rates that are comparable to those of ribbon-type sensory synapses. Comparison of the ultrastructure across these different types of synapses, together with recent work showing that cytomatrix proteins can tether vesicles and speed vesicle reloading, suggests that filamentous structures may play a key role in vesicle supply. We discuss potential mechanisms by which vesicle tethering could contribute to sustained high rates of vesicle fusion across ribbon-type, central, and neuromuscular synapses.
Conditioned place preference (CPP) is a learned behavior shown in many vertebrates, including humans. CPP occurs when a subject comes to prefer one place more than others because the preferred location has been paired previously with rewarding events. The CPP paradigm is widely used to explore the reinforcing effects of natural and pharmacological stimuli, including drugs of addiction. There is a general assumption that an acquired place preference is based on classical conditioning derived 'incentive motivation'. However, this may be an oversimplification of the multiple learning processes involved. We argue that although CPP may appear as an incentive-driven behavior related to secondary reinforcers, it may also be a result of operant conditioning of behavior prevailing at the conditioning site, as well as a result of conditioned treatment effects. Here, we outline alternative explanations for an observed CPP, which may fundamentally affect the interpretation of results with this paradigm in its use as a screening tool for rewarding properties of treatments.

Conventionally, the practice of neurosurgery has been characterized by the removal of pathology, congenital or acquired. The emerging complement to the removal of pathology is surgery for the specific purpose of restoration of function. Advents in neuroscience, technology, and the understanding of neural circuitry are creating opportunities to intervene in disease processes in a reparative manner, thereby advancing toward the long-sought-after concept of neurorestoration. Approaching the issue of neurorestoration from a biomedical engineering perspective is the rapidly growing arena of implantable devices. Implantable devices are becoming more common in medicine and are making significant advancements to improve a patient's functional outcome. Devices such as deep brain stimulators, vagus nerve stimulators, and spinal cord stimulators are now becoming more commonplace in neurosurgery as we utilize our understanding of the nervous system to interpret neural activity and restore function. One of the most exciting prospects in neurosurgery is the technologically driven field of brain-machine interface, also known as brain-computer interface, or neuroprosthetics. The successful development of this technology will have far-reaching implications for patients suffering from a great number of diseases, including but not limited to spinal cord injury, paralysis, stroke, or loss of limb. This article provides an overview of the issues related to neurorestoration using implantable devices with a specific focus on brain-machine interface technology.


Zebrafish (Danio rerio) are rapidly gaining popularity in translational neuroscience and behavioral research. Physiological similarity to mammals, ease of genetic manipulations, sensitivity to pharmacological and genetic factors, robust behavior, low cost, and potential for high-throughput screening contribute to the growing utility of zebrafish models in this field. Understanding zebrafish behavioral phenotypes provides important insights into neural pathways, physiological biomarkers, and genetic underpinnings of normal and pathological brain function. Novel zebrafish paradigms continue to appear with an encouraging pace, thus necessitating a consistent terminology and improved understanding of the behavioral repertoire. What can zebrafish 'do', and how does their altered brain function translate into behavioral actions? To help address these questions, we have developed a detailed catalog of zebrafish behaviors (Zebrafish Behavior Catalog, ZBC) that covers both larval and adult models. Representing a beginning of creating a more comprehensive ethogram of zebrafish behavior, this effort will improve interpretation of published findings, foster cross-species behavioral modeling, and encourage new groups to apply zebrafish neurobehavioral paradigms in their research. In addition, this glossary creates a framework for developing a zebrafish neurobehavioral ontology, ultimately to become part of a unified animal neurobehavioral ontology, which collectively will contribute to better integration of biological data within and across species.

Period determination in the mammalian circadian clock involves the turnover rate of the repressors CRY and PER. We show that CRY ubiquitination engages two competing E3 ligase complexes that either lengthen or shorten circadian period in mice. Cloning of a short-period circadian mutant, Past-time, revealed a glycine to glutamate missense mutation in Fbxl21, an F-box protein gene that is a paralog of Fbxl3 that targets the CRY proteins for degradation. While loss of function of FBXL3 leads to period lengthening, mutation of Fbxl21 causes period shortening. FBXL21 forms an SCF E3 ligase complex that slowly degrades CRY in the cytoplasm but antagonizes the stronger E3 ligase activity of FBXL3 in the nucleus. FBXL21 plays a dual role: protecting CRY from FBXL3 degradation in the nucleus and promoting CRY degradation within the cytoplasm. Thus, the balance and cellular compartmentalization of competing E3 ligases for CRY determine circadian period of the clock in mammals.
We can more precisely tune attention to highly rewarding objects than other objects in our environment, but how our brains do this is unknown. After a few trials of searching for the same object, subjects' electrical brain activity indicated that they handed off the memory representations used to control attention from working memory to long-term memory. However, when a large reward was possible, the neural signature of working memory returned as subjects recruited working memory to supplement the cognitive control afforded by the representations accumulated in long-term memory. The amplitude of this neural signature of working memory predicted the magnitude of the subsequent behavioral reward-based attention effects across tasks and individuals, showing the ubiquity of this cognitive reaction to high-stakes situations.
Early experience shapes sensory representations in a critical period of heightened plasticity. This adaptive process is thought to involve both Hebbian and homeostatic synaptic plasticity. Although Hebbian plasticity has been investigated as a mechanism for cortical map reorganization, less is known about the contribution of homeostatic plasticity. We investigated the role of homeostatic synaptic plasticity in the development and refinement of frequency representations in the primary auditory cortex using the tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) knockout (KO), a mutant mouse with impaired homeostatic but normal Hebbian plasticity. Our results indicate that these mice develop weaker tonal responses and incomplete frequency representations. Rearing in a single-frequency revealed a normal expansion of cortical representations in KO mice. However, TNF- KOs lacked homeostatic adjustments of cortical responses following exposure to multiple frequencies. Specifically, while this sensory over-stimulation resulted in competitive refinement of frequency tuning in wild-type controls, it broadened frequency tuning in TNF- KOs. Our results suggest that homeostatic plasticity plays an important role in gain control and competitive interaction in sensory cortical development.
The capacity to rapidly adjust behavioral strategies according to changing task demands is closely associated with coordinated activity in lateral and medial prefrontal cortices. Subdivisions within prefrontal cortex are implicated to encode attentional task sets and to update changing task rules, particularly when changing task demands require top-down control. Here, we tested whether these top-down processes precede stimulus processing and constitute a preparatory attentional state that functionally couples with parietal cortex. We examined this functional coupling by recording from intracranial EEG electrodes in macaques during performance of a task-switching paradigm that separates task performance that is based on controlled top-down guidance from automatic, stimulus-triggered processing modes. We identify a prefrontal-parietal network that phase synchronizes at 5-10 Hz, particularly during preparatory states that indicate top-down controlled task-processing modes. Phase relations in the network suggest that medial and lateral prefrontal cortices synchronize bidirectionally, with medial prefrontal cortex showing a phase-lead relative to left parietal recorded 5- to 10-Hz preparatory signals. These findings reveal a 5- to 10-Hz coordinated, long-range fronto-parietal network prior to actual task-relevant stimulus processing, particularly when subjects engage in controlled task processing modes.
In this study, C6 glioma cells were used to test the effects of 2-azafluorenone and its related compounds on membrane phosphatidylinositol (PI) and phosphatidylcholine (PC) turnover. An increase of [H]-labeled inositol phosphate (IP1) formation by histamine (100 M) or A23187 (100 nM) via the activation of phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC) to breakdown labeled substrate was observed, and this effect could be partially blocked by about half at 100 M of 2-azafluorenones. Histamine induced the increase of IP1 formation, but failed to cause an increase in extracellularly releasing of [3H]choline metabolites, or intracellular accumulation of [H]phosphscholine. However, platelet activation factor (PAF) from 0.2 to 1 M, and phorbol 12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) at 1 M caused an increase in extracellularly releasing of [H]choline metabolites, and intracellular accumulation of [H]phosphocholine via the activation on phosphatidylcholine (PC)-PLC. These responses of PAF and PMA were not affected by 2-azafluorenone or 4-methyl-2-azafluorenone even at high concentration (10 M). A23187 induced an increase of intracellular [H]choline release via the activation of PCphospholipase D (PLD). This increasing effect of 100 nM A23187 was not affected by 2-azafluorenone or 4-methyl-2-azafluorenone even at a high concentration of 10 M. In summary, the inhibitory effect of 2-azafluorenone and its related compound 4-methyl-2-azafluorenone was observed selectively on PIPLC, but not on PC-PLC or PC-PLD based on changes of products after the activation of these enzymes.

Although quetiapine is routinely used in the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar disorders, the precise mechanism of its antidepressant activity is poorly understood. Since quetiapine binds with sigma receptor, the possibility exists that antidepressant action of quetiapine may be mediated through interaction with sigma receptors. In the present study, quetiapine [40-80 g/mouse, intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) and 40 mg/kg, intraperitoneal (i.p.)], sigma1 receptor agonist, (+)-pentazocine (120 g/mouse, i.c.v.) and sigma2 receptor agonist, PB-28 [1-Cyclohexyl-4-[3-(1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-5-methoxy-1-naphthalenyl)propyl]piperazine] (20 g/mouse, i.c.v.) significantly decreased immobility time in forced swim test. In combination studies, the antiimmobility effect of quetiapine (20 g/mouse, i.c.v.) was significantly potentiated by pretreatment with (+)-pentazocine (30 and 60 g/mouse, i.c.v.) or PB-28 (5 and 10 g/mouse, i.c.v.). Conversely, prior administration of sigma1 receptor antagonist, BD-1063 [1-[2-(3,4-Dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-4-methylpiperazine] and sigma2 receptor antagonists, SM-21 [()-Tropanyl 2-(4-chlorophenoxy)butanoate] antagonized the antiimmobility effect induced by quetiapine and its synergistic combination with sigma receptor agonists. These results demonstrated the involvement of sigma receptors in the antidepressant like effect of quetiapine and suggest that sigma receptors can be explored as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of depressive disorders.
Diabetes mellitus, when poorly controlled, leads to debilitating central nervous system (CNS) complications including cognitive deficits, somatosensory and motor dysfunction. The present study investigated curcumin's potential in modulating diabetes induced neurochemical changes in brainstem. Expression analysis of cholinergic, insulin receptor and GLUT-3 in the brainstem of streptozotocin (STZ) induced diabetic rats were studied. Radioreceptor binding assays, gene expression studies and immunohistochemical analysis were done in the brainstem of male Wistar rats. Our result showed that Bmax of total muscarinic and muscarinic M3 receptors were increased and muscarinic M1 receptor was decreased in diabetic rats compared to control. mRNA level of muscarinic M3, 7-nicotinic acetylcholine, insulin receptors, acetylcholine esterase, choline acetyltransferase and GLUT-3 significantly increased and M1 receptor decreased in the brainstem of diabetic rats. Curcumin and insulin treatment restored the alterations and maintained all parameters to near control. The results show that diabetes is associated with significant reduction in brainstem function coupled with altered cholinergic, insulin receptor and GLUT-3 gene expression. The present study indicates beneficial effect of curcumin in diabetic rats by regulating the cholinergic, insulin receptor and GLUT-3 in the brainstem similar to the responses obtained with insulin therapy.
Alzheimer's disease is accompanied by increased brain levels of soluble amyloid- (A) oligomers. It has been suggested that oligomers directly impair synaptic function, thereby causing cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease patients. Recently, it has been shown that synthetic A oligomers directly modulate P/Q-type calcium channels, possibly leading to excitotoxic cascades and subsequent synaptic decline. Using whole-cell recordings we studied the modulation of recombinant presynaptic calcium channels in HEK293 cells after application of a stable A oligomer preparation (A1-42 globulomer). A globulomer shifted the half-activation voltage of P/Q-type and N-type calcium channels to more hyperpolarized values (by 11.5 and 7.5 mV). Application of non-aggregated A peptides had no effect. We then analyzed the potential of calcium channel blockers to prevent A globulomer-induced synaptic decline in hippocampal slice cultures. Specific block of P/Q-type or N-type calcium channels with peptide toxins completely reversed A globulomer-induced deficits in glutamatergic neurotransmission. Two state-dependent low molecular weight P/Q-type and N-type calcium channel blockers also protected neurons from A-induced alterations. On the contrary, inhibition of L-type calcium channels failed to reverse the deficit. Our data show that A globulomer directly modulates recombinant P/Q-type and N-type calcium channels in HEK293 cells. Block of presynaptic calcium channels with both state-dependent and state-independent modulators can reverse A-induced functional deficits in synaptic transmission. These findings indicate that presynaptic calcium channel blockers may be a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
A monoterpene ketone, -thujone originally attracted attention as a major natural ingredient of absinthe and was suspected to cause adverse effects such as hallucinations and seizures in persons excessively consuming this beverage. Although subsequent studies ruled out any major role of -thujone in the &quot;absynthism&quot;, it was found that at high doses it may induce epileptic activity pointing to an interaction with GABAergic inhibition. Indeed, subsequent studies, including those from this laboratory, showed that -thujone inhibits GABAergic currents. However, GABAA receptors are extremely heterogeneous and in the present study we have investigated the effect of -thujone on different recombinant GABAA receptors (122L, 12, 12 and 42) relevant to phasic or tonic forms of inhibition. We report that -thujone inhibits all considered receptor types by a qualitatively similar mechanism but the strongest effect is observed for 12 receptors, suggesting that tonic currents might be more sensitive to -thujone than the phasic ones. Moreover, we demonstrate that tonic currents, mimicked by response to a submicromollar GABA concentration (0.3 M) in cultured neurons, showed a substantially larger sensitivity to -thujone than responses elicited by higher [GABA] (more similar to phasic currents) or Inhibitory Postsynaptic Currents in the same preparation. Importantly, the extent of tonic current inhibition by -thujone was as strong as in the case of currents mediated by 12 receptors. Altogether, these data provide evidence that different GABAA receptor subtypes show distinct sensitivities to -thujone and suggest that this compound may differentially affect tonic and phasic components of GABAergic inhibition.
Dysfunctions in the dopamine transmission system have been suggested to contribute to the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy. In an experimental animal model, cholestasis induction through bile duct ligation may present several main pathological features of hepatic encephalopathy. Dopaminergic systems are shown to play pivotal roles in regulation of anxiety-like behaviors. The main bile duct in male Wistar rats, weighing 220-240 g, was ligated using two ligatures plus duct transection in between. Anxiety-like behaviors were measured using the elevated plus maze task. Cholestasis increased the open arm time percentage (%OAT), 13 but not 10 days after bile duct ligation, indicating an anxiolytic-like effect. Sole intraperitoneal injection of apomorphine (dopamine D1/D2 receptor agonist, 0.25 mg/kg), SCH23390 (dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, 0.005, 0.01 and 0.02 mg/kg) or sulpiride (dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, 0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg) did not alter %OAT, open arm entries percentage (%OAE) and locomotor activity in the sham-operated rats. Meanwhile, the higher dose apomorphine (0.5 mg/kg) induced anxiolytic-like behaviors in this group. The subthreshold dose injection of SCH23390 or sulpiride, partially reversed the anxiolytic-like behaviors induced by cholestasis (13 days after bile duct ligation). On the other hand, subthreshold dose of apomorphine in cholestatic rats (10 days post bile duct ligation) induced anxiolytic-like effects which could be blocked by SCH23390 or sulpiride. The effective doses of above drugs did not alter locomotor activity, number of rearings, groomings and defections. These findings suggested that the dopaminergic system may potentially be involved in the modulation of cholestasis-induced anxiolytic-like behaviors in rats.

The current review highlights the utility of positron emission tomography (PET) imaging to study the neurobiological substrates underlying vulnerability to cocaine addiction and subsequent adaptations following chronic cocaine self-administration in nonhuman primate models of cocaine abuse. Environmental (e.g., social rank) and sex-specific influences on dopaminergic function and sensitivity to the reinforcing effects of cocaine are discussed. Cocaine-related cognitive deficits have been hypothesized to contribute to high rates of relapse and are described in nonhuman primate models. Lastly, the long-term consequences of cocaine on neurobiology are discussed. PET imaging and longitudinal, within-subject behavioral studies in nonhuman primates have provided a strong framework for designing pharmacological and behavioral treatment strategies to aid drug-dependent treatment seekers. Non-invasive PET imaging will allow for individualized treatment strategies. Recent advances in radiochemistry of novel PET ligands and other imaging modalities can further advance our understanding of stimulant use on the brain. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Neuroimaging'.
Rehabilitative training is an essential component of current therapeutic strategies for spinal cord injured individuals. However, there are still various open questions that need to be answered in order to optimize training strategies. For example, why can animals trained in a single task perform worse compared to untrained animals when tested in untrained tasks. Such results suggest a potential competition among motor tasks over spared neuronal circuitry. Whether training induced competition for neuronal circuitry may also exist between injured and spared circuitries of the ipsi- and contralesional extremity is currently unknown. Here we investigated whether training restricted to the frontlimb ipsilateral to cervical spinal injury (IF) can impact motor performance of the contralesional frontlimb (CF) in a rat model of cervical SCI. We compared CF performance following general motor training of all limbs (horizontal ladder), following specific training of the IF (pellet reaching), as well as following a combination of both training paradigms. Our findings indicate that adding ipsilateral side-specific training to general training can negatively impact performance of the CF, without resulting in any improvement of performance of the IF. In conclusion, our results emphasize that important decisions have to be made when designing rehabilitative training strategies, ideally taking into account more than the primarily affected extremity.
Blast-induced traumatic brain injury is complex and involves multiple factors including systemic pathophysiological factors in addition to direct brain injuries. We hypothesize that systemic activation of platelets/leukocytes plays a major role in the development and exacerbation of brain injury after blast exposure. A mouse model of repeated blast exposure that results in significant neuropathology, neurobehavioral changes and regional specific alterations in various biomolecules in the brain was used for the proposed study. Activation of platelets was evaluated by flow cytometry and serotonin content was analyzed by ELISA. Expression of myeloperoxidase was analyzed by Western blotting. Histopathology of the brain was used to assess blast-induced cerebral vasoconstriction. The data showed an increase in the activation of platelets at 4h after repeated blast exposures, indicating changes in platelet phenotype in blast neurotrauma. Platelet serotonin concentration showed a significant decrease at 4h after blast with a concurrent increase in the plasma serotonin levels, confirming the early onset of platelet activation after repeated blast exposures. Blood, plasma and brain myeloperoxidase enzyme activity and expression was increased in repeated blast exposed mice at multiple time points. Histopathological analysis of the brains of blast exposed mice showed constriction of blood vessels compared to the respective controls, a phenomenon similar to the reported cerebral vasoconstriction in blast affected victims. These results suggest that repeated blast exposure leads to acute activation of platelets/leukocytes which can augment the pathological effects of brain injury. Platelet/leukocyte targeted therapies can be evaluated as potential acute treatment strategies to mitigate blast-induced neurotrauma.

To date, very few studies have focused on autobiographical memory in patients with bipolar disorder. We examined whether mood state at the time of event encoding (i.e., manic, depressed, euthymic) influences subsequent recollection in these patients. We administered the Autobiographical Interview, a method that allowed us to dissociate episodic and semantic aspects of autobiographical memory. We also compared the memory perspective from which patients recollected these events. Patients were selectively impaired in recollecting episodic details of events encoded during mania but not depression or euthymia. No significant differences emerged between patients and controls for recollection of non-episodic details, regardless of mood state. Patients with bipolar disorder were also more likely than matched controls to recall memories from an observer perspective. These preliminary findings indicate a moderating influence of mood state at the time of event encoding on the subsequent recollection of autobiographical events in patients with bipolar disorder.
Impaired social cognition has been associated with interpersonal problems and with the development of and relapse into alcohol abuse. In the present study, self-reported trait empathy, decoding of complex mental states and cognitive and affective mental state reasoning were assessed in alcohol-dependent participants, and the association with executive function and psychopathological characteristics was investigated. Twenty recently detoxified alcohol-dependent patients and 20 matched healthy controls were assessed with an abbreviated German version of the interpersonal reactivity index, the revised reading the mind in the eyes test, the faux pas story test, the trail making test and the letter-number-sequencing test. Patients were impaired relative to controls with regard to mental state decoding on the eyes test and showed reduced faux pas detection and impaired mental state reasoning reflected by lower faux pas understanding and faux pas empathy scores. There were no group differences regarding self-reported trait empathy. Performance on the sociocognitive measures was related to executive functioning and the severity of depressive symptoms. Although self-report measures might not always reliably detect impairments of social cognition, behavioural measures suggest pronounced impairments of mental state decoding and mental state reasoning in association with alcohol dependence. Findings ought to be incorporated into current treatment strategies.
This study aimed to evaluate the ability to decode emotion in the auditory and audiovisual modality in a group of patients with schizophrenia, and to explore the role of cognition and psychopathology in affecting these emotion recognition abilities. Ninety-four outpatients in a stable phase and 51 healthy subjects were recruited. Patients were assessed through a psychiatric evaluation and a wide neuropsychological battery. All subjects completed the comprehensive affect testing system (CATS), a group of computerized tests designed to evaluate emotion perception abilities. With respect to the controls, patients were not impaired in the CATS tasks involving discrimination of nonemotional prosody, naming of emotional stimuli expressed by voice and judging the emotional content of a sentence, whereas they showed a specific impairment in decoding emotion in a conflicting auditory condition and in the multichannel modality. Prosody impairment was affected by executive functions, attention and negative symptoms, while deficit in multisensory emotion recognition was affected by executive functions and negative symptoms. These emotion recognition deficits, rather than being associated purely with emotion perception disturbances in schizophrenia, are affected by core symptoms of the illness.
Performance on working-memory tests is frequently used in experimental psychology and neuroscience, as well as in neuropsychological testing and clinical screening. It can be strongly affected by the social context and the communication style of the experimenter. We tested this hypothesis in two experiments, examining standardized neuropsychological working-memory tests in different social communication contexts. Our results show that the more ostensive communication context (eye contact, exaggerated intonation contours) impairs working-memory performance. These results draw attention to the fact that the communication style of the examiner could have a robust effect on working-memory performance and could even modify clinical diagnosis.
Testosterone administration appears to make individuals less trusting, and this effect has been interpreted as an adaptive adjustment of social suspicion, that improved the accuracy of trusting decisions. Here, we consider another possibility, namely that testosterone increases the subjective cost of being duped, decreasing the propensity to trust without improving the accuracy of trusting decisions. In line with this hypothesis, we show that second-to-fourth digit ratio (2D:4D, a proxy for effects of testosterone in the foetus) correlates with the propensity to trust, but not with the accuracy of trusting decisions. Trust game players (n = 144) trusted less when they had lower 2D:4D (high prenatal testosterone), but their ability to detect the strategy of other players was constant (and better than chance) across all levels of digit ratio. Our results suggest that early prenatal organizing effects of testosterone in the foetus might impair rather than boost economic outcomes, by promoting indiscriminate social suspicion.


Although the mutated protein causing Huntington's disease (HD) is expressed throughout the body, the major pathology of HD is localized to the striatum of the brain. We previously reported that the striatal-enriched protein Rhes binds the mutated huntingtin protein and enhances its cytotoxicity. We now demonstrate that Rhes-deleted mice are dramatically protected from neurotoxicity and motor dysfunction in a striatal-specific model of HD elicited by 3-nitropropionic acid. This finding suggests that Rhes may, in part, determine the striatal selectivity of HD.
Thalamocortical circuits are central to sensory and cognitive processing. Recent work suggests that the thalamocortical inputs onto L4 and L6, the main input layers of neocortex, are activated differently by visual stimulation. Whether these differences depend on layer-specific organization of thalamocortical circuits; or on specific properties of synapses onto receiving neurons is unknown. Here we combined optogenetic stimulation of afferents from the visual thalamus and paired recording electrophysiology in L4 and L6 of rat primary visual cortex to determine the organization and plasticity of thalamocortical synapses. We show that thalamocortical inputs onto L4 and L6 differ in synaptic dynamics and sensitivity to visual drive. We also demonstrate that the two layers differ in the organization of thalamocortical and recurrent intracortical connectivity. In L4, a significantly larger proportion of excitatory neurons responded to light activation of thalamocortical terminal fields than in L6. The local microcircuit in L4 showed a higher degree of recurrent connectivity between excitatory neurons than the microcircuit in L6. In addition, L4 recurrently connected neurons were driven by thalamocortical inputs of similar magnitude indicating the presence of local subnetworks that may be activated by the same axonal projection. Finally, brief manipulation of visual drive reduced the amplitude of light-evoked thalamocortical synaptic currents selectively onto L4. These data are the first direct indication that thalamocortical circuits onto L4 and L6 support different aspects of cortical function through layer-specific synaptic organization and plasticity.
NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-mediated currents depend on membrane depolarization to relieve powerful voltage-dependent NMDAR channel block by external magnesium (Mg(o)(2+)). Mg(o)(2+) unblock from native NMDARs exhibits a fast component that is consistent with rapid Mg(o)(2+) -unbinding kinetics and also a slower, millisecond time scale component (slow Mg(o)(2+) unblock). In recombinant NMDARs, slow Mg(o)(2+) unblock is prominent in GluN1/2A (an NMDAR subtype composed of GluN1 and GluN2A subunits) and GluN1/2B receptors, with slower kinetics observed for GluN1/2B receptors, but absent from GluN1/2C and GluN1/2D receptors. Slow Mg(o)(2+) unblock from GluN1/2B receptors results from inherent voltage-dependent gating, which increases channel open probability with depolarization. Here we examine the mechanisms responsible for NMDAR subtype dependence of slow Mg(o)(2+) unblock. We demonstrate that slow Mg(o)(2+) unblock from GluN1/2A receptors, like GluN1/2B receptors, results from inherent voltage-dependent gating. Surprisingly, GluN1/2A and GluN1/2B receptors exhibited equal inherent voltage dependence; faster Mg(o)(2+) unblock from GluN1/2A receptors can be explained by voltage-independent differences in gating kinetics. To investigate the absence of slow Mg(o)(2+) unblock in GluN1/2C and GluN1/2D receptors, we examined the GluN2 S/L site, a site responsible for several NMDAR subtype-dependent channel properties. Mutating the GluN2 S/L site of GluN2A subunits from serine (found in GluN2A and GluN2B subunits) to leucine (found in GluN2C and GluN2D) greatly diminished both voltage-dependent gating and slow Mg(o)(2+) unblock. Therefore, the residue at the GluN2 S/L site governs the expression of both slow Mg(o)(2+) unblock and inherent voltage dependence.
The parietal cortex is highly multimodal and plays a key role in the processing of objects and actions in space, both in human and nonhuman primates. Despite the accumulated knowledge in both species, we lack the following: (1) a general description of the multisensory convergence in this cortical region to situate sparser lesion and electrophysiological recording studies; and (2) a way to compare and extrapolate monkey data to human results. Here, we use functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in the monkey to provide a bridge between human and monkey studies. We focus on the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) and specifically probe its involvement in the processing of visual, tactile, and auditory moving stimuli around and toward the face. We describe three major findings: (1) the visual and tactile modalities are strongly represented and activate mostly nonoverlapping sectors within the IPS. The visual domain occupies its posterior two-thirds and the tactile modality its anterior one-third. The auditory modality is much less represented, mostly on the medial IPS bank. (2) Processing of the movement component of sensory stimuli is specific to the fundus of the IPS and coincides with the anatomical definition of monkey ventral intraparietal area (VIP). (3) A cortical sector within VIP processes movement around and toward the face independently of the sensory modality. This amodal representation of movement may be a key component in the construction of peripersonal space. Overall, our observations highlight strong homologies between macaque and human VIP organization.
The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and basolateral amygdala (BLA) constitute part of a neural circuit important for adaptive, goal-directed learning. One task measuring flexibility of response to changes in reward is discrimination reversal learning. Damage to OFC produces well documented impairments on various forms of reversal learning in rodents, monkeys, and humans. Recent reports show that BLA, though highly interconnected with OFC, may be differentially involved in reversal learning. In the present experiment, we compared the effects of bilateral, ibotenic acid lesions of OFC or BLA (or SHAM) on visual discrimination and reversal learning. Specifically, we used pairwise visual discrimination methods, as is commonly administered in non-human primate studies, and analyzed how animals use positive and negative trial-by-trial feedback, domains not previously explored in a rat study. As expected, OFC lesions displayed significantly slower reversal learning than SHAM and BLA rats across sessions. Rats with BLA lesions, conversely, showed facilitated reversal learning relative to SHAM and OFC groups. Furthermore, a trial-by-trial analysis of the errors committed showed the BLA group benefited more from incorrectly performed trials (or negative feedback) on future choices than either SHAM or OFC rats. This provides evidence that BLA and OFC are involved in updating responses to changes in reward contingency and that the roles are distinct. Our results are discussed in relation to a competitive framework model for OFC and BLA in reward processing.
Invertebrate studies have highlighted a role for EH and SH3 domain Intersectin (Itsn) proteins in synaptic vesicle recycling and morphology. Mammals have two Itsn genes (Itsn1 and Itsn2), both of which can undergo alternative splicing to include DBL/PH and C2 domains not present in invertebrate Itsn proteins. To probe for specific and redundant functions of vertebrate Itsn genes, we generated Itsn1, Itsn2, and double mutant mice. While invertebrate mutants showed severe synaptic abnormalities, basal synaptic transmission and plasticity were unaffected at Schaffer CA1 synapses in mutant mice. Surprisingly, intercortical tracts-corpus callosum, ventral hippocampal, and anterior commissures-failed to cross the midline in mice lacking Itsn1, but not Itsn2. In contrast, tracts extending within hemispheres and those that decussate to more caudal brain segments appeared normal. Itsn1 mutant mice showed severe deficits in Morris water maze and contextual fear memory tasks, whereas mice lacking Itsn2 showed normal learning and memory. Thus, coincident with the acquisition of additional signaling domains, vertebrate Itsn1 has been functionally repurposed to also facilitate interhemispheric connectivity essential for high order cognitive functions.
In the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, as in mammals, acute exposure to a high dose of ethanol leads to stereotypical behavioral changes beginning with increased activity, followed by incoordination, loss of postural control, and eventually, sedation. The mechanism(s) by which ethanol impacts the CNS leading to ethanol-induced sedation and the genes required for normal sedation sensitivity remain largely unknown. Here we identify the gene apontic (apt), an Myb/SANT-containing transcription factor that is required in the nervous system for normal sensitivity to ethanol sedation. Using genetic and behavioral analyses, we show that apt mediates sensitivity to ethanol sedation by acting in a small set of neurons that express Corazonin (Crz), a neuropeptide likely involved in the physiological response to stress. The activity of Crz neurons regulates the behavioral response to ethanol, as silencing and activating these neurons affects sedation sensitivity in opposite ways. Furthermore, this effect is mediated by Crz, as flies with reduced crz expression show reduced sensitivity to ethanol sedation. Finally, we find that both apt and crz are rapidly upregulated by acute ethanol exposure. Thus, we have identified two genes and a small set of peptidergic neurons that regulate sensitivity to ethanol-induced sedation. We propose that Apt regulates the activity of Crz neurons and/or release of the neuropeptide during ethanol exposure.
Hearing impairment is the most common sensory disorder, with congenital hearing impairment present in approximately 1 in 1,000 newborns. Hereditary deafness is often mediated by the improper development or degeneration of cochlear hair cells. Until now, it was not known whether such congenital failures could be mitigated by therapeutic intervention. Here we show that hearing and vestibular function can be rescued in a mouse model of human hereditary deafness. An antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) was used to correct defective pre-mRNA splicing of transcripts from the USH1C gene with the c.216G&gt;A mutation, which causes human Usher syndrome, the leading genetic cause of combined deafness and blindness. Treatment of neonatal mice with a single systemic dose of ASO partially corrects Ush1c c.216G&gt;A splicing, increases protein expression, improves stereocilia organization in the cochlea, and rescues cochlear hair cells, vestibular function and low-frequency hearing in mice. These effects were sustained for several months, providing evidence that congenital deafness can be effectively overcome by treatment early in development to correct gene expression and demonstrating the therapeutic potential of ASOs in the treatment of deafness.