The gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor (GnRHR), because of its small size among G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), is amenable to facile preparation of mutants. This receptor is used in our laboratory as a structural model for this super-family of protein receptors and has helped us understand the requirements for proper trafficking. We have demonstrated that pharmacoperones (&quot;pharmacological chaperones&quot;), small target-specific drugs that diffuse into cells, are capable of rescuing misfolded and misrouted GnRHR mutants and restoring them to function. By rescuing these proteins, these drugs enable the plasma membrane expression of such mutants in living cells and allow examination of mutants that would otherwise be retained in the endoplasmic reticulum and would not be available for ligand binding and signal transduction. As an example of the efficacy of this method, we have shown that mutant EK, which breaks a salt bridge (E-K) normally found in the GnRHR, results in constitutive activity when rescued by pharmacoperones. A second method of rescue, involving a mutation that increases the expression of GnRHRs, is shown to have a similar effect. Normally, in the absence of rescue by either of these methods, this mutant, associated with human hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, is misrouted and this constitutive activity has gone unrecognized. This observation [Janovick, J. A., and Conn, P. M. (2010). Salt bridge integrates GPCR activation with protein trafficking. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA107, 4454-4458.] showed that the cell normally recognizes this protein as defective and prevents its routing to the plasma membrane.
Dopamine D1 and D5 receptors are prototypical cell-surface seven-transmembrane (TM) G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) mediating elevation of intracellular cAMP levels. The high level of constitutive activity of D5 receptor mediating intracellular cAMP production is one of the functional hallmarks distinguishing the closely related D1-like dopaminergic subtypes (D1 and D5). D1-like subtypes share over 80% identity within their TM regions. Thus, D1 and D5 receptors can serve as unparalleled and useful molecular tools to gain structural and mechanistic insights into subtype-specific determinants regulating GPCR constitutive activation and inverse agonism. A method has been developed that relies on the use of transfected human embryonic kidney 293 cells with wild-type (WT), epitope-tagged, chimeric, truncated, and mutant forms of mammalian D1 and D5 receptors using a modified DNA and calcium phosphate precipitation procedure. Receptor expression levels are quantified by a radioligand binding using [(3)H]-SCH23390, a D1-like selective drug. Regulation of ligand-independent and dependent activity of WT and mutated D1 and D5 receptors is determined by whole cell cAMP assays using metabolic [(3)H]-adenine labeling and sequential purification radiolabeled nucleotides over Dowex and alumina resin columns. Results on the regulation of D1 and D5 constitutive activity are presented here. Our studies indicate that dopamine-mediated D5 receptor stimulation in a dose-dependent manner is not always detectable, suggesting that D5 receptors can exist in a &quot;locked&quot; constitutively activated state. This &quot;locked&quot; constitutively active state of D5 receptor is not linked to aberrant high receptor expression levels or cell behavior, as D1 receptor function remains essentially unchanged in these cells. In fact, we show that phorbol ester treatment of cells harboring &quot;locked&quot; constitutively active D5 receptors abrogates constitutive activation of D5R to allow its stimulation by dopamine in a dose-dependent manner.
Ghrelin and its receptor are important regulators of metabolic functions, including appetite, energy expenditure, fat accumulation, and growth hormone (GH) secretion. The ghrelin receptor is characterized by an ability to signal even without any ligand present with approximately 50% of the maximally ghrelin-induced efficacy-a feature that may have important physiological implications. The high basal signaling can be modulated either by administration of specific ligands or by engineering of mutations in the receptor structure. [D-Arg(1), D-Phe(5), D-Trp(7,9), Leu(11)]-substance P was the first inverse agonist to be identified for the ghrelin receptor, and this peptide has been used as a starting point for identification of the structural requirements for inverse agonist properties in the ligand. The receptor binding core motif was identified as D-Trp-Phe-D-Trp-Leu-Leu, and elongation of this peptide in the amino-terminal end determined the efficacy. Attachment of a positively charged amino acid was responsible for full inverse agonism, whereas an alanin converted the peptide into a partial agonist. Importantly, by use of mutational mapping of the residues critical for the modified D-Trp-Phe-D-Trp-Leu-Leu peptides, it was found that space-generating mutations in the deeper part of the receptor improved inverse agonism, whereas similar mutations located in the more extracellular part improved agonism. Modulation of the basal signaling by mutations in the receptor structure is primarily obtained by substitutions in an aromatic cluster that keep TMs VI and VII in close proximity to TM III and thus stabilize the active conformation. Also, substitution of a Phe in TM V is crucial for the high basal activity of the receptor as this residue serves as a partner for Trp VI:13 in the active conformation. It is suggested that inverse agonist and antagonist against the ghrelin receptor provide an interesting possibility in the development of drugs for treatment of obesity and diabetes and that improved structural understanding of the receptor function facilitates the drug development.
Glucose is a key carbohydrate for the majority of living organisms. In animals, plasma glucose levels must be strictly regulated and maintained at proper levels. Abnormal upregulated glucose levels lead to various human metabolic disorders such as diabetes or obesity. In the diabetic state, protein glycation occurs, producing nonenzymatic products that are thought to be causative compounds for the disease. During evolution, animals developed sensing and regulatory mechanisms to maintain constant levels of body glucose levels. How organisms respond to extracellular glucose and how glucose controls nutrient homeostasis, however, have remained uncertain. Recently, we identified bride of sevenless (BOSS) in Drosophila as a glucose-responding membrane receptor. In this chapter, we summarize the utility of Drosophila as a model organism for studying conserved mechanisms of glucose and triacylglycerol (energy) homeostatic metabolism through the 7-pass transmembrane glycoprotein BOSS, which carries N-linked carbohydrates.
Mixed disulfides between protein cysteines and low-molecular-weight thiol cysteine or glutathione lead to the formation of cysteinylated proteins or glutathionylated proteins. These types of posttranslational modification are of great importance in the so-called redox regulation, by which changes in the redox state of the cell regulate a number of biochemical processes. We describe the methods for quantitatively measuring the various redox states of cellular thiols including protein cysteines and these mixed disulfides. These include spectrophotometric methods, which do not distinguish between protein-cysteine and protein-glutathione disulfides, and HPLC methods that make such distinction. Finally, we report a method for labeling proteins susceptible to glutathionylation with biotin, to allow their visualization by Western blot after electrophoretic separation, which is used to identify proteins undergoing this posttranslational modification.
Gonadotrophin-releasing hormone (GnRH) is a hypothalamic peptide that acts via G(q/11)-coupled 7TM receptors on pituitary gonadotrophs and mediates the central control of reproduction. Recent evidence also indicates that GnRH can affect numerous tissues, but the molecular mechanisms of GnRH receptor stimulation are cell type-specific. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1 and 2 are key regulators of GnRH function in several cell types, but they also integrate signals from a wide variety of other stimuli. This leads to the obvious question of how specific cellular responses to ERK activation occur, and it is now clear that this is, in part, achieved through strict spatiotemporal control of ERK activity. This means that, in order to infer the function of ERK regulation accurately, multiple readouts for ERK activity, localisation and downstream consequences (e.g. transcriptional activation or cell growth) must be compared simultaneously. Here, we describe some of our findings in the investigation of GnRH signalling to ERK, with particular emphasis on novel, high-content microscopy methods for studying ERK regulation.
Accumulating evidence indicates that p44(ERK1) and p42(ERK2) mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) have distinct quantitative roles in cell signaling. In our recently proposed model of regulation of ERK1 and ERK2, p42 plays a major role in delivering signals from the cell membrane to the nucleus, while p44 acts as a partial agonist of ERK2 toward effectors and downstream activators, thus providing a fine tuning system of the global signaling output. Here, we describe systems to modulate MAPK signaling in vitro and in vivo via lentiviral vector (LV)-mediated gene transfer, using three systems: RNAi with small hairpin RNAs, microRNA-mediated gene knockdown, and expression of signaling-interfering mutants of MEK1. We show, by using proliferation assays in mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEF) and NIH 3T3 cells, that gene knockdown of ERK1 promotes cell proliferation in a manner indistinguishable from a constitutively active MEK1 construct, while ERK2 RNAi causes a significant growth arrest, similar to that observed with the ectopic expression of a dominant negative MEK1 mutant.
Diphosphoinositol polyphosphates, also known as inositol pyrophosphates, are a family of water soluble inositol phosphates that possess diphosphate or pyrophosphate moieties. In the presence of divalent cations such as Mg(2+), the &quot;high energy&quot; beta phosphate can be transferred from the inositol pyrophosphates, InsP(7) and InsP(8), to prephosphorylated serine residues on proteins, to form pyrophosphoserine. This chapter provides detailed methods to identify proteins that are substrates for pyrophosphorylation by InsP(7), conduct phosphorylation assays on purified protein, and detect protein pyrophosphorylation.
Cells communicate via endo- and exocytosis with their environment and neighboring cells. At synapses of the nervous system, fast exocytosis is coupled to fast endocytosis, which forms the basis for neurotransmitter release. The introduction of the unique fluorescent FM dyes allowed the monitoring of fast synaptic vesicle exo-endocytic cycling during live imaging sessions and after photoconversion of FM dyes into an electron-dense diaminobenzidine polymer synaptic vesicle cycling can be studied in the electron microscope. This protocol describes FM dye labeling of synaptic vesicles of cultured hippocampal neurons and photoconversion of the fluorescent synaptic vesicles for analysis in the electron microscope (EM).
A modern electron microscopic approach to the investigation of the structural organization of proteins and subcellular structures demands the use of molecular genetic techniques. The successful implementation of genetic techniques is closely tied to a reporter gene such as the green fluorescent protein (GFP). Although GFP has been widely used for light microscopy, it has many limitations for use in electron microscopy. In the search for a reporter gene for electron microscopy, interest in the use of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) DNA has recently increased, and several studies already have proven the feasibility of HRP expression in mammalian cells. Here, we describe a protocol that uses a HRP chimera to label the endoplasmic reticulum of HEK cells.
To visualize the basal or apical cytoplasmic surface just beneath the plasma membrane, we developed two different methods (&quot;unroof&quot; and &quot;rip-off&quot;). The immunoreplica technique for &quot;unroof&quot; and &quot;rip-off&quot; sample preparation that will be presented in this chapter can determine the distributions of actin, actin-binding proteins, transmembrane proteins, and membrane lipids at the interface of the plasma membrane. We have currently developed freeze-etch electron tomography, which could visualize the 3D molecular architecture of membrane-associated structures (membrane skeleton, clathrin-coated pits, and caveolae) on the cytoplasmic surface of the plasma membrane with 0.85-nm-thick consecutive sections made approximately 100 nm from the cytoplasmic surface using rapidly frozen, deeply etched, platinum-replicated plasma membranes. The membrane skeletons that are closely apposed to the plasma membrane interface are suggested to form the boundaries of the membrane compartments responsible for the temporary confinement of membrane molecules.
The detection of proteins with antibodies that are conjugated to gold particles has been a major asset to cell biology and the neurosciences, and knowledge about the subcellular location of antigens has formed the basis for many hypotheses regarding protein function. Many protocols have been developed since the introduction of colloidal gold to immunocytochemistry. The two most widely used techniques, however, are based on transmission electron microscopy and consist of either immunolabeling before the specimens are embedded in resin (pre-embedding immunogold labeling) or immunolabeling after embedding in resin (post-embedding immunogold labeling). The following protocol describes a pre-embedding procedure that gives reliable results with all antibodies that produce adequate staining as observed with a light microscope. This procedure results in almost perfect preservation of the ultrastructure. The procedure employs thick sectioning using a vibratome, permeabilization of membranes with Triton X-100, and immunolabeling with fluorescently conjugated Nanogold antibodies, followed by gold enhancement and embedding for electron microscopy. We also discuss some limitations inherent to pre-embedding immunogold labeling.
The first step in the detection of light by vertebrate photoreceptors is the photoisomerization of the retinyl chromophore of their visual pigment from 11-cis to the all-trans configuration. This initial reaction leads not only to an activated form of the visual pigment, meta II, that initiates reactions of the visual transduction cascade but also to the photochemical destruction of the visual pigment. By a series of reactions termed the visual cycle, native visual pigment is regenerated. These coordinated reactions take place in the photoreceptors themselves as well as the adjacent pigment epithelium and Mller cells. The critical initial steps in the visual cycle are the release of all-trans-retinal from the photoactivated pigment and its reduction to all-trans-retinol. The goal of this monograph is to describe methods of fluorescence imaging that allow the measurement of changes in the concentration of all-trans-retinol as it is reduced from all-trans-retinal in isolated intact salamander and mouse photoreceptors. The kinetics of all-trans-retinol formation depend on cellular factors that include the visual pigment and photoreceptor cell type, as well as the cytoarchitecture of outer segments. In general, all-trans-retinol forms much faster in cone cells than in rods.
The mobility of all-trans-retinol makes a crucial contribution to the rate of the reactions in which it participates. This is even more so because of its low aqueous solubility, which makes the presence of carrier proteins and the spatial arrangement of cellular membranes especially relevant. In rod photoreceptor outer segments, all-trans-retinol is generated after light exposure from the reduction of all-trans-retinal that is released from bleached rhodopsin. The mobility of all-trans-retinol in rod outer segments was measured with fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP), using two-photon excitation of its fluorescence. The values of the lateral and axial diffusion coefficients indicate that most of the all-trans-retinol in rod outer segments move unrestricted and without being aided by carriers.
The method describes production and the selection of neurosecretory PC12A123.7 cells stably transfected with human vesicular acetylcholine transporter (hVAChT). Transfected cells provide postnuclear supernatant used to characterize equilibrium binding of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (ACh), the pH dependence for transport of ACh, and the rate behavior for dissociation of the allosteric, high-affinity inhibitor vesamicol. Retention of radiolabeled ACh or vesamicol, mediated by hVAChT in synaptic-like microvesicles of postnuclear supernatant, is measured using filter assays. The procedure for regression analysis of data also is described.
To facilitate the study of pain transmission and the characterization of novel analgesic compounds, an array of experimental animal pain models has been developed mainly in rodents. In these preclinical models, nociceptive pain can be measured by both spontaneous and evoked behaviors. Acute pain (seconds to hours) can be more easily measured, albeit still with some difficulty, by spontaneous behaviors (nocifensive behaviors such as licking, flinching), or by stimulation of the injured paw. Chronic pain (lasting at least several days) is most readily measured by evoked stimulation (thermal, mechanical, chemical). Experimental measures of evoked pain are well characterized and are analogous to clinical diagnostic methods. This chapter will focus on rodent models of inflammatory and nociceptive pain that are most used in our laboratory for identification of novel antinociceptive compounds in drug discovery.
RNA interference (RNAi) is a gene silencing phenomenon that is induced by ribonucleoprotein complexes containing 21-28 nucleotides (nt) of double-stranded RNA (si/miRNA). Although this phenomenon occurs in an inherent manner, it can also be induced in an artificially manipulated manner. Recently, the understanding of RNAi mechanisms has progressed from that in plants to that in mammals. As RNAi is a highly efficient and readily available procedure to knockdown specific targets, it can possibly be used as a new technique providing many researchers and clinicians with opportunities for its experimental use and prospective clinical application. Consequently, there has been a rush of elucidation of the effective sequences of siRNAs used for the knockdown of the targets in many fields, including neuroscience and experiments for neurological disorders. However, in many cases, it is difficult to effectively introduce si/miRNA into cells without causing injury to the recipient cells. Apart from the off-target effects and the pathogenic property of si/miRNA per se, which are designed and produced, the possibility and intensity of cell injury by RNAi depends on the method employed for the introduction of si/miRNA. Possible methods include si/miRNA delivery systems using liposome, polyethylenimine (PEI), electroporation, and viral infection. Currently, various methods for delivering si/miRNA into cells have been developed and challenged. Here, I review the advantages, disadvantages, and perspective of employing the RNAi procedure in the brain. Given that the disadvantages of RNAi can be overcome, the clinical application of RNAi technologies may be useful in realizing the elimination of pathogenic genes not only in the brain, but also in the other organs in the near future.
Allele-specific gene silencing by RNA interference (RNAi) is therapeutically useful for specifically inhibiting the expression of disease-associated alleles without suppressing the expression of corresponding wild-type alleles. To realize such allele-specific RNAi (ASP-RNAi), the design and assessment of small interfering RNA (siRNA) duplexes conferring ASP-RNAi is vital; however, it is also difficult. We have developed an assay system with reporter alleles that encode the Photinus and Renilla luciferase genes carrying mutant and wild-type allelic sequences in their 3'-untranslated regions. The assay system allows us to evaluate designed siRNAs and also short hairpin RNAs for allele-specific silencing against target mutant alleles as well as off-target silencing against corresponding wild-type alleles simultaneously in a qualitative and quantitative manner.
One of the major bottlenecks in drug screening and structural biology on membrane proteins has for a long time been the expression of recombinant protein in sufficient quality and quantity. The expression has been evaluated in all existing expression systems, from cell-free translation and bacterial systems to expression in animal cells. In contrast to soluble proteins, the expression levels have been relatively low due to the following reasons: The topology of membrane proteins requires special, posttranslational processing, folding, and insertion into membranes, which often are mammalian cell specific. Despite these strict demands, functional membrane proteins (G protein-coupled receptors, ion channels, and transporters) have been successfully expressed in bacterial, yeast, and insect cells. A general drawback observed in prokaryotic cells is that accumulation of foreign protein in membranes is toxic and results in growth arrest and therefore low yields of recombinant protein.In this chapter, the focus is on expression of recombinant mammalian membrane proteins in mammalian host cells, particularly applying Semliki Forest virus (SFV) vectors. Replication-deficient SFV vectors are rapidly generated at high titers in BHK-21 (Baby Hamster Kidney) cells, which then are applied for a broad range of mammalian and nonmammalian cells. The SFV system has provided high expression levels of topologically different proteins, especially for membrane proteins. Robust ligand-binding assays and functional coupling to G proteins and electrophysiological recordings have made the SFV system an attractive tool in drug discovery. Furthermore, the high susceptibility of SFV vectors to primary neurons has allowed various applications in neuroscience. Establishment of large-scale production in mammalian adherent and suspension cultures has allowed production of hundreds of milligrams of membrane proteins that has allowed their submission to serious structural biology approaches. In this context, a structural genomics program for SFV-based overexpression of 100 GPCRs was established.
Liposomes have been utilized for variety of membrane transport studies including clathrin-mediated endocytosis. Here we introduce clathrin-coated structures that are generated on large unilamellar liposomes by incubating with clathrin coat proteins. Large unilamellar liposomes are also used to reconstitute vesicle formation in a cell-free system, and the vesicle formation can be quantified by using dynamic light scattering (DLS). Furthermore, phagocytosis assay using liposome-conjugated styrene beads is demonstrated.
The biological activity of cationic liposome/DNA complexes (&quot;lipoplexes&quot;) is strongly dependent on their ability to protect DNA and to interact with cells, including binding to the cell surface, internalization via endocytosis and cytoplasmic delivery of the DNA. In this chapter, we describe a number of methods and procedures to study these processes, based on the use of fluorescent probes.
Oxidative stress is a key factor involved in the development and progression of Alzheimer disease (AD), and it is well documented that free radical oxidative damage, particularly of neuronal lipids, proteins, nucleic acids, and sugars, is extensive in brains of AD patients. The complex chemistry of peroxynitrite has been the subject of intense study and is now evident that there are two principal pathways for protein modification: the first one involves homolytic hydroxyl radical-like chemistry that results in protein-based carbonyls and the second involves electrophilic nitration of vulnerable side chains, in particular the electron-rich aromatic rings of Tyr and Trp. In the presence of buffering bicarbonate, peroxynitrite forms a CO(2) adduct, which augments its reactivity. Formation of 3-nitrotyrosine by this route has become the classical protein marker specifically for the presence of peroxynitrite. Protein-based carbonyls can be detected by two methods: (i) derivatization with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine (DNPH) and detection of the protein-bound hydrazones using an enzyme-linked anti-2,4-dinitrophenyl antibody and (ii) derivatization with biotin-hydrazide and detection of the protein-bound acyl hydrazone with enzyme-linked avidin or streptavidin. Glycation of proteins by reducing sugars (Maillard reaction) results in a profile of time-dependent adduct evolution rendering susceptibility to oxidative elaboration. In addition, oxidative stress can result in oxidized sugar derivatives which can subsequently modify protein through a process known as glycoxidation. Of more general importance, oxidative stress results in lipid peroxidation and the production of a range of electrophilic and mostly bifunctional aldehydes that modify numerous proteins. The more important protein modifications are referred to as advanced glycation end products (AGEs) and advanced lipoxidation end products (ALEs). Protein modification can result in both non-cross-link and cross-link AGEs and ALEs, the latter arising from the potential bifunctional reactivity, such as that of the lipid-derived modifiers 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) and malondialdehyde (MDA). Oxidative damage to nucleic acids results in base modification, substitutions, and deletions. Among the most common modifications, 8-hydroxyguanosine (8OHG) is considered a signature of oxidative damage to nucleic acid.Cells are not passive to increased oxygen radical production but rather upregulate protective responses. In neurodegenerative diseases, heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) induction is coincident with the formation of neurofibrillary tangles. This enzyme that converts heme, a prooxidant, to biliverdin/bilirubin (antioxidants) and free iron has been considered an antioxidant enzyme. But seen in the context of arresting apoptosis, HO-1 and tau may play a role in maintaining the neurons free from the apoptotic signal (cytochrome c), since tau has strong iron-binding sites. Given the importance of iron as a catalyst for the generation of reactive oxygen species, changes in proteins associated with iron homeostasis can be used as an index of cellular responses. One such class of proteins is the iron regulatory proteins (IRPs) that respond to cellular iron concentrations by regulating the translation of proteins involved in iron uptake, storage, and utilization. Therefore, IRPs are considered to be the central control components of cellular iron concentration.
The major symptom of Alzheimer's disease is rapidly progressing dementia, coinciding with the formation of amyloid and tau deposits in the central nervous system, and neuronal death. At present familial cases of dementias provide the most promising foundation for modelling neurodegeneration. We describe the mnemonic and other major behavioral symptoms of tauopathies, briefly outline the genetics underlying familiar cases and discuss the arising implications for modelling the disease in mostly transgenic mouse lines. We then depict to what degree the most recent mouse models replicate pathological and cognitive characteristics observed in patients.There is no universally valid behavioral test battery to evaluate mouse models. The selection of individual tests depends on the behavioral and/or memory system in focus, the type of a model and how well it replicates the pathology of a disease and the amount of control over the genetic background of the mouse model. However it is possible to provide guidelines and criteria for modelling the neurodegeneration, setting up the experiments and choosing relevant tests. One should not adopt a &quot;one (trans)gene, one disease&quot; interpretation, but should try to understand how the mouse genome copes with the protein expression of the transgene in question. Further, it is not possible to recommend some mouse models over others since each model is valuable within its own constraints, and the way experiments are performed often reflects the idiosyncratic reality of specific laboratories. Our purpose is to improve bridging molecular and behavioural approaches in translational research.
Animal models have been vital to recent advances in experimental neuroscience, including the modeling of common human brain disorders such as anxiety, depression, and schizophrenia. As mice express robust anxiety-like behaviors when exposed to stressors (e.g., novelty, bright light, or social confrontation), these phenotypes have clear utility in testing the effects of psychotropic drugs. Of specific interest is the extent to which mouse models can be used for the screening of new anxiolytic drugs and verification of their possible applications in humans. To address this problem, the present chapter will review different experimental models of mouse anxiety and discuss their utility for testing anxiolytic and anxiogenic drugs. Detailed protocols will be provided for these paradigms, and possible confounds will be addressed accordingly.
Quantitative studies are increasingly found in the literature, particularly in the fields of development/evolution, pathology, and neurosciences. Image digitalization converts tissue images into a numeric form by dividing them into very small regions termed picture elements or pixels. Image analysis allows automatic morphometry of digitalized images, and stereology aims to understand the structural inner three-dimensional arrangement based on the analysis of slices showing two-dimensional information. To quantify morphological structures in an unbiased and reproducible manner, appropriate isotropic and uniform random sampling of sections, and updated stereological tools are needed. Through the correct use of stereology, a quantitative study can be performed with little effort; efficiency in stereology means as little counting as possible (little work), low cost (section preparation), but still good accuracy. This short text provides a background guide for non-expert morphologists.
The organotypic slice culture (Stoppini et al. A simple method for organotypic cultures of nervous tissue. 1991;37:173-182) has become the method of choice to answer a variety of questions in neuroscience. For many experiments, however, it would be beneficial to image or manipulate a slice culture repeatedly, for example, over the course of many days. We prepared organotypic slice cultures of the auditory brainstem of P3 and P4 mice and kept them in vitro for up to 4 weeks. Single cells in the auditory brainstem were transfected with plasmids expressing fluorescent proteins by way of electroporation (Haas et al. Single-cell electroporation for gene transfer in vivo. 2001;29:583-591). The culture was then placed in a chamber perfused with oxygenated ACSF and the labeled cell imaged with an inverted wide-field microscope repeatedly for multiple days, recording several time-points per day, before returning the slice to the incubator. We describe a simple method to image a slice culture preparation during the course of multiple days and over many continuous hours, without noticeable damage to the tissue or photobleaching. Our method uses a simple, inexpensive custom-built insulator constructed around the microscope to maintain controlled temperature and uses a perfusion chamber as used for in vitro slice recordings.
In mammals, subunit c of the F(1)F(0)-ATP synthase has three isoforms (P1, P2, and P3). These isoforms differ by their cleavable mitochondrial targeting peptides, whereas the mature peptides are identical. To investigate this apparent genetic redundancy, we knocked down each of the three subunit c isoform by RNA interference in HeLa cells. Silencing any of the subunit c isoforms individually resulted in an ATP synthesis defect, indicating that these isoforms are not functionally redundant. We found that subunit c knockdown impaired the structure and function of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. In particular, P2 silencing caused defective cytochrome oxidase assembly and function. Because the expression of exogenous P1 or P2 was able to rescue the respective silencing phenotypes, but the two isoforms were unable to cross-complement, we hypothesized that their functional specificity resided in their targeting peptides. In fact, the expression of P1 and P2 targeting peptides fused to GFP variants rescued the ATP synthesis and respiratory chain defects in the silenced cells. Our results demonstrate that the subunit c isoforms are nonredundant, because they differ functionally by their targeting peptides, which, in addition to mediating mitochondrial protein import, play a yet undiscovered role in respiratory chain maintenance.
The nitric oxide (NO) signaling pathway plays a critical role in auditory signal conversion and transduction. Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE), an important component of the NO signaling pathway, has not been identified in the cochlea. Using cross-species comparison, homologous sequences of human and mouse Pde coding sequences were searched in a guinea pig genomic database and conserved homologous exons were found between human and mouse homologous sequences. Based on reverse-transcription PCR of these conserved regions, six partial Pde cDNAs were detected in the cochlea: CpPde3a, CpPde4d, CpPde8a, CpPde8b, CpPde9a, and CpPde11a. The identity rates of the six partial Pde cDNA sequences between guinea pig and human range from 83.8 to 95.5% and those of the peptide sequences range from 85.6 to 100%. The identity rates of the six Pde cDNA sequences between guinea pig and mouse range from 80.6 to 93.0% and those of peptide sequences range from 79.5 to 99.2%. The results demonstrate that multiple Pde genes are expressed in the cochlea, suggesting a NO pathway in the auditory system. Insights into this pathway will help to develop new therapeutic drugs on auditory abnormalities.
In this study, the concentrations of creatine (Cr), creatine phosphate (CrP), N-acetylaspartate (NAA), ATP, ADP and phosphatidylcholine (PC) were measured at different time intervals after mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) in whole brain homogenates of rats. Anaesthetized animals underwent to the closed-head impact acceleration &quot;weight-drop&quot; model (450 g delivered from 1 m height = mild traumatic brain injury) and were killed at 2, 6, 24, 48 and 120 h after the insult (n = 6 for each time point). Sham-operated rats (n = 6) were used as controls. Compounds of interest were synchronously measured by HPLC in organic solvent deproteinized whole brain homogenates. A reversible decrease of all metabolites but PC was observed, with minimal values recorded at 24 h post-injury (minimum of CrP = 48 h after impact). In particular, Cr and NAA showed a decrease of 44.5 and 29.5%, respectively, at this time point. When measuring NAA in relation to other metabolites, as it is commonly carried out in &quot;in vivo&quot; (1)H-magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS), an increase in the NAA/Cr ratio and a decrease in the NAA/PC ratio was observed. Besides confirming a transient alteration of NAA homeostasis and ATP imbalance, our results clearly show significant changes in the cerebral concentration of Cr and CrP after mTBI. This suggests a careful use of the NAA/Cr ratio to measure NAA by (1)H-MRS in conditions of altered cerebral energy metabolism. Viceversa, the NAA/PC ratio appears to be a better indicator of actual NAA levels during energy metabolism impairment. Furthermore, our data suggest that, under pathological conditions affecting the brain energetic, the Cr-CrP system is not a suitable tool to buffer possible ATP depletion in the brain, thus supporting the growing indications for alternative roles of cerebral Cr.
Niemann-Pick type C (NPC) disease is an inherited lysosomal storage disease and caused by mutations in Npc1 or Npc2, which mediate cooperatively the egress of cholesterol from lysosomes. The disease entails progressive neurodegeneration, whose cause is poorly understood. Here, we report that Npc1 is distributed in distinct layers of the mouse retina and that its deficiency causes striking retinal degeneration in 2-month-old mice with signs of age-related maculopathies. This includes impaired visual function, accumulation of lipofuscin in the retinal pigment epithelium layer, degeneration of photoreceptor outer segments, disruption of synaptic layers and an increase in autophagy markers in the ganglion cell layer. Moreover, the lack of Npc1 results in the upregulation of proteins that mediate cellular cholesterol release in the retina. Our findings suggest that Npc1 is required for normal retinal function and that its absence may serve as model to study age-related degeneration of the retina.
Astrocytes modulate the formation and function of glutamatergic synapses in the CNS, but whether astrocytes modulate GABAergic synaptogenesis is unknown. We demonstrate that media conditioned by astrocytes, but not other cells, enhanced GABAergic but not glutamatergic axon length and branching, and increased the number and density of presynaptically active GABAergic synapses in dissociated hippocampal cultures. Candidate mechanisms and factors, such as activity, neurotrophins, and cholesterol were excluded as mediating these effects. While thrombospondins secreted by astrocytes are necessary and sufficient to increase hippocampal glutamatergic synaptogenesis, they do not mediate astrocyte effects on GABAergic synaptogenesis. We show that the factors in astrocyte conditioned media that selectively affect GABAergic neurons are proteins. Taken together, our results show that astrocytes increase glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptogenesis via different mechanisms and release one or more proteins with the novel functions of increasing GABAergic axon length, branching and synaptogenesis.
Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine, which influences neuronal survival and function yet there is limited information available on its effects on hippocampal neural precursor cells (NPCs). We show that TNFalpha treatment during proliferation had no effect on the percentage of proliferating cells prepared from embryonic rat hippocampal neurosphere cultures, nor did it affect cell fate towards either an astrocytic or neuronal lineage when cells were then allowed to differentiate. However, when cells were differentiated in the presence of TNFalpha, significantly reduced percentages of newly born and post-mitotic neurons, significantly increased percentages of astrocytes and increased expression of TNFalpha receptors, TNF-R1 and TNF-R2, as well as expression of the anti-neurogenic Hes1 gene, were observed. These data indicate that exposure of hippocampal NPCs to TNFalpha when they are undergoing differentiation but not proliferation has a detrimental effect on their neuronal lineage fate, which may be mediated through increased expression of Hes1.
The activity of background K(2P) channels adjusts the resting membrane potential to enable plasticity of excitable cells. Here we have studied the regulation of neuronal K(2P)2.1 (KCNK2, TREK-1) channel activity by resting membrane potential. When heterologously expressed, K(2P)2.1 currents gradually increased at hyperpolarizing potentials and declined at depolarizing potentials, with a midpoint potential of -60 mV. As K(2P) channels are not equipped with an integral voltage sensor, we sought extrinsic cellular components that could convert changes in the membrane electrical field to cellular activity that would indirectly modify K(2P)2.1 currents. We propose that membrane depolarization activated the Gq protein-coupled receptor pathway, in the apparent absence of ligand, resulting in phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)) depletion through the action of phospholipase C. Our results suggest a novel mechanism in which an indirect pathway confers membrane potential regulation onto channels that are not intrinsically voltage sensitive to enhance regulation of neuronal excitability levels.
The neuregulin-1 (Nrg-1) gene is translated into several protein isoforms, which are either secreted or membrane-anchored. In vitro, neural stem cells (NSC) express mainly the cystein-rich-domain NRG (CRD-NRG) isoform, a membrane-anchored type III form. This isoform exhibits a cystein-rich-domain, which constitutes a second transmembrane domain and can be cleaved to release both a signaling EGF-containing domain (ECD) at the cell surface and an intracellular domain (ICD). The main goal of this paper was to determine the exact role of ECD and ICD in NSC survival and differentiation. Using an siRNA approach, we demonstrated that CRD-NRG inhibition was followed by a decrease in NSC proliferation and of neuronal or oligodendroglial differentiation. Overexpression of ICD but not ECD was followed by a decrease in NSC proliferation and an increase in neuronal and oligodendroglial differentiation. Moreover, we showed that ICD physically interacted in cultured NSC with BRM and BAF57, two members of the Swi/Snf remodeling complex, and that ICD stimulation of neuronal cell differentiation is dependent on the presence of BAF57.
Many studies have indicated that the inability of adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS) to regenerate after injury is partly due to the existence of growth-inhibitory molecules associated with CNS myelin. Studies over the years have led to the identification of multiple myelin-associated inhibitors, among which Nogo, myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and oligodendrocyte-myelin glycoprotein (Omgp) represent potentially major contributors to CNS axon regeneration failure. Here we review in vitro and in vivo investigations into these inhibitory ligands and their functional mechanisms, focusing particularly on the neuronal receptors that mediate the inhibitory signals from these myelin molecules. A better understanding of the receptors for myelin-associated inhibitors could provide opportunities to decipher the mechanism of restriction in CNS regeneration, and lead to the development of potential therapeutic targets in neurodegenerative diseases and neurological injury. We will discuss the structures of the receptors and therapeutic opportunities that might arise based on this information.
The biochemistry, physiology and behavior of nearly all organisms are influenced by an inherent circadian (24 hr) clock timing mechanism. For mammals, the linchpin of this biological timing process is located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus. One key feature of the SCN clock is that it is tightly entrained to lighting cues, thus ensuring that the clock is synchronized to the ever-changing seasonal light cycle. Within the field of circadian biology, there has been intense interest in understanding the intracellular signaling events that drive this process. To this end, our recent studies have revealed a role for an evolutionarily conserved translational control kinase, the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), in the SCN clock entrainment process. Here we provide an overview of mechanisms of inducible mTOR activation in the SCN, and describe the effects of mTOR on clock protein synthesis and behavioral rhythmicity. Given that dysregulation of SCN timing has been associated with an array of clinical conditions (e.g., hypertension, obesity, diabetes, depression), new insights into the molecular mechanisms that regulate clock timing may provide new therapeutic treatments for circadian rhythm-associated disorders.
Although alterations in the functions of neurotransmitter systems have been implicated in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the mechanisms that give rise to these alterations are not well understood. The amount of p25, an aberrant cleavage product of p35 that activates cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), is elevated in AD brains. The role of Cdk5 in neurotransmitter release has been well established. In this study, we examined whether p25 was linked to altered neurotransmitter release in AD. Transient or stable expression of p25 significantly increased basal secretion of human growth hormone (hGH) or neurotransmitter in PC12 cells. Expression of a p25 phosphorylation-deficient mutant, T138A, inhibited basal hGH secretion relative to the p25 wild type, suggesting the involvement of Thr138 phosphorylation in secretion. The expression and activity of beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), a key protease in the generation of beta-amyloid, are increased in AD brains. Our previous studies indicated that overexpression of BACE1 enhanced basal secretion of hGH in PC12 cells. Transient coexpression of p25 and BACE1 further stimulated spontaneous basal secretion. These results indicate a novel role for p25 in the secretory pathway and suggest that elevated levels of p25 and BACE1 in AD brains may contribute to altered neurotransmitter pathology of AD through enhancing spontaneous basal secretion.
At the &quot;Year In Neuroendocrinology&quot; session during the 2009 meeting of The Endocrine Society, I highlighted recent progress in three main areas of neuroendocrinology: neural mechanisms of action of estradiol, GnRH regulation, and epigenetics. In the area of neural mechanisms of action of estradiol, we have seen the list of estrogen receptors continue to expand and that neurosteroid synthesis is rapidly regulated by the social environment; that brain sexual differentiation can occur via the action of estradiol in upstream neurons without the need of estrogen receptors in affected neurons; and that a particular xenoestrogen can block the effects of estradiol and testosterone in brain synapses. In the area of GnRH regulation, kisspeptin continues to be a major player in reproductive endocrinology; neurokinin B should be added to the growing list of critical peptides involved in puberty and reproduction; and RFamide-related peptides have a direct role in regulation of gonadotropin-releasing neurons as a gonadotropin-inhibiting hormone. Finally, in the epigenetics field, we learned that the same principles of importance of parental care in epigenetic regulation in hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors in rats applies to humans and may explain some long-term effects of childhood abuse on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. It is difficult, if not impossible, to predict which findings will have an enduring impact on the field. It will be interesting to look back, 10 yr from now, to see whether the papers that were chosen were in fact well cited and whether they were influential in driving additional research in neuroendocrinology.
This year represents the second, of what we expect to be an annual series, of articles based on The Endocrine Society annual meeting presentations that highlight recent advances in vibrant basic science areas in endocrinology. For ENDO 09, two general areas with broad appeal and significance to our members were chosen: neuroendocrinology and G protein-coupled receptors. The invited participants were charged with presenting and discussing important papers that were published approximately during the year leading up to the most recent annual meetings (June 2009) and to put them into broad perspective for the greater endocrine community. Two distinguished members, Jeffrey Blaustein and Robert Millar, continued on last year's successful features by synthesizing the top findings in their fields, and these articles are based on their annual meeting presentations. Interestingly, there were several points of intersection in these topics and chosen papers, as advances in the neuroendocrinology of reproduction have been coupled to identification and/or characterization of additional novel G protein-coupled receptors. In both presentations, fundamental basic science findings deriving from structural studies and signaling pathways are linked to broad endocrine physiology issues and to potential use in clinical treatment and therapeutics.
Urea cycle disorders (UCD) represent a group of rare inborn errors of metabolism that carry a high risk of mortality and neurological morbidity resulting from the effects of accumulation of ammonia and other biochemical intermediates. These disorders result from single gene defects involved in the detoxification pathway of ammonia to urea. UCD include deficiencies in any of the six enzymes and two membrane transporters involved in urea biosynthesis. It has previously been reported that approximately half of infants who present with hyperammonemic coma in the newborn period die of cerebral edema; and those who survive 3days or more of coma invariably have intellectual disability [1]. In children with partial defects there is an association between the number and severity of recurrent hyperammonemic (HA) episodes (i.e. with or without coma) and subsequent cognitive and neurologic deficits [2]. However, the effects of milder or subclinical HA episodes on the brain are largely unknown. This review discusses the results of neuroimaging studies performed as part of the NIH funded Rare Diseases Clinical Research Center in Urea Cycle Disorders and focuses on biomarkers of brain injury in ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency (OTCD). We used anatomic imaging, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), diffusion-tensor imaging (DTI), and (1)H/(13)C magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) to study clinically stable adults with partial OTCD. This allowed us to determine alterations in brain biochemistry associated with changes in cell volume and osmolarity and permitted us to identify brain biomarkers of HA. We found that white matter tracts underlying specific pathways involved in working memory and executive function are altered in subjects with OTCD (as measured by DTI), including those heterozygous women who were previously considered asymptomatic. An understanding of the pathogenesis of brain injury in UCD is likely to advance our knowledge of more common disorders of liver dysfunction.
The role of neuropeptide Y Y2 receptor (Y2R) in human diseases such as obesity, mood disorders, and alcoholism could be better resolved by the use of small-molecule chemical probes that are substantially different from the currently available Y2R antagonist, N-[(1S)-4-[(aminoiminomethyl)amino]-1-[[[2-(3,5-dioxo-1,2-diphenyl-1,2,4-triazolidin-4-yl)ethyl]amino]carbonyl]butyl]-1-[2-[4-(6,11-dihydro-6-oxo-5H-dibenz[b,e]azepin-11-yl)-1-piperazinyl]-2-oxoethyl]-cyclopentaneacetamide) (BIIE0246). Presented here are five potent, selective, and publicly available Y2R antagonists identified by a high-throughput screening approach. These compounds belong to four chemical scaffolds that are structurally distinct from the peptidomimetic BIIE0246. In functional assays, IC(50) values between 199 and 4400 nM against the Y2R were measured, with no appreciable activity against the related NPY-Y1 receptor (Y1R). Compounds also displaced radiolabeled peptide YY from the Y2R with high affinity (K(i) values between 1.55 and 60 nM) while not displacing the same ligand from the Y1R. In contrast to BIIE0246, Schild analysis with NPY suggests that two of the five compounds behave as competitive antagonists. Profiling against a panel of 40 receptors, ion channels, and transporters found in the central nervous system showed that the five Y2R antagonists demonstrate greater selectivity than BIIE0246. Furthermore, the ability of these antagonists to penetrate the blood-brain barrier makes them better suited for pharmacological studies of Y2R function in both the brain and periphery.
Although few studies dispute that there are gender differences in depression, the etiology is still unknown. In this review, we cover a number of proposed factors and the evidences for and against these factors that may account for gender differences in depression. These include the possible role of estrogens at puberty, differences in exposure to childhood trauma, differences in stress perception between men and women and the biological differences in stress response. None of these factors seem to explain gender differences in depression. Finally, we do know that when depressed, women show greater hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activation than men and that menopause with loss of estrogens show the greatest HPA axis dysregulation. It may be the constantly changing steroid milieu that contributes to these phenomena and vulnerability to depression.

The treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) has revolved around pharmacologic interventions that primarily treat the cardinal (dopaminergic) manifestations of tremor, rigidity, and bradykinesia; yet, we now know that the pathology of PD is widespread, accounting for more disabling symptoms such as cognitive impairment, autonomic problems, and postural instability. Further, attempts at modifying PD may be hampered as much by the imperfection of therapeutic interventions as by the extent of neuronal damage that exists even in early PD, when most putative neuroprotective agents are tried. Our approach to PD must therefore evolve and include strategies for detecting PD earlier in its course and, eventually, intervening when the disease process is in its nascent stages. Parkinson's associated risk syndrome (PARS) is the term we have coined to describe patients at risk for developing PD. These patients may have genetic risk factors or may have subtle, early non-motor symptoms including abnormalities in olfaction, gastrointestinal function, cardiac imaging, vision, behavior, and cognition. Changes in neuroimaging modalities can predict the emergence of neurologic signs and symptoms within several years. The PARS study is now underway to determine the feasibility of screening a large cohort of subjects to identify those at highest risk for developing PD. If successful, we will have the tools to identify cohorts for clinical trials of PD prevention or, at the very least, delay of disease onset, and long-term disability. Further, our concept of PD risk will change the nosology of PD as those now considered &quot;at-risk&quot; may ultimately be considered to already have the disease.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is marked by widespread neurodegeneration in the brain in addition to a selective yet prominent and progressive loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. Of the multiple theories suggested in the pathogenesis of PD, mitochondrial dysfunction takes a center stage in both sporadic and familial forms of illness. Deficits in mitochondrial functions due to impaired bioenergetics, aging associated increased generation of reactive oxygen species, damage to mitochondrial DNA, impaired calcium buffering, and alterations in mitochondrial morphology may contribute to improper functioning of the CNS leading to neurodegeneration. These mitochondrial alterations suggest that a potential target worth exploring for neuroprotective therapies are the ones that can preserve mitochondrial functions in PD. Here, we provide a recent update on potential drugs that are known to block mitochondrial dysfunctions in various experimental models and those that are currently under clinical trials for PD. We also review novel mitochondrial survival pathways that provide hope and promise for innovative neuroprotective therapies in the future that can be explored as possible therapeutic intervention for PD pathogenesis.
In this review, in vivo patterns of structural, metabolic, and neurotransmitter binding changes revealed by imaging in both symptomatic Parkinson's disease (PD) and at-risk subjects are compared with those predicted at different Braak stages. It is concluded that the dysfunction revealed by imaging in PD is only partially in line with the sequential ascending topography of Lewy body pathology reported by Braak, suggesting that neurons in different brain regions are likely to be selectively vulnerable to the presence of intracellular synuclein aggregates.
Recent studies in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD) have provided evidence that dopamine released from spared serotonin afferents can act as a trigger of dyskinetic movements induced by repetitive, low doses of levodopa. Serotonin neurons have the capacity to store and release dopamine synthesized from systemically administered levodopa. However, because of the lack of any autoregulatory feedback control, dopamine released from serotonin terminals results in excessive swings in extracellular dopamine levels after peripheral administration of levodopa. Such &quot;dysregulated&quot; release of levodopa-derived dopamine is likely to be responsible for the appearance of the abnormal movements in levodopa-primed animals. This mechanism may also play a role in the development of graft-induced dyskinesias in patients that receive fetal neuron transplants, possibly due to the inclusion of serotonin neurons in the grafted ventral midbrain tissue, which contribute to maintain dopamine receptors of the denervated striatum in a supersensitive state.
Recently, Braak and coworkers proposed a pathologic staging scheme for Parkinson disease (PD). In this staging, scheme substantia nigra pathology occurs at midstage disease, while involvement of anterior olfactory nucleus, medulla, and pontine tegmentum occur earlier. In the last stages, Lewy bodies (LBs) involve cortical areas. The general principles of the proposed staging system have been confirmed in several studies of PD, but it does not appear to fit with all LB disorders. We studied the density and distribution of LBs with alpha-synuclein immunohistochemistry in normal elderly with incidental LBs (N = 12); progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) with incidental LBs (N = 18); Lewy body disease (LBD) with minimal or no Alzheimer type pathology (N = 52); LBD with concomitant Alzheimer disease (AD) (N = 84); and cases of AD with amygdala predominant LBs (N = 64). The proportion of cases that fit the PD staging scheme was 67% for incidental LBs; 86% for PSP with LBs; 86% for pure LBD; and 84% for LBD with AD; but only 6% for AD with amygdala predominant LBs. The PD staging scheme is valid, except in the setting of advanced AD. In this situation, LBs may be unrelated to PD and more likely related to factors inherent to AD and the selective vulnerability of the amygdala to both Alzheimer and alpha-synuclein pathologies.
Recent findings indicate that vascular risk factors and neurovascular dysfunction play integral roles in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. In addition to aging, the most common risk factors for Alzheimer's disease are apolipoprotein e4 allele, hypertension, hypotension, diabetes, and hypercholesterolemia. All of these can be characterized by vascular pathology attributed to conditions such as cerebral amyloid angiopathy and subsequent blood-brain barrier dysfunction. Many epidemiological, clinical, and pharmacotherapeutic studies have assessed the associations between such risk factors and Alzheimer's disease and have found positive associations between hypertension, hypotension, and diabetes mellitus. However, there are still many conflicting results from these population-based studies, and they should be interpreted carefully. Recognition of these factors and the mechanisms by which they contribute to Alzheimer's disease will be beneficial in the current treatment regimens for Alzheimer's disease and in the development of future therapies. Here we discuss vascular factors with respect to Alzheimer's disease and dementia and review the factors that give rise to vascular dysfunction and contribute to Alzheimer's disease.
Until recently, neuromyelitis optica (NMO) was considered to be a sub-type of multiple sclerosis (MS), which has a strong predilection for Caucasian populations, whereas NMO is more frequent in non-Caucasian individuals. The objective of this study was to compare the HLA-DRB profile in Brazilian Mulatto patients with NMO spectrum disorders (NMOSDs) with that observed for Mulatto MS patients and healthy Mulatto controls. Twenty seven NMOSD patients (20 women), all seropositive for NMO-IgG, 29 MS patients and 28 Mulatto healthy blood donors were evaluated for HLA-DRB allele groups. HLA-DRB1*03 allele group was overrepresented in NMO patients compared with healthy controls (p = 0.0401; OR = 3.23, 95%CI: 1.07-9.82). In contrast, the HLA-DRB1*15 allele group was overrepresented in Brazilian MS patients (OR = 15.89, 95%CI: 3.51-71.85; p &lt; 0.0001). DRB3 was overrepresented in NMO (p = 0.0064), and DRB5 overrepresented in MS patients (p = 0.0001). The low frequency of HLA-DRB1*15 alleles was associated with the presence of long and central cord lesions at magnetic resonance. In addition, DRB1*15 alleles were associated with the fulfillment of the Barkhof criteria. In conclusion, these results indicate that the DRB profile of NMO patients is different from that observed for MS patients, further corroborating the distinction between NMO and MS.
Gray matter (GM) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) T2 hypointensity, a putative marker of iron deposition, is a frequent finding in patients with clinically definite (CD) multiple sclerosis (MS). The objective of this study was to assess: (a) how early deep GM T2 hypointensity occurs in MS, by studying patients with clinically isolated syndromes (CIS) suggestive of MS, and (b) whether they contribute to predict subsequent evolution to CDMS. Dual-echo scans using two different acquisition protocols were acquired from 47 CIS patients and 13 healthy controls (HC). Normalized T2-intensity of the basal ganglia and thalamus was quantified. Patients were assessed clinically at the time of MRI acquisition and after three years. During the observation period, 18 patients (38%) evolved to CDMS. At the baseline, only the GM T2-intensity of the left caudate nucleus was significantly reduced in CIS patients in comparison with the HC (p = 0.04). At the baseline, the T2 intensity of the left caudate nucleus was significantly lower (p = 0.01) in CIS patients with disease dissemination in space (DIS), but not in those without DIS, compared to the HC. The baseline T2 lesion volume, but not GM T2 hypointensity, was associated with evolution to CDMS (hazard ratio = 1.60, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.05-2.42; p = 0.02). In CIS patients, deep GM is not spared, suggesting that iron-related changes and neurodegeneration occurs early. The magnitude of such damage is only minor and not associated with an increased risk of evolution to CDMS.
Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease that is accompanied by an immune response against pancreatic cells. As gangliosides are expressed in both peripheral nerves and pancreatic cells, we examined the possibility of correlation between type 1 diabetes, anti-ganglioside autoantibodies, and neuropathy. Fifty diabetic patients and 30 controls with other autoimmune diseases underwent neurological examination and search for antibodies to gangliosides, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD(65)), and tyrosine phosphatase (IA2). Sixteen (32%) diabetic patients had neuropathy. Twelve diabetic sera were found to have anti-ganglioside autoantibodies. Twenty sera were positive for anti-GAD(65) and nine for anti-IA2 antibody. Sera from three control patients had anti-ganglioside autoantibodies. No significant correlation was found between autoantibodies, neuropathy, and disease duration. Disease duration was shorter in patients with antibodies to GAD(65) and IA2 and longer in neuropathic patients. The higher prevalence of antibodies in diabetic patients compared to controls may reflect the common pattern of antigens shared by peripheral nerve and pancreatic islet cells.
The nuclear receptor TLX (also known as NR2E1) is essential for adult neural stem cell self-renewal; however, the molecular mechanisms involved remain elusive. Here we show that TLX activates the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin pathway in adult mouse neural stem cells. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Wnt/beta-catenin signalling is important in the proliferation and self-renewal of adult neural stem cells in the presence of epidermal growth factor and fibroblast growth factor. Wnt7a and active beta-catenin promote neural stem cell self-renewal, whereas the deletion of Wnt7a or the lentiviral transduction of axin, a beta-catenin inhibitor, led to decreased cell proliferation in adult neurogenic areas. Lentiviral transduction of active beta-catenin led to increased numbers of type B neural stem cells in the subventricular zone of adult brains, whereas deletion of Wnt7a or TLX resulted in decreased numbers of neural stem cells retaining bromodeoxyuridine label in the adult brain. Both Wnt7a and active beta-catenin significantly rescued a TLX (also known as Nr2e1) short interfering RNA-induced deficiency in neural stem cell proliferation. Lentiviral transduction of an active beta-catenin increased cell proliferation in neurogenic areas of TLX-null adult brains markedly. These results strongly support the hypothesis that TLX acts through the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway to regulate neural stem cell proliferation and self-renewal. Moreover, this study suggests that neural stem cells can promote their own self-renewal by secreting signalling molecules that act in an autocrine/paracrine mode.
Craniorachischisis is a rare but severe birth defect that results in a completely open neural tube. Mouse mutants in planar cell polarity (PCP) signalling components have deficits in the morphological movements of convergent extension that result in craniorachischisis. Using a forward genetic screen in mice, we identified Sec24b, a cargo-sorting member of the core complex of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-to-Golgi transport vesicle COPII, as critical for neural tube closure. Sec24bY613 mutant mice exhibit craniorachischisis, deficiencies in convergent extension and other PCP-related phenotypes. Vangl2, a key component of the PCP-signalling pathway critical for convergent extension, is selectively sorted into COPII vesicles by Sec24b. Moreover, Sec24bY613 genetically interacts with a loss-of-function Vangl2 allele (Vangl2LP), causing a marked increase in the prevalence of spina bifida. Interestingly, the Vangl2 looptail point mutants Vangl2D255E and Vangl2S464N, known to cause defects in convergent extension, fail to sort into COPII vesicles and are trapped in the ER. Thus, during COPII vesicle formation, Sec24b shows cargo specificity for a core PCP component, Vangl2, of which proper ER-to-Golgi transport is essential for the establishment of PCP, convergent extension and closure of the neural tube.
Partitioning tissues into compartments that do not intermix is essential for the correct morphogenesis of animal embryos and organs. Several hypotheses have been proposed to explain compartmental cell sorting, mainly differential adhesion, but also regulation of the cytoskeleton or of cell proliferation. Nevertheless, the molecular and cellular mechanisms that keep cells apart at boundaries remain unclear. Here we demonstrate, in early Drosophila melanogaster embryos, that actomyosin-based barriers stop cells from invading neighbouring compartments. Our analysis shows that cells can transiently invade neighbouring compartments, especially when they divide, but are then pushed back into their compartment of origin. Actomyosin cytoskeletal components are enriched at compartmental boundaries, forming cable-like structures when the epidermis is mitotically active. When MyoII (non-muscle myosin II) function is inhibited, including locally at the cable by chromophore-assisted laser inactivation (CALI), in live embryos, dividing cells are no longer pushed back, leading to compartmental cell mixing. We propose that local regulation of actomyosin contractibility, rather than differential adhesion, is the primary mechanism sorting cells at compartmental boundaries.
Whether all the infectious herpesvirus particles entering a cell are able to replicate and/or express their genomes is not known. Here, we developed a general method to determine the number of viral genomes expressed in an infected cell. We constructed and analysed fluorophore expression from a recombinant pseudorabies virus (PRV263) carrying a Brainbow cassette (Cre-conditional expression of different fluorophores). Using three isogenic strains derived from PRV263, each expressing a single fluorophore, we analysed the colour composition of cells infected with these three viruses at different multiplicities. We estimate that fewer than seven incoming genomes are expressed per cell. In addition, those templates that are expressed are the genomes selected for replication and packaging into virions. This finite limit on the number of viral genomes that can be expressed is an intrinsic property of the infected cell and may be influenced by viral and cellular factors.
We propose that synapses may be the workhorse of the neuronal computations that underlie probabilistic reasoning. We built a neural circuit model for probabilistic inference in which information provided by different sensory cues must be integrated and the predictive powers of individual cues about an outcome are deduced through experience. We found that bounded synapses naturally compute, through reward-dependent plasticity, the posterior probability that a choice alternative is correct given that a cue is presented. Furthermore, a decision circuit endowed with such synapses makes choices on the basis of the summed log posterior odds and performs near-optimal cue combination. The model was validated by reproducing salient observations of, and provides insights into, a monkey experiment using a categorization task. Our model thus suggests a biophysical instantiation of the Bayesian decision rule, while predicting important deviations from it similar to the 'base-rate neglect' observed in human studies when alternatives have unequal prior probabilities.
An unresolved question in neuroscience relates to the extent to which corticothalamocortical circuits emanating from layer 5B are involved in information transfer through the cortical hierarchy. Using a new form of optical imaging in a brain slice preparation, we found that the corticothalamocortical pathway drove robust activity in higher-order somatosensory cortex. When the direct corticocortical pathway was interrupted, secondary somatosensory cortex showed robust activity in response to stimulation of the barrel field in primary somatosensory cortex (S1BF), which was eliminated after subsequently cutting the somatosensory thalamus, suggesting a highly efficacious corticothalamocortical circuit. Furthermore, after chemically inhibiting the thalamus, activation in secondary somatosensory cortex was eliminated, with a subsequent return after washout. Finally, stimulation of layer 5B in S1BF, and not layer 6, drove corticothalamocortical activation. These findings suggest that the corticothalamocortical circuit is a physiologically viable candidate for information transfer to higher-order cortical areas.
The frontal pole cortex (FPC) expanded markedly during human evolution, but its function remains uncertain in both monkeys and humans. Accordingly, we examined single-cell activity in this area. On every trial, monkeys decided between two response targets on the basis of a 'stay' or 'shift' cue. Feedback followed at a fixed delay. FPC cells did not encode the monkeys' decisions when they were made, but did so later on, as feedback approached. This finding indicates that the FPC is involved in monitoring or evaluating decisions. Using a control task and delayed feedback, we found that decision coding lasted until feedback only when the monkeys combined working memory with sensory cues to 'self-generate' decisions, as opposed to when they simply followed trial-by-trial instructions. A role in monitoring or evaluating self-generated decisions could account for FPC's expansion during human evolution.
Coordinated spiking activity in neuronal ensembles, in local networks and across multiple cortical areas, is thought to provide the neural basis for cognition and adaptive behavior. Examining such collective dynamics at the level of single neuron spikes has remained, however, a considerable challenge. We found that the spiking history of small and randomly sampled ensembles (approximately 20-200 neurons) could predict subsequent single neuron spiking with substantial accuracy in the sensorimotor cortex of humans and nonhuman behaving primates. Furthermore, spiking was better predicted by the ensemble's history than by the ensemble's instantaneous state (Ising models), emphasizing the role of temporal dynamics leading to spiking. Notably, spiking could be predicted not only by local ensemble spiking histories, but also by spiking histories in different cortical areas. These strong collective dynamics may provide a basis for understanding cognition and adaptive behavior at the level of coordinated spiking in cortical networks.
Much of our knowledge in neuroscience was discovered through the study of mind-altering natural products. However, although much has been learned about human physiology and basic biological processes, the underlying causes of CNS disorders and other disease states are still elusive. Based on its main past successes, the continued study of mind-altering compounds promises to yield novel agents that may be developed into medications and to identify new targets for the treatment of diseases. This Highlight describes the history of investigations into several classes of mind-altering natural products and relates recent and potential therapeutic uses for these agents.
The cytoskeleton is an intricate and dynamic fibrous network that has an essential role in the generation and regulation of cell architecture and cellular mechanical properties. The cytoskeleton also evolved as a scaffold that supports diverse biochemical pathways. Recent evidence favours the hypothesis that the cytoskeleton participates in the spatial organization and regulation of translation, at both the global and local level, in a manner that is crucial for cellular growth, proliferation and function.
A plethora of discoveries relating to sex influences on brain function is rapidly moving this field into the spotlight for most areas of neuroscience. The domain of molecular or genetic neuroscience is no exception. The goal of this article is to highlight key developments concerning sex-based dimorphisms in molecular neuroscience, describe control mechanisms regulating these differences, address the implications of these dimorphisms for normal and abnormal brain function and discuss what these advances mean for future work in the field. The overriding conclusion is that, as for neuroscience in general, molecular neuroscience has to take into account potential sex influences that might modify signalling pathways.
Patterned, spontaneous activity occurs in many developing neural circuits, including the retina, the cochlea, the spinal cord, the cerebellum and the hippocampus, where it provides signals that are important for the development of neurons and their connections. Despite there being differences in adult architecture and output across these various circuits, the patterns of spontaneous network activity and the mechanisms that generate it are remarkably similar. The mechanisms can include a depolarizing action of GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid), transient synaptic connections, extrasynaptic transmission, gap junction coupling and the presence of pacemaker-like neurons. Interestingly, spontaneous activity is robust; if one element of a circuit is disrupted another will generate similar activity. This research suggests that developing neural circuits exhibit transient and tunable features that maintain a source of correlated activity during crucial stages of development.
There is increasing pressure for neuroscientists to communicate their research and the societal implications of their findings to the public. Communicating science is challenging, and the transformation of communication by digital and interactive media increases the complexity of the challenge. To facilitate dialogue with the public in this new media landscape, we suggest three courses of action for the neuroscience community: a cultural shift that explicitly recognizes and rewards public outreach, the identification and development of neuroscience communication experts, and ongoing empirical research on the public communication of neuroscience.
Positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have brought about an immense increase in findings on the localization of motor, cognitive, and affective processes in the human brain. However, considerable discrepancy still exists between the multitude of available studies and the limited validity of the individual experiments. Quantitative, coordinate-based meta-analyses are suited to objectively integrate these numerous findings as completely as possible. There are a number of different methods for coordinate-based voxel-wise meta-analyses, but the technique of&quot;activation likelihood estimation&quot; (ALE) has largely prevailed. This contribution describes the principles, methods, and statistical analysis of ALE meta-analyses and their potential for basic research in neuroscience and clinical brain research.
A large body of epidemiological data suggests that adverse early environments, including obesity during pregnancy or early postnatal life, are linked to an elevated prevalence of metabolic disease in adult offspring. The mechanisms underlying these effects are still poorly understood, but recent data from rodents provide insight into a potential role for the brain in this 'metabolic programming.' This review summarizes the developmental changes that have been observed in the hypothalamus in response to changes in the early nutritional and hormonal environment. It also discusses how resetting a diverse array of neuroendocrine systems may have long-term effects on the regulation of metabolism and energy balance.
Estimating two-dimensional firing rate maps is a common problem, arising in a number of contexts: the estimation of place fields in hippocampus, the analysis of temporally nonstationary tuning curves in sensory and motor areas, the estimation of firing rates following spike-triggered covariance analyses, etc. Here we introduce methods based on Gaussian process nonparametric Bayesian techniques for estimating these two-dimensional rate maps. These techniques offer a number of advantages: the estimates may be computed efficiently, come equipped with natural errorbars, adapt their smoothness automatically to the local density and informativeness of the observed data, and permit direct fitting of the model hyperparameters (e.g., the prior smoothness of the rate map) via maximum marginal likelihood. We illustrate the method's flexibility and performance on a variety of simulated and real data.
A central goal of systems neuroscience is to characterize the transformation of sensory input to spiking output in single neurons. This problem is complicated by the large dimensionality of the inputs. To cope with this problem, previous methods have estimated simplified versions of a generic linear-nonlinear (LN) model and required, in most cases, stimuli with constrained statistics. Here we develop the extended Projection Pursuit Regression (ePPR) algorithm that allows the estimation of all of the parameters, in space and time, of a generic LN model using arbitrary stimuli. We first prove that ePPR models can uniformly approximate, to an arbitrary degree of precision, any continuous function. To test this generality empirically, we use ePPR to recover the parameters of models of cortical cells that cannot be represented exactly with an ePPR model. Next we evaluate ePPR with physiological data from primary visual cortex, and show that it can characterize both simple and complex cells, from their responses to both natural and random stimuli. For both simulated and physiological data, we show that ePPR compares favorably to spike-triggered and information-theoretic techniques. To the best of our knowledge, this article contains the first demonstration of a method that allows the estimation of an LN model of visual cells, containing multiple spatio-temporal filters, from their responses to natural stimuli.
Similarly responsive neurons organize into submillimeter-sized clusters (domains) across many neocortical areas, notably in Areas V1 and V2 of primate visual cortex. While this clustered organization may arise from wiring minimization or from self-organizing development, it could potentially support important neural computation benefits. Here, we suggest that domain organization offers an efficient computational mechanism for intra-areal functional integration in certain cortical areas and hypothesize that domain proximity could support a higher-than-expected spatial correlation of their respective terminals yielding higher probabilities of integration of differing domain preferences. To investigate this hypothesis we devised a spatial model inspired by known parameters of V2 functional organization, where neighboring domains prefer either colored or oriented stimuli. Preference-selective joint probabilities were calculated for model terminal co-occurrence with configurations encompassing diverse domain proximity, shape, and projection. Compared to random distributions, paired neighboring domains (&lt; or =1200 microm apart) yielded significantly enhanced coincidence of terminals converging from each domain. Using this reference data, a second larger-scale model indicated that V2 domain organization may accommodate relatively complete sets of intra-areal color/orientation integrations. Together, these data indicate that domain organization could support significant and efficient intra-areal integration of different preferences and suggest further experiments investigating prevalence and mechanisms of domain-mediated intra-areal integration.
It is generally unknown when distinct neural networks having different synaptic weights and thresholds implement identical input-output transformations. Determining the exact conditions for structurally distinct yet functionally equivalent networks may shed light on the theoretical constraints on how diverse neural circuits might develop and be maintained to serve identical functions. Such consideration also imposes practical limits on our ability to uniquely infer the structure of underlying neural circuits from stimulus-response measurements. We introduce a biologically inspired mathematical method for determining when the structure of a neural network can be perturbed gradually while preserving functionality. We show that for common three-layer networks with convergent and nondegenerate connection weights, this is possible only when the hidden unit gains are power functions, exponentials, or logarithmic functions, which are known to approximate the gains seen in some biological neurons. For practical applications, our numerical simulations with finite and noisy data show that continuous confounding of parameters due to network functional equivalence tends to occur approximately even when the gain function is not one of the aforementioned three types, suggesting that our analytical results are applicable to more general situations and may help identify a common source of parameter variability in neural network modeling.
There is a consensus that consciousness is constituted by only a subset of all neuroanatomical regions and processes, but no agreement exists regarding which particular subset(s) constitutes it. We propose that a consensus will be reached if investigators (a) pool their knowledge regarding the regions whose non-participation does not in principle render the nervous system devoid of consciousness (e.g., the cerebellum, amygdalae, hippocampi, hemispheric commissures, 'pre-cortical' thalamus, and vast regions of the cortex), and (b) focus on the long-overlooked olfactory system. This 'brutally reductionistic' approach may isolate the physical basis of consciousness; even its falsification would help to illuminate this enigma.
Although many studies have shown that administration of stem cells after focal cerebral ischemia improves brain damage, very little data are available concerning the damage induced by global cerebral ischemia. The latter causes neuronal death in selectively vulnerable areas, including the hippocampal CA1 region. We tested the hypothesis that intravenous infusion of bone marrowderived stromal cells (mesenchimal stem cells, MSC) reduce brain damage after transient global ischemia. In adult male Sprague-Dawley rats transient global ischemia was induced using bilateral common carotid artery occlusion for 20min in addition to controlled hypotension. Five days after, the animals were anaesthetized with urethane and the brain was fixed, sectioned and stained with hematoxylin-eosin to investigate histological damage. MSC did not fully protect against ischemic damage, as the number of viable neurons in this group was lower than in normal (sham-operated) rats. However, in MSC-treated rats the number of viable CA1 pyramidal neurons was significally higher than in rats that had been subjected to ischemia but not treated with MSC. We conclude that intravenous administration of MSC after transient global ischemia reduces hippocampal damage.





Age-related cognitive deficits in hippocampus are correlated with neuroinflammatory changes, typified by increased pro-inflammatory cytokine production and microglial activation. We provide evidence that the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM)-derived mimetic peptide, FG loop (FGL), acts as a novel anti-inflammatory agent. Administration of FGL to aged rats attenuated the increased expression of markers of activated microglia, the increase in pro-inflammatory interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and the impairment in long-term potentiation (LTP). We report that the age-related increase in microglial activation was accompanied by decreased expression of neuronal CD200, and suggest that the proclivity of FGL to suppress microglial activation is due to its stimulatory effect on neuronal CD200. We demonstrate that FGL enhanced interleukin-4 (IL-4) release from glial cells and IL-4 in turn enhanced neuronal CD200 in vitro. We provide evidence that the increase in CD200 is reliant on IL-4-induced extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signal transduction. These findings provide the first evidence of a role for FGL as an anti-inflammatory agent and identify a mechanism by which FGL controls microglial activation.
Although memory impairments are a hallmark of aging, the degree of deficit varies across animal models, and is likely to reflect different states of deterioration in metabolic and endocrinological properties. This study investigated memory-related processes in young (3-4 months) and old (24 months) Sprague-Dawley rats (SD), which develop age-linked pathologies such as obesity or insulin-resistance and Lou/C/Jall rats, which do not develop such impairments. In short- and long-term memory recognition tasks, old Lou/C/Jall rats were never impaired whereas old SD rats were deficient at 1 and 24h latencies. The expression of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDAR)-mediated synaptic plasticity in CA1 hippocampal networks shifted towards lower activity values in old Lou/C/Jall rats whereas long-term potentiation was impaired in age-matched SD rats. Age-related decrease in NR2A subunits occurred in both strains, extended to NR2B, NR1 and GluR1 subunits in older animals (28 months) but only in SD rats. Therefore, the Lou/C/Jall rats can be considered as a model of healthy aging, not only in terms of its preserved metabolism, but also in terms of cognition and synaptic plasticity.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the association between dementia and common vascular risk factors including blood pressure, blood lipids, homocysteine and diabetes mellitus in a population of very old people. This study is a 9-year follow-up prospective population-based study monitoring 339 non-demented subjects aged 85 years or over in the city of Vantaa, Southern Finland. During the follow-up, those individuals with diabetes mellitus at the baseline and new incident stroke had a higher probability for developing dementia. History of hypertension or higher level of education were associated with a lower probability of dementia. It seems that the contribution of vascular risk factors to the risk of dementia may be age-dependent and their role in the very old subjects may be mediated through their influence on cerebrovascular morbidity. Thus, prevention of stroke and diabetes mellitus may reduce the risk of cognitive decline in the very old.
Altered neuronal activity in the striatum appears to be a key component of Huntington's disease (HD), a fatal, neurodegenerative condition. To assess this hypothesis in freely behaving transgenic rats that model HD (tgHDs), we used chronically implanted micro-wires to record the spontaneous activity of striatal neurons. We found that relative to wild-type controls, HD rats suffer from population-level deficits in striatal activity characterized by a loss of correlated firing and fewer episodes of coincident spike bursting between simultaneously recorded neuronal pairs. These results are in line with our previous report of marked alterations in the pattern of striatal firing in mouse models of HD that vary in background strain, genetic construct, and symptom severity. Thus, loss of coordinated spike activity in striatum appears to be a common feature of HD pathophysiology, regardless of HD model variability.
Mammalian genomes encode only a small number of cuproenzymes. The many genes involved in coordinating copper uptake, distribution, storage and efflux make gene/nutrient interactions especially important for these cuproenzymes. Copper deficiency and copper excess both disrupt neural function. Using mice heterozygous for peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), a cuproenzyme essential for the synthesis of many neuropeptides, we identified alterations in anxiety-like behavior, thermoregulation and seizure sensitivity. Dietary copper supplementation reversed a subset of these deficits. Wildtype mice maintained on a marginally copper-deficient diet exhibited some of the same deficits observed in PAM(+/-) mice and displayed alterations in PAM metabolism. Altered copper homeostasis in PAM(+/-) mice suggested a role for PAM in the cell type specific regulation of copper metabolism. Physiological functions sensitive to genetic limitations of PAM that are reversed by supplemental copper and mimicked by copper deficiency may serve as indicators of marginal copper deficiency.
Neuroferritinopathies are dominantly inherited movement disorders associated with nucleotide insertions in the L-ferritin gene that modify the protein's C-terminus. The insertions alter physical and functional properties of the ferritins, causing an imbalance in brain iron homeostasis. We describe the effects produced by the over-expression in HeLa and neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells of two pathogenic L-ferritin variants, 460InsA and 498InsTC. Both peptides co-assembled with endogenous ferritins, producing molecules with reduced iron incorporation capacity, acting in a dominant negative manner. The cells showed an increase in cell death and a decrease in proteasomal activity. The formation of iron-ferritin aggregates became evident after 10 days of variant expression and was not associated with increased cell death. The addition of iron chelators or antioxidants restored proteasomal activity and reduced aggregate formation. The data indicate that cellular iron imbalance and oxidative damage are primary causes of cell death, while aggregate formation is a secondary effect.
It has been extensively reported that diabetes mellitus (DM) patients have a higher risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD), but a mechanistic connection between both pathologies has not been provided so far. Carbohydrate-derived advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs) have been implicated in the chronic complications of DM and have been reported to play an important role in the pathogenesis of AD. The earliest histopathological manifestation of AD is the apparition of extracellular aggregates of the amyloid beta peptide (Abeta). To investigate possible correlations between AGEs and Abeta aggregates with both pathologies, we have performed an immuhistochemical study in human post-mortem samples of AD, AD with diabetes (ADD), diabetic and nondemented controls. ADD brains showed increased number of Abeta dense plaques and receptor for AGEs (RAGE)-positive and Tau-positive cells, higher AGEs levels and major microglial activation, compared to AD brain. Our results indicate that ADD patients present a significant increase of cell damage through a RAGE-dependent mechanism, suggesting that AGEs may promote the generation of an oxidative stress vicious cycle, which can explain the severe progression of patients with both pathologies.
Glutamate-induced excitotoxicity has been suggested to influence pathogenesis in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Vesicular glutamate transporters (VGLUTs) are responsible for transport of glutamate into synaptic vesicles. Nerve terminals that envelop motor neurons in the spinal cord contain VGLUT2 and are likely responsible for most glutamate release on motor neurons. The role of VGLUT2 in ALS and its potential role to influence motor neuron survival have not previously been studied. Here, in a mouse model of ALS, we show that genetic reduction of VGLUT2 protein levels rescues motor neurons in the lumbar spinal cord and in the brainstem as well as neuromuscular junctions in tibialis anterior. Although the number of remaining motor neurons increased, neither disease onset nor life span was affected. We also show that the motor neuron subpopulation-specific markers calcitonin/calcitonin-related polypeptide alpha (Calca) and estrogen related receptor beta (ERRbeta) respond in a similar way to reduced VGLUT2 as the whole motor neuron population suggesting that the rescued motor neurons are not of a particular motor unit type. Taken together, this suggests that reduced levels of VGLUT2 decrease motor neuron degeneration but do not prevent loss of motor neuron function in the SOD1(G93A) mouse model for ALS.
A considerable literature has shown deficits in memory resulting from the administration of protein synthesis inhibitors; however, most of the past literature in this field has focused on acquisition of new memory using aversively-motivated tasks. The effect of protein synthesis inhibition on appetitive learning and memory as well as extinction is less clear. The present study employed an appetitive odor discrimination paradigm to examine the effects of acute cycloheximide administration (1mg/kg) on reconsolidation and extinction. Male, Long-Evans adult rats were trained to discriminate between two odors (i.e., cocoa and cinnamon) and then received extinction trials following an intraperitoneal injection of cycloheximide or vehicle. Twenty-four hours later, rats were tested via one non-reinforced test trial. Results showed amnesia for extinction as well as original training (i.e., correct odor choice) in cycloheximide-injected rats in this appetitive task, while vehicle-injected controls showed good memory for extinction. These data add to a growing literature showing the importance of protein synthesis inhibition for extinction and reconsolidation in appetitive learning and memory.
Behavioral effects of neurotoxic lesions of the hippocampus, medial prefrontal (prelimbic, infralimbic and anterior cingulate) cortex or dorsal striatum were assessed using a DRL-10s schedule in mice. Post-operative acquisition data indicate that mice with hippocampal, but not prefrontal or striatal lesions received fewer reinforcements during daily 30-min sessions, and were less efficient in the timing of their responses. Additional analysis of inter-response-time (IRT) distributions revealed that the responses of hippocampal-lesioned mice exhibited undistinguishable responses for short IRTs (up to 9s). In addition, prefrontal-lesioned mice demonstrated a degradation of performance with further testing, and a flattened IRT distribution at late test phase, while striatal-lesioned mice behaved similarly to sham-lesioned mice. These results are interpreted in terms of known functions of the hippocampus in behavioral inhibition, and of the prefrontal cortex in executive control/decision making (and time production).
A growing body of literature suggests that structures along the midline of the prefrontal cortex (mPFC), including Brodmann's area 32 (prelimbic cortex) and area 24 (anterior cingulate cortex) in the rabbit play a role in retrieval of learned information. The present studies compared the effects of post-training lesions produced either immediately or 1-week following learning, to either prelimbic (area 32) or anterior cingulate (area 24) cortex on trace eyeblink (EB) conditioning. Further, because recent evidence suggests that the mPFC may play an even greater role in learning and memory when emotional arousal is low, these studies compared the effects of lesions in groups conditioned with either a relatively low-arousal corneal airpuff, or a more aversive periorbital eyeshock unconditioned stimulus (US). A total of six groups were tested, which received selective ibotenic acid or &quot;sham&quot; control lesions to either area 32 or 24, immediately or 1-week following asymptotic learning, and conditioned with an eyeshock US or an airpuff US. Results showed that the greatest lesion deficits were found when conditioning with the less aversive airpuff US. Further, lesions produced to area 32 one-week, but not immediately following learning, caused significant deficits in performance, while lesions produced to area 24 immediately, but not 1-week following learning, caused significant deficits in performance. These findings add to the body of evidence which shows that area 32 of the mPFC regulates retrieval, but not acquisition or storage of information, while area 24 mediates a less specific reacquisition process, but not permanent storage or retrieval of information during relearning of memories abolished by mPFC damage. These findings were, however, specific to those experiments in which the relatively non-aversive airpuff was the US.
Exposure to acute, inescapable stress produces a facilitation of subsequent classical eyeblink conditioning in male rats. The same stress exposure produces a profound deficit in classical eyeblink conditioning in females. Activation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDAr) is necessary for the effect of stress on learning in males while the contribution of NMDAr activation to the deficit in learning after stress is unknown. Here, we tested the influence of d-cycloserine (DCS), a positive modulator of the NMDAr, in stressed or unstressed male and female rats. Groups of males and females were exposed to an acute stressful event. One day later, they began training with four sessions of trace eyeblink conditioning. Each day before training, they were injected with DCS (15mg/kg) or saline. Females treated with DCS during training responded similarly to those that were untreated. However, those that were stressed and the next day treated with the drug during training did not express the typical learning deficit, i.e. they learned to time the CR very well. Because the drug was administered well after the stressor, these data indicate that DCS reversed the negative effects of stress on learning in females. In males, the effect of DCS was subtle, resulting in higher asymptotic responding, and enhanced retention in a drug-free retention test. Thus, as shown previously, training in the presence of an NMDA receptor agonist enhances associative learning and memory retention. In addition, it can reverse learning deficits that have already been induced.
Previous reports suggested that brain-derived proinflammatory cytokines are involved in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy (HE) and brain edema in acute liver failure (ALF). To further address this issue, expression of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) mRNAs were measured in the brains of mice with acute liver failure resulting from exposure to azoxymethane. In addition, time to severe encephalopathy (coma) was assessed in mice lacking genes coding for interferon-gamma, the tumor necrosis factor receptor-1 or the interleukin-1 type 1 receptor. Interleukin-1beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma expression were quantified using RT-PCR. Significant increases in interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha mRNA were observed in the frontal cortex of azoxymethane-treated wild-type mice at coma stages of encephalopathy. Interferon-gamma, however, could not be detected in the brains of these animals. Onset of severe encephalopathy (coma) and brain edema in ALF mice were significantly delayed in interleukin-1 type 1 receptor or tumor necrosis factor receptor-1 knockout mice. Deletion of the interferon-gamma gene, on the other hand, had no significative effect on the neurological status or brain water content of acute liver failure mice. These results demonstrate that toxic liver injury resulting from exposure to azoxymethane is associated with selective induction of proinflammatory cytokines in the brain and that deletion of tumor necrosis factor receptor-1 or interlukin-1 type 1 receptor delays the onset of coma and brain edema in this model of acute liver failure. These findings further support a role for selective brain-derived cytokines in the pathogenesis of the cerebral complications in acute liver failure and suggest that anti-inflammatory strategies could be beneficial in their prevention.
In the previous reports, we showed that caspase-4, which has high homology to caspase-12, plays an important role in the neural cell death via the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. In addition, we elucidated the involvement of the familial Alzheimer's disease (AD)-linked presenilin-1 (PS1) mutation and beta-amyloid induced-apoptotic signaling in human neural cells in the activation (cleavage) of caspase-4. These results suggest the involvement of caspase-4 in the cell death observed in AD. To elucidate the mechanism of the cleavage of caspase-4 under ER stress, we used EGTA, a Ca(2+) chelator, because the cleavage caspase-12 has reported to be regulated by the calpain. As the results, EGTA inhibited the cleavage of caspase-4 in a concentration-dependent manner. In addition, inhibitors of calpain, which are activated by the Ca(2+), also inhibited the cleavage of caspase-4. Furthermore, EGTA and caplain inhibitors rescued the neural cell death under the ER stress. These results suggest that the disturbance of Ca(2+) homeostasis induced by ER stress should cause the activation of caspase-4 resulting in the neural cell death.
A large body of evidence suggests the importance of inflammation and oxidative or nitrosative stress in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Inflammatory stimuli upregulate transcription of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), which can lead to the production of nitric oxide and other reactive nitrogen species. We previously found that genetic deletion of iNOS in mice overexpressing the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin-1 (PS1) reduced mortality, nitrosative stress, amyloid plaque burden, microgliosis, astrocytosis, and peri-plaque tau phosphorylation. We therefore examined the effects of N6-(1-iminoethyl)-L-lysine (L-NIL), a pharmacological iNOS inhibitor, or d-NIL, its enantiomeric control, in a transgenic mouse model of amyloid deposition. Tg19959 mice carry human APP with two mutations and develop amyloid plaques and memory impairment starting at 3-4 months of age. Mice were given L-NIL or D-NIL in the drinking water from 1 month of age and assessed behaviorally and histopathologically at 8 months of age. We found that L-NIL administration reduced disinhibition in the elevated plus maze, improved spatial memory performance in the Morris water maze, and decreased cortical amyloid deposition as well as microglial activation in 8-month-old Tg19959 mice. These findings are consistent with previous reports demonstrating that iNOS inhibition ameliorates AD pathogenesis.
The psychotomimetic effect of NMDA antagonists such as phencyclidine (PCP) in humans spurred the hypoglutamatergic theory of schizophrenia. This theory is supported by animal studies demonstrating schizophrenia-like behavioral and molecular changes following PCP administration to adult or neonatal animals. However, schizophrenia is believed to develop in part due to neurodevelopmental dysfunction during adolescence. Therefore, the effects of PCP in juvenile animals may better reflect the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Here, we compare the effect of PCP (5mg/kg/day for 5 days) on activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc) and parvalbumin mRNA expression in juvenile and adult rats. Arc is a marker for excitatory neurotransmission. Parvalbumin is a marker for GABAergic neurotransmission, known to be reduced in postmortem brains of schizophrenics. PCP reduced parvalbumin mRNA expression in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), ventrolateral orbitofrontal cortex (VLO) and shell of the nucleus accumbens (ACCshell) in both juvenile and adult rats. Contrarily, PCP produced opposite effects on Arc mRNA expression in the mPFC, VLO and ACCshell, leading to decreased expression in juvenile and increased expression in adult rats. The differential effect of PCP in juvenile and adult rats may be caused by the immature functional state of the prefrontal cortex in juvenile rats. These results demonstrate differences between the effects of PCP in juvenile and adult rats. The decrease in Arc mRNA in juvenile rats corresponds best with the proposed &quot;hypofrontality&quot; in schizophrenia, suggesting the merits of using PCP in juvenile animals as a model for schizophrenia, as this would relate better to the typical onset and clinical features of schizophrenia.
Promethazine (PMZ), an FDA-approved antihistaminergic drug, was identified as a potentially neuroprotective compound in a NINDS screening program. It was shown to protect against ischemia in mice, to delay disease onset in a mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and to inhibit Ca(2+)-induced mitochondrial permeability transition in rat liver mitochondria. We investigated whether PMZ could protect against the neurotoxic effects induced by 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), an inhibitor of the succinate dehydrogenase, used to model Huntington's disease (HD) in rats. Lewis rats receiving chronic subcutaneous infusion of 3-NP were treated with PMZ. The findings indicate that chronic PMZ treatment significantly reduced 3-NP-induced striatal lesion volume, loss of GABAergic neurons and number of apoptotic cells in the striatum. PMZ showed a strong neuroprotective effect against 3-NP toxicity in vivo.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is a neuropeptide that falls into the broad spectrum of having neurotransmitter/neurohormonal/neuromodulator activities. The design and synthesis of low molecular weight non-peptide antagonists for the CRF receptors is a very important area of research as they can be employed in the treatment of a wide variety of disorders. To investigate the ligand-receptor binding mode and design novel CRF1 antagonists, both quantitative and qualitative 3D-QSAR analysis have been performed on a data set of CRF(1) antagonists by using HypoGen and HipHopRefine programs of Catalyst software. The training set of HypoGen study included twenty-five structurally diverse CRF(1) antagonists with Ki values ranging from 0.5 nM to 10 microM. The common feature-based 3D-QSAR study used eight highly potent CRF(1) antagonists and four poor antagonistic ligands to generate 3D-pharmacophore models with excluded volumes. The obtained 3D-pharmacophore models from each study served as queries for virtual screening with a 'focused compound library' for novel CRF(1) antagonist development. Pharmacophore models obtained for antagonist binding are useful for CRF related chemical biology and drug design. Strategies and methods employed in this paper are simple and practical for medicinal chemists in drug R&amp;D.
Orexin-expressing neurons are present in hypothalamic nuclei and send projections toward mesolimbic regions such as the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key brain region implicated in the processing of the motivational significance of reinforcers. Recent evidence found that activation of the orexin system can lead to a state of hyperarousal that may facilitate drug craving or contribute to vulnerability to drug relapse. This study aimed at assessing the effects of the orexin-1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 [1-(2-methylbenzoxazol-6-yl)-3-[1,5]naphthyridin-4-yl-urea hydrochloride] on amphetamine-induced dopamine (DA) release in the shell subregion of the NAc by means of in vivo microdialysis in freely moving rats. Since behavioral sensitization is thought to play a role in the maintenance of compulsive drug use, we also tested the effect of SB-334867 on the expression of sensitization to the locomotor activating effects of amphetamine. Acute administration of SB-334867 (30 mg/kg SC) significantly reduced the acute effects of amphetamine (1 mg/kg IP) on extracellular DA levels in the NAc shell. The expression of amphetamine sensitization was also significantly reduced by acute SB-334867 treatment. Altogether our findings show that selective orexin-1 antagonism both reduces the acute effects of amphetamine on DA outflow in the NAc shell and decreases the expression of locomotor sensitization to the repeated, intermittent administration of amphetamine.
Acute tryptophan depletion is extensively used to investigate the implication of serotonin in the onset of depressive disorders. In rats, it lowers peripheral tryptophan and decreases central serotonin concentrations. We aimed to establish the rat model of acute tryptophan depletion in the mouse for potential application as serotonin challenge tool in genetic mouse models of depression. Pharmacokinetic and behavioural effects of a tryptophan-free diet were examined in Swiss and C57BL/6 mice. Peripheral amino acids were measured and central tryptophan and serotonin concentrations were compared with anxiety and depression-like behaviour in the elevated zero-maze, forced swimming test or tail suspension test. While acute tryptophan depletion resulted in a 74% reduction of the plasma ratio tryptophan to the sum of other large neutral amino acids in Swiss mice 1h after administration (2x10 ml/kg, 30 min interval), there was only a 40% reduction in C57BL/6 mice. The latter did not show anxiety in the elevated zero-maze or increased immobility in the forced swimming test or tail suspension test. A higher dose (2x20 ml/kg) with a longer interval (60 min) reduced the ratio with 68% in C57BL/6 mice, lowered hippocampal serotonin turnover and had no functional effect when tested in the elevated zero-maze and forced swimming test. These findings have important implications for the use of acute tryptophan depletion in general and in particular for its application in mice. Although in healthy mice no clear central serotonin or functional effects were observed, further research is indicated using mice with pre-existing serotonin dysfunction, as they might be more vulnerable to acute tryptophan depletion.
Experimental results indicate a mutual interaction between cannabinoidergic and GABAergic systems; however, the interaction between these systems on corticosterone release has not been fully investigated. In this study, we treated male mice with either cannabinoid compounds alone or in combination with diazepam. Blood samples were collected at 60 min post-injection. The serum corticosterone (CORT) level was measured using ELISA technique. Acute treatment of mice by cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55212-2 (2.5 mg/kg; i.p.) resulted in a significant reduction of CORT, while treatment with either endocannabinoid reuptake inhibitor AM404 or endocannabinoid degradation enzyme inhibitor URB597 increased CORT compared to control group. Co-administration of AM404 or URB597 with cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist AM251 blocked the effect of these compounds on CORT. Treatment of mice with different doses of diazepam alone did not alter CORT compared to control group. However, co-administration of diazepam and either AM404 or WIN55212-2 significantly reduced CORT compared to the respective group treated with cannabinoid compound alone. Co-administration of ineffective dose of URB597 and ineffective dose of diazepam increased CORT level compared to groups treated with each compound alone. In conclusion, our findings suggest that the endogenous cannabinoid system is active as a modulator of CORT in mice and diazepam can alter the effect of cannabinoid system in the modulation of neuroendocrine functions.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers play an important role in the differential diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its postulated precursor stage mild cognitive impairment (MCI). While CSF tau protein, phospho-tau protein and beta-amyloid have become part of the diagnostic process in clinical routine, the importance of several other biomarkers remains quite unclear. Among these, amino acids and metabolic compounds have been studied in clinical conditions mostly other than AD and, to our knowledge, never in MCI. In patients with AD (n = 14) and MCI (n = 13) we now determined CSF levels of 36 different amino acids and metabolic compounds by high-performance liquid chromatography. We found that 8 out of 36 amino acids (urea, threonine, glutamate, citrulline, alpha-aminobutyric acid, ornithine, ammonia and arginine) were significantly elevated in the CSF of patients with AD compared to those with MCI. As most of these amino acids and metabolic compounds are functionally important for brain-specific metabolic processes, neurotransmitter pathways or compensatory mechanisms, our findings might reflect these changes occurring within the brain of patients with MCI and those who developed manifest AD.
The development of a drug or combination of drugs to slow or stop the progression of Parkinson's disease is the most important goal in this disease area. An understanding of the complex etiology and pathogenesis of the disorder is essential in this process. However, the current pathways to disease pathogenesis identified from the genetic causes of Parkinson's disease offer optimism in the sense that they appear to converge and interconnect rather than diverge. Problems include the limited applicability of current models and the ability to test drugs at the right dose in clinical trials with suitable end points. Trials conducted so far have provided some indication of a positive effect, although the mechanism underlying this is not yet known.


Mutations in several causative genes have been linked to monogenic forms of Alzheimer's disease (AD) or Parkinson's disease (PD). To look for possible common pathogenic mechanisms underlying age-related neurodegeneration in AD and PD, we employed genetic approaches to investigate systematically the roles of these gene products (e.g. presenilins (PS) for AD; Parkin, DJ-1, PINK1 and LRRK2 for PD) in the mouse brain, especially in neural circuits that are particularly vulnerable in AD or PD. Our series of genetic studies revealed that PS play cell type-specific roles in the developing brain with the most prominent function in the maintenance of neural progenitor cells. In the adult cerebral cortex, where the pathogenesis of AD occurs, loss of PS results in progressive memory impairment and age-related neurodegeneration. Specifically, PS are involved in the regulation of long-term potentiation and NMDA receptor functions. Interestingly, our further genetic dissection in the hippocampal Schaeffer collateral pathway highlighted the importance of presynaptic PS in the activity-dependent regulation of glutamate release and long-term potentiation induction via modulation of calcium release from intracellular stores. Intriguingly, our independent genetic analysis of Parkin, DJ-1, PINK1 and LRRK2 showed a common defect in activity-dependent dopamine release caused by PD-linked mutations in these genes. Together, our genetic studies suggest that presynaptic dysfunction might be a converging early pathogenic event before neurodegeneration in AD and PD.
Sporadic forms of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases are the most frequent forms of their kind. Together with Huntington's disease, they belong to the so called 'conformational diseases' as they share a common feature in the accumulation of insoluble protein deposits. In this review, we focus on the significance of the ubiquitin-proteasome system in conformational diseases and the possible consequences due to the accumulation of aberrant proteins. In all forms of Alzheimer's and Huntington's diseases, but not in Parkinson's disease, we have shown the presence of misframed proteins such as misframed ubiquitin (UBB(+1)) of which we have determined the functional relevance in vitro and in vivo.Misframed proteins are the result of the inaccurate transcription of monotonic sequences in the genome and their subsequent translation. This process has been called 'molecular misreading'. In the present review, we will discuss the present state of the art with regard to UBB(+1) and amyloid precursor protein APP(+1).
Background/Aims: Complex intrinsic optical changes (light scattering) are readily observed in the neurointermediate lobe of the mouse pituitary gland following electrical stimulation of the infundibular stalk. Our laboratory has previously identified three distinct phases within the light scattering signal: two rapid responses to action potential stimulation and a long duration recovery. The rapid light scattering signals, restricted to the neurohypophysial portion (posterior pituitary) of the neurointermediate lobe, consist of an E-wave and an S-wave that reflect excitation and secretion, respectively. The E-wave has the approximate shape of the action potential and includes voltage- and current-related components and is independent of Ca(2+) entry. The S-wave is related to Ca(2+) entry and exocytosis. The slow recovery phase of the light scattering signal, which we designated the R-wave, is less well characterized. Methods: Using high temporal resolution light scattering measurements, we monitored intrinsic optical changes in the neurointermediate lobe of the mouse pituitary gland. Pharmacological interventions during the measurements were employed. Results: The data presented here provide optical and pharmacological evidence suggesting that the R-wave, which comprises signals from the posterior pituitary as well as from the pars intermedia, mirrors volume changes in pars intermedia cells following a train of stimuli applied to the infundibular stalk. These volume changes were blocked by the GABA-receptor antagonists bicuculline and picrotoxin, and were mimicked by direct application of GABA in the absence of electrical stimulation. Conclusions: These results emphasize the importance of central GABAergic projections into the neurointermediate lobe, and the potential role of GABA in effecting hormone release from the pars intermedia.



Velusetrag (TD-5108) is a potent, selective high intrinsic activity serotonin 5-HT(4) receptor agonist. We assessed effects of Velusetrag on gastrointestinal transit and compared its pharmacokinetics in healthy volunteers (HV) and chronic constipation (CC) patients. Sixty HV were randomly assigned, double-blind to placebo, 5, 15, 30 or 50 mg Velusetrag (single and 6-day dosing). Primary endpoints were colonic transit (geometric centre at 24 h, GC24) and ascending colon emptying (ACE) T(1/2) after first dose. Secondary endpoints included gastric emptying (GE) T(1/2) and colonic filling at 6 h (CF6). Single dose Velusetrag significantly accelerated GC24, ACE T(1/2), and CF6; 30 and 50 mg Velusetrag accelerated all three endpoints. With multiple doses, Velusetrag 30 mg accelerated GC24, and overall accelerated GE T(1/2) at 15-50 mg. Pharmacokinetics studies showed dose proportionality in health, and no significant differences between health and chronic constipation with a 15 mg oral dose of Velusetrag. Stimulation of bowel function after15 mg Velusetrag was similar in CC and controls. There were no serious adverse events; notable adverse events were the predictable gastrointestinal effects such as diarrhoea or altered bowel movements. Velusetrag significantly accelerated intestinal and colonic transit after single dosing and accelerated gastric emptying after multiple dosing. Further studies of its potential as a gastrointestinal and colonic prokinetic are warranted.
Our aim was to understand the information from differential two-sugar excretion (2-SE) in measuring intestinal permeability. In a crossover study in 12 healthy volunteers, we compared urinary excretion ratios of lactulose (L) to mannitol [(M) LMR] after ingestion in liquid formulation (LF) or in delayed-release, methacrylate-coated capsules (CAP). Both formulations were radiolabelled. Urine was collected every 2 h from 0 to 8 h, and from 8 to 24 h. Two hours after LF, gastric residual was 15.9 +/- 6.2% (SEM), and the percentage in colon was 49.6 +/- 7.8%; in 11/12 participants, liquid had entered colon within 2 h. Average CAP arrival time in colon was 5.16 +/- 0.46 h (mode 6 h). After LF, mannitol was extensively absorbed in the first 8 h; lactulose absorption was low throughout the 24 h. After the LF, the LMR (geometric mean, 95% CI per h) in the 0-2 h urine was [0.08 (0.05, 0.11)], which was lower than in 8-24 h urine [0.32 (0.16, 0.46); P &lt; 0.05]. Urine LMRs at 8-24 h were similar after LF or CAP. We concluded that, after LF, sugar excretion in 0-2 h urine may reflect both SI and colon permeability. Colonic permeability is reflected by urine sugar excretion between 6 and 24 h. CAP delivery reduces mannitol excreted at 0-6 h, compared with LF. The 0-5 or 6 h 2-SE urine likely reflects both SI and colon permeability; the higher LMR in the 8-24 h urine relative to 0-2 h urine should be interpreted with caution and does not mean that colon is more permeable than SI.
The relative contribution of dominant and non-dominant language networks to recovery from aphasia is a matter of debate. We assessed with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to what extent the left and right hemispheres are associated with recovery from aphasia after stroke. fMRI with three language tasks was performed in 13 aphasic stroke patients and in 13 healthy subjects. Severity of aphasia was examined within 2 months after stroke and after at least 1 year. Recovery of naming ability and scores on the Token Test were correlated with data from fMRI in the chronic phase. A breath-hold paradigm was used to investigate hemodynamic responsiveness. Overall language performance in the chronic phase correlated with higher relative activation of left compared to right perisylvian areas. Recovery of naming ability was positively correlated with activation in the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) for semantic decision and verb generation. Recovery on the Token Test was positively correlated with activation in both left and right IFG during semantic decision and verb generation. Hemodynamic response to the breath-hold task was similar in patients and controls. Our study suggests that in the chronic stage after stroke left IFG activity is associated with improvement of picture naming and sentence comprehension, whereas activity in the right IFG may reflect up-regulation of non-linguistic cognitive processing. Altered hemodynamic responsiveness seems an unlikely confounder in the interpretations of fMRI results.
The 'learning and performance' conundrum has for a long time puzzled the field of cognitive neuroscience. Deciphering the genuine functional neuroanatomy of motor sequence learning, among that of other skills, has thereby been hampered. The main caveat is that changes in neural activity that inherently accompany task practice may not only reflect the learning process per se, but also the basic motor implementation of improved performance. Previous research has attempted to control for a performance confound in brain activity by adopting methodologies that prevent changes in performance. However, blocking the expression of performance is likely to distort the very nature of the motor sequence learning process, and may thus represent a major confound in itself. In the present study, we postulated that both learning-dependent plasticity mechanisms and learning-independent implementation processes are nested within the relationship that exists between performance and brain activity. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to map brain responses in healthy volunteers while they either (a) learned a novel sequence, (b) produced a highly automatized sequence or (c) executed non-sequential movements matched for speed frequency. In order to dissociate between qualitatively distinct, but intertwined, relationships between performance and neural activity, our analyses focused on correlations between variations in performance and brain activity, and how this relationship differs or shares commonalities between conditions. Results revealed that activity in the putamen and contralateral lobule VI of the cerebellum most strongly correlated with performance during learning per se, suggesting their key role in this process. By contrast, activity in a parallel cerebellar network, as well as in motor and premotor cortical areas, was modulated by performance during learning and during one or both control condition(s), suggesting the primary contribution of these areas in motor implementation, either as a function or not of the sequential content of movements. Our findings thus highlight the multifaceted nature of the link between performance and brain activity, and suggest that different components of the striato-cortical and cerebello-cortical motor loops play distinct, but complementary, roles during early motor sequence learning.
Due to its unique sensitivity to tissue microstructure, diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has found many applications in clinical and fundamental science. With few exceptions, a more precise correspondence between physiological or biophysical properties and the obtained diffusion parameters remain uncertain due to lack of specificity. In this work, we address this problem by comparing diffusion parameters of a recently introduced model for water diffusion in brain matter to light microscopy and quantitative electron microscopy. Specifically, we compare diffusion model predictions of neurite density in rats to optical myelin staining intensity and stereological estimation of neurite volume fraction using electron microscopy. We find that the diffusion model describes data better and that its parameters show stronger correlation with optical and electron microscopy, and thus reflect myelinated neurite density better than the more frequently used diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and cumulant expansion methods. Furthermore, the estimated neurite orientations capture dendritic architecture more faithfully than DTI diffusion ellipsoids.
Rescuing the ischemic penumbra from infarction is the mainstay of acute stroke therapy. However, the rescued penumbra may be affected by selective neuronal loss (SNL) and microglial activation (MA), which may hinder functional recovery and hence represent potential new therapeutic targets. Imaging them in vivo is currently attracting considerable interest, but relevant rat models are needed to underpin methods development and validation. Although striatal SNL/MA is well described following proximal MCA occlusion (MCAo), neocortical SNL/MA is still poorly characterized, yet has greater clinical relevance. This study aimed to assess the distribution and intensity of neocortical SNL and MA in a distal clip MCAo model known to cause severe neocortical ischemia. Spontaneously hypertensive rats were subjected to 45 min distal MCAo with ipsilateral common carotid artery occlusion. At day 14, post mortem SNL and MA were mapped using NeuN and OX42 immunohistochemistry, respectively. In a separate group, cerebral blood flow (CBF) was mapped during MCAo using (14)C-iodoantipyrine autoradiography. Values for SNL, MA, and CBF were obtained in the same set of anatomical ROIs covering the cortical MCA territory. Extensive SNL and MA affected the non-infarcted MCA cortex, adopting a well-defined regional distribution and a striking patchy/pseudo-columnar pattern. Regional intensities of SNL and MA were strongly inter-correlated, and also strikingly related to occlusion CBF, showing sharp rises for CBF &lt;40%, i.e. the penumbra threshold. This rat model may be useful in providing in vitro reference for studies aiming to validate novel imaging tracers of SNL and MA in vivo.
The brain is characterized by an extremely rich blood supply, regulated by changes in blood vessel diameter and blood flow, depending on metabolic demands. The blood-brain barrier (BBB)-a functional and structural barrier separating the intravascular and neuropil compartments-characterizes the brain's vascular bed and is essential for normal brain functions. Disruptions to the regional cerebral blood supply, to blood drainage and to BBB properties have been described in most common neurological disorders, but there is a lack of quantitative methods for assessing blood flow dynamics and BBB permeability in small blood vessels under both physiological and pathological conditions. Here, we present a quantitative image analysis approach that allows the characterization of relative changes in the regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and BBB properties in small surface cortical vessels. In experiments conducted using the open window technique in rats, a fluorescent tracer was injected into the tail vein, and images of the small vessels at the surface of the cortex were taken using a fast CCD camera. Pixel-based image analysis included registration and characterization of the changes in fluorescent intensity, followed by cluster analysis. This analysis enabled the characterization of rCBF in small arterioles and venules and changes in BBB permeability. The method was implemented successfully under experimental conditions, including increased rCBF induced by neural stimulation, bile salt-induced BBB breakdown, and photothrombosis-mediated local ischemia. The new approach may be used to study changes in rCBF, neurovascular coupling and BBB permeability under normal and pathological brain conditions.
Deaf signers have extensive experience using their hands to communicate. Using fMRI, we examined the neural systems engaged during the perception of manual communication in 14 deaf signers and 14 hearing non-signers. Participants passively viewed blocked video clips of pantomimes (e.g., peeling an imaginary banana) and action verbs in American Sign Language (ASL) that were rated as meaningless by non-signers (e.g., TO-DANCE). In contrast to visual fixation, pantomimes strongly activated fronto-parietal regions (the mirror neuron system, MNS) in hearing non-signers, but only bilateral middle temporal regions in deaf signers. When contrasted with ASL verbs, pantomimes selectively engaged inferior and superior parietal regions in hearing non-signers, but right superior temporal cortex in deaf signers. The perception of ASL verbs recruited similar regions as pantomimes for deaf signers, with some evidence of greater involvement of left inferior frontal gyrus for ASL verbs. Functional connectivity analyses with left hemisphere seed voxels (ventral premotor, inferior parietal lobule, fusiform gyrus) revealed robust connectivity with the MNS for the hearing non-signers. Deaf signers exhibited functional connectivity with the right hemisphere that was not observed for the hearing group for the fusiform gyrus seed voxel. We suggest that life-long experience with manual communication, and/or auditory deprivation, may alter regional connectivity and brain activation when viewing pantomimes. We conclude that the lack of activation within the MNS for deaf signers does not support an account of human communication that depends upon automatic sensorimotor resonance between perception and action.
Arterial Spin Labeling (ASL) is a method to measure perfusion using magnetically labeled blood water as an endogenous tracer. Being fully non-invasive, this technique is attractive for longitudinal studies of cerebral blood flow in healthy and diseased individuals, or as a surrogate marker of metabolism. So far, ASL has been restricted mostly to specialist centers due to a generally low SNR of the method and potential issues with user-dependent analysis needed to obtain quantitative measurement of cerebral blood flow (CBF). Here, we evaluated a particular implementation of ASL (called Quantitative STAR labeling of Arterial Regions or QUASAR), a method providing user independent quantification of CBF in a large test-retest study across sites from around the world, dubbed &quot;The QUASAR reproducibility study&quot;. Altogether, 28 sites located in Asia, Europe and North America participated and a total of 284 healthy volunteers were scanned. Minimal operator dependence was assured by using an automatic planning tool and its accuracy and potential usefulness in multi-center trials was evaluated as well. Accurate repositioning between sessions was achieved with the automatic planning tool showing mean displacements of 1.87+/-0.95 mm and rotations of 1.56+/-0.66 degrees . Mean gray matter CBF was 47.4+/-7.5 [ml/100 g/min] with a between-subject standard variation SD(b)=5.5 [ml/100 g/min] and a within-subject standard deviation SD(w)=4.7 [ml/100 g/min]. The corresponding repeatability was 13.0 [ml/100 g/min] and was found to be within the range of previous studies.
Commonality of activation of spontaneously forming and stimulus-induced mental representations is an often made but rarely tested assumption in neuroscience. In a conjunction analysis of two earlier studies, brain electric activity during visual-concrete and abstract thoughts was studied. The conditions were: in study 1, spontaneous stimulus-independent thinking (post-hoc, visual imagery or abstract thought were identified); in study 2, reading of single nouns ranking high or low on a visual imagery scale. In both studies, subjects' tasks were similar: when prompted, they had to recall the last thought (study 1) or the last word (study 2). In both studies, subjects had no instruction to classify or to visually imagine their thoughts, and accordingly were not aware of the studies' aim. Brain electric data were analyzed into functional topographic brain images (using LORETA) of the last microstate before the prompt (study 1) and of the word-type discriminating event-related microstate after word onset (study 2). Conjunction analysis across the two studies yielded commonality of activation of core networks for abstract thought content in left anterior superior regions, and for visual-concrete thought content in right temporal-posterior inferior regions. The results suggest that two different core networks are automatedly activated when abstract or visual-concrete information, respectively, enters working memory, without a subject task or instruction about the two classes of information, and regardless of internal or external origin, and of input modality. These core machineries of working memory thus are invariant to source or modality of input when treating the two types of information.
Real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) affords the opportunity to explore the feasibility of self-regulation of functional brain networks through neurofeedback. We localised emotion networks individually in thirteen participants using fMRI and trained them to upregulate target areas, including the insula and amygdala. Participants achieved a high degree of control of these networks after a brief training period. We observed activation increases during periods of upregulation of emotion networks in the precuneus and medial prefrontal cortex and, with increasing training success, in the ventral striatum. These findings demonstrate the feasibility of fMRI-based neurofeedback of emotion networks and suggest a possible development into a therapeutic tool.
Navigated transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) combined with diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DW-MRI) and tractography allows investigating functional anatomy of the human brain with high precision. Here we demonstrate that working memory (WM) processing of tactile temporal information is facilitated by delivering a single TMS pulse to the middle frontal gyrus (MFG) during memory maintenance. Facilitation was obtained only with a TMS pulse applied to a location of the MFG with anatomical connectivity to the primary somatosensory cortex (S1). TMS improved tactile WM also when distractive tactile stimuli interfered with memory maintenance. Moreover, TMS to the same MFG site attenuated somatosensory evoked responses (SEPs). The results suggest that the TMS-induced memory improvement is explained by increased top-down suppression of interfering sensory processing in S1 via the MFG-S1 link. These results demonstrate an anatomical and functional network that is involved in maintenance of tactile temporal WM.
The measurement of cerebral blood flow (CBF) in functional MRI studies that aim for non-invasive, quantitative and reliable measurements is a challenge. Here, we tested the feasibility of a recently developed, model-free CBF technique to study vascular dynamics upon functional challenges. Multiple inversion time-point signals were measured from arterial and tissue compartments, allowing for the calculation of CBF through a process of deconvolution. Using graded visual stimulation known to produce increasing hemodynamic responses, we recorded significant and graded DeltaCBF and Deltatau(m) (microvascular arrival time change) that were highly comparable to those estimated by a standard 3-parameter fit based on the general kinetic model, though the absolute values had weaker agreement. Estimated arterial blood volumes (excluding substantial arteriolar contribution) did not show significant change with visual stimulation. Bolus arrival times in the microvascular compartment shortened more as compared to the arrival times from the arterial compartment during visual stimulation, suggesting larger involvement of the microvasculature in local neuronal response. While there are limitations, the model-free analysis method has the potential to offer useful vascular information in fMRI studies.
We present an algorithm that provides a partial volume segmentation of a T1-weighted image of the brain into gray matter, white matter and cerebrospinal fluid. The algorithm incorporates a non-uniform partial volume density that takes the curved nature of the cortex into account. The pure gray and white matter intensities are estimated from the image, using scanner noise and cortical partial volume effects. Expected tissue fractions are subsequently computed in each voxel. The algorithm has been tested for reliability, correct estimation of the pure tissue intensities on both real (repeated) MRI data and on simulated (brain) images. Intra-class correlation coefficients (ICCs) were above 0.93 for all volumes of the three tissue types for repeated scans from the same scanner, as well as for scans with different voxel sizes from different scanners with different field strengths. The implementation of our non-uniform partial volume density provided more reliable volumes and tissue fractions, compared to a uniform partial volume density. Applying the algorithm to simulated images showed that the pure tissue intensities were estimated accurately. Variations in cortical thickness did not influence the accuracy of the volume estimates, which is a valuable property when studying (possible) group differences. In conclusion, we have presented a new partial volume segmentation algorithm that allows for comparisons over scanners and voxel sizes.
Newborn rat oligodendrocyte cultures were investigated by scanning near-field optical microscope (SNOM), a versatile new tool able to map cell membranes in 3D and simultaneously obtain images of the cytoplasm. Topography, error, transmission and reflection signals were acquired to describe cell morphology with nanometer-scale resolution. Oligodendrocytes were studied as a model because their extensive membrane processes (typical of their physiological role in myelination) made them particularly suitable to test the sensitivity of the new method. Furthermore, we combined a classical histochemical method with SNOM, to identify specific intracellular proteins at high definition. In particular, with this technique, cytoskeleton elements of oligodendrocytes, such as microtubules, were observed with tubulin antibodies. Images obtained with SNOM were also compared with those from conventional scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and optical microscopy. Our results showed that SNOM allowed to observe cell nanostructures otherwise undetectable all together with other microscopies. In conclusion, SNOM, combined with rapid and non-invasive methods of specimen preparation, appears to be a powerful tool that can offer new possibilities in the field of neuroscience imaging at nano-scale level.
Optical techniques enable portable, non-invasive functional neuroimaging. However, low lateral resolution and poor discrimination between brain hemodynamics and systemic contaminants have hampered the translation of near infrared spectroscopy from research instrument to widespread neuroscience tool. In this paper, we demonstrate that improvements in spatial resolution and signal-to-noise, afforded by recently developed high-density diffuse optical tomography approaches, now permit detailed phase-encoded mapping of the visual cortex's retinotopic organization. Due to its highly organized structure, the visual cortex has long served as a benchmark for judging neuroimaging techniques, including the original development of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and positron emission tomography. Using phase-encoded visual stimuli that create traveling waves of cortical activations, we are able to discriminate the representations of multiple visual angles and eccentricities within an individual hemisphere, reproducing classic fMRI results. High contrast-to-noise and repeatable imaging allow the detection of inter-subject differences. These results represent a significant advancement in the level of detail that can be obtained from non-invasive optical imaging of functional brain responses. In addition, these phase-encoded paradigms and the maps they generate form a standardized model with which to judge new developments in optical algorithms and systems, such as new image reconstruction techniques and registration with anatomic imaging. With these advances in techniques and validation paradigms, optical neuroimaging can be extended into studies of higher-order brain function and of clinical utility with greater performance and confidence.
Despite an increased understanding of the pharmacology and long-term cognitive effects of cannabis in humans, there has been no research to date examining its chronic effects upon reward processing in the brain. Motivational theories regarding long-term drug use posit contrasting predictions with respect to how drug users are likely to process non-drug incentives. The reward deficiency syndrome (RDS) of addiction posits that there are deficits in dopamine (DA) motivational circuitry for non-drug rewards, such that only drugs of abuse are capable of normalizing DA in the ventral striatum (VS). Alternatively, the opponent process theory (OPT) holds that in individuals prone to drug use, there exists some form of mesolimbic hyperactivity, in which there is a bias towards reward-centred behaviour concomitant with impulsivity. The current study examined BOLD responses during reward and loss anticipation and their outcome deliveries in 14 chronic cannabis users and 14 drug-naive controls during a monetary incentive delay (MID) task. Despite no significant behavioural differences between the two groups, cannabis users had significantly more right VS BOLD activity during reward anticipation. Correlation analyses demonstrated that this right VS BOLD response was significantly correlated with life-time use and reported life-time cannabis joints consumed. No correlations between cannabis abstinence and BOLD responses were observed. We also observed a number of group differences following outcome deliveries, most notably hypoactivity in the left insula cortex in response to loss and loss avoidance outcome notifications in the cannabis group. These results may suggest hypersensitivity during instrumental response anticipation for non-drug rewards and a hyposensitivity to loss outcomes in chronic cannabis users; the implications of which are discussed with respect to the potentially sensitizing effects of cannabis for other rewards.
Although abstract and concrete concepts are processed and remembered differently, the underlying nature of those differences remains in dispute. The current study used visual half-field (VF) presentation methods and event-related potential (ERP) measures to examine how the left (LH) and right (RH) cerebral hemispheres process concrete and abstract meanings of polysemous nouns (e.g., &quot;green book,&quot; referring to the concrete, physical object that is a book, versus &quot;engaging book,&quot; referring to the abstract information that a book conveys). With presentation to the right VF, nouns preceded by concrete modifiers were associated with more positivity on the P2 and N400, suggesting that concrete concepts were easier for the LH to process perceptually and semantically. In contrast, with presentation to the left VF (RH), nouns used in a concrete sense elicited a sustained frontal negativity (500-900 ms) that has been previously linked to imagery. The results thus reveal multiple, distinct neural and cognitive sources for concreteness effects and point to a critical role for the RH in linking language input to sensory imagery.
Evidence has been cumulated on the role of microglia cells deregulation and alterations in their interaction patterns with brain neurons, in the pathway towards neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). After the failure of the amyloid hypothesis to explain AD pathogenesis, current hypotheses focus on tau self-polymerization into pathological oligomers and filaments as a major culprit for neurofibrillary degeneration. It is worth pointing out that formation of tau polymers is consistent with the clinical and neuropathological observations, and that tangles are pathognomonic of AD and related tau disorders. In this context, inflammatory processes play a major role in neuronal degeneration. On the basis of studies on microglia and neuronal cultures, together with experiments in animal models, and the clinical evidence, we postulated that a series of endogenous damage signals activate microglia cells, inducing NFkappa-beta with the consequent release of cytokine mediators such as TNF-alpha, IL-6 and IL-1beta. An overexpression of these mediators may trigger signaling cascades in neurons leading to activation of protein kinases gsk3beta, cdk5, abl kinases, along with inactivation of phosphatases such as PP1, with the resulting hyperphosphorylation and self-aggregation of tau protein into neurotoxic oligomeric species.


A 52-year-old woman presented with right rhinorrhea and right otorrhea manifesting as aural fullness for 2 years caused by a choroid plexus papilloma in the right cerebellomedullary cistern. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging revealed a well defined lobulated mass at the foramen of Luschka, which extended towards the right cerebellomedullary cistern with slight dilation of the ventricular systems. The tumor was totally resected via a right lateral suboccipital approach. Histological examination revealed a choroid plexus papilloma. Postoperative course was uneventful, just after the operation rhinorrhea ceased completely, and hearing of the right ear dramatically improved. Choroid plexus papillomas rarely cause cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) rhinorrhea. Total removal of the tumor resulted in the cessation of CSF leaks.
A 24-year-old woman presented with right face pain and blurry vision. Examination revealed right pupil-sparing third nerve palsy and decreased sensation in the second and third divisions of the right trigeminal nerve. MRI demonstrated right cavernous sinus enhancement. Infectious, rheumatologic, and neoplastic evaluation was negative, and the patient was diagnosed with Tolosa-Hunt syndrome. Corticosteroid therapy resulted in resolution of all symptoms. Ten months later, the patient developed left face pain and double vision with a left third nerve palsy on examination. MRI revealed an enhancing left cavernous sinus. High-dose corticosteroid therapy again led to resolution of symptoms. This case demonstrates that Tolosa-Hunt syndrome can rarely recur on the contralateral side. MRI of this presentation has not been previously reported in the literature.

Introduction.Chronic thalamic stimulation has been confirmed as an effective treatment for tremor. The optimal target has been commonly accepted to be situated within the ventral thalamus, but a standard trajectory of the deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrode has not yet been established. Materials and Methods.A 53-year-old man with an 11-year history of essential tremor was treated by DBS of the thalamus. In this patient, we had a chance to compare the effects of different trajectory angles of the DBS electrode on tremor. Results.Intraoperative stimulation with the DBS electrode temporarily inserted at a high angle to the horizontal plane of the anterior commissure-posterior commissure (AC-PC) line to cover only the nucleus ventralis intermedius (Vim) was not effective. In contrast, stimulation with the DBS electrode permanently implanted at a low angle, covering a wide area extending from the nucleus ventralis oralis (Vo) to the Vim, reduced the tremor. Conclusion.We report on the case of a patient who showed different effects on tremor depending on the trajectory angle of the DBS electrode to the AC-PC line. The insertion trajectory of the DBS electrode may be an important factor for the treatment of tremor.
Objective.To clarify the efficacy of subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation in young-onset Parkinson's disease (PD), we compared the effects of STN stimulation on the motor symptoms between young-onset PD (YOPD) and late-onset PD (LOPD). Methods.We analyzed the effects of STN stimulation on motor function and motor fluctuations in 15 patients with YOPD, and 113 patients with LOPD who underwent STN stimulation during the same period. The Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) was evaluated during the on-period and off-period, which are defined as the times at which the motor symptoms are the best and worst during the daily active time with sustaining anti-parkinsonian drugs. The dyskinesia severity rating scale (DSRS) also was employed to assess the severity of peak-dose dyskinesia. We analyzed the changes in levodopa equivalent daily dose (LED), motor fluctuations, DSRS, and UPDRS part 3 score after STN stimulation, and compared the changes in each score between the two groups (YOPD vs. LOPD). Results.The LED was reduced, and the on-off motor fluctuation index, dyskinesia rating scale score (on-period), and UPDRS part 3 score (on- and off-periods) were improved in both the YOPD and LOPD groups. The improvement rates of the UPDRS part 3 scores in both the on- and off-periods in the YOPD group were superior to those in the LOPD group. The results of multivariate logistic regression analysis demonstrated that YOPD itself is the best responder to STN stimulation. Conclusions.STN stimulation can reduce the LED and improve motor fluctuations in patients with YOPD. The effects of STN stimulation on the motor symptoms of YOPD patients are superior to those in LOPD. The present findings suggest that YOPD patients suffering from several problems related to pharmacological therapy are probably good candidates for STN stimulation.
Dynamin 2 (DNM2)-related dominant centronuclear myopathy is usually a mild disorder, but more severe variants have been associated with mutations affecting the pleckstrin homology (PH) domain of the protein, mainly implicated in different forms of Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease (CMT). Whilst DNM2-related CMT may feature non-neurological findings including cataracts, this has not been reported in DNM2-related centronuclear myopathy. We report a girl presenting from birth with hypotonia, respiratory and feeding difficulties. Motor development was delayed and at 9years she lost the ability to walk. She had ptosis, external ophthalmoplegia and bilateral cataracts. Muscle biopsy showed increase in central nuclei with type 1 hypotrophy and fibrosis. DNM2 screening revealed a novel heterozygous substitution (c.1862T&gt;C; p.Leu621Pro) affecting the PH domain of the protein. Her further course was progressive and at 14years she died from respiratory failure. Our findings expand the phenotypical spectrum associated with DNM2 mutations and provide a new clinical indicator for involvement of this gene in patients with centronuclear myopathy.
We report a family with autosomal dominant centronuclear (myotubular) myopathy caused by a novel mutation, p.A618D, in dynamin 2 (DNM2). The 64-year-old mother and 26-year-old daughter had neonatal onset with hypotonia and weak suckling, followed by improvement, then slowly progressive muscle weakness and respiratory restriction. Muscle biopsy showed radial sarcoplasmic strands around the frequent central nuclei. Electrophysiology revealed predominantly myopathic patterns without peripheral nerve involvement. Centronuclear myopathy with neonatal onset caused by a DNM2 mutation in the C-terminal part of the pleckstrin homology domain may have a favorable prognosis and follow a course similar to adult-onset centronuclear myopathy. We advise respiratory follow-up in these patients.
We have examined induction of neuropeptide expression in adrenal medulla after treatment of mice with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a model for septic shock, which activates both immune and stress responses in vivo. Messenger RNAs encoding vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and galanin, both modulators of steroidogenesis in neighboring adrenal cortex, are up-regulated at 24 h (eight-fold for VIP and two-fold for galanin) after LPS injection, and remain elevated for the following 24 h. Up-regulation of VIP and galanin by LPS is abrogated in pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP)-deficient mice, suggesting an interaction between LPS, or LPS-induced cytokines, and PACAP released in adrenal medulla from the splanchnic nerve. Treatment of cultured chromaffin cells with 100 nM PACAP and 10 nM tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), a cytokine whose production is elevated by LPS, results in long-term synergistic up-regulation of VIP and galanin mRNA. PACAP blocks the earlier induction by TNF-alpha of mRNA encoding inhibitor of NF-kappaB alpha (I kappaB alpha), normally a negative autoregulator of TNF-alpha signaling through nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), without affecting the induction of TNF-alpha-induced protein 3 (TNFAIP3), another NF-kappaB-dependent gene induced by TNF-alpha in chromaffin cells. By acting downstream of NF-kappaB to inhibit I kappaB alpha gene induction by TNF-alpha, PACAP may block I kappaB alpha-dependent negative autoregulation of TNF-alpha signaling through NF-kappaB, prolonging TNF-alpha-dependent signaling to neuropeptide-encoding genes in chromaffin cells. This mechanism may also underlie PACAP-dependent neuropeptide gene induction by LPS in vivo.
We have previously demonstrated that centrally administered vasotocin (VT) inhibits social approach toward same-sex conspecifics in male and female goldfish, and that this behavioral effect is dependent upon VT projections to the hindbrain. We now show that there are no sex differences in sensitivity to the behavioral effects of VT, though differences do exist in responsiveness across seasons in both sexes. A central dose of 1 microg, but not 200 ng, inhibited social approach in goldfish in non-reproductive condition, whereas a dose as low as 40 ng inhibited social approach in fish in full reproductive condition. In males and females in full reproductive condition, social approach behavior was facilitated by central administration of 500 ng of a V(1A) specific antagonist. In addition, the behavioral effects of exogenously administered central VT were blocked by central administration of 1 microg of a V(1A) antagonist. These results demonstrate that the propensity to approach a conspecific, a simple behavior underlying many social interactions, is controlled by a V(1A)-like receptor, and that VT's behavioral effects depend on reproductive context. Quantitative real-time PCR showed that the seasonal changes in behavioral responsiveness to VT are associated with changes in the expression of a V(1A)-like receptor in the hindbrain, but not the mid- or forebrain, indicating that the seasonal regulation of social approach behavior likely depends on the local modulation of the expression of this receptor within a primitive peptide circuit in this species.
The widely reported effects of oxytocin (OT) on CNS function has generated considerable interest in the therapeutic potential for targeting this system for a variety of human psychiatric diseases, including anxiety disorders, autism, schizophrenia, and depression. The utility of synthetic OT, as both a research tool and neurotherapeutic, is limited by the physiochemical properties inherent in most neuropeptides, notably its short half-life and poor blood brain barrier penetration. Subsequently, the discovery and development of non-peptide molecules that act as selective agonists of the oxytocin receptor (OTR) has been an important goal of the field. In this study, we report the receptor and behavioral pharmacology of WAY-267464, a first generation small-molecule OTR agonist. WAY-267464 is a high-affinity, potent, and selective (vs. V1a, V2, V1b) agonist of the OTR. In assays measuring both behavioral (four-plate test, elevated zero maze) and autonomic (stress-induced hyperthermia) parameters of the anxiety response, WAY-267464 exhibits an anxiolytic-like profile similar to OT. We have demonstrated that the anxiolytic-like profile of WAY-267464 is mediated through central sites of action. WAY-267464 also significantly reverses disruption in prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex induced by either MK-801 or amphetamine, similar to the antipsychotic-like effects previously reported for OT. Interestingly, in the mouse tail suspension test, WAY-267464 failed to produce changes in immobility that are seen with OT, raising the question of whether the antidepressant-like activity of OT may be working independently of the OTR. A selective OTR antagonist also failed to block the effects of OT on immobility in the TST. The significance of these findings for shaping the clinical development of OTR agonists is discussed.
Our previous studies have demonstrated that morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) can be inhibited by 2 Hz electroacupuncture (EA). This inhibition can be blocked by either the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone (i.p.) or lesion in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), providing evidence that endogenous opioid system in the NAc mediates the effects of EA. Here we report that 1) A single session of 2 Hz EA produced a significant increase of the content of enkephalin in the NAc of morphine-induced CPP rats, and this effect was stronger in three consecutive sessions of EA; 2) Intracerebroventricular injection of the mu-opioid receptor antagonist CTAP or delta-opioid receptor antagonist NTI, but not kappa-opioid receptor antagonist nor-BNI, dose-dependently reversed the inhibitory effects of 2 Hz EA on the expression of morphine-induced CPP; 3) Three consecutive sessions of 2 Hz EA up-regulated the mRNA level of preproenkephalin in the NAc of morphine-induced CPP rats. The results suggest that the inhibitory effects of 2 Hz EA on the expression of the morphine CPP is mediated by mu- and delta-, but not kappa-opioid receptor, possibly via accelerating both the release and synthesis of enkephalin in the NAc. These findings support the possibility of using 2 Hz EA for the treatment of opiate addiction.
Neuropeptides coordinate complex social behaviors important to both basic and applied science. Understanding such phenomena requires supplementing the powerful tools of behavioral neuroscience with less conventional model species and more rigorous evolutionary analyses. We review studies that use comparative methods to examine the roles of vasopressin and oxytocin in mammalian social behavior. We find that oxytocin and vasopressin receptor distributions are remarkably variable within species. Studies of socially monogamous prairie voles reveal that pronounced individual differences in spatial memory structures (retrosplenial cortex and hippocampus) are better predictors of social and sexual fidelity than are areas known to regulate pairbonding directly, a pattern that seems to be mediated by the contributions of the neuropeptides to space use in natural settings. We next examine studies of individual and species differences in cis-regulatory regions of the avpr1a locus. While individual differences in social behaviors are linked to length of a microsatellite at the avpr1a locus, phylogenetic analyses reveal that the presence or absence of a microsatellite does not explain major differences between species. There seems to be no simple relationship between microsatellite length and behavior, but rather microsatellite length may be a marker for more subtle sequence differences between individuals. Lastly, we introduce the singing mouse, Scotinomys teguina, whose neuropeptide receptor distributions and unique natural history make it an exciting new model for mammalian vocalization and social cognition. The findings demonstrate how taxonomic and conceptual diversity provide a broader basis for understanding social behavior and its dysfunction.
Orexin/hypocretin signaling at the orexin 1 receptor (OX(1)R) has recently been implicated in addiction and relapse. We examined the role of the orexin system in cocaine-seeking elicited by a drug-associated context following abstinence or extinction from chronic cocaine self-administration. Male Sprague-Dawley rats self-administered cocaine in 2-h sessions for 10 days, followed by extinction training or extended abstinence in the home cage. The OX(1)R antagonist SB-334867 (SB; 10, 20, or 30 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered prior to re-exposure to the cocaine self-administration environment. We found that pretreatment with SB significantly attenuated cocaine-seeking when rats were placed back into the self-administration environment following either 1 day or 2 weeks of abstinence (no extinction), or following extinction of cocaine-seeking in an alternative environment (distinct from the training environment). These results indicate that orexin signaling at OX(1)R is critical for conditioned cocaine-seeking elicited by a drug-associated context, following either extinction or abstinence.
Oxytocin is a neuropeptide that can reduce neophobia and improve social affiliation. In vitro, oxytocin induces a massive release of GABA from neurons in the lateral division of the central amygdala which results in inhibition of a subpopulation of peripherally projecting neurons in the medial division of the central amygdala (CeM). Common anxiolytics, such as diazepam, act as allosteric modulators of GABA(A) receptors. Because oxytocin and diazepam act on GABAergic transmission, it is possible that oxytocin can potentiate the inhibitory effects of diazepam if both exert their pre, - respectively postsynaptic effects on the same inhibitory circuit in the central amygdala. We found that in CeM neurons in which diazepam increased the inhibitory postsynaptic current (IPSC) decay time, TGOT (a specific oxytocin receptor agonist) increased IPSC frequency. Combined application of diazepam and TGOT resulted in generation of IPSCs with increased frequency, decay times as well as amplitudes. While individual saturating concentrations of TGOT and diazepam each decreased spontaneous spiking frequency of CeM neurons to similar extent, co-application of the two was still able to cause a significantly larger decrease. These findings show that oxytocin and diazepam act on different components of the same GABAergic circuit in the central amygdala and that oxytocin can facilitate diazepam effects when used in combination. This raises the possibility that neuropeptides could be clinically used in combination with currently used anxiolytic treatments to improve their therapeutic efficacy.
The tachykinin endecapeptide substance P (SP) has been demonstrated to exert a functional role in neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Aim of the present study was to evaluate the SP neuroprotective potential against apoptosis induced by the neurotoxic beta-amyloid peptide (A beta) in cultured rat cerebellar granule cells (CGCs). We found that SP protects CGCs against both A beta(25-35)- and A beta(1-42)-induced apoptotic CGCs death as revealed by live/dead cell assay, Hoechst staining and caspase(s)-induced PARP-1 cleavage, through an Akt-dependent mechanism. Since in CGCs the fast inactivating or A-type K(+) current (I(KA)) was potentiated by A beta treatment through up-regulation of Kv4 subunits, we investigated whether I(KA) and the related potassium channel subunits could be involved in the SP anti-apoptotic activity. Patch-clamp experiments showed that the A beta-induced increase of I(KA) current amplitude was reversed by SP treatment. In addition, as revealed by Western blot analysis and immunofluorescence studies, SP prevented the up-regulation of Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 channel subunits expression. These results indicate that SP plays a role in the regulation of voltage-gated potassium channels in A beta-mediated neuronal death and may represent a new approach in the understanding and treatment of AD.
Relaxin-3 (RLX3), a newly identified member of the relaxin peptide family, is distinguished by its enriched expression in GABA projection neurons of the pontine nucleus incertus (NI), which are postulated to participate in forebrain neural circuits involved in behavioural activation and stress responses. In this regard, corticotrophin-releasing factor-1 receptor (CRF(1)) is abundantly expressed by NI neurons; central CRF administration activates c-fos expression in NI; and various stressors have been reported to increase NI neuron activity. In studies to determine whether a specific neurogenic stressor would activate RLX3 expression, we assessed the effect of a repeated forced swim (RFS) on levels of RLX3 mRNA and heteronuclear (hn) RNA in rat NI by in situ hybridization histochemistry of exon- and intron-directed oligonucleotide probes, respectively. Exposure of rats to an RFS (10 min at 23 degrees C, 24 h apart), markedly increased RLX3 mRNA levels in NI at 30-60 min after the second swim, before a gradual return to basal levels over 2-4 h, while RLX3 hnRNA levels were significantly up-regulated at 60-120 min post-RFS, following a transient decrease at 30 min. Systemic treatment of rats with a CRF(1) antagonist, antalarmin (20 mg/kg, i.p.) 30 min prior to the second swim, blunted the stress-induced effects on RLX3 transcripts. Relative levels of RLX3-immunostaining in NI neurons appeared elevated at 3 h post-swim, but not at earlier time points (30-60 min). These results suggest that acute stress-induced CRF secretion can rapidly alter RLX3 gene transcription by activation of CRF(1) present on NI neurons. More generally, these studies support a role for RLX3 neural networks in the normal neural and physiological response to neurogenic stressors in the rat.
The tachykinin NK(3) receptor shows promise as a novel target for antipsychotics, but knowledge of downstream activity following tachykinin NK(3) receptor activation is lacking. To determine the practical utility of senktide-induced tail whips in mice as a tool for determining and characterizing downstream activity following tachykinin NK(3) receptor activation, mice were injected with 0.05 nmol of senktide i.c.v. and the number of tail whip bouts was counted for 20 min. Strain differences were observed, with NMRI mice showing a stronger tail whip response than C57Bl/6J mice. Tachykinin NK(3) receptor specificity was confirmed by the absence of the senktide-induced tail whip response in tachykinin NK(3) receptor knockout mice. Effects of tachykinin receptor pharmacological agents were tested by pretreatment with tachykinin NK(3) receptor antagonists (SB222200, talnetant and osanetant), which attenuated senktide-induced tail whips, and the tachykinin NK(1) receptor antagonist MK869, which had no effect on senktide-induced tail whips. Pharmacological interactions with other neurotransmitter systems were determined by pretreatment with dopamine D(1), D(2), and D(3) receptor antagonists, atypical antipsychotics, serotonin 5HT(1a) receptor antagonists, serotonin 5HT(2a/c) receptor antagonists, benzodiazepine and putative anxiolytics, antidepressants, and an anticholinergic. Senktide-induced tail whips were attenuated by dopamine D(2) receptor antagonists, atypical antipsychotics, serotonin 5HT(2a/c) antagonists, and benzodiazepine anxiolytics, but unaffected by drugs from other classes. Thus, the senktide-induced tail whip response is easily quantifiable, specific to the tachykinin NK(3) receptor, and provides valuable information on the downstream pharmacology of tachykinin NK(3) receptor activation.
The monovalent cation lithium partially exerts its effects by activating neurotrophic and neuroprotective cellular cascades. Here, we discuss the effects of lithium on oxidative stress, programmed cell death (apoptosis), inflammation, glial dysfunction, neurotrophic factor functioning, excitotoxicity, and mitochondrial stability. In particular, we review evidence demonstrating the action of lithium on cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-mediated signal transduction, cAMP response element binding activation, increased expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, the phosphatidylinositide cascade, protein kinase C inhibition, glycogen synthase kinase 3 inhibition, and B-cell lymphoma 2 expression. Notably, we also review data from clinical studies demonstrating neurotrophic effects of lithium. We expect that a better understanding of the clinically relevant pathophysiological targets of lithium will lead to improved treatments for those who suffer from mood as well as neurodegenerative disorders.
Background: Scientific literature considers lithium a key treatment for the acute and long-term management of bipolar disorder (BD). Despite its worldwide clinical use, the effectiveness of lithium has been questioned. The aim of this work is to critically review the available data on randomized controlled trials (RCTs) concerning long-term lithium treatment. Methods: A systematic search for long-term treatment RCTs with at least 6 months of follow-up was performed. Six RCTs enrolling 1,561 bipolar I and II patients of adult and pediatric age, randomizing 534 to lithium, were identified. All studies are controlled trials sponsored by industry, investigating new treatments for BD, with lithium as an active comparator, and therefore not specifically designed to study lithium efficacy or safety. Results: Results from earliest studies suggest a high effectiveness of lithium against both mania and depression, while more recent studies highlight lithium as more effective than placebo in mania and hypomania, without significant evidence in depression. Lithium does not achieve significant differences in efficacy when compared with divalproex; it seems less effective than lamotrigine in preventing depression and less effective than olanzapine in manic and mixed episodes. Conclusions: Despite a number of methodological issues (enriched designs, unbalanced samples, potential inclusion of lithium nonresponders in some studies), lithium appears to have a clear antimanic prophylactic activity and some efficacy in the prevention of depression. Lithium should still have a major role in the long-term treatment of BD.
The objective of the study was to evaluate the effects of metacognitive skills training (MST) and behavioural practice on error self-regulation during a naturalistic task after traumatic brain injury (TBI). A single-case study design was used and three participants (two males, one female) aged 26-43 years with severe TBI were included in the study. In the first study, after a four-session baseline of behavioural practice, two participants received eight MST sessions followed by four maintenance sessions. In the second study, a third participant received 16 sessions of behavioural practice to assess the extent to which error self-regulation improves through long-term task practice and therapist corrections. Participants prepared two different meals with a novel meal introduced later to examine skills generalisation. Behavioural outcomes included error frequency, checking and self-corrections. Data analysis involved a combination of visual analysis and two standard deviation (2-SD) band analysis. In the MST study, the two participants demonstrated a 38% and 76% reduction in error frequency (p &lt; .05), a significant decrease in checks (p &lt; .05), and a significant increase in self-corrections (p &lt; .05) relative to baseline. In the behavioural practice study, the participant demonstrated reduced errors (25%), although this was not statistically significant, and a significant increase in checks (p &lt; .05), but self-corrections did not significantly change (p &gt; .05). This exploratory research suggests that, firstly, by targeting error self-regulation MST can potentially promote independence on complex everyday tasks; and secondly, although behavioural practice alone may facilitate some functional gains, it fails to promote more independent self-regulatory behaviours.
An important aspect of volition is the internal decision whether to act or to withhold an action. We used EEG frequency analysis of sensorimotor rhythms to investigate brain activity when people prepare and then cancel a voluntary action. Participants used a rotating clock-hand to report when they experienced the intention to press a key with their right hand, even on trials where they freely decided to inhibit movement at the last moment. On action trials, we observed the classical pattern of reduced beta-band spectral power prior to movement, followed by beta rebound after movement. On inhibition trials where participants prepared but then cancelled a movement, we found a left frontal increase in spectral power (event-related synchronisation: ERS) peaking 12 ms before the perceived intention to move. This neural correlate of intentional inhibition was significantly different from the activity at the corresponding moment in action trials. The results are discussed in the context of a recent model of voluntary action (WWW model; Brass &amp; Haggard, 2008). Planned actions can be subjected to a final predictive check which either commits actions for execution or suspends and withholds them. The neural mechanism of intentional inhibition may play an important role in self-control.
Mental rotation is a task known to activate the parietal cortical regions. The present study aimed to investigate whether there is differential activation of regions within the parietal lobe and to reveal functional subspecialisation of this region by examining the effects of increasing angle of rotation. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was performed in nine healthy female subjects whilst undertaking a parametric mental rotation task. The task comprised 6 alphanumeric characters presented in their normal or mirror-reversed orientation. Behaviourally, subjects showed increased reaction times with increased angle of rotation, with differential effects between the alphanumeric characters; numbers having greater reaction times than letters. BOLD signal increase was observed bilaterally in the middle occipital gyrus and medial frontal gyrus, in the right superior and inferior parietal lobules and in the left superior temporal gyrus. Parametric increases in activation with increasing angle of rotation were observed bilaterally in the superior and inferior parietal lobules and in the right medial frontal gyrus, with greater parametric effects in the superior parietal lobules compared to the inferior parietal lobules. Our findings suggest subspecialisation of the posterior parietal lobules during mental rotation, with differential responses in the superior and inferior regions.
Adult observers generally find it difficult to recognize and distinguish faces that belong to categories with which they have limited visual experience. One aspect of this phenomenon is commonly known as the &quot;Other-Race Effect&quot; (ORE) since this behavior is typically highly evident in the perception of faces belonging to ethnic or racial groups other than that of the observer. This acquired disadvantage in face recognition likely results from highly specific &quot;tuning&quot; of the underlying representation of facial appearance, leading to efficient processing of commonly seen faces at the expense of poor generalization to other face categories. In the current study we used electrophysiological (event-related potentials or ERPs) and behavioral measures of performance to characterize face processing in racial categories defined by dissociable shape and pigmentation information. Our goal was to examine the specificity of the representation of facial appearance in more detail by investigating how race-specific face shape and pigmentation separately modulated neural responses previously implicated in face processing, the N170 and N250 components. We found that both components were modulated by skin color, independent of face shape, but that only the N250 exhibited sensitivity to face shape. Moreover, the N250 appears to only respond differentially to the skin color of upright faces, showing a lack of color sensitivity for inverted faces.
The Williams syndrome (WS) cognitive profile is characterized by relative strengths in face processing, an attentional bias towards social stimuli, and an increased affinity and emotional reactivity to music. An audio-visual integration study examined the effects of auditory emotion on visual (social/non-social) affect identification in individuals with WS and typically developing (TD) and developmentally delayed (DD) controls. The social bias in WS was hypothesized to manifest as an increased ability to process social than non-social affect, and a reduced auditory influence in social contexts. The control groups were hypothesized to perform similarly across conditions. The results showed that while participants with WS exhibited indistinguishable performance to TD controls in identifying facial affect, DD controls performed significantly more poorly. The TD group outperformed the WS and DD groups in identifying non-social affect. The results suggest that emotionally evocative music facilitated the ability of participants with WS to process emotional facial expressions. These surprisingly strong facial-processing skills in individuals with WS may have been due to the effects of combining social and music stimuli and to a reduction in anxiety due to the music in particular. Several directions for future research are suggested.
Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is a functional brain imaging technique for monitoring brain activation in a natural setting using near-infrared light, and hence, is considered to have some advantages for studies of brain function during social interactions such as face-to-face conversation compared with functional magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography, which have methodological constraints for studying brain mechanisms underlying social interactions: subjects have to lie down on a bed in a small gantry during examination. The purpose of this study was to validate the possible use of NIRS as a functional brain imaging technique for studying social interactions in a natural setting; therefore, we investigated frontal and temporal lobe activation during face-to-face conversation in healthy subjects in the sitting position. The frontal and superior temporal regions were activated during face-to-face conversation, with higher activity in the speaking segments than in the mute segments during conversation particularly in frontopolar NIRS channels. The magnitude of frontopolar activity negatively correlated with the cooperativeness score of the subjects assessed using the temperament and character inventory. These results demonstrated the successful monitoring of brain function during realistic social interactions using NIRS and interindividual differences in frontopolar activity during conversation in relation to the cooperativeness of an individual.
Response inhibition is a component of executive functions, which can be divided into distinct subprocesses by means of event-related potentials (ERPs). These subprocesses are (pre)-motor inhibition and inhibition monitoring, which are probably reflected by the Nogo-N2 and Nogo-P3, respectively. Here we ask, if these subprocesses may depend on distinct basal ganglia subsystems. We examined response inhibition processes in an extended sample of young and elderly subjects, patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington' disease (HD). This combination of groups also allow us to study whether, and to what degree, pathological basal ganglia changes and healthy aging have similar and/or different effects on these processes. We show that subprocesses of response inhibition are differentially modulated by distinct basal ganglia circuits. Processes related to (pre)-motor inhibition appear to be modulated by the nigrostriatal system, and are sensitive to aging and age-related basal ganglia diseases (i.e. PD). Parkinson's disease induces additive effects of aging and pathology. In contrast, inhibition monitoring is most likely modulated by the mesocortico-limbic dopamine system. These processes are equally affected in healthy aging and both basal ganglia diseases (i.e. PD, HD).
Arithmetic skills are generally claimed to be preserved in semantic dementia (SD), suggesting functional independence of arithmetic knowledge from other aspects of semantic memory. However, in a recent case series analysis we showed that arithmetic performance in SD is not entirely normal. The finding of a direct association between severity of patients' semantic disorder and arithmetic impairment pointed to a closer relationship between semantic memory and arithmetic knowledge than previously acknowledged. The present study aimed to determine whether arithmetic performance in SD is subject to the same influences as has been found in other semantic domains, namely an autobiographical effect. SD patients were assessed on their ability to perform arithmetic in personally relevant compared to non-personal contexts. Patients who were regular, current followers of the television game show Countdown performed better on a simplified version of the show's number game compared to a conventional written calculation task, whereas patients with no experience of Countdown demonstrated the opposite pattern. SD patients showed better knowledge of multiplication table 'facts' when these were embedded in a situation relevant to their daily lives compared to a non-personal arithmetic task. They also performed better on a written calculation task when problems were presented as a monetary transaction compared to a standard arithmetic problem. A reference group of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) showed the reverse pattern. The findings provide convincing evidence that autobiographical relevance influences SD patients' arithmetic performance. Moreover, they challenge current views on conceptual number knowledge as a unitary, abstract competence.
Voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping (VLSM) techniques have been important in elucidating structure-function relationships in the human brain. Rorden, Karnath, and Bonilha (2007) introduced the non-parametric Brunner-Munzel rank order test as an alternative to parametric tests often used in VLSM analyses. However, the Brunner-Munzel statistic produces inflated z scores when used at any voxel where there are less than 10 subjects in either the lesion or no lesion groups. Unfortunately, a number of recently published VLSM studies using this statistic include relatively small patient populations, such that most (if not all) examined voxels do not meet the necessary criteria. We demonstrate the effects of inappropriate usage of the Brunner-Munzel test using a dataset included with MRIcron, and find large Type I errors. To correct for this we suggest that researchers use a permutation derived correction as implemented in current versions of MRIcron when using the Brunner-Munzel test.
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA), the most common of the genetically inherited ataxias, is characterised by ocular motor deficits largely reflecting disruption to brainstem-cerebellar circuitry. These deficits include fixation instability, saccadic dysmetria, disrupted pursuit, and vestibular abnormalities. Whether higher order or cognitive control processes involved the generation of more volitional eye movements are similarly impaired, has not been explored previously. This research examined antisaccade and memory-guided saccade characteristics in 13 individuals with genetically confirmed FRDA, and contrasted performance with neurologically healthy individuals. We demonstrate, for the first time, a broad range of deficits in FDRA consistent with disruption to higher order processes involved in the control of saccadic eye movement. Significant differences between FDRA and control participants were revealed across all movement parameters (latency, gain, velocity, position error), and across all saccade types, including alterations to velocity profiles. FDRA participants also generated significantly more erroneous responses to non-target stimuli in both saccade paradigms. Finally, a number of correlations between ocular motor and clinical measures were revealed including those between contrast acuity and saccadic latency (all saccade types), disease duration and measures of response inhibition (errors and relative latencies for antisaccades), and neurological scores and error latencies, arguably a reflection of difficulty resolving response conflict. These results suggest a role for the cerebellum in higher order cognitive control processes, and further support the proposal that eye movement markers, which can be measured with accuracy and reliability, may be a useful biomarker in FDRA.
People with Huntington's disease (HD) commonly report difficulty carrying out two everyday tasks simultaneously. This difficulty, confirmed by experimental studies, is typically ascribed to impaired attention. Yet, dual-task problems extend to relatively simple tasks, such as walking and talking, which would ordinarily be considered relatively undemanding of attention. The study tests the hypothesis that in HD there is a deficit in the ability to automatise task performance. Thus, simple tasks, which place minimal demands on conscious attention in healthy controls, make disproportionately high demands on attentional resources in HD. We examined the performance of HD patients and healthy controls on a simple, paced finger-tapping task, comparing single-task (tapping with one hand) and dual-task (tapping with both hands simultaneously) performance. For HD patients, bimanual tapping increased the task demands: there was greater variability in tapping rate and patients reported that the 'dual-task' condition was more difficult. The opposite pattern was observed for controls. Variability in tapping performance in HD was highly correlated with performance on cognitive tasks that have the potential to be automatized but not with performance on tasks that are more demanding of executive control, suggesting a common substrate for cognitive and motor automaticity. The data support the hypothesis that HD patients are impaired in their capacity for automisation, and suggest that impaired automaticity may be one source of attentional deficits in HD. The findings have implications for the interpretation of 'high level' deficits in attention and executive function previously reported in HD.
It has been proposed that episodic long-term memory (LTM) declines in normal aging and may be affected by disruption of white matter networks. This was explored in 104 healthy adults aged 50-90 years in the GENIE study; white matter integrity was assessed using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in large regions of interest, with additional measures of white matter hyperintensities (WMH), normalized brain and hippocampal volumes. LTM was compared with executive function, working memory and information processing speed. LTM correlated significantly with DTI, WMH and whole brain volume, but not with hippocampal volume. Using linear regression, only DTI measures explained the variance (approximately 19%) in LTM; mediational analyses explored the extent to which other cognitive functions mediate the association between DTI changes and memory. The results suggest that reduced LTM performance in normal aging is related to reduced integrity of a distributed network dependent on white matter pathways supporting episodic memory.
Apraxia is usually associated with damage to the dominant parietal cortex, but several other areas, including the left dorsolateral frontal cortex and subcortical structures, have also been implicated, suggesting that the praxis system is mediated by an anatomically distributed network. The right premotor frontal cortex is commonly assumed to play a secondary role in this system. We describe a patient who developed left upper limb apraxia after a right premotor ischaemic stroke. The neuropsychological examination ruled out impairment of other cognitive functions, including those subserved by the parietal-temporal cortex. Neither pyramidal signs nor interhemispheric transfer syndrome were detected, suggesting that the right primary motor cortex and corpus callosum were intact and that apraxia arose from a right prefrontal cortical lesion. An additional feature was the patient's inability to copy a gesture or posture demonstrated by the examiner (visual input) or to execute a verbal command (auditory input), even though he could copy the position in which the examiner placed his right arm while blindfolded (proprioceptive input). The disturbance was interpreted as &quot;dissociation apraxia&quot;. To our knowledge this type of dissociation has never been reported in a patient with focal brain damage. The case of this patient highlights the importance of the right premotor cortex in the praxis system, and lends support to the hypothesis of a modular and multimodal organization of brain functioning.
Declines in neural processing speed have been proposed to underlie a broad range of cognitive deficits in older adults. However, the impact of delays in neural processing during stimulus encoding on working memory (WM) performance is not well understood. In the current study, we assessed the influence of aging on the relationship between neural measures of processing speed and WM performance during a selective delayed-recognition task for color and motion stimuli, while electroencephalography (EEG) was recorded in young and older adults. A latency delay was observed for the selection negativity (SN) and alpha band activity (measures of attentional allocation) in older adults during WM encoding of both motion and color stimuli, with the latency and magnitude of the SN predicting subsequent recognition performance. Furthermore, an age-related delay in the N1 latency occurred specifically during the encoding of color stimuli. These results suggest that the presence of both generalized feature-based and feature-specific deficits in the speed of selective encoding of information contributes to WM performance deficits in older adults.
The authors examined the relationship between neuropsychological performance and MRI of the orbital frontal cortex (OFC) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) of the cingulum bundle (CB) within groups of patients with schizophrenia and healthy subjects. The authors analyzed data from subjects, who had participated in prior MRI, DTI, and neuropsychological studies (Nakamura et al., 2008; Nestor et al., 2008). In comparison to healthy subjects, patients showed the expected reductions across CB fractional anisotropy (white matter) and OFC gray matter volume as well as lower neuropsychological scores. In addition, in comparison to healthy subjects, patients showed a very different pattern of functional-anatomical correlates. For patients, CB white matter but not OFC gray matter correlated with various aspects of intelligence, including general abilities and working memory. For controls, OFC gray matter but not CB white matter correlated with scores on tests of intelligence and decision making. These results point to the potentially important role of CB white matter in the neuropsychological disturbance in schizophrenia.







Previous research has identified the nucleus accumbens (NAcb) as an important brain region underlying inter-individual variation in impulsive behavior. Such variation has been linked to decreased dopamine (DA) D2/3 receptor availability in the ventral striatum of rats exhibiting spontaneously high levels of impulsivity on a 5-choice serial reaction time (5-CSRT) test of sustained visual attention. This study investigated the involvement of DA D2/3 receptors in the NAcb core (NAcbC) and the NAcb shell (NAcbS) in impulsivity. We investigated the effects of a DA D2/3 receptor antagonist (nafadotride) and a DA D2/3 partial agonist (aripiprazole) infused directly into either the NAcbC or NAcbS of rats selected for high (HI) and low (LI) impulsivity on the 5-CSRT task. Nafadotride increased significantly the level of impulsivity when infused into the NAcbS, but decreased impulsivity when infused into the NAcbC of HI rats. By contrast, intra-NAcb microinfusions of aripiprazole did not affect impulsivity. Systemic administration of nafadotride had no effect on impulsive behavior but increased the number of omissions and correct response latencies, whereas systemic injections of aripiprazole decreased impulsive and perseverative behavior, and increased the number of omissions and correct response latencies. These findings indicate an opponent modulation of impulsive behavior by DA D2/3 receptors in the NAcbS and NAcbC. Such divergent roles may have relevance for the etiology and treatment of clinical disorders of behavioral control, including attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and drug addiction.
Given both the high prevalence of anxiety disorders in women and the fact that little is known about the mechanisms of gender differences in anxiety, our primary aim in this study was to investigate the neurobiological mechanisms underlying sex differences in social anxiety-like behavior in rats. Through the use of zif268 antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (zif ASO), we induced a temporary downregulation of zif268 expression in the medial prefrontal cortex of male and female rats and found that zif268 ASO male rats show more social anxiety-like behaviors when compared with control male rats in the social interaction test. In fact, zif268 ASO males displayed social anxiety-like behaviors, which were similar to control females, thus downregulation of zif268 expression in the mPFC of male rats eliminated sex differences previously found in the social anxiety-like behavior tests. Interestingly, zif268 ASO in female rats had no effect on their social interaction. Our novel findings have led us to ascertain that sexually dimorphic zif268 expression in the mPFC is a key molecular factor in mediating sex-specific anxiety-like behavior in the social interaction test.
An integrative database, Stanley Neuropathology Consortium Integrative Database (SNCID) (http://sncid.stanleyresearch.org), has been developed to facilitate psychiatric research. The SNCID includes 1749 neuropathological markers measured in 12 different brain regions in 60 human subjects (15 each schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression, and unaffected controls). Genome-wide expression microarray datasets from three independent studies are also included. Statistical analysis tools such as variance analysis, correlation analysis, and functional annotation tools have been integrated into the database. In this report, we first replicate an earlier correlation analysis between genome-wide expression profiles and an abnormal cytoarchitectural marker using the SNCID. We then show the potential for identifying neuropathological markers that are abnormal in subjects with psychiatric disorders. We also identify biological pathways associated with several abnormal neuropathological markers, including those in the dopamine, glutamate, Reelin, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic systems. Data exploration using the SNCID may provide insights into the biological pathways associated with the neurotransmitter abnormalities identified in subjects with major psychiatric disorders.
Rats selectively bred based on high or low reactivity to a novel environment were characterized for other behavioral and neurobiological traits thought to be relevant to addiction vulnerability. The two lines of animals, which differ in their propensity to self-administer drugs, also differ in the value they attribute to cues associated with reward, in impulsive behavior, and in their dopamine system. When a cue was paired with food or cocaine reward bred high-responder rats (bHRs) learned to approach the cue, whereas bred low-responder rats (bLRs) learned to approach the location of food delivery, suggesting that bHRs but not bLRs attributed incentive value to the cue. Moreover, although less impulsive on a measure of 'impulsive choice', bHRs were more impulsive on a measure of 'impulsive action'- ie, they had difficulty withholding an action to receive a reward, indicative of 'behavioral disinhibition'. The dopamine agonist quinpirole caused greater psychomotor activation in bHRs relative to bLRs, suggesting dopamine supersensitivity. Indeed, relative to bLRs, bHRs also had a greater proportion of dopamine D2(high) receptors, the functionally active form of the receptor, in the striatum, in spite of lower D2 mRNA levels and comparable total D2 binding. In addition, fast-scan cyclic voltammetry revealed that bHRs had more spontaneous dopamine 'release events' in the core of the nucleus accumbens than bLRs. Thus, bHRs exhibit parallels to 'externalizing disorders' in humans, representing a genetic animal model of addiction vulnerability associated with a propensity to attribute incentive salience to reward-related cues, behavioral disinhibition, and increased dopaminergic 'tone.'
Central serotonergic (5-HT) activity has long been implicated in the regulation of impulsive aggressive behavior. This study was performed to use a highly selective agent for 5-HT (d-Fenfluramine, d-FEN) in a large group of human subjects to further explore this relationship dimensionally and categorically. One hundred and fifty healthy subjects (100 with personality disorder, PD and 50 healthy volunteer controls, HV) underwent d-FEN challenge studies. Residual peak delta prolactin (DeltaPRL[d-FEN]-R; ie, after the removal of potentially confounding variables) was used as the primary 5-HT response variable. Composite measures of aggression and impulsivity were used as dimensional measures, and history of suicidal/self-injurious behavior as well as the presence of intermittent explosive disorder (IED) were used as categorical variables. DeltaPRL[d-FEN]-R responses correlated inversely with composite aggression, but not composite impulsivity, in all subjects and in males and females examined separately. The correlation with composite aggression was strongest in male PD subjects. DeltaPRL[d-FEN]-R values were reduced in PD subjects with a history of suicidal behavior but not, self-injurious behavior. DeltaPRL[d-FEN]-R values were also reduced in patients meeting Research Criteria for IED. Physiologic responses to 5-HT stimulation are reduced as a function of aggression (but not generalized impulsivity) in human subjects. The same is true for personality disordered subjects with a history of suicidal, but not self-injurious, behavior and for subjects with a diagnosis of IED by research criteria. These data have particular relevance to the notion of impulsive aggression and the biological validity of IED.
Aberrant activation of the immune system has been implicated in an increasingly large number of disease states and can influence cognition, mood, and memory. There is a long and controversial history of reports of immune activation associated with schizophrenia. In this study, we measured mitogen-stimulated cytokine levels serially in 100 medication-stabilized continuously ill subjects with schizophrenia and compared and contrasted them with mitogen-stimulated cytokine levels from 51 normal volunteers. The subjects with schizophrenia had consistently higher mitogen-stimulated IL-2 levels and lower IL-6 levels than the normal volunteers. These effects could not be explained by medications, smoking, or other clinical variables. We conclude that continuously symptomatic medication-stabilized subjects with schizophrenia have a mitogen-stimulated cytokine expression pattern that is suggestive of ongoing immune activation.
Schizophrenia is a disorder in which disturbances in the integration of emotion with cognition plays a central role and probably involves several different regions, including the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the rostral anterior cingulate cortex, the hippocampal formation, and basolateral amygdala (BLA). Recent brain imaging studies have reported changes in volume, whereas postmortem studies point to dysfunction of the GABA and glutamate systems in these regions. Microarray-based profiles indicate that complex changes in the expression of genes associated with synaptic transmission and ion channels are involved in GABA cell dysfunction in schizophrenics. Molecular abnormalities vary considerably on the basis of sector and layer, suggesting that the unique connectivity of intrinsic and extrinsic afferents may critical in regulating the activity of genes in specific subpopulations of GABA cells. Projections of the BLA may be of particular importance to the induction of abnormal circuitry in schizophrenia, as their ingrowth during late adolescence and early adulthood may help to 'trigger' the onset of illness in susceptible individuals. A preponderance of cellular and molecular abnormalities has been found in the stratum oriens (SO) of sectors CA3/2 in which BLA afferents provide a robust innervation. These observations have lead to the development of a rodent model for the study of abnormal circuitry in this disorder. For example, single-cell recordings in hippocampal slices exposed to increased activation from the BLA have shown decreases in GABA currents in pyramidal neurons in SO of CA3/2, but not CA1, and support the validity of this model. Overall, the postmortem studies of neural circuitry abnormalities in schizophrenia are beginning to implicate specific cellular, molecular, and electrophysiological mechanism in specific subtypes of cortical neurons defined by their afferent and efferent connectivity within key corticolimbic regions.
The ability to alter emotional responses as circumstances change is a critical component of normal adaptive behavior and is often impaired in psychological disorders. In this review, we discuss four emotional regulation techniques that have been investigated as means to control fear: extinction, cognitive regulation, active coping, and reconsolidation. For each technique, we review what is known about the underlying neural systems, combining findings from animal models and human neuroscience. The current evidence suggests that these different means of regulating fear depend on both overlapping and distinct components of a fear circuitry.
Data will be reviewed using the acoustic startle reflex in rats and humans based on our attempts to operationally define fear vs anxiety. Although the symptoms of fear and anxiety are very similar, they also differ. Fear is a generally adaptive state of apprehension that begins rapidly and dissipates quickly once the threat is removed (phasic fear). Anxiety is elicited by less specific and less predictable threats, or by those that are physically or psychologically more distant. Thus, anxiety is a more long-lasting state of apprehension (sustained fear). Rodent studies suggest that phasic fear is mediated by the amygdala, which sends outputs to the hypothalamus and brainstem to produce symptoms of fear. Sustained fear is also mediated by the amygdala, which releases corticotropin-releasing factor, a stress hormone that acts on receptors in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), a part of the so-called 'extended amygdala.' The amygdala and BNST send outputs to the same hypothalamic and brainstem targets to produce phasic and sustained fear, respectively. In rats, sustained fear is more sensitive to anxiolytic drugs. In humans, symptoms of clinical anxiety are better detected in sustained rather than phasic fear paradigms.
Although the preceding chapters discuss much of the new knowledge of neurocircuitry of neuropsychiatric diseases, and an invasive approach to treatment, this chapter describes and reviews the noninvasive methods of testing circuit-based theories and treating neuropsychiatric diseases that do not involve implanting electrodes into the brain or on its surface. These techniques are transcranial magnetic stimulation, vagus nerve stimulation, and transcranial direct current stimulation. Two of these approaches have FDA approval as therapies.
Many of the brain's reward systems converge on the nucleus accumbens, a region richly innervated by excitatory, inhibitory, and modulatory afferents representing the circuitry necessary for selecting adaptive motivated behaviors. The ventral subiculum of the hippocampus provides contextual and spatial information, the basolateral amygdala conveys affective influence, and the prefrontal cortex provides an integrative impact on goal-directed behavior. The balance of these afferents is under the modulatory influence of dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area. This midbrain region receives its own complex mix of excitatory and inhibitory inputs, some of which have only recently been identified. Such afferent regulation positions the dopamine system to bias goal-directed behavior based on internal drives and environmental contingencies. Conditions that result in reward promote phasic dopamine release, which serves to maintain ongoing behavior by selectively potentiating ventral subicular drive to the accumbens. Behaviors that fail to produce an expected reward decrease dopamine transmission, which favors prefrontal cortical-driven switching to new behavioral strategies. As such, the limbic reward system is designed to optimize action plans for maximizing reward outcomes. This system can be commandeered by drugs of abuse or psychiatric disorders, resulting in inappropriate behaviors that sustain failed reward strategies. A fuller appreciation of the circuitry interconnecting the nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area should serve to advance discovery of new treatment options for these conditions.
In our constantly changing environment, we are frequently faced with altered circumstances requiring generation and monitoring of appropriate strategies, when novel plans of action must be formulated and conducted. The abilities that we call upon to respond accurately to novel situations are referred to as 'executive functions', and are frequently engaged to deal with conditions in which routine activation of behavior would not be sufficient for optimal performance. Here, we summarize important findings that may help us understand executive functions and their underlying neuronal correlates. We focus particularly on observations from imaging technology, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, position emission tomography, diffusion tensor imaging, and transcranial magnetic stimulation, which in the past few years have provided the bulk of information on the neurobiological underpinnings of the executive functions. Further, emphasis will be placed on recent insights from Parkinson's disease (PD), in which the underlying dopaminergic abnormalities have provided new exciting information into basic molecular mechanisms of executive dysfunction, and which may help to disentangle the cortical/subcortical networks involved in executive processes.
The syndrome called depression may represent the common final pathway at which different aetiopathogenic processes converge. One such aetiopathogenic process is innate immune system activation. Some depressed patients have increased levels of inflammatory cytokines and other immunologic abnormalities. It is not known whether immune system activation contributes to the pathogenesis of depressive symptoms. Supporting this possibility is the observation that in both rodents and humans, exogenous immune stimuli such as endotoxin can produce symptoms that resemble depression. A new approach to depression research would be to use immune stimuli to elicit depressive symptoms in humans. Here we review each of the symptoms elicited in humans by endotoxin administration, and compare this model to two other immune depression paradigms: interferon-alpha treatment and typhoid vaccine administration, to assess to what degree endotoxin administration represents a valid model of immune depression. We also review corresponding behavioral changes in rodents and the potential molecular pathways through which immune system activation produces each symptom.
Accumulating evidence indicates that the storage and processing capabilities of the human working memory system co-vary with individuals' performance on a wide range of cognitive tasks. The ubiquitous nature of this relationship suggests that variations in these processes may underlie individual differences in intelligence. Here we briefly review relevant data which supports this view. Furthermore, we emphasize an emerging literature describing a trait in genetically heterogeneous mice that is quantitatively and qualitatively analogous to general intelligence (g) in humans. As in humans, this animal analog of g co-varies with individual differences in both storage and processing components of the working memory system. Absent some of the complications associated with work with human subjects (e.g., phonological processing), this work with laboratory animals has provided an opportunity to assess otherwise intractable hypotheses. For instance, it has been possible in animals to manipulate individual aspects of the working memory system (e.g., selective attention), and to observe causal relationships between these variables and the expression of general cognitive abilities. This work with laboratory animals has coincided with human imaging studies (briefly reviewed here) which suggest that common brain structures (e.g., prefrontal cortex) mediate the efficacy of selective attention and the performance of individuals on intelligence test batteries. In total, this evidence suggests an evolutionary conservation of the processes that co-vary with and/or regulate &quot;intelligence&quot; and provides a framework for promoting these abilities in both young and old animals.
Pleiotrophin (PTN) is highly expressed in the nervous system during embryogenesis; however, little is known about its functional role in neural development. By using whole mount in situ hybridization, we observed that the expression pattern of PTN was similar to that of Wnt3a; PTN mRNA was abundant in the nervous tissue along the dorsal midline and in the forelimb and hindlimb buds of embryonic mice (E8.5-E12.5). Treatment with recombinant PTN (100ng/ml) induced phosphorylation of glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta), nuclear localization of beta-catenin and up-regulation of growth-associated protein (GAP)-43 mRNA in cultured embryonic mouse (E14.5) neurons. Furthermore, recombinant PTN enhanced neurite outgrowth from cortical explants embedded in Matrigel. These PTN-induced biochemical changes and neurite outgrowth were attenuated by the co-treatment with anti-anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) antibodies, but not with anti-protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP)zeta antibodies. These findings imply that ALK is involved in the PTN signaling on neural development.
TRPA1 is a calcium-permeable, nonselective cation channel expressed in the dorsal root ganglion and trigeminal ganglia nociceptive neurons. It is activated by the pungent compounds in mustard oil (AITC, allyl isothiocyanate), cinnamon (cinnamaldehyde), garlic (allicin), and is believed to mediate the inflammatory actions of environmental irritants and proalgesic agents. Thiosulfinate (allicin) and isothiocyanate (AITC) compounds contain reactive electrophilic chemical groups that react with cysteine residues within the TRPA1 channel N terminus, leading to channel activation. Ajoene also contains reactive electrophilic chemical groups likely to target TRPA1 channel. Here, we have used voltage-clamp recordings to show that TRPA1-responses are enhanced by ajoene application in a Xenopus oocyte expression system. Though ajoene alone did not activate TRPA1, subsequent application of ajoene enhanced the AITC-, allicin- and depolarization-induced responses of TRPA1. Moreover, when increasing concentrations of ajoene were applied along with constant concentrations of allicin or AITC, stronger responses were elicited. These findings suggest that ajoene is a novel TRPA1 channel enhancer, operating in a channel-opening-dependent manner.






Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) is an acute demyelinating infection of the CNS that is characterized by multifocal white matter involvement often following an infection and vaccination. A 16-year-old child receiving risperidone for 7 years for the treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder was hospitalized with complaints of double-vision during the past month and weakness on his right side, ataxia, and vomiting over the past 3 days. The child was diagnosed with ADEM after clinical, laboratory, and cranial MRI was conducted. Following an initial 3-day therapy with pulsed methylprednisolone, the child showed obvious clinical improvement. The treatment was continued with prednisolone and significant improvement was achieved. Enterovirus was detected in the results of the viral examination of the CSF. This child was found to be an interesting case having been diagnosed with ADEM associated with enteroviral infection, because of the rarity of few case reports in the literature.
We report a case of hypothalamic hamartoma in an adult female who presented with gelastic seizures, generalized convulsions, and ictal aggressive psychotic behavior. Anticonvulsant treatment was ineffective in controlling the epileptic seizures. Surgical excision after accurate imaging diagnosis 3 decades after the onset of symptoms markedly ameliorated her condition. Delayed and erroneous diagnosis had unnecessarily prolonged the suffering of our patient.
Aggregatibacter aphrophilus was previously known as Haemophilus aphrophilus and is a rare cause of disease in humans. A recent reclassification of these organisms has placed them in the new genus of Aggregatibacter species. The organism seems to be a normal component of oral flora and has been reported to cause endocarditis, sinusitis, pneumonia, empyema, soft tissue abscess, meningitis, vertebral discitis, and septic arthritis. Brain abscess due to Aggregatibacter is rare. We report a case of cerebral abscess due to Aggregatibacter aphrophilus and discuss the characteristics of this organism.
A 39-year-old female had been subject to headache, and intermittent seizures for 9 years and decreasing memory for one year, without obvious neurological signs. An MRI revealed a 2x2 cm contrast-enhanced lesion in the frontal lobe, with a cyst and peritumoral edema, which was not attached to the dura or falx. Preoperatively, it was diagnosed as a glioma. Total surgical removal of the lesion led to a favorable result. Post-operative histo-pathological examination showed characteristic Antoni A and B areas consistent with intraparenchymal schwannoma. Intraparenchymal schwannoma is an extremely uncommon lesion, which is seen mostly in young adults and children. The main clinical symptoms include rising-intracranial-pressure-related manifestations and associated seizure disorders. The possible developmental origins, histological, imaging features, and protocols of treatment for this entity are discussed.






Lacosamide (LCM) is a newer antiepileptic drug with a dual mode of action. It selectively enhances slow inactivation of voltage-gated sodium channels without affecting fast inactivation, and modulates collapsing response mediator protein 2 (CRMP-2). It has a high oral bioavailability of approximately 100%. It has shown potent and broad neuroprotective effects in vitro and in vivo animal models making it a potential candidate for long term treatment of epilepsy. In addition to this, it has demonstrated analgesic activity in various animal models. Apart from this, LCM has demonstrated potent effects in animal models for a variety of CNS disorders like schizophrenia and stress induced anxiety. Various safety pharmacology and toxicology studies have shown that LCM is well tolerated. Clinical trials have also suggested that LCM is a safe, effective, and well tolerated adjunctive treatment for reduction of seizure frequency in patients with highly refractory, partial seizures. Other potential indications of LCM are being investigated.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impairments in communication and reciprocal social interaction, coupled with repetitive behavior, which typically manifests by 3 years of age. Multiple genes and early exposure to environmental factors are the etiological determinants of the disorder that contribute to variable expression of autism-related traits. Increasing evidence indicates that altered fatty acid metabolic pathways may affect proper function of the nervous system and contribute to autism spectrum disorders. This review provides an overview of the reported abnormalities associated with the synthesis of membrane fatty acids in individuals with autism as a result of insufficient dietary supplementation or genetic defects. Moreover, we discuss deficits associated with the release of arachidonic acid from the membrane phospholipids and its subsequent metabolism to bioactive prostaglandins via phospholipase A(2)-cyclooxygenase biosynthetic pathway in autism spectrum disorders. The existing evidence for the involvement of lipid neurobiology in the pathology of neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism is compelling and opens up an interesting possibility for further investigation of this metabolic pathway.
The extracellular factors that are responsible for inducing myelination in the central nervous system (CNS) remain elusive. We investigated whether brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is implicated, by first confirming that BDNF heterozygous mice exhibit delayed CNS myelination during early postnatal development. We next established that the influence of BDNF upon myelination was direct, by acting on oligodendrocytes, using co-cultures of dorsal root ganglia neurons and oligodendrocyte precursor cells. Importantly, we found that BDNF retains its capacity to enhance myelination of neurons or by oligodendrocytes derived from p75NTR knockout mice, indicating the expression of p75NTR is not necessary for BDNF-induced myelination. Conversely, we observed that phosphorylation of TrkB correlated with myelination, and that inhibiting TrkB signalling also inhibited the promyelinating effect of BDNF, suggesting that BDNF enhances CNS myelination via activating oligodendroglial TrkB-FL receptors. Together, our data reveal a previously unknown role for BDNF in potentiating the normal development of CNS myelination, via signalling within oligodendrocytes.
Reactive astrogliosis constitutes a major obstacle to neuronal regeneration and is characterized by rearrangement and upregulation of expression of cytoskeletal proteins, increased proliferation and hypertrophy. Many approaches have been attempted to mimic astrogliosis by inducing reactive astrocytes in vitro. Such research is usually performed using astrocytes derived from Mus musculus or Rattus norvegicus, and results compared between species on the assumption that these cells behave equivalently. Therefore, we compared reactivity between mouse and rat astrocytes in scratch wound assays to gain further insight into how comparable these cell culture models are. Proliferation and migration, as well as expression of the cytoskeletal proteins glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin, were compared by immunocytochemistry and immunoblot. Further, we investigated migration of proliferating cells by 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine staining. Substantial differences in GFAP expression and proliferation between astrocytes of the two species were found: rat astrocytes showed different cytoskeletal morphology, expressed significantly more GFAP and vimentin of different molecular size and were more proliferative than comparable mouse astrocytes. Our results suggest that rat and mouse astrocytes may respond differently to various reactivity-triggering stimuli, which needs to be considered when general conclusions are drawn regarding effects of factors regulating astrocyte reactivity.
During the last decade, autism spectrum disorders (ASD) have become the center of attention where several branches of modern biology unexpectedly meet, such as neural development, molecular biology, epigenetics, neurophysiology and psychiatry. This review will focus on the molecular mechanism by which calcium-dependent gene expression regulates brain development and how ASD may occur if this process is compromised. Specifically, the studies of the calcium-dependent transcriptional repressor MeCP2 gave us much insight about how abnormal development may lead to ASD. Most recently, studies about Ube3a, a critical component of the ubiquitination system enzyme, shed light on how neural activity regulates synapse function through the protein degradation pathway. Taken together, these studies suggest that ASD may be caused by the incapability of neurons to generate adaptive responses via regulating gene expression upon incoming activity.



The circle of Willis is one of the most famous eponymous structures in human anatomy. There is no doubt Thomas Willis at Oxford accurately demonstrated the anastomotic arterial supply at the base of the brain. However, this eponymous name does not reveal the history of the discovery of the ramification, nor does it give credit to the anatomists and artists who have contributed to the understanding of this clinically important structure. This article first traces the story of the discovery of the circle of Willis. Willis' contribution and innovative approaches are then discussed. Finally, despite Willis' not being the first to describe the circle, we explain why he still deserves to retain the eponymous title. The earlier description of the vasculature at the base of the brain was fixated on a nonexistent structure, at least not in humans, named the rete mirabile. The more scientific study of the blood supply to the brain took place during the Renaissance period, which culminated in the work of Thomas Willis in the 17th century.
In this study, we investigated the effects of biapigenin, a biflavone present in the extracts of Hypericum perforatum, in rat brain mitochondrial bioenergetics and calcium homeostasis. We found that biapigenin significantly decreased adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-induced membrane depolarization and increased repolarization (by 68 and 37%, respectively). These effects were blocked by atractyloside and bongkrekic acid, but not oligomycin. In the presence of biapigenin, an ADP-stimulated state 3 respiration was still noticeable, which did not happen in the presence of adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT) inhibitors. Taking in consideration the relevance of the ANT in the modulation of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP), mitochondrial calcium homeostasis was evaluated alone or in the presence of biapigenin. We found that biapigenin reduces mitochondrial calcium retention by increasing calcium efflux, an effect that was blocked by ADP plus oligomycin, an efficient blocker of the mPTP in brain mitochondria. Taken together, the results in this article suggest that biapigenin modulates mPTP opening, possibly by modulating ANT function, contributing for enhanced mitochondrial calcium efflux, thereby reducing calcium burden and contributing for neuroprotection against excitotoxicity.

Neuroprotection following brain injury has been a top priority in neuroscience since the Hippocratic era. However, of hundreds of &quot;experimentally-neuroprotective treatments&quot;, currently only hypothermia is clinically available. Interpretation of bench-work may have to account for the variation in developmental stages and types of injury. For example GABAergic stimulators have been used to reduce cerebral energy consumption; recent studies suggested the paradoxical excitation of premature neurons following GABAergic stimuli because of the high intracellular chloride concentration during the perinatal period. Even for hypothermia, many questions remain unanswered:selective-head cooling following perinatal hypoxia-ischemia appeared rather deleterious for infants with the most severe encephalopathy or low birth-weight. In a piglet model, different cooling levels provided differential regional brain protection:35 degrees C was optimal for deep-grey-matter whereas the cortical-grey-matter was better protected at 33 degrees C, suggesting that a single cooling level may not be equally optimal for the entire brain. Another experimental study used magnetic-resonance spectroscopy to demonstrate that the more severe the acute event was, the shorter the therapeutic time window was, explaining the lower effectiveness of neuroprotection following the most severe hypoxia-ischemia. Another suggestion from our translational research was the dependence of cerebral temperatures on body weight under selective-head cooling:the smaller the body weight, the lower the brain temperature, presumably because of the larger surface area to brain volume ratio in small subjects. Thus translational research is essential to achieve &quot;tailored&quot; treatments, that address for individual and regional cerebral conditions. Although therapeutic options have become available in the tertiary centre settings, neuroprotection should not remain an expensive treatment only available in rich countries. We have recently developed a cooling system that can maintain stable hypothermia over 24 hours without an electric supply. Experimental studies to optimise high-tech cooling need to run in parallel with studies to increase the distribution of these treatments worldwide.

The aim of the study was to examine the cognitive function and self-perception in a school-population-based sample of children with Tourette syndrome (TS). Many studies have examined cognitive and emotional functioning in clinical samples but to our knowledge, there is no population-based study of TS in schoolchildren. In a population-based sample identified in a rigid diagnostic procedure (n = 25), cognitive functioning and self-perception were examined. There was a large variation in the cognitive functioning of children with TS, at least one third obtaining subnormal results. The profile of index scores on the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC) factors was somewhat uneven, with the freedom from distractibility and processing speed factors presenting the lowest median scores. The TS group had more negative self-perceptions than a comparison group. Tic severity or age at onset was not associated with cognitive performance or self-perception. Children who were taking medication had lower full IQ scores than children who were not. Low cognitive abilities and negative self-perception may be common in community-based samples of children with Tourette syndrome.
This paper aims at illustrating the historical circumstances which led Julius Bernstein in 1902 to formulate a membrane theory on resting current in muscle and nerve fibers. It was a truly paradigm shift in research into bioelectrical phenomena, if qualified by the observation that, besides Bernstein, many other electrophysiologists between 1890 and 1902 borrowed ideas from the recent ionistic approach in the physical chemistry domain. But the Bernstein's subjective perception of that paradigm shift was that it constitued a mere re-interpretation of the so-called pre-existence theory advanced by his teacher Emil du Bois-Reymond in the first half of the 19 century.
The impact of moderate calorie restriction on reproductive neuroendocrine function was investigated in young adult male rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). The animals were subjected to either 30% calorie restriction (CR; n=5), or were fed a standard control diet (CON; n=5), starting during their peripubertal period. Plasma LH and testosterone concentrations were examined after 7 years of differential dietary treatment, and were found to be similar in both groups, both during the day and during the night. Microarray profiling of pituitary gland and testicular gene expression was performed after 8 years of treatment, using GeneChip Rhesus Macaque Genome Arrays (Affymetrix), and showed very little effect of caloric restriction. Using a 1.5-fold difference threshold, our microarray analysis revealed differential expression of only 145 probesets in the pituitary gland and 260 in the testes, out of a total of &gt;54,000. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR performed on pituitary gland mRNA corroborated the microarray findings for selected modulated genes, including TSH receptor (TSHR) and sperm-specific antigen 2 (SSFA2). Most notably, significantly lower expression of TSH receptor mRNA was observed in the pituitary of CR compared to CON animals. Also, significantly lower expression of the glycoprotein hormone alpha subunit (CGA) was observed in CR animals, and this finding was further corroborated using quantitative real-time RT-PCR. No significant diet-induced changes were detected in the testis for genes associated with reproduction, circadian clocks, or oxidative stress. There is mounting evidence that CR may promote health and longevity in a wide range of organisms, including nonhuman primates. Importantly, our data suggest that moderate CR has no obvious lasting detrimental effect on the reproductive neuroendocrine axis of long-lived primates, and has only a modest influence on pituitary and testicular gene expression.
Ketogenic diets are high in fat and low in carbohydrates and represent a well-established and effective treatment alternative to anti-epileptic drugs. Ketogenic diets are used for the management of a variety of difficult-to-treat or intractable seizure disorders, especially pediatric refractory epilepsy. However, it has been shown that this dietary therapy can reduce seizures in people of all ages, and ketogenic diets are being applied to other prevalent medical conditions such as diabetes. Although used effectively to treat epilepsy for nearly 90 years, the mechanism(s) by which ketogenic diets work to reduce seizures remain ill-understood. One mechanism receiving increased attention is based on findings that ketogenic diets increase the brain energy molecule ATP, and may also increase the levels and actions of the related endogenous inhibitory neuromodulator adenosine. ATP and adenosine have both been identified as important modulators of seizures; seizures increase the actions of these purines, these purines regulate epileptic activity in brain, adenosine receptor antagonists are pro-convulsant, and adenosinergic mechanisms have been implicated previously in the actions of approved anti-epileptic therapeutics. Here we will review recent literature and describe findings that shed light on mechanistic relationships between ketogenic diets and the purines ATP and adenosine. These emerging mechanisms hold great promise for the effective therapeutic management of epileptic seizures and other neurological conditions.
A focal and transitory inflammation induced by injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) in the submandibular skin of mice elicits pain behavior that persists for several weeks after the initial inflammation has resolved. Chronic pain, assessed as tactile hypersensitivity to stimulation with von Frey filaments, was evident from 1-7 weeks following CFA injection, although inflammation at the injection site was resolved by 3-4 weeks. In contrast, there were no changes in tactile sensitivity in the paw (un-injected site for comparison), no alterations in open field behavior and no differences in a functional observation battery evident in CFA-treated mice compared to controls (saline-injected) or to baseline (before CFA injection). Neither strain (Balb/c vs. C57BL/6) nor sex differences in baseline tactile threshold were significant in the submandibular skin. CFA-induced tactile hypersensitivity was also not a function of strain or sex. A single intraperitoneal injection of the gap junction blocker carbenoxolone (CBX) restored normal tactile thresholds in CFA-treated mice when administered at the peak of inflammation (1 week), after significant resolution of inflammation (3 weeks) or after total resolution of inflammation (4 and 5 weeks) without altering the tactile threshold of control subjects, tactile threshold in the paw or open field behavior. Thus, in this novel model of post-inflammatory pain, transitory inflammation induced persistent sex- and strain-independent behavioral hypersensitivity that was reversed by the gap junction blocker CBX, suggesting neuronal and/or glial plasticity as a major component of the chronic pain.
Glaucoma is characterised by the preferential death of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). However, mammalian models indicate that neurons pass through a period in which they manifest signs of neuronal damage, but have yet to fully commit to death. Mounting evidence suggests that one of the clearest indications of this process is the reduction in RGC dendritic arborisation, resulting in functional compromise. The extent to which this may be reversible is unclear, since the molecular events that precede changes in dendritic structure have received little attention. Furthermore, there are likely to be many factors involved in this process potentially acting in different individual cells at different times. Recent work in Drosophila shows that dendritic reorganisation/remodelling involves local activation and tight regulation of caspase activity. Here, we propose a model in which the balance between caspases and inhibitors of apoptosis (IAPs) contributes towards the regulation of dendritic remodelling. Thus, RGC dendrite reorganisation and cell death represent opposite ends of a spectrum of events regulated by apoptosis signalling pathways. We summarise relevant events in apoptosis, focusing on caspases and IAPs. We also discuss mechanisms of dendrite development, structure and reorganisation and the implications for early diagnosis and treatment of glaucoma and neurodegenerative disease.

Keratinocytes play an important role in the dialog between skin and cutaneous sensory neurons. They are an essential source of cutaneous nerve growth factor (NGF), a neurotrophin that contributes to persistent pain in inflammation and neuropathy. We studied the interaction of human keratinocytes (hKTs) and regenerating afferent nerve fibers by transplanting hKTs into a ligated and transected peripheral nerve. The hKTs self-assembled into a multi-laminar spheroid cellular structure resembling the stratum spinosum of epidermis. Axonal sprouts surrounded the structure although they were excluded from entry. Levels of NGF were elevated at the transplant site. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings from primary afferent neurons whose cut axons were present near the transplanted hKTs displayed extreme hyperexcitability. These neurons generated high frequency trains of action potentials during step depolarization stimuli, and they sometimes showed afterdischarge and fired spontaneously at resting membrane potential. This spontaneous firing originated from subthreshold membrane potential oscillations. The animals with the hKT transplants exhibited spontaneous pain behavior manifest as autotomy. The results demonstrate that an interaction between injured/regenerating nerve fibers and keratinocytes such as may occur during wound healing, results in afferent hyperexcitability and pain. These results have implications for persistent pain associated with burn and traumatic skin injuries.
The Behavioural Assessment of the Dysexecutive Syndrome (BADS) is a neuropsychological battery developed with the intent of measuring a wide range of executive impairments. Although the psychometric characteristics of BADS have previously been investigated in distinct neurological disorders, data on its validity in Parkinson's Disease (PD) without dementia are still lacking. The principal aim of the study was to address this issue. Twenty-five non-demented PD patients and 24 demographically-matched controls were administered BADS and other commonly used executive tools. Comparisons between groups indicated that two of the six BADS subtests (Temporal Judgement and Action Program) did not have sufficient sensitivity to executive impairments. However, when we explored group-predictive capabilities among the tests, the BADS total score was the most sensitive, followed by the Tower of London (TOL). We obtained similar results when we disentangled the sensitivity of the six BADS subtests. The BADS Six Elements task was the best group predictor followed by the TOL. Our findings showed that BADS is more sensitive to executive dysfunction than some of the tools commonly used to assess this construct in PD. However, we also demonstrated that, to assess executive impairments in PD without dementia adequately, this battery should be administered in combination with the TOL.



Split cord malformations (SCM) may be discovered as isolated occult spinal dysraphism or in association with various other overt developmental spinal abnormalities or lesions. However, the occurrence of SCM with intraspinal teratoma is rare. We report 2 cases of teratoma associated with SCM, of which one is intramedullary and the other extradural within meningocele, with a brief review of the literature.



Natriuretic peptide receptor C (NPR-C) is known to bind all natriuretic peptides with similar affinity. Given their biological role it is interesting that natriuretic peptides and their activated guanylate cyclases (NPR-A and NPR-B) are expressed in retinal amacrine cells. The purpose of this study is to examine the presence of NPR-C in the rat retina and its relationship to cholinergic and dopaminergic amacrine cells using immunofluorescence techniques. NPR-C immunoreactivity was found in several layers of the retina including the ganglion cell layer (GCL), inner nuclear layer (INL), outer plexiform layer (OPL), and inner segments of photoreceptors (IS). Immunofluorescence double-labeling showed the co-localization of NPR-C with tyrosine hydroxylase, a marker of dopaminergic cells, and with choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), a marker of cholinergic cells. These data suggest that natriuretic peptides may play a role in maintaining the retinal functions via interaction with NPR-C.
In the mammalian brain the neurokinin NK(2) receptors are predominantly located in the hippocampus, thalamus, septum and frontal cortex. It has been shown that administration of the NK(2) receptor agonist, neurokinin A (NKA), into the medial septum of rats increases extracellular levels of acetylcholine (ACh) in the hippocampus and that NK(2) receptor antagonism blocks this increase. Therefore, given the prominent role of hippocampal ACh in information processing, we hypothesized that NK(2) receptor antagonism in the medial septum would negatively affect learning and memory via its influence on the cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain. We investigated the action of local application of the peptidic NK(2) receptor antagonist, Bz-Ala-Ala-D-Trp-Phe-D-Pro-Pro-Nle-NH (1, 10 and 100pmol), into the medial septum on object memory for temporal order and spatial location using an object novelty paradigm. By means of in vivo microdialysis and HPLC analyses, we also examined the influence of NK(2) receptor antagonism in the medial septum on ACh in major cholinergic projection areas of the basal forebrain, namely, hippocampus, frontal cortex and amygdala. Results: Injection of vehicle alone into the medial septum impaired memory for temporal order and spatial location of objects. Application of 1pmol of the NK(2) receptor antagonist partially reversed this deficit by reinstating memory for temporal order. Injection of 10pmol of the NK(2) receptor antagonist into the medial septum decreased levels of ACh in the hippocampus (at 30min post-injection), and frontal cortex (at 30 and 80min post-injection) in comparison to vehicle. However, this apparent decrease was the result of the blockade of a saline-induced increase in ACh levels.
In a number comparison task, it is easier to respond faster when the two numbers are further apart than when they are close. This inverse relationship between the size difference and the time to judge such difference is called the numerical distance effect (NDE). In this study we investigated whether attention plays a critical role in the surfacing of NDE and the way we process Arabic numbers. In experiments 1 and 2, with an attentional blink paradigm that was designed to modulate attention, we tested whether a limited or unlimited pool of attentional resources would have an impact on the performance and trend of NDE. The results showed a dissociable effect of attention that changed the overall accuracy but not the trend of NDE. In experiment 3 we examined whether the number priming effect, another phenomenon associated with the distance-related effect, would be affected during the attentional blink period. We found the pattern of number priming effect was not affected by attentional blink. An explanation of the role of attention in number distance processing, as well as how it interacts with Arabic number representation, is discussed.
Face processing is widely understood to be a basic, universal visual function effortlessly achieved by people from all cultures and races. The remarkable recognition performance for faces is markedly and specifically affected by picture-plane inversion: the so-called face-inversion effect (FIE), a finding often used as evidence for face-specific mechanisms. However, it has recently been shown that culture shapes the way people deploy eye movements to extract information from faces. Interestingly, the comparable lack of experience with inverted faces across cultures offers a unique opportunity to establish the extent to which such cultural perceptual biases in eye movements are robust, but also to assess whether face-specific mechanisms are universally tuned. Here we monitored the eye movements of Western Caucasian (WC) and East Asian (EA) observers while they learned and recognised WC and EA inverted faces. Both groups of observers showed a comparable impairment in recognising inverted faces of both races. WC observers deployed a scattered inverted triangular scanpath with a bias towards the mouth, whereas EA observers uniformly extended the focus of their fixations from the centre towards the eyes. Overall, our data show that cultural perceptual differences in eye movements persist during the FIE, questioning the universality of face-processing mechanisms.
Walking through real-world environments involves using perceptual information to make complex choices between alternative routes, and this ability must develop through childhood. We examined performance and its development in one such situation. We used a novel 'river-crossing' paradigm analogous to manual 'end-state comfort' planning tasks, where an uncomfortable manoeuvre at the start of a movement is traded off for comfort at its end. Adults showed locomotor end-state comfort planning, adjusting feet at the start of a route in order to gain comfort at its end (crossing a manageable gap between two stepping stones). 3-6-year-olds also made this trade-off, but to a lesser degree than adults. The results suggest that end-state comfort is an important determiner of locomotor behaviour. Furthermore, they show that children as young as 3 years can use detailed visual information to form sophisticated locomotor plans.
Sounds (high- and low-pitched) have been shown to be implicitly associated with basic tastes (sour and bitter-see Crisinel and Spence, 2009 Neuroscience Letters 464 39-42). In the present study, a version of the implicit association test was used to assess the strength of the association between high-pitched sounds and names of sweet-tasting foodstuffs, and between low-pitched sounds and names of salty-tasting foodstuffs (experiment 1). A similar task, the go/no-go association task was then used to evaluate the relative strengths of these associations (experiment 2). Analysis of the sensitivity of participants' responses suggested that both sour- and sweet-tasting (names of) food items were associated with high-pitched sounds. This result highlights the existence of robust cross-modal associations between certain sounds and basic tastes.
Our experience of time is unlike that of other features of the sensory world such as colour, movement, touch, or sound because there is no unique receptor system through which it is received. However, since time can be perceived, remembered, estimated, and compared in a way analogous to other sensory experiences, it should perhaps be subject to some of the same architectures or principles that have advanced understanding in these other domains. By adapting a task designed to test visual memory within a perception/action framework we investigated whether memory for time is affected by the use to which temporal information is put. When remembering a visual or auditory duration for subsequent motor production, storage is biased by a delay of up to 8 s. When the same duration is remembered for subsequent perception, however, there is no such effect of delay on memory. The results suggest a distinction in temporal memory that parallels the perception/action dichotomy in vision.
Saccadic initiation is increasingly being studied as a surrogate for more general neural mechanisms of decision-making. Visual 'decision-making' is thought to be controlled by higher cortical functions. Lower areas such as the superior colliculus are thought to be involved with more primitive optomotor reflexes that can generate short-latency saccades. It is now well established that imposition of fronto-executive load on subjects performing a saccadic task which, in particular, involves suppression of saccades (the no-go saccadic task), increases the number of errors made. It is theorised that a weakening of cortical control of the superior colliculus is responsible for the increase in error rate. One way to test this theory is to measure the latency of incorrect saccades made in a no-go saccadic task in relation to error rate under different conditions of fronto-executive load. A high error rate combined with an increased number of short-latency saccades in the range of express or early saccades would indicate that subjects have an inability to inhibit these short-latency more reflexive saccades, which seem to originate in the superior colliculus. Hence the normal cortical control of the superior colliculus is weakened. We used a saccadic go/no-go task under fronto-executive load and found that the proportion of short-latency saccades increased with audio-verbal interference, in conjunction with an increase in error rate. These findings provide strong empirical evidence to support the theory that maintenance of cortical functions is key to the control of saccadic responses. Under conditions of fronto-executive loading such cortical control is weakened, leaving subjects with a reduced ability to inhibit short-latency more reflexive saccades.
Climate change can be viewed as human-induced change to climate and depletion of natural systems. It potentially the biggest global health threat of the 21st century. It is predicted to have wide-ranging impacts upon human mental health and well-being, through changes and challenges to people's environment, socioeconomic structures and physical security. Even the most conservative estimates of the health impacts are extremely alarming. Increasingly, the causes of poor human health and environmental damage are related. This implies that there are common solutions. For example, there are co-benefits to human health and biodiversity from mitigating and adapting to climate change (e.g. promoting active transport and reducing car use reduces CO2 emissions, benefits our environment and reduces morbidity and mortality associated with a sedentary lifestyle). This article outlines how climate change impacts upon mental health and well-being. It introduces ecological concepts, applies these to public health and outlines their implications in transforming the way that we prioritize and deliver public health in order to promote both environmental and human health. Evidence, from psychology and neuroscience, suggests that the perception of being disconnected from our inner selves, from each other and from our environment has contributed to poor mental and physical health. We argue that we must transform the way we understand mental health and well-being and integrate it into action against climate change. We describe a Public Health Framework for Developing Well-Being, based on the principles of ecological public health.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are the most common human adult-onset neurodegenerative diseases. They are characterized by prominent age-related neurodegeneration in selectively vulnerable neural systems. Some forms of AD, PD, and ALS are inherited, and genes causing these diseases have been identified. Nevertheless, the mechanisms of the neuronal cell death are unresolved. Morphological, biochemical, genetic, as well as cell and animal model studies reveal that mitochondria could have roles in this neurodegeneration. The functions and properties of mitochondria might render subsets of selectively vulnerable neurons intrinsically susceptible to cellular aging and stress and overlying genetic variations, triggering neurodegeneration according to a cell death matrix theory. In AD, alterations in enzymes involved in oxidative phosphorylation, oxidative damage, and mitochondrial binding of A and amyloid precursor protein have been reported. In PD, mutations in putative mitochondrial proteins have been identified and mitochondrial DNA mutations have been found in neurons in the substantia nigra. In ALS, changes occur in mitochondrial respiratory chain enzymes and mitochondrial cell death proteins. Transgenic mouse models of human neurodegenerative disease are beginning to reveal possible principles governing the biology of selective neuronal vulnerability that implicate mitochondria and the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. This review summarizes how mitochondrial pathobiology might contribute to neuronal death in AD, PD, and ALS and could serve as a target for drug therapy.
Endocannabinoids may normally inhibit the generation and expression of female estrous behaviors. Previous work in our laboratory demonstrated that acute administration of a CB(1) receptor antagonist (AM251) increased sexual incentive motivation in estrous female rats. The current experiment examined the effect of CP55,940, a synthetic cannabinoid agonist, on sexual motivation. Seventy-two ovariectomized female Long-Evans rats were tested for their socio-sexual motivation via a runway methodology. Baseline motivation to approach and maintain close proximity to an empty goalbox, a female conspecific, and a male conspecific was assessed over six trials. Subjects were then grouped into nine experimental conditions and re-tested for their socio-sexual motivation after one of three possible hormonal treatments and three drug doses. Hormone treatments were: oil (nonestrous), 10 microg estradiol benzoate (partially estrous), and 10 microg estradiol+500 microg progesterone (fully estrous). Drug doses were: 0, 20, or 40 microg/kg CP55,940 (IP, 30 min prior to testing). As expected, hormonal priming with both estradiol and progesterone significantly increased sexual motivation in females that did not receive drug treatment. This occurred even though females were kept sexually-nave throughout the experiment. CP55,940 dose-dependently attenuated sexual motivation for a male target in estrous females; the 40 microg/kg dose completely blocked sexual motivation. However, this same dose also significantly reduced social motivation for another female. Cannabinoid agonists reduce female sexual motivation, either directly by inhibiting estrus or indirectly by increasing social anxiety.
Our previous findings have shown that l-cysteine, a non essential amino acid, prevented ethanol (EtOH) induced conditioned place preference. The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of l-cysteine on the acquisition and maintenance of oral EtOH self-administration and on the reinstatement of EtOH-drinking behavior in Wistar rats. Rats were pretreated intraperitoneally with saline or l-cysteine (20 and 40 mg/kg) 30 min before each acquisition trial, in an operant nose-poking paradigm where they were given the opportunity to orally self-administer tap water or EtOH (5-10% v/v). Further, to evaluate if l-cysteine reduces the acquired oral EtOH self-administration, we carried out an independent experiment in which rats were trained to self-administer EtOH (10%); after all groups of rats developed similarly stable oral EtOH self-administration, the effect of l-cysteine (0, 40, 60, 80 and 100mg/kg) was tested. An additional group of rats was pretreated with saline or l-cysteine (80 mg/kg) and tested on reinstatement after EtOH extinction and, at the end of last reinstatement session, were utilized to measure blood and brain EtOH levels. The animals that had access to EtOH solution discriminated between the active and inactive nose-pokes and showed rates of active nose-pokes significantly higher than the tap water group. Furthermore, rats self-administering EtOH (10%) also demonstrated extinction behavior and gradually reinstated active nose-poke responding when EtOH was reintroduced. l-cysteine reduced both the acquisition and maintenance of oral EtOH self-administration. The reduced reinstatement of EtOH-drinking behavior was paralleled by a significant reduction of EtOH intake and correlated with blood and brain EtOH levels. The efficacy of l-cysteine on the various phases of alcohol drinking in rats, could represent an interesting pharmacological approach and could open a new line of research for the development of therapies to reduce EtOH intake in alcoholic patients.
Behavioral assays of the responses to psychomotor stimulants can be used to model certain aspects of CNS pathologies such as psychosis and addiction. However, species-dependent differences in the effects of neuromodulators in these assays can confound the interpretation of the results. The goal of this study was to determine the utility of the guinea pig as a model for assessing the behavioral actions of nicotinic receptor agonists and NMDA receptor antagonists. In the present study, the locomotor activity of adult male guinea pigs was measured, prior to and following an acute injection of nicotine, MK-801 or phencyclidine. Each animal received a single dose of the drug. Nicotine produced a dose-dependent increase in activity with an ED(50) of 1.5mg/kg. Phencyclidine also increased activity, with an ED(50) of 3.4 mg/kg. Nicotine produced increases in locomotion in all individual subjects tested, whereas at the maximally-effective dose of phencyclidine, only a fraction of the animals had locomotor activation. There was no change in activity in response to a single dose of MK-801 (0.5mg/kg). Haloperidol had a significant inhibitory effect on locomotor activity independent of the stimulant administered. Thus, both phencyclidine and nicotine are psychomotor stimulants when given to guinea pigs, although the intensity of the response and the potencies of these drugs are lower than in mice or rats under otherwise similar conditions.
Little is known about the physiological and behavioral effects of testosterone when co-administered with cocaine during adolescence. The present study aimed to determine whether exogenous testosterone administration differentially alters psychomotor responses to cocaine in adolescent and adult male rats. To this end, intact adolescent (30-days-old) and adult (60-day-old) male Fisher rats were pretreated with vehicle (sesame oil) or testosterone (5 or 10mg/kg) 45 min prior to saline or cocaine (20mg/kg) administration. Behavioral responses were monitored 1h after drug treatment, and serum testosterone levels were determined. Serum testosterone levels were affected by age: saline- and cocaine-treated adults in the vehicle groups had higher serum testosterone levels than adolescent rats, but after co-administration of testosterone the adolescent rats had higher serum testosterone levels than the adults. Pretreatment with testosterone affected baseline activity in adolescent rats: 5mg/kg of testosterone increased both rearing and ambulatory behaviors in saline-treated adolescent rats. After normalizing data to % saline, an interaction between hormone administration and cocaine-induced behavioral responses was observed; 5mg/kg of testosterone decreased both ambulatory and rearing behaviors among adolescents whereas 10mg/kg of testosterone decreased only rearing behaviors. Testosterone pretreatment did not alter cocaine-induced behavioral responses in adult rats. These findings suggest that adolescents are more sensitive than adults to an interaction between testosterone and cocaine, and, indirectly, suggest that androgen abuse may lessen cocaine-induced behavioral responses in younger cocaine users.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited genetic disorder, characterized by cognitive dysfunction and abnormal body movements called chorea. George Huntington, an Ohio physician, described the disease precisely in 1872. HD is a dominantly inherited disorder, characterized by progressive neurodegeneration of the striatum but also involves other regions, primarily the cerebral cortex. The mutation responsible for this fatal disease is an abnormally expanded and unstable CAG repeat within the coding region of the gene encoding the huntingtin protein. Various hypotheses have been put forward to explain the pathogenic mechanisms of mutant huntingtin-induced neuronal dysfunction and cell death. None of these hypotheses, however, offers a clear explanation; thus, it remains a topic of research interest. HD is considered to be an important disease, embodying many of the major themes in modern neuroscience, including molecular genetics, selective neuronal vulnerability, excitotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction, apoptosis and transcriptional dysregulation. A number of recent reports have concluded that oxidative stress plays a key role in HD pathogenesis. Although there is no specific treatment available to block disease progression, treatments are available to help in controlling the chorea symptoms. As animal models are the best tools to evaluate any therapeutic agent, there are also different animal models available, mimicking a few or a larger number of symptoms. Each model has its own advantages and limitations. The present review deals with the pathophysiology and various cascades contributing to HD pathogenesis and progression as well as drug targets, such as dopaminergic, gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA)ergic, glutamate adenosine receptor, peptidergic pathways, cannabinoid receptor, and adjuvant therapeutic drug targets such as oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction that can be targeted for future experimental study. The present review also focuses on the animal models (behavioral and genetic) used to unravel pathogenetic mechanisms and the identification of novel drug targets.
The clinical manifestation of most diseases of the central nervous system results from neuronal dysfunction or loss. Diseases such as stroke, epilepsy and neurodegeneration (e.g. Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease) share common cellular and molecular mechanisms (e.g. oxidative stress, endoplasmic reticulum stress, mitochondrial dysfunction) that contribute to the loss of neuronal function. Neurotrophic factors (NTFs) are secreted proteins that regulate multiple aspects of neuronal development including neuronal maintenance, survival, axonal growth and synaptic plasticity. These properties of NTFs make them likely candidates for preventing neurodegeneration and promoting neuroregeneration. One approach to delivering NTFs to diseased cells is through viral vector-mediated gene delivery. Viral vectors are now routinely used as tools for studying gene function as well as developing gene-based therapies for a variety of diseases. Currently, many clinical trials using viral vectors in the nervous system are underway or completed, and seven of these trials involve NTFs for neurodegeneration. In this review, we discuss viral vector-mediated gene transfer of NTFs to treat neurodegenerative diseases of the central nervous system.
Alcohol, tobacco and illicit drug dependence represents a serious health and social issue within the community. As drug dependence has become more widely recognized as a clinical disorder and the severity of the problem been fully realized, options available for treatment have grown along with our understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms underlying the development and persistence of addiction. Treatment has progressed from purely social and behavioral approaches to now encompass pharmacotherapy to attempt to disrupt the mechanisms underlying these disorders. Despite these advances, many forms of addiction lack effective therapeutics and the prevalence of this disorder remains unacceptably high. As a result, a significant effort within the research community has been dedicated to the identification of novel targets for the development of therapeutics based upon our understanding of the pathological processes underlying addiction. The current review aims to provide an overview of existing and clinically trialed pharmacotherapies for alcohol, opiate, psychostimulant, nicotine, cannabis and inhalant addictions. Further, we discuss some of the potential targets that have been recently indentified from basic studies that may hold promise for the development of novel treatments.
alpha5IA is a triazolophthalazine that selectively attenuates the effects of GABA at GABA(A) receptors containing an alpha5 subunit. It enhances long-term potentiation in an in vitro model of mouse hippocampal synaptic plasticity, gives good in vivo receptor occupancy and improves cognitive performance in normal rats as measured using the delayed-matching-to-place version of the Morris water maze yet, importantly, it is without anxiogenic or proconvulsant liabilities. The hydroxymethyl isoxazole metabolite, which occurs both in vitro and in vivo, has a very low aqueous solubility (0.6microg/mL) that resulted in renal toxicity (crystal formation) at very high doses in preclinical safety and toxicity studies. Although this precluded it from being dosed to humans over prolonged periods of time, alpha5IA is, nevertheless, well tolerated in young and elderly subjects up to a dose of 6mg in multiple-dose studies and gives a plasma EC(50) for alpha5IA occupancy measured using [(11)C]flumazenil PET of 10ng/mL. The compound was evaluated in experimental studies and although in elderly subjects alpha5IA does not improve performance in a paired-associate learning task (a 4-mg dose actually impairs performance), it is able to reverse the ethanol-induced impairment in performance in healthy young normal volunteers. These data demonstrate that in man an alpha5-selective inverse agonist may be effective at increasing performance under certain conditions. Whether or not such a compound has efficacy in conditions associated with cognitive deficits, such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, Alzheimer's disease or schizophrenia remains to be determined.
Recent research and clinical data have begun to demonstrate the huge potential therapeutic importance of ligands that modulate the activity of the secretin-like, Class II, G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Ligands that can modulate the activity of these Class II GPCRs may have important clinical roles in the treatment of a wide variety of conditions such as osteoporosis, diabetes, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and autism spectrum disorders. While these receptors present important new therapeutic targets, the large glycoprotein nature of their cognate ligands poses many problems with respect to therapeutic peptidergic drug design. These native peptides often exhibit poor bioavailability, metabolic instability, poor receptor selectivity and resultant low potencies in vivo. Recently, increased attention has been paid to the structural modification of these peptides to enhance their therapeutic efficacy. Successful modification strategies have included d-amino acid substitutions, selective truncation, and fatty acid acylation of the peptide. Through these and other processes, these novel peptide ligand analogs can demonstrate enhanced receptor subtype selectivity, directed signal transduction pathway activation, resistance to proteolytic degradation, and improved systemic bioavailability. In the future, it is likely, through additional modification strategies such as addition of circulation-stabilizing transferrin moieties, that the therapeutic pharmacopeia of drugs targeted towards Class II secretin-like receptors may rival that of the Class I rhodopsin-like receptors that currently provide the majority of clinically used GPCR-based therapeutics. Currently, Class II-based drugs include synthesized analogs of vasoactive intestinal peptide for type 2 diabetes or parathyroid hormone for osteoporosis.
The human serotonin 1a receptor (H5HT1aR) is a highly studied member of the 7 transmembrane G protein-coupled receptors. This model receptor, negatively coupled to adenylyl cyclase via Gi, is linked to physiological processes such as cognition and mood regulation and to associated disorders like anxiety and depression. Gibb's free energies, enthalpies, and entropies were calculated for the agonist [(3)H]8-OH-DPAT in the presence of synthetic peptides derived from sequences of intracellular loops 2 and 3 of the H5HT1aR. For comparative purposes, the thermodynamic parameters were also determined in the presence of a limited number of ligand-binding site substances (the partial agonist dipropyltryptamine [DPT], and the full agonist [(3)H]8-OH-DPAT alone). All of these thermodynamic measurements were based on binding data accumulated over a range of temperatures (0-35 degrees C). Representative examples of binding constant experiments and van't Hoff plots are shown to establish the thermodynamic variables. Although differences exist between the peptides themselves and the non-peptide agonists, in all situations the binding events are highly entropy driven. Differences between this information and published data for rat 5HT1aR are discussed, as are relationships to other receptor systems. Overall, the conclusions should be useful in further defining a comprehensive model of 5HT1aR, and for future development of binding-site and non-binding-site directed agents for the receptor.

This experiment investigated whether rising fundamental frequency (f0) and increased duration are interdependent perceptual cues to rhythmic groups in speech, and whether this depends on listeners' native language. In a two-alternative forced- choice decision task, listeners had to indicate whether they perceived a 3 + 2 or 2 + 3 grouping in 5- syllable- long series of various digits and letters, in which f0 and duration were manipulated in the second and/or third syllable. The listeners were native speakers of Swiss German, Swiss French, or French. These languages differ from each other in terms of prosodic properties involving f0 and duration. The results demonstrate that rising f0 and increased duration are interdependent cues to rhythmic groups, since the two cues were significantly more effective than one when heard simultaneously, but significantly less effective than one when heard in conflicting positions around the rhythmic- group boundary location. Moreover, listeners' native language influenced whether f0 or duration was the more effective cue. These findings are important not only for their insight into the perception of prosodic groups in speech, but also because they have implications for current research on speech rhythm.
The impact of anesthetic agents on endocrine and metabolic factors is an important issue. The present study has compared the effects of a short-term exposure to diethyl ether, isoflurane, or CO2 on plasma corticosterone, insulin and glucose concentrations since the duration of anesthetic exposure may have an effect on those factors. Male rats were divided into fed and fasted groups. The experimental rats were briefly exposed to diethyl ether, isoflurane, or CO2 (the degree of anesthesia was identical), while a control group was not exposed to the anesthetics. In the fed rats, diethyl ether exposure increased the levels of plasma glucose. CO2 exposure decreased plasma corticosterone and increased plasma glucose levels. Isoflurane exposure caused no changes in plasma corticosterone, glucose, or insulin levels. In the fasted rats, diethyl ether exposure increased plasma corticosterone and reduced plasma insulin levels. The plasma corticosterone and insulin levels were significantly increased by CO2) exposure. Isoflurane exposure decreased plasma insulin levels. A brief exposure to either diethyl ether or CO2 changed the plasma corticosterone, glucose, and insulin levels in fed and/or fasted rats. However, isoflurane exposure had the least effect on the concentration of these factors in both the fed and fasted states.
Sleep is regulated by complex biological systems and environmental influences, neither of which is fully clarified. This study demonstrates differential effects of partial sleep deprivation (SD) on sleep architecture and psychomotor vigilance task (PVT) performance using two different protocols (sequentially) that each restricted daily sleep to 3 hours in healthy adult men. The protocols differed only in the period of sleep restriction; in one, sleep was restricted to a 3-hour block from 12:00 AM to 3:00 AM, and in the other, sleep was restricted to a block from 3:00 AM to 6:00 AM. Subjects in the earlier sleep restriction period showed a significantly lower percentage of rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep after 4 days (17.0 vs. 25.7 %) and a longer latency to the onset of REM sleep (L-REM) after 1 day (78.8 vs. 45.5 min) than they did in the later sleep restriction period. Reaction times on PVT performance were also better (i.e. shorter) in the earlier SR period on day 4 (249.8 vs. 272 ms). These data support the view that earlier-night sleep may be more beneficial for daytime vigilance than later-night sleep. The study also showed that cumulative declines in daytime vigilance resulted from loss of total sleep time, rather than from specific stages, and underscored the reversibility of SR effects with greater amounts of sleep.
In the mammalian neocortex, the calcium-binding protein calretinin is expressed in a subset of cortical interneurons. In the recent years, research on interneurons is one of the most rapidly growing fields in neuroscience. This review summarizes the actual knowledge of the functions of calretinin in neuronal homeostasis and particularly of the distribution, connectivity and physiological properties of calretinin expressing interneurons in the neocortex of rodents and primates, including humans. The possible neuroprotective role of calretinin and the presumed &quot;resistance&quot; of calretinin-expressing interneurons to various pathological processes are also discussed.
We hypothesize that Pio Pico, the last Mexican Governor of California, had acromegaly between at least ages 43 to 57, from 1844 to 1858, before Pierre Marie published the clinical description of acromegaly in 1886. Pico's probable growth hormone-secreting pituitary tumor likely infarcted spontaneously after 1858. The tumor infarction resulted in burnt-out acromegaly and probably restored normal pituitary function. Pearce Bailey published the first account of pituitary tumor infarction only in 1898. Pico's undiagnosed, misunderstood, profoundly acromegalic appearance was widely misinterpreted, leading to pervasive, degrading, and highly prejudicial comments. This landmark case study in neuroendocrinology provides the opportunity to re-examine elements of 19th century California and American history.
Platelet activation is critically regulated by an increase in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+](i)). Although Ca2+ release from intracellular Ca2+ stores and subsequent store-operated Ca2+ entry are often thought to be the major contributors to increases in [Ca2+](i) evoked by most agonists, high concentrations of thrombin activate a Ca2+ entry pathway that is independent of Ca2+ store depletion (known as 'non-capacitative cation entry'-NCCE). The channel that conducts NCCE has not previously been clearly identified, and the mechanisms that regulate its activation are also unknown. Here we have investigated NCCE using fura-2-loaded human platelets. To investigate NCCE independently of other Ca2+ signaling pathways, the intracellular Ca2+ stores were first rapidly depleted in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. Sr2+ was then added to monitor maximal store-operated cation influx. Thrombin was then added to stimulate NCCE. Flufenamic acid, which inhibits Ca2+ entry through most TRPC isoforms, but potentiates entry through TRPC6, was found to block store-operated cation entry. In contrast, thrombin-induced NCCE was increased, suggesting the possible involvement of TRPC6. Since TRPC6 is regulated by Src family tyrosine kinases in some cells, we investigated the possible role of this kinase family in NCCE. PP2, a Src family tyrosine kinase inhibitor, completely abolished thrombin-induced NCCE. Furthermore, NCCE was enhanced by phenylarsine oxide and could be directly induced by vanadyl hydroperoxide, both tyrosine phosphatase inhibitors. These data indicate that Src family tyrosine kinase activation is a required step in NCCE activation. In conclusion NCCE may be an important regulator of platelet activation when local thrombin concentrations are high.



In 1987, about 150 years after the discovery of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), its responsible gene, the dystrophin gene, was cloned by Kunkel. This was a new substance. During these 20 odd years after the cloning, our understanding on dystrophin as a component of the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton networks and on the pathomechanisms of and experimental therapeutics for DMD has been greatly enhanced. During this paradigm change, I was fortunately able to work as an active researcher on its frontiers for 12 years. After we discovered that dystrophin is located on the cell membrane in 1988, we studied the architecture of dystrophin and dystrophin-associated proteins (DAPs) complex in order to investigate the function of dystrophin and pathomechanism of DMD. During the conduct of these studies, we came to consider that the dystrophin-DAP complex serves to transmembranously connect the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton networks and basal lamina to protect the lipid bilayer. It then became our working hypothesis that injury of the lipid bilayer upon muscle contraction is the cause of DMD. During this process, we predicted that subunits of the sarcoglycan (SG) complex are responsible for respective types of DMD-like muscular dystrophy with autosomal recessive inheritance. Our prediction was confirmed to be true by many researchers including ourselves. In this review, I will try to explain what we observed and how we considered concerning the architecture and function of the dystrophin-DAP complex, and the pathomechanisms of DMD and related muscular dystrophies.
The adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS), especially that of adult humans, is a representative example of organs that do not regenerate. However, increasing interest has focused on the development of innovative therapeutic methods that aim to regenerate damaged CNS tissue by taking advantage of recent advances in stem cell and neuroscience research. In fact, the recapitulation of normal neural development has become a vital strategy for CNS regeneration. Normal CNS development is initiated by the induction of stem cells in the CNS, i.e., neural stem cells (NSCs). Thus, the introduction or mobilization of NSCs could be expected to lead to CNS regeneration by recapitulating normal CNS development, in terms of the activation of the endogenous regenerative capacity and cell transplantation therapy. Here, the recent progress in basic stem cell biology, including the author's own studies, on the prospective identification of NSCs, the elucidation of the mechanisms of ontogenic changes in the differentiation potential of NSCs, the induction of neural fate and NSCs from pluripotent stem cells, and their therapeutic applications are summarized. These lines of research will, hopefully, contribute to a basic understanding of the nature of NSCs, which should in turn lead to feasible strategies for the development of ideal &quot;stem cell therapies&quot; for the treatment of damaged brain and spinal cord tissue.
Tissue contrast and resolution of magnetic resonance neuroimaging data have strong impacts on the utility of the data in clinical and neuroscience tasks such as registration and segmentation. Lengthy acquisition times typically prevent routine acquisition of multiple MR tissue contrast images at high resolution, and the opportunity for detailed analysis using these data would seem to be irrevocably lost. This paper describes an example based approach using patch matching from a multiple resolution multiple contrast atlas in order to change an image's resolution as well as its MR tissue contrast from one pulse-sequence to that of another. The use of this approach to generate different tissue contrasts (T2/PD/FLAIR) from a single T1-weighted image is demonstrated on both phantom and real images.
The slow-closing phase of the mastication cycle plays a major role in the mastication of foods. However, the neuronal mechanism underlying the slow-closing phase remains unknown. The isometric contraction of jaw-closing muscles is developed through the recruitment of jaw-closing motoneurons during the slow-closing phase. It is well established that motor units are recruited depending on the order of sizes or input resistances (IRs) of motoneurons, which is known as the size principle. Two-pore-domain acid-sensitive K(+) (TASK1/3) channels are recently found to be the molecular correlates of the IR, and also found to be expressed in the masseter motoneurons. Here, we addressed the question whether spindle Ia inputs onto masseter motoneurons can induce the orderly recruitment of motoneurons in slice preparations of the rat brain using voltage-sensitive dye imaging and whole-cell patch-clamp methods. Voltage-sensitive dye imaging revealed the recruitment of many motoneurons in the whole nucleus of masseter in response to repetitive stimulation of the presumed spindle Ia inputs. Dual whole-cell recordings obtained from two adjacent motoneurons revealed the IR-ordered recruitment of motoneurons in response to repetitive stimulation of the presumed spindle Ia inputs. Thus, Ia inputs are likely to play a crucial role in the orderly recruitment of motoneurons of the trigeminal motor nucleus, which would be progressed during the slow-closing phase of the mastication cycle. Possible involvements of TASK channels in the orderly recruitment are discussed.
Discrete neural networks in the central nervous system generate the repertoire of motor behavior necessary for animal survival. The final motor output of these networks is the result of the anatomical connectivity between the individual neurons and also their biophysical properties as well as the dynamics of their synaptic transmission. To illustrate how this processing takes place to produce coordinated motor activity, we have summarized some of the results available from the lamprey spinal locomotor network. The detailed knowledge available in this model system on the organization of the network together with the properties of the constituent neurons and the modulatory systems allows us to determine how the impact of specific ion channels and receptors is translated to the global activity of the locomotor circuitry. Understanding the logic of the neuronal and synaptic processing within the locomotor network will provide information about not only their normal operation but also how they react to disruption such as injuries or trauma.
Many important notions relative to breathing, walking, and chewing originated from early concepts developed in the nineteenth century. We will consider successively:  The measurements of the parameters of these behaviors done by great experts on movement recordings. It corresponded to the first elements of biomechanics.  The physiology of central motor activities in locomotion and in respiration completed by the analysis of motor neuropathologies where specific deficits have highlighted the role of some crucial motor structures.  The studies of different reflexes, a predominant concept at that time, that have characterized some particular pathways between the sensory receptors and the different motor output. The goal of this review is to show how true pioneers, often using some crude and simple methods of investigation, have addressed important issues relative to control of these three rhythmic motor behaviors.
This chapter provides an overview of neurosteroids, especially their impact on the brain, sex differences and their therapeutic potentials. Neurosteroids are synthesized within the brain and rapidly modulate neuronal excitability. They are classified as pregnane neurosteroids, such as allopregnanolone and allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, androstane neurosteroids, such as androstanediol and etiocholanolone, and sulfated neurosteroids such as pregnenolone sulfate. Neurosteroids such as allopregnanolone are positive allosteric modulators of GABA-A receptors with powerful anti-seizure activity in diverse animal models. Neurosteroids increase both synaptic and tonic inhibition. They are endogenous regulators of seizure susceptibility, anxiety, and stress. Sulfated neurosteroids such as pregnenolone sulfate, which are negative GABA-A receptor modulators, are memory-enhancing agents. Sex differences in susceptibility to brain disorders could be due to neurosteroids and sexual dimorphism in specific structures of the human brain. Synthetic neurosteroids that exhibit better bioavailability and efficacy and drugs that enhance neurosteroid synthesis have therapeutic potential in anxiety, epilepsy, and other brain disorders. Clinical trials with the synthetic neurosteroid analog ganaxolone in the treatment of epilepsy have been encouraging. Neurosteroidogenic agents that lack benzodiazepine-like side effects show promise in the treatment of anxiety and depression.
It is believed that during the intrauterine period the fetal brain develops in the male direction through a direct action of testosterone on the developing nerve cells, or in the female direction through the absence of this hormone surge. According to this concept, our gender identity (the conviction of belonging to the male or female gender) and sexual orientation should be programmed into our brain structures when we are still in the womb. However, since sexual differentiation of the genitals takes place in the first two months of pregnancy and sexual differentiation of the brain starts in the second half of pregnancy, these two processes can be influenced independently, which may result in transsexuality. This also means that in the event of ambiguous sex at birth, the degree of masculinization of the genitals may not reflect the degree of masculinization of the brain. There is no proof that social environment after birth has an effect on gender identity or sexual orientation. Data on genetic and hormone independent influence on gender identity are presently divergent and do not provide convincing information about the underlying etiology. To what extent fetal programming may determine sexual orientation is also a matter of discussion. A number of studies show patterns of sex atypical cerebral dimorphism in homosexual subjects. Although the crucial question, namely how such complex functions as sexual orientation and identity are processed in the brain remains unanswered, emerging data point at a key role of specific neuronal circuits involving the hypothalamus.
Sex influences are ubiquitous on brain function, including the human brain. This chapter addresses the issue of sex influences on human brain function first as it pertains to studies of emotional memory, then as it pertains to the field of neuroscience more generally. The striking quantity and diversity of sex-related influences on nervous system function argue that the burden of proof regarding the issue has shifted from those examining the issue in their investigations generally having to justify why, to those not doing so having to justify why not.
The cognitive changes that occur with ageing are usually referred to as 'age-related cognitive decline'. The most pronounced changes may be found in the executive functions that require integrity of the prefrontal cortical circuitry. With age, sleep also changes profoundly, with more sleep fragmentation, earlier awakenings and less slow wave sleep as its main features. Interestingly, experimental sleep deprivation studies in healthy young adults showed a particularly consistent effect on executive functions, suggesting that sleep problems might contribute to the cognitive changes accompanying older age. We here investigate this possibility by reviewing reports on age-related and insomnia-related changes in cognition and brain function and structure, as found in studies investigating subjective complaints, objective functioning in everyday life, neuropsychological assessment, psychometry, structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging, electroencephalography, positron emission tomography and transcranial magnetic stimulation. The chapter focuses on the 'normal' age-related sleep changes that are experienced as insomnia - that is, fragmentation of sleep, more superficial sleep, more wake after sleep onset and earlier awakenings - rather than on specific sleep disturbances as sleep-disordered breathing, restless legs or periodic limb movements during sleep, for all of which the risk increases with age. It turned out that relatively few studies directly addressed the question whether elderly with different degrees of sleep complaints are differentially affected by 'age-related cognitive decline'. Still, several similarities between age-related and insomnia-related cognitive and brain changes are apparent, notably with respect to performance requiring integrity of the prefrontal cortical system. We suggest that at least part of what we regard as age-related changes may, in fact, be due to poor sleep, which is in some cases a treatable condition. Further research directly comparing aged good sleepers versus aged insomniacs will need to elucidate how sleep disturbances are involved in the cognitive, structural and functional changes observed with increasing age. The findings suggest that discrimination of subtypes of poor sleep at high age will aid in understanding the mechanisms by which it affects cognition and brain function.
As critical as waking brain function is to cognition, an extensive literature now indicates that sleep supports equally important, different, yet complementary operations. This review will consider recent and emerging findings implicating sleep, and specific sleep-stage physiologies, in the modulation, regulation and even preparation of cognitive and emotional brain processes. First, evidence for the role of sleep in memory processing will be discussed, principally focusing on declarative memory. Second, at a neural level, several mechanistic models of sleep-dependent plasticity underlying these effects will be reviewed, with a synthesis of these features offered that may explain the ordered structure of sleep, and the orderly evolution of memory stages. Third, accumulating evidence for the role of sleep in associative memory processing will be discussed, suggesting that the long-term goal of sleep may not be the strengthening of individually memory items, but, instead, their abstracted assimilation into a schema of generalized knowledge. Forth, the newly emerging benefit of sleep in regulating emotional brain reactivity will be considered. Finally, and building on this latter topic, a novel hypothesis and framework of sleep-dependent affective brain processing will be proposed, culminating in testable predictions and translational implications for mood disorders.
Mechanism is at the heart of understanding, and this chapter addresses underlying brain mechanisms and pathways of cognition and the impact of sleep on these processes, especially those serving learning and memory. This chapter reviews the current understanding of the relationship between sleep/waking states and cognition from the perspective afforded by basic neurophysiological investigations. The extensive overlap between sleep mechanisms and the neurophysiology of learning and memory processes provide a foundation for theories of a functional link between the sleep and learning systems. Each of the sleep states, with its attendant alterations in neurophysiology, is associated with facilitation of important functional learning and memory processes. For rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, salient features such as PGO waves, theta synchrony, increased acetylcholine, reduced levels of monoamines and, within the neuron, increased transcription of plasticity-related genes, cumulatively allow for freely occurring bidirectional plasticity, long-term potentiation (LTP) and its reversal, depotentiation. Thus, REM sleep provides a novel neural environment in which the synaptic remodelling essential to learning and cognition can occur, at least within the hippocampal complex. During non-REM sleep Stage 2 spindles, the cessation and subsequent strong bursting of noradrenergic cells and coincident reactivation of hippocampal and cortical targets would also increase synaptic plasticity, allowing targeted bidirectional plasticity in the neocortex as well. In delta non-REM sleep, orderly neuronal reactivation events in phase with slow wave delta activity, together with high protein synthesis levels, would facilitate the events that convert early LTP to long-lasting LTP. Conversely, delta sleep does not activate immediate early genes associated with de novo LTP. This non-REM sleep-unique genetic environment combined with low acetylcholine levels may serve to reduce the strength of cortical circuits that activate in the ~50% of delta-coincident reactivation events that do not appear in their waking firing sequence. The chapter reviews the results of manipulation studies, typically total sleep or REM sleep deprivation, that serve to underscore the functional significance of the phenomenological associations. Finally, the implications of sleep neurophysiology for learning and memory will be considered from a larger perspective in which the association of specific sleep states with both potentiation or depotentiation is integrated into mechanistic models of cognition.
Neural transplantation has emerged as a possible therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD). Clinical studies performed during the 1990s, where dopaminergic neurons derived from the human embryonic brain were transplanted into striatum of patients with PD, provided proof-of-principle that long-lasting therapeutic benefits can be achieved. Subsequent studies, in particular two that followed a double-blind, sham surgery, placebo-control design, showed variable and mostly negative results. They also revealed that some patients develop involuntary movements, so called graft-induced dyskinesias, as side effects. Thus, while nigral transplants clearly work well in select PD cases, the technique needs refinement before it can successfully be performed in a large series of patients. In this review, we describe the clinical neural transplantation trials in PD and the likely importance of factors such as patient selection, trial design, preparation of the donor tissue, and surgical techniques for successful outcome and avoiding unwanted side effects. We also highlight that it was recently found that neuropathological signs typical for PD can appear inside some of the grafted neurons over a decade after surgery. Finally, we discuss future possibilities offered by stem cells as potential sources of dopamine neurons that can be used for transplantation in PD.
Functional imaging has provided objective evidence that human fetal ventral mesencephalic tissue implanted in the striatum of Parkinson's disease patients can survive, grow, release dopamine, normalize brain metabolism, and restore striatal-cortical connections. Open-label clinical trials have shown robust clinical improvement in several PD patients but these results were not replicated in two double-blind sham-surgery controlled clinical trials. Graft-induced dyskinesias are serious adverse effects and a major roadblock for the further development of cell therapies, and functional imaging can help investigate the mechanisms underlying their cause. Functional imaging can also aid future trials by improving patient selection, assessing restoration of brain connectivity, and monitor inflammatory processes. Although functional imaging cannot currently be used as a primary endpoint in clinical transplantation trials, it can provide additional valuable information alongside clinical observations.
Metabolic imaging in the rest state has provided valuable information concerning the abnormalities of regional brain function that underlie idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Moreover, network modeling procedures, such as spatial covariance analysis, have further allowed for the quantification of these changes at the systems level. In recent years, we have utilized this strategy to identify and validate three discrete metabolic networks in PD associated with the motor and cognitive manifestations of the disease. In this chapter, we will review and compare the specific functional topographies underlying parkinsonian akinesia/rigidity, tremor, and cognitive disturbance. While network activity progressed over time, the rate of change for each pattern was distinctive and paralleled the development of the corresponding clinical symptoms in early-stage patients. This approach is already showing great promise in identifying individuals with prodromal manifestations of PD and in assessing the rate of progression before clinical onset. Network modulation was found to correlate with the clinical effects of dopaminergic treatment and surgical interventions, such as subthalamic nucleus (STN) deep brain stimulation (DBS) and gene therapy. Abnormal metabolic networks have also been identified for atypical parkinsonian syndromes, such as multiple system atrophy (MSA) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Using multiple disease-related networks for PD, MSA, and PSP, we have developed a novel, fully automated algorithm for accurate classification at the single-patient level, even at early disease stages.
Ghrelin is a circulating growth-hormone-releasing and appetite-inducing brain-gut peptide. It is a known natural ligand of the growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R). Ghrelin is acylated on its serine 3 residue by ghrelin O-acyltransferase (GOAT). The acylation is essential for its orexigenic and adipogenic effects. Ghrelin exerts its central orexigenic effect through activation of various hypothalamic and brain stem neurons. Several new intracellular targets/mediators of the appetite-inducing effect of ghrelin in the hypothalamus have recently been identified, including the AMP-activated protein kinase, its upstream kinase calmodulin kinase kinase 2, components of the fatty acid pathway and the uncoupling protein 2. The ghrelin/GOAT/GHS-R system is now recognised as a potential target for the development of anti-obesity treatment. Ghrelin regulates the function of the anterior pituitary through stimulation of secretion not only of growth hormone, but also of adrenocorticotrophin and prolactin. The implication of ghrelin and its receptor in the pathogenesis of the neuroendocrine tumors will also be discussed in this review.
Dysregulation of the stress system, including the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and the locus caeruleus/norepinephrine-sympathetic nervous system (SNS), is involved in the pathophysiology of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), an anxiety disorder that develops after exposure to traumatic life events. Neuroendocrine studies in individuals with PTSD have demonstrated elevated basal cerebrospinal fluid corticotropin-releasing hormone concentrations and contradictory results from peripheral measurements, exhibiting low 24 hours excretion of urinary free cortisol, low or normal circulating cortisol levels or even high plasma cortisol levels. The direction of HPA axis activity (hyper-/or hypo-activation), as evidenced by peripheral cortisol measures, may depend on variables such as genetic vulnerability and epigenetic changes, age and developmental stage of the individual, type and chronicity of trauma, co-morbid depression or other psychopathology, alcohol or other drug abuse and time since the traumatic experience. On the other hand, peripheral biomarkers of the SNS activity are more consistent, showing increased 24h urinary or plasma catecholamines in PTSD patients compared to control individuals. Chronically disturbed hormones in PTSD may contribute to brain changes and further emotional and behavior symptoms and disorders, as well as to an increased cardiometabolic risk.
Aromatase is the enzyme that catalyzes the last step of estrogen biosynthesis. It is expressed in many tissues such as the gonads, brain and adipose tissue. The regulation of the level and activity of aromatase determines the levels of estrogens that have endocrine, paracrine and autocrine effects on tissues. Estrogens play many roles in the body, regulating reproduction, metabolism and behavior. In the brain, cell survival and the activity of neurons are affected by estrogens and hence aromatase.
Recent upsurge in research has uncovered distinct circuitries that regulate appetite, energy expenditure and fat accrual under the supervision of hormonal feedback signalling of adipocyte leptin and gastric ghrelin in the hypothalamic integration of energy homeostasis. A host of messenger molecules of diverse chemical composition and origin mediate the crosstalk between the three circuitries. Leptin is now recognized as the mandatory afferent signal in maintenance of weight homeostasis. Leptin insufficiency in the hypothalamus due to diminished transport of leptin across the blood-brain barrier (BBB) imposed by environmental causes, such as consumption of energy-enriched diets and diminished energy expenditure, orchestrates unregulated fat accrual and the attendant disease cluster of metabolic syndrome. Bioavailability of leptin selectively in the hypothalamic targets with the aid of gene therapy successfully averted the environmentally induced metabolic afflictions and normalized lifespan. Thus, sustenance of optimal sufficiency in leptin signalling solely in the hypothalamus is a novel strategy to combat the worldwide epidemic of obesity and metabolic syndrome.
Glycolipids act as receptors for a wide range of antibodies, lectins and microbes. It has long been recognised that the local topography of glycolipids in the plasma membrane is critical to these recognition events, although the biological basis for this has been relatively under-investigated. Within the last five years, emerging evidence indicates that hetero-dimeric clusters of different glycolipids can form highly distinct and specific epitopes for antibody and lectin binding. The initial observation that these ganglioside complexes (GSC) could either dramatically enhance or equally well inhibit the binding of neuropathy sera has now been reproduced for a number of other lectins, including siglecs and bacterial toxins. Here we review the initial discovery of GSC as antibody binding domains and the subsequent studies delineating their broader functional importance. Potential mechanisms underlying these effects are considered, although much remains to be investigated and explained. However, the implications for this field are potentially widespread, ranging from glycoarray design, structural biology and membrane biophysics, through to the biological consequences of glycolipid complex organisation in plasma membranes.

Bruch's membrane (BM) is a unique pentalaminar structure, which is strategically located between the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and the fenestrated choroidal capillaries of the eye. BM is an elastin- and collagen-rich extracellular matrix that acts as a molecular sieve. BM partly regulates the reciprocal exchange of biomolecules, nutrients, oxygen, fluids and metabolic waste products between the retina and the general circulation. Accumulating evidence suggests that the molecular, structural and functional properties of BM are dependent on age, genetic constitution, environmental factors, retinal location and disease state. As a result, part of the properties of BM are unique to each human individual at a given age, and therefore uniquely affect the development of normal vision and ocular disease. The changes occurring in BM with age include increased calcification of elastic fibres, increased cross-linkage of collagen fibres and increased turnover of glycosaminoglycans. In addition, advanced glycation end products (AGEs) and fat accumulate in BM. These age-related changes may not only influence the normal age-related health of photoreceptor cells, but also the onset and progression of diseases like retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Undoubtedly, BM is the site of drusen development. Confluent drusen and uncontrolled activation of the complement cascade are most likely the first signs of AMD. Furthermore, the nature of adhesive interactions between the RPE and BM are instrumental in the development of retinal detachments and proliferative retinal disease. Finally, BM is passively or actively involved in a range of other retinal disorders such as Pseudoxanthoma elasticum (PXE), Sorsby's Fundus Dystrophy and Malattia Leventinese. Here, we review the dynamic nature of Bruch's membrane, from molecule to man, during development, aging and disease. We propose a simple and straightforward nomenclature for BM deposits. Finally, we attempt to correlate recently published mRNA expression profiles of the RPE and choroid with molecular, structural and functional properties of BM. Our review may shed light on the complex involvement of BM in retinal pathology, notably age-related macular degeneration.
Retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells, derived from the neuroectoderm, biosynthesize the novel lipid mediator neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1) from docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in response to oxidative stress or to neurotrophins, and in turn, elicits cytoprotection. Here, we report the identification of a 16,17-epoxide-containing intermediate in the biosynthesis of NPD1 in ARPE-19 cells from 17S-hydro-(peroxy)-docosahexaenoic acid. We prepared and isolated tritium-labeled NPD1 ([(3)H]-NPD1) and demonstrate specific and high-affinity stereoselective binding to ARPE-19 cells (K(d)=31.3+/-13.1 pmol/mg of cell protein). The stereospecific NPD1 interactions with these cells in turn gave potent protection against oxidative stress-induced apoptosis, and other structurally related compounds were weak competitors of NPD1 specific binding. This [(3)H]-NPD1/PD1 also displayed specific and selective high affinity binding with isolated human neutrophils (K(d) approximately 25 nM). Neither resolvin E1 nor lipoxin A(4) competed for [(3)H]-NPD1/PD1 specific binding with human neutrophils. Together, these results provide evidence for stereoselective specific binding of NPD1/PD1 with retinal pigment epithelial cells as well as human neutrophils. Moreover, they suggest specific receptors for this novel mediator in both the immune and visual systems.



Bipolar disorder is a chronic mental illness with a profound personal and public health costs attached to it. The majority of patients suffering from bipolar disorder have an onset prior to the fifth decade of their lives. However, a significant number of patients have onset of illness after age 50, commonly referred to as late-onset bipolar disorder. Age of onset can have a significant impact on the nature and course of bipolar illness. We present an interesting case of late-onset bipolar disorder while evaluating secondary mania. The patient was a 76-year-old African American woman who presented with religious and sexual preoccupations, reduced requirement of sleep, and auditory hallucinations. Magnetic resonance imaging scans of the brain revealed diffuse atrophy and two localized lesions on T2 weighted images. Diagnosing late-onset bipolar disorder requires a meticulous assessment for all the potential secondary causes. This might be challenging given the number of confounding agents and the attached cost. Nevertheless, thorough work-up to rule out secondary causes remains the centerpiece of correctly diagnosing and effectively treating late-onset bipolar disorder.
Despite significant advances in the field of social neuroscience, much remains to be understood regarding the development and maintenance of social skills across the life span. Few comprehensive models exist that integrate multidisciplinary perspectives and explain the multitude of factors that influence the emergence and expression of social skills. Here, a developmental biopsychosocial model (SOCIAL) is offered that incorporates the biological underpinnings and socio-cognitive skills that underlie social function (attention/executive function, communication, socio-emotional skills), as well as the internal and external (environmental) factors that mediate these skills. The components of the model are discussed in the context of the social brain network and are supported by evidence from 3 conditions known to affect social functioning (autism spectrum disorders, schizophrenia, and traumatic brain injury). This integrative model is intended to provide a theoretical structure for understanding the origins of social dysfunction and the factors that influence the emergence of social skills through childhood and adolescence in both healthy and clinical populations.

Replies to the comments by Plaut and McClelland and Quian Quiroga and Kreiman on the authors original article both challenged my characterization of localist and distributed representations. They also challenged the biological plausibility of grandmother cells on conceptual and empirical grounds. This reply addresses these issues in turn. The premise of my argument is that grandmother cells in neuroscience are the equivalent of localist representations in psychology. When defined in this way, grandmother cells are biologically plausible, given the neuroscience to date. By contrast, the neurophysiology is shown to be inconsistent with the distributed representations often learned in existing parallel distributed processing (PDP) models, and it poses a challenge to PDP theories more generally.
The connectionist triangle model of reading aloud proposes that semantic activation of phonology is particularly important for correct pronunciation of low-frequency exception words. Our consideration of this issue (Woollams, Lambon Ralph, Plaut, &amp; Patterson, 2007) reported computational simulations demonstrating that reduction and disruption of this semantic activation resulted in the marked deficit in low-frequency exception word reading that is characteristic of surface dyslexia. We then presented 100 observations of reading aloud from 51 patients with semantic dementia (SD) demonstrating a universal decline into surface dyslexia, a phenomenon we termed &quot;SD-squared.&quot; Coltheart, Tree, and Saunders have more recently provided a simulation of the SD-squared data within the dual route cascaded (DRC) model, achieved by varying the amount of damage to components of the lexical and nonlexical pathways. Although they suggested that these simulations provide a closer fit to the SD patients' reading data than our own, we demonstrate here that this is not the case. Moreover, we argue that the connectionist triangle model account has substantially greater explanatory and predictive power than the DRC account.
Involuntary images and visual memories are prominent in many types of psychopathology. Patients with posttraumatic stress disorder, other anxiety disorders, depression, eating disorders, and psychosis frequently report repeated visual intrusions corresponding to a small number of real or imaginary events, usually extremely vivid, detailed, and with highly distressing content. Both memory and imagery appear to rely on common networks involving medial prefrontal regions, posterior regions in the medial and lateral parietal cortices, the lateral temporal cortex, and the medial temporal lobe. Evidence from cognitive psychology and neuroscience implies distinct neural bases to abstract, flexible, contextualized representations (C-reps) and to inflexible, sensory-bound representations (S-reps). We revise our previous dual representation theory of posttraumatic stress disorder to place it within a neural systems model of healthy memory and imagery. The revised model is used to explain how the different types of distressing visual intrusions associated with clinical disorders arise, in terms of the need for correct interaction between the neural systems supporting S-reps and C-reps via visuospatial working memory. Finally, we discuss the treatment implications of the new model and relate it to existing forms of psychological therapy.
The model presents neurobiologically plausible accounts of sound recognition (including absolute pitch), neural plasticity involved in pitch, loudness and location information integration, and streaming and auditory recall. It is proposed that a cortical mechanism for sound identification modulates the spectrotemporal response fields of inferior colliculus neurons and regulates the encoding of the echoic trace in the thalamus. Identification involves correlation of sequential spectral slices of the stimulus-driven neural activity with stored representations in association with multimodal memories, verbal lexicons, and contextual information. Identities are then consolidated in auditory short-term memory and bound with attribute information (usually pitch, loudness, and direction) that has been integrated according to the identities' spectral properties. Attention to, or recall of, a particular identity will excite a particular sequence in the identification hierarchies and so lead to modulation of thalamus and inferior colliculus neural spectrotemporal response fields. This operates as an adaptive filter for identities, or their attributes, and explains many puzzling human auditory behaviors, such as the cocktail party effect, selective attention, and continuity illusions.
We draw on the theory of allostasis to develop an integrative model of the current stress process that highlights the brain as a dynamically adapting interface between the changing environment and the biological self. We review evidence that the core emotional regions of the brain constitute the primary mediator of the well-established association between stress and health, as well as the neural focus of wear and tear due to ongoing adaptation. This mediation, in turn, allows us to model the interplay over time between context, current stressor exposure, internal regulation of bodily processes, and health outcomes. We illustrate how this approach facilitates the integration of current findings in human neuroscience and genetics with key constructs from stress models from the social and life sciences, with implications for future research and the design of interventions targeting individuals at risk.
The current study tested the widespread assumption that holistic processing is important for the identification of upright faces. In two experiments, we show that (a) there are large individual differences in the magnitude of the composite face effect and face-identification accuracy and (b) the correlation between the magnitude of the composite face effect and face-identification accuracy is essentially zero. These findings are inconsistent with the claim that holistic processing, as indexed by the composite face effect, significantly influences accuracy in a face-identification task.




We previously reported a novelty P3 reduction in depressed patients compared to healthy controls (n=20 per group) in a novelty oddball task using a 31-channel montage. In an independent replication and extension using a 67-channel montage (n=49 per group), reference-free current source density (CSD) waveforms were simplified and quantified by a temporal, covariance-based principal components analysis (PCA) (unrestricted Varimax rotation), yielding factor solutions consistent with other oddball tasks. A factor with a loadings peak at 343 ms summarized the target P3b source as well as a secondary midline frontocentral source for novels and targets. An earlier novelty vertex source (NVS) at 241 ms was present for novels, but not targets, and was reduced in patients. Compatible CSD-PCA findings were also confirmed for the original low-density sample. Results are consistent with a reduced novelty response in clinical depression, involving the early phase of the frontocentral novelty P3.



The present study aimed at testing, by means of a response-effect compatibility paradigm, whether finger-numeral representations derived from finger counting may underlie simple arithmetic problem solving in adults. Participants were asked to provide a verbal response to simple additions, which triggered the presentation of the correct (Experiment 1) or an incorrect (Experiment 2) response, displayed either as a configuration of fingers or as a series of rods. Answers were faster with finger configurations than with rods, and only when the finger configuration showed the correct result. These findings support the idea that, even in adults, simple arithmetic operations are still unconsciously underlain by finger-numeral representations.
Cognitive dysfunction develops in approximately 50% of patients who receive fractionated whole-brain irradiation and survive 6 months or more. The mechanisms underlying these deficits are unknown. A recent study demonstrated that treatment with the angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist (AT(1)RA) L-158,809 before, during and after fractionated whole-brain irradiation prevents or ameliorates radiation-induced cognitive deficits in adult rats. Given that (1) AT(1)RAs may function as anti-inflammatory drugs, (2) inflammation is thought to contribute to radiation injury, and (3) radiation-induced inflammation alters progenitor cell populations, we tested whether the cognitive benefits of L-158,809 treatment were associated with amelioration of the sustained neuroinflammation and changes in neurogenesis that are induced by fractionated whole-brain irradiation. In rats examined 28 and 54 weeks after irradiation, L-158,809 treatment did not alter the effects of radiation on the number and activation of microglia in the perirhinal cortex and hippocampus, nor did it prevent the radiation-induced decrease in proliferating cells and immature neurons in the hippocampus. These findings suggest that L-158,809 does not prevent or ameliorate radiation-induced cognitive deficits by modulation of chronic inflammatory mechanisms, but rather may reduce radiation-induced changes that occur earlier in the postirradiation period and that lead to cognitive dysfunction.

Despite the intensive recent research in cancer therapy, the prognosis in patients affected by high-grade gliomas is still very unfavorable. The efficacy of classical anti-cancer strategies is seriously limited by lack of specific therapies against malignant cells. The extracellular matrix plays a pivotal role in processes such as differentiation, apoptosis, and migration in both the normal and the pathologic nervous system. Glial tumors seem to be able to create a favorable environment for the invasion of glioma cells in cerebral parenchyma when they combine with the extracellular matrix via cell surface receptors. Glioma cells synthesize matrix proteins, such as tenascin, laminin, fibronectin that facilitate the tumor cell's motility. New treatments have shown to hit the acting molecules in the tumor growth and to increase the efficacy and minimize the toxicity. Antisense oligonucleotides are synthetic stretches of DNA which hybridize with specific mRNA strands. The specificity of hybridization makes antisense method an interesting strategy to selectively modulate the expression of genes involved in tumorigenesis. In this review we will focus on the mechanisms of action of antisense oligonucleotides and report clinical and experimental studies on the treatment of high-grade gliomas. We will also report the patents of preclinical and/or clinical studies that adopt the antisense oligonucleotide therapy list in cerebral gliomas.
Voltage-gated calcium channels are one of the major ion channels distributed in the human central nervous system, and mediate an influx of extracellular Ca(2+) in response to membrane depolarization. Calcium channels are of particular interest in a broad range of cellular functions including cell proliferation and differentiation, gene expression, neurite outgrowth, transmitter and hormone release, and brain plasticity. The dysfunction of calcium channels is related to a variety of clinical disorders such as migraine, hemiplegia, and epilepsy. Therefore, calcium channels have gained great pharmaceutical interest as a privileged target class for the treatment of a wide range of human diseases. This review will examine the known marketed peptide drugs for calcium channels and address the development of some important patented peptide molecules targeting calcium channels.
Male mouse urine contains 17beta-oestradiol (E(2)) and other steroids. Given that males actively direct urine at proximate females and intrauterine implantation of blastocysts is vulnerable to minute amounts of exogenous oestrogens, males' capacity to disrupt early pregnancy could be mediated by steroids in their urine. When male mice were implanted with osmotic pumps containing tritium-labelled E(2) ((3)H-E(2)) or injected i.p. with (3)H-E(2), radioactivity was reliably detected in their urine. Following intranasal administration of (3)H-E(2) to inseminated females, radioactivity was detected in diverse tissue samples, with there being significantly more in reproductive tissues than in brain tissues. When urine was taken from males injected with (3)H-E(2), and then intranasally administered to inseminated females, radioactivity was detected in the uterus, olfactory bulbs, and mesencephalon and diencephalon (MC+DC). When inseminated and ovariectomised females were perfused at the point of killing to remove blood from tissues, more radioactivity was detected in the uterus than in muscle, olfactory bulbs, MC+DC and cerebral cortex. Pre-treatment with unlabelled E(2) significantly reduced the uptake of (3)H-E(2) in the uterus. Taken with evidence that males deliver their urine to the nasal area of females, these results indicate that male urinary E(2) arrives in tissues, including the uterus, where it could lead to the disruption of blastocyst implantation.
The primary objective of this study was to study the impact of ASD/ADHD on general intellectual ability and profile, executive functions and visuo-motor skills in children and adults with 22q11 deletion syndrome (22q11DS). A secondary aim was to study if gender, age, heart disease, ASD, ADHD or ASD in combination with ADHD had an impact on general intellectual ability and profile. One hundred consecutively referred individuals aged 1-35 years with 22q11DS were given in-depth neuropsychological assessments. Mean full scale IQ was 71 with a normal distribution around this mean. Higher IQ for females than males, and a negative trend for IQ with higher age were found. Intellectual impairment, as well as visuo-motor dysfunction, was found to be related to 22q11DS per se and not to ASD/ADHD. In the area of executive function, the presence of ASD/ADHD predicted poor planning ability in the children in the study.
As part of multidisciplinary surveys of three Behavioural Phenotype Conditions (BPCs); Mbius sequence (Mbius), CHARGE syndrome (CHARGE) and oculo-auriculo-vertebral spectrum (OAV), autism spectrum conditions (ASCs) was diagnosed in 45%, 68% and 42% of the individuals, respectively. Diagnostic difficulties due to additional dysfunctions such as mental retardation (MR), impaired vision, reduced hearing and cranial nerve dysfunction, were experienced in all three BPC groups. The applicability of current autism diagnostic instruments, such as the Autism Diagnostic Interview-Revised (ADI-R), the Childhood Autism Rating Scale (CARS) and the Autistic Behaviour Checklist (ABC), in individuals with ASCs and Mbius/CHARGE/OAV was analysed. Use of an extensive battery of diagnostic instruments, including both observational schedules and parent interviews, and, if possible, independent judgements from two clinicians, is essential in the diagnostics of ASCs in these individuals. Further, in individuals who are deaf and blind the applicability of current autism diagnostic instruments is highly questionable.


The journal Restorative Neurology and Neuroscience (RNN) is focused on the emerging field of brain plasticity, repair and rehabilitation, including original and review papers both in basic research (in vitro studies, animal experiments) and in the clinical domain, including brain imaging studies. The publication of special issues on vital topics, summarizing the work of leading experts in the field of restoration and plasticity has become a major strategy of RNN and has attracted worldwide attention. Special issues are typically organized by specialized guest-editors familiar with the respective science field. Special issues cover a particular sub-discipline and often contain laboratory review papers. The first special issue appeared in 1990, and until today RNN has published a total of 25 special issues on a variety of basic science and clinical matters. In this way, RNN promotes the dissemination of information in the field of neuroplasticity, repair and rehabilitation, providing the reader with up-to-date information prepared by leading experts in the field.
Visuospatial processing refers to the spatial perception, recognition and analysis of visual input. Human functional brain imaging studies have consistently revealed the involvement of fronto-parietal brain areas during the execution of visuospatial tasks. Just as the execution of these tasks activates fronto-parietal regions in the healthy brain, lesions to those structures, e.g. after stroke or brain injury, cause specific spatial deficits. The most prominent of these is known as spatial neglect. There are several competing theories on the neural mechanisms underlying spatial neglect. Although each of these theories postulates different underlying physiological mechanisms, they all account in their own way for the fact that the prevalence of neglect is much higher following right hemisphere lesions. This makes it difficult to distinguish between the different models at a behavioural level. Until today, it was impossible to empirically address these matters and to provide direct and conclusive empirical evidence in favour of one of the competing theories of spatial neglect. This review article describes the neural correlates of intact visuospatial processing as revealed by non-invasive functional brain imaging studies. It subsequently focuses on the approach of using the non-invasive brain inference technique of transcranial magnetic brain stimulation (TMS) to transiently and reversibly disrupt neural activity in these visuospatial processing-related brain regions. Using this approach, we can now imitate specific spatial deficits and neglect-like symptoms in healthy volunteers. Mimicking and manipulating the spatial deficits following unilateral brain lesions, under controlled experimental conditions, may allow for the development of new therapeutic interventions for parietal stroke patients suffering from real spatial neglect. The perspective is to use non-invasive brain interference to guide and promote functional recovery on a brain-system level in stroke and neglect patients, based on knowledge directly derived from fundamental brain research in healthy volunteers.
A new patterned repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) protocol, quadripulse stimulation (QPS), can produce a broad range of motor cortical plasticity ranging from MEP suppression to MEP facilitation depending on the interval of the pulses within a burst. In addition to inducing lasting cortical plastic changes, QPS can also be used to evaluate priming effects: when used as a priming stimulation, which does not induce an LTP- or LTD-like phenomena itself, it can nevertheless change the threshold for LTP- or LTD-like plasticity caused by a consecutive stimulation. This enables us to examine metaplasticity theory in more details in humans. Another application of QPS might be to induce symptomatic relief in patients with neurological or psychiatric disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, depression, or intractable pain.

In 2009 the German BMBF (German Ministry of Education and Research) established an Integrated Center for Research and Treatment (IFB(LMU)) of Vertigo, Balance and Ocular Motor Disorders in Munich. After the 10-year period of funding by the BMBF, it is envisioned that the (IFB(LMU)) will continue over the long term with the joint support of the University Hospital, the Medical Faculty, and the Bavarian State. Vertigo is one of the most common complaints in medicine. Despite its high prevalence, patients with vertigo generally receive either inappropriate or inadequate treatment. This deplorable situation is internationally well known and its causes are multiple: insufficient interdisciplinary cooperation, no standardized diagnostics and therapy, the failure to translate findings of basic science into clinical applications, and the scarcity of clinical multicenter studies. The (IFB(LMU)) will constitute a suitable tool with which these structural, clinical, and scientific deficits can be overcome. It will also make possible the establishment of an international interdisciplinary referral center. Munich has become the site of a unique concentration of leading experts on vertigo, balance and ocular motor disorders, both in the clinical and basic sciences. Academic structures have paved the way for the creation of an interdisciplinary horizontal network that also allows structured, vertical academic career paths via the Bachelor's and Master's degree programs in Neuroscience, a Graduate School of Systemic Neurosciences, and the Munich Center for Neurosciences - Brain and Mind. The (IFB(LMU)) has the following objectives as regards structure and content: to create an independent patient-oriented clinical research center under the auspices of the Medical Faculty but with autonomous administration and budget; to overcome existing clinical and academic barriers separating the traditional specializations; to establish a standardized interdisciplinary longitudinal and transversal network at one site for the management of patients. This should professionalize both the management and the international recruitment of patients (integrated care, telemedicine); to organize the study infrastructure for prospective multicenter clinical studies as well as to free clinical scientists from administrative tasks; to promote translational research with a focus on the innovative topics of molecular, functional and structural imaging, experimental and clinical pharmacotherapy, clinical research of vertigo and balance disorders, mathematical modelling, interaction between biological and technical systems (robotics), and research on functionality and the quality of life; to offer new attractive educational paths and career images for medical doctors, students of the natural sciences, and engineers in clinical research in order to overcome traditional hierarchical structures. This should promote the principles of efficiency and self-reliance; to supplement the existing excellence with up to eight groups of young scientists and up to eight professorships (tenure track). This should also be seen as an incentive that will attract the best young scientists; to incorporate (IFB(LMU)) competence into the existing medical and biological graduate schools. The (IFB(LMU)) is a unique center - worldwide.
In this review we present a pragmatic approach to the patient with chronic vestibular symptoms. Even in the chronic patient a retrospective diagnosis should be attempted, in order to establish how the patient reached the current situation. Simple questions are likely to establish if the chronic dizzy symptoms started as benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), vestibular neuritis, vestibular migraine, Meniere's disease or as a brainstem stroke. Then it is important to establish if the original symptoms are still present, in which case they need to be treated (e.g. repositioning maenouvres for BPPV, migraine prophylaxis) or if you are only dealing with chronic dizzy symptoms. In addition the doctor or physiotherapist needs to establish if the process of central vestibular compensation has been impeded due to additional clinical problems, e.g. visual problems (squints, cataract operation), proprioceptive deficit (neuropathy due to diabetes or alcohol), additional neurological or orthopaedic problems, lack of mobility or confidence, such as fear of falling or psychological disorders. A general neurological examination should also be conducted, amongst other reasons to make sure your patient's ;chronic dizziness' is not due to a neurological gait disorder. Treatment of the syndrome of chronic dizziness is multidisciplinary but rehabilitation and simple counselling should be available to all patients. In contrast, vestibular suppressants or tranquilisers should be reduced or, if possible, stopped.
The long-term course and the frequency of relapses for various peripheral vestibular disorders and somatoform phobic postural vertigo are discussed with respect to the clinically most important questions for thus afflicted patients. This review is mainly based on our own long-term follow-up studies and takes into consideration the most relevant literature. The following syndromes are discussed in detail. Vestibular neuritis: the recovery rate of peripheral vestibular function lies between 40-63% depending on early-onset treatment with corticosteroids; the recurrence rate within 10 years is 2%. Menire's disease} loss of auditory and vestibular function occurs mainly in the first 5 to 10 years; frequency of vertigo attacks may decline after 5 to 10 years; bilateral involvement increases with increasing duration of the condition in up to 30-50%; vestibular drop attacks may occur early or late within the course, mostly with spontaneous remission; high-dose and long-term treatment with betahistine significantly reduces attack frequency in Menire's disease, Benign paroxysmal positioning vertigo: the recurrence rate is 50% within 10 years (in females 58%, in males 39%), most recurrences (80%) being observed within the first year after initial relief; recurrence rate in the seventh decade is half of that in the sixth decade. Vestibular paroxysmia: medical treatment with carbamazepine or oxcarbazepine leads to a continuous significant reduction in attack frequency, intensity, and duration of 10-15% of baseline. Bilateral vestibulopathy: recovery of vestibular function is limited to single cases depending on their etiology. Phobic postural vertigo: within 5 to 16 years 27% of the patients are symptom-free, 48% improve, 22% remain unchanged, and 3% worsen; a detailed explanation of the mechanisms that cause and the factors that provoke attacks is imperative, as well as instructions for self-controlled desensitization within the context of behavioral therapy.
The German BMBF (German Ministry of Education and Research) has decided to establish an Integrated Center for Research and Treatment (IFB(LMU)) of Vertigo, Balance and Ocular Motor Disorders in Munich in 2010. With funding of 50 euros million over a ten-year period, the long-term continuation of the IFB(LMU) is envisioned.
The voltage-gated potassium channel, Kv1.3, contributes a large proportion of the current in mitral cell neurons of the olfactory bulb where it assists to time the firing patterns of action potentials as spike clusters that are important for odorant detection. Gene-targeted deletion of the Kv1.3 channel, produces a &quot;super-smeller&quot; phenotype, whereby mice are additionally resistant to diet- and genetically-induced obesity. As assessed via an electrophysiological slice preparation of the olfactory bulb, Kv1.3 is modulated via energetically important molecules - such as insulin and glucose - contributing to the body's metabolic response to fat intake. We discuss a biophysical characterization of modulated synaptic communication in the slice following acute glucose and insulin stimulation, chronic elevation of insulin in mice that are in a conscious state, and induction of diet-induced obesity. We have discovered that Kv1.3 contributes an unusual nonconducting role - the detection of metabolic state.
Sweet taste perception is important for animals to detect carbohydrate source of calories and has a critical role in the nutritional status of animals. Recent studies demonstrated that sweet taste responses can be modulated by leptin and endocannabinoids [anandamide (N-arachidonoylethanolamine) and 2-arachidonoyl glycerol]. Leptin is an anorexigenic mediator that reduces food intake by acting on hypothalamic receptor, Ob-Rb. Leptin is shown to selectively suppress sweet taste responses in wild-type mice but not in leptin receptor-deficient db/db mice. In marked contrast, endocannabinoids are orexigenic mediators that act via CB(1) receptors in hypothalamus and limbic forebrain to induce appetite and stimulate food intake. In the peripheral taste system, endocannabinoids also oppose the action of leptin and enhance sweet taste sensitivities in wild-type mice but not in mice genetically lacking CB(1) receptors. These findings indicate that leptin and endocannabinoids not only regulate food intake via central nervous systems but also may modulate palatability of foods by altering peripheral sweet taste responses via their cognate receptors.
Natural killer (NK) cells and invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells are two distinctive lymphocyte populations, each possessing its own unique features. Although NK cells are innate lymphocytes with cytotoxic property, they play an immunoregulatory role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. NKT cells are T cells expressing invariant TCR a-chains, which are known to bridge innate and adaptive arms of the immune system. Accumulating data now support active involvement of these cells in multiple sclerosis (MS). However, unlike professionally committed regulatory cells such as Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells, NK, and iNKT cells have dual potential of acting as either protective or pathogenic lymphocytes depending on the disease setting, adding complexity to the interpretation of data obtained from human and rodent studies. They are potential therapeutic targets in MS, and further in-depth understanding of these cells will lead to designing new strategies to overcome the disabling disease MS.
After many years of slow progress in the genetic analysis of complex diseases, including multiple sclerosis (MS), the past few years have eventually seen the first steps of turning a frustrating quest into a success story with the identification of a rapidly increasing number of confirmed disease promoting or protecting genetic variants. The principal reason for the change in situation is numbers: number of individuals assessed in the studies and number of genetic variations available for genotyping. In short, we now know that it takes thousands of patients to identify new genes but also to pinpoint the complex interplay of several genetic factors within the strongest genetic locus in MS, the HLA gene complex. However, the mission is not completed until the gene identification has been translated into useful understanding of disease mechanisms, and this is likely to necessitate further methodological progress as well as hard work in functional studies. Obviously, the reason for gene identification is never going to be genetic counseling or prenatal diagnosis as not even full knowledge of the genetic background on MS will allow even 30% accuracy in disease prediction, i.e., the concordance rate in female monozygotic twins. Therefore, it is only in the way that risk genes reveal details of disease triggering events, or that severity genes influence mechanisms driving the tissue damage, that genetic information is likely to be useful.
In the last few years there has been extraordinary progress in the field of stem cell research. Two types of stem cells populate the bone marrow: haematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSC) and mesenchymal stem cells (MSC). The capacity of HSC to repopulate the blood has been known and exploited therapeutically for at least four decades. Today, haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) holds a firm place in the therapy of some haematological malignancies, and a potential role of HSCT for treatment of severe autoimmune diseases has been explored in small-scale clinical studies. Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the noncancerous immune mediated disease for which the greatest number of transplants has been performed to date. The results of clinical studies are double-faced: on the one hand, HSCT has demonstrated powerful effects on acute inflammation, arresting the development of focal CNS lesions and clinical relapses; on the other hand, the treatment did not arrest chronic worsening of disability in most patients with secondary progressive MS, suggesting limited or no beneficial effects on the chronic processes causing progressive disability. MSC are a more recent addition to the range of experimental therapies being developed to treat MS. While interest in MSC usage was originally raised by their potential capacity to differentiate into different cell lineages, recent work showing their interesting immunological properties has led to a revised concept, envisioning their utilization for immuno-modulatory purposes. In this review we will summarize the current clinical and experimental evidence on HSC and MSC and outline some key questions warranting further investigation in this exciting research area.

Botulinum toxin is a multi-molecular complex comprised of a neuro-active moiety (i.e. botulinum neurotoxin) and several associated non-toxic proteins. The toxin dissociates rapidly at plasmatic pH, thereby releasing neurotoxin. Nerve terminals only take up the neurotoxin. In the peripheral nerve system, the neurotoxin mainly blocks acetylcholine release. When acting at the neuromuscular junctions, this results in paralysis of the muscle fibers. The duration of the neurotoxin action is mainly determined by the life-time of neurotoxin molecules inside the nerve terminals. Inhibition of cholinergic transmission induces rapid atrophy of the muscle fibres, and, sometimes, sprouting from poisoned nerve terminals. These effects, as well as the acetylcholine release blockade are entirely reversible. When injected in the periphery, a direct action of botulinum neurotoxin in the central nervous system remains unlikely despite its retrograde ascent demonstrated in animal models. However, indirect effects are numerous. The constituting proteins of the toxin complex can lead to immunisation against the non-toxic associated proteins and neurotoxin. Only the antibodies directed against neurotoxin are potentially neutralizing.
Gap junctions (GJs) are channels that allow the diffusion of ions and small molecules across apposed cell membranes. In peripheral nerves, Schwann cells express the GJ proteins connexin32 (Cx32) and Cx29, which have distinct localizations. Cx32 forms GJs through non-compact myelin areas, whereas Cx29 forms hemichannels in the innermost layers of myelin apposing axonal Shaker-type K+ channels. In the CNS, rodent oligodendrocytes express Cx47, Cx32 and Cx29. Cx47 is expressed by all types of oligodendrocytes both in the white and grey matter and forms GJs on cell bodies and proximal processes, as well as most of the intercellular channels with astrocytes. Cx32 is expressed mostly by white matter oligodendrocytes and is localized in the myelin sheath of large diameter fibers. Cx29, and its human ortholog Cx31.3, appear to be restricted to oligodendrocytes that myelinate small caliber fibers, likely forming hemichannels. The importance of intercellular and intracellular GJs in myelinating cells are demonstrated by human disorders resulting from mutations affecting GJ proteins. The X-linked Charcot Marie Tooth disease (CMT1X) is caused by hundreds of mutations affecting Cx32. Patients with CMT1X present mainly with a progressive peripheral neuropathy, which may be accompanied by CNS myelin dysfunction. Mutations in Cx47 may cause a devastating leukodystrophy called Pelizaeus-Merzbacher-like disease or a milder spastic paraplegia. In addition, CNS demyelination may be caused by defects in genes expressing astrocytic GJ proteins, which are essential for oligodendrocytes. Findings from in vitro and in vivo models of these disorders developed over the last decade indicate that most mutations cause loss of function and an inability of the mutant connexins to form functional GJs. Here we review the clinical, genetic, and neurobiological aspects of GJ disorders affecting the PNS and CNS myelinating cells.
Estradiol (E2) is a potent neuroactive steroid that acts through both nuclear and membrane estrogen receptors (ER) found widely distributed in the brain. Although long known for its role in the neural control of reproduction, more recent work demonstrates that E2 also affects learning and memory, as well as anxiety and depressive symptoms. These findings prompted studies on the neural consequences of long-term E2 deprivation in postmenopausal women. Despite hundreds of studies in animal models and women, the advisability of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) for neuroprotection remains a contentious issue because the effects of estrogen vary among studies. One difficulty in reconciling the conflicting results is the lack of integration across the neuroscience sub-disciplines that contribute to the field. To address this issue, we first review data on E2 regulation of cognition and mood, as well as on factors that may contribute to the disparate findings across studies. GABA and glutamate are proximal regulators of cognition and mood; therefore we next review review data showing that E2 acts through nuclear- and membrane-initiated mechanisms to regulate GABA and glutamate signaling, respectively. We also review evidence that these E2 signaling mechanisms change with age. Finally, we propose a molecular and cellular model of how E2 can have positive, negative, or no effects on neural functions in the aging brain, and we highlight the current gaps in the literature. Addressing these gaps will facilitate development of the mechanism-based strategies needed for designing more effective HRT regimens.
Our ability to learn relies on the potential of the neocortex to change its neuronal circuits through experience. This change is mediated by the loss or formation of synaptic contacts or the adjustment of their synaptic strength. In recent decades, the primary visual cortex has proven an excellent system for studying structure/function relationships during plasticity in the neocortex. Here we describe current knowledge about the structural changes in inhibitory or excitatory synapses that accompany experience dependent plasticity in the visual cortex. We discuss unresolved issues and technical developments that will help to provide answers in the near future.
Recent reports have drawn attention to dysfunctions of intrinsic neuronal excitability and network activity in Alzheimer disease (AD). Here we review the possible causes of these basic dysfunctions and implications for AD, based on in vitro and in vivo findings. We then review the current therapeutic approaches particularly linked to the issue of neuronal excitability in AD. Conclusion: AD is a complex, neurodegenerative disorder. Hippocampal synaptic dysfunction is an early feature of the degenerative process that is clearly linked to memory impairment, the first and major symptom of AD. A growing body of evidence points toward a dysfunction of neuronal networks. Intrinsic neuronal excitability, mainly through profound dysregulation of calcium homeostasis, appears to be largely affected. Consequently, neuronal communication is disturbed. Such cellular defects might underlie cognitive manifestations like fluctuations in cognitive impairment and might also explain several observations obtained with EEG, MEG, MRI, or PET studies, leading to the concept of a disconnection syndrome in AD.
Learning, memory, and recovery from various neurological insults occur by a process known as neuroplasticity. Neuroplastic changes occur by a variety of physiological processes that modify central nervous system structure and function. The ability to non-invasively induce neuroplastic change in humans is developing as an exciting new field in neuroscience and may ultimately improve treatment outcomes for those suffering various neurological conditions reliant on neuroplasticity for recovery of function. The induction of neuroplastic changes is influenced by several factors, and do not occur evenly throughout the day, but appear to be under circadian control. This review will discuss the known mechanisms and techniques used to induce neuroplasticity, circadian modulation of neuroplasticity, and will discuss the potential implications of these findings for human neurorehabilitation.
Working memory (WM) is the limited capacity storage system involved in the maintenance and manipulation of information over short periods of time. WM plays a key role in a wide range of higher order cognitive functions and its impairment is observed in a wide range of psychiatric or neurological disorders, making it clinically important. Intensive adaptive training of WM has been shown to enhance individual WM. In this article, we review the studies and describe the methodologies of WM training, along with the psychological, clinical, and neuroimaging findings related to WM training. Training of WM is associated with a wide range of cognitive improvements in non-clinical and clinical subjects, although, on certain points, the results are divided. In clinical studies, training of WM was associated with an improvement of clinical symptoms outside the laboratory. Neuroimaging studies of WM training revealed the effect of WM training on the neural systems of the fronto-parietal network, which play a key role in WM. Still, a number of important issues remain uninvestigated, and we anticipate that future studies will solve these issues.
Autophagic vacuolar myopathy (AVM) is an entity defined by the presence of autophagic vacuoles on muscle pathology. There are two emerging categories in AVM in addition to the best characterized Pompe disease. One is Danon disease and its related disorders, which are characterized by autophagic vacuoles with unique sarcolemmal features (AVSF). AVSF express virtually all sarcolemmal proteins, in addition to acetylcholinesterase, on their vacuolar membranes. Danon disease is caused by primary deficiency of a lysosomal membrane protein, LAMP-2. Interestingly, in this disease, the number of AVSF increases as the patients age. Other AVSF myopathies include X-linked myopathy with excessive autophagy which is now known to be caused by VMA21 mutations. The other AVM is typified by the presence of rimmed vacuoles, which are actually clusters of autophagic vacuoles on electron microscopy. One of the well known diseases in this group is distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV), also called hereditary inclusion body myopathy (HIBM). DMRV is caused by mutations in GNE gene that encode a rate-limiting enzyme in the sialic acid biosynthetic pathway. Interestingly, in DMRV model mice, sialic acid supplementation almost completely precluded the disease phenotype, indicating that decreased sialic acid is the cause of myopathic phenotype and sialic acid supplementation can prevent the disease process. Interestingly, both genetically diagnosable AVSF myopathies are primarily due to lysosomal dysfunctions. In contrast, rimmed vacuoles are secondarily caused by extra-lysosomal defects, such as hyposialylation in DMRV/HIBM, and are formed at later stages of the disease.
We described thirteen typologies of the therapist countertransference toward the patient with mental disorder and violent behavior. The purpose of this study is to improve: a) the ability of the therapist to mentalize emotions without any passing to the act; b) the recognition of the patient transference; c) the recognition of the countertransference related to mental disorder and violent behavior.
Klaus Conrad's major contribution to the phenomenology of psychosis focused on the patient's experiences during the prodromal and early psychotic phases of schizophrenia. The literature in English concerning his work is sparse, in part because Conrad's work contains complex concepts that lose much in translation. This communication attempts to clarify Conrad's thought, especially as it pertains to the role of mood and delusions in beginning psychosis and its underlying neurobiology.

Gustav Fechner is widely respected as a founding father of experimental psychology and psychophysics but fewer know of his interests and work in empirical aesthetics. In the later 1800s, toward the end of his career, Fechner performed experiments to empirically evaluate the beauty of rectangles, hypothesizing that the preferred shape would closely match that of the so-called 'golden rectangle'. His findings confirmed his suspicions, but in the intervening decades there has been significant evidence pointing away from that finding. Regardless of the results of this one study, Fechner ushered in the notion of using a metric to evaluate beauty in a psychophysical way. In this paper, we recreate the experiment using more naturalistic stimuli. We evaluate subjects' preferences against models that use various types of object complexity as metrics. Our findings that subjects prefer either very simple or very complex objects runs contrary to the hypothesized results, but are systematic none the less. We conclude that there are likely to be useful measures of aesthetic preference but they are likely to be complicated by the difficulty in defining some of their constituent parts.
Research in multisensory processes has exploded over the last decade. Tremendous advances have been made in a variety of fields from single-unit neural recordings and functional brain imaging through to behaviour, perception and cognition. These diverse approaches have highlighted how the senses work together to produce a coherent multimodal representation of the external world that enables us to function better by exploiting the redundancies and complementarities provided by multiple sensory modalities. With large numbers of new students and researchers being attracted to multisensory research, and the multi-disciplinary nature of the work, our aim in this review is to provide an overview of multisensory processing that includes all fields in a single review. Our intention is to provide a comprehensive source for those interested in learning about multisensory processes, covering a variety of sensory combinations and methodologies, and tracing the path from single-unit neurophysiology through to perception and cognitive functions such as attention and speech.
We are studying how people perceive naturalistic suprathreshold changes in the colour, size, shape or location of items in images of natural scenes, using magnitude estimation ratings to characterise the sizes of the perceived changes in coloured photographs. We have implemented a computational model that tries to explain observers' ratings of these naturalistic differences between image pairs. We model the action-potential firing rates of millions of neurons, having linear and non-linear summation behaviour closely modelled on real VI neurons. The numerical parameters of the model's sigmoidal transducer function are set by optimising the same model to experiments on contrast discrimination (contrast 'dippers') on monochrome photographs of natural scenes. The model, optimised on a stimulus-intensity domain in an experiment reminiscent of the Weber-Fechner relation, then produces tolerable predictions of the ratings for most kinds of naturalistic image change. Importantly, rating rises roughly linearly with the model's numerical output, which represents differences in neuronal firing rate in response to the two images under comparison; this implies that rating is proportional to the neuronal response.

Numerous epigenetic studies have revealed that the acetylated status of histone as well as methylated status of cytosine is closely involved in gene transcription. Preclinical and clinical studies demonstrate that changes in levels of various genes in the brain including BDNF, play a role in the pathophysiology of depression. It is well known that the levels of BDNF mRNA and protein in the rat brain, such as frontal cortex and hippocampus, was decreased in response to stress, but the precise mechanism of stress-induced downregulation of BDNF has yet to be characterized. In this context, we examined the influence of a single immobilization stress (SIS) on the levels of total BDNF mRNA with each exon mRNA by real-time PCR and acetylated histone at the promoters of the BDNF gene by chromatin immunoprecipitaion assay in the rat hippocampus. SIS significantly decreased the levels of total BDNF mRNA with significant reduced levels of exon I and IV mRNA. Significant decreases in acetylated histone H3, but not H4, were found at the promoters of exons I, IV, and VI. On the other hand, antidepressant-like effects has been reported with sodium butylate (SB), a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, promoting gene transcription. We also found antidepressant-like effect of repeated administration of SB in the forced swim test using rats. In addition, we found that upregulation in transthyretin mRNA in the rat hippocampus is, at least in part, associated with this effect using DNA microarray and real-time PCR. Based on these findings, it is postulated that epigenetic regulation of the BDNF gene by stress and antidepressants may be involved in the pathophysiology of depression.

A single lipid vesicle can be regarded as an autonomous ultra-miniaturised 3D biomimetic &quot;scaffold&quot; (13 nm) ideally suited for reconstitution and interrogation of biochemical processes. The enclosing lipid bilayer membrane of a vesicle can be applied for studying binding (protein/lipid or receptor/ligand interactions) or transmembrane events (membrane permeability or ion channel activation) while the aqueous vesicle lumen can be used for confining few or single macromolecules and probe, e.g., protein folding, catalytic pathways of enzymes or more complex biochemical reactions, such as signal transduction cascades. Immobilisation (arraying) of single vesicles on a solid support is an extremely useful technique that allows detailed characterisation of vesicle preparations using surface sensitive techniques, in particular fluorescence microscopy. Surface-based single vesicle arrays allow a plethora of prototypic sensing applications in a high throughput format with high spatial and high temporal resolution. In this review we present a series of applications of single vesicle arrays for screening/sensing of: membrane curvature dependent protein-lipid interactions, bilayer tension, reactions triggered in the vesicle lumen, the activity of transmembrane protein channels and biological membrane fusion reactions.






Prediction error, the difference between an expected and an actual outcome, serves as a learning signal that interacts with reward and punishment value to direct future behavior during reinforcement learning. We hypothesized that similar learning and valuation signals may underlie social expectancy violations. Here, we explore the neural correlates of social expectancy violation signals along the universal person-perception dimensions trait warmth and competence. In this context, social learning may result from expectancy violations that occur when a target is inconsistent with an a priori schema. Expectancy violation may activate neural regions normally implicated in prediction error and valuation during appetitive and aversive conditioning. Using fMRI, we first gave perceivers high warmth or competence behavioral information that led to dispositional or situational attributions for the behavior. Participants then saw pictures of people responsible for the behavior; they represented social groups either inconsistent (rated low on either warmth or competence) or consistent (rated high on either warmth or competence) with the behavior information. Warmth and competence expectancy violations activate striatal regions that represent evaluative and prediction error signals. Social cognition regions underlie consistent expectations. These findings suggest that regions underlying reinforcement learning may work in concert with social cognition regions in warmth and competence social expectancy. This study illustrates the neural overlap between neuroeconomics and social neuroscience.
Self-face recognition is crucial for sense of identity and self-awareness. Finding self-face recognition disorders mainly in neurological and psychiatric diseases suggests that modifying sense of identity in a simple, rapid way remains a &quot;holy grail&quot; for cognitive neuroscience. By touching the face of subjects who were viewing simultaneous touches on a partner's face, we induced a novel illusion of personal identity that we call &quot;enfacement&quot;: The partner's facial features became incorporated into the representation of the participant's own face. Subjects reported that morphed images of themselves and their partner contained more self than other only after synchronous, but not asynchronous, stroking. Therefore, we modified self-face recognition by means of a simple psychophysical manipulation. While accommodating gradual change in one's own face is an important form of representational plasticity that may help maintaining identity over time, the surprisingly rapid changes induced by our procedure suggest that sense of facial identity may be more malleable than previously believed. &quot;Enfacement&quot; correlated positively with the participant's empathic traits and with the physical attractiveness the participants attributed to their partners. Thus, personality variables modulate enfacement, which may represent a marker of the tendency to be social and may be absent in subjects with defective empathy.
Recent functional neuroimaging studies have shown that reflecting on representations of the present self versus temporally distant selves is associated with higher activity in the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC). In the current fMRI study, we investigated whether this effect of temporal perspective is symmetrical between the past and future. The main results revealed that the MPFC showed higher activity when reflecting on the present self than when reflecting on past and future selves, with no difference between past and future selves. Temporal perspective also modulated activity in the right inferior parietal cortex but in the opposite direction, activity in this brain region being higher when reflecting on past and future selves relative to the present self (with again no difference between past and future selves). These findings show that differences in brain activity when thinking about current versus temporally distant selves are symmetrical between the past and the future. It is suggested that by processing degrees of self-relatedness, the MPFC might sustain the process of identifying oneself with current representations of the self, whereas the right inferior parietal cortex might be involved in distinguishing the present self from temporally distant selves.
The pattern of intrauterine growth and size at birth, in particular, programmes the structure and function of tissues later in life in many species, which has important implications for the incidence of adult-onset generative diseases in human populations. In mammals, the main determinant of intrauterine growth is the placental supply of nutrients which, in turn, depends on the size, morphology, transport characteristics and endocrine function of the placenta. However, compared to somatic tissues, little is known about the developmental programming of the placenta. This review examines the epigenetic regulation of placental phenotype with particular emphasis on the nutrient transfer capacity of the ovine placenta and environmental factors shown to cause developmental programming of other tissues. Overall, the placenta is responsive to environmental factors and uses a number of different strategies to adapt its phenotype to help support fetal growth during adverse intrauterine conditions. It is, therefore, not just a passive conduit for nutrient transfer to the fetus but alters its nutrient supply capacity dynamically to optimise fetal nutrient acquisition. Thus, the placental epigenome provides both a memory of environmental conditions experienced during development and an index of the future well being of the offspring.
This paper describes experimental techniques with head-fixed, operantly conditioned rodents that allow the control of stimulus presentation and tracking of motor output at hitherto unprecedented levels of spatio-temporal precision. Experimental procedures for the surgery and behavioral training are presented. We place particular emphasis on potential pitfalls using these procedures in order to assist investigators who intend to engage in this type of experiment. We argue that head-fixed rodent models, by allowing the combination of methodologies from molecular manipulations, intracellular electrophysiology, and imaging to behavioral measurements, will be instrumental in combining insights into the functional neuronal organization at different levels of observation. Provided viable behavioral methods are implemented, model systems based on rodents will be complementary to current primate models--the latter providing highest comparability with the human brain, while the former offer hugely advanced methodologies on the lower levels of organization, for example, genetic alterations, intracellular electrophysiology, and imaging.
Evidence that cell transplants can improve recovery outcomes in spinal cord injury (SCI) models substantiates treatment strategies involving cell replacement for humans with SCI. Most pre-clinical studies of cell replacement in SCI examine thoracic injury models. However, as most human injuries occur at the cervical level, it is critical to assess potential treatments in cervical injury models and examine their effectiveness using at-level histological and functional measures. To directly address cervical SCI, we used a C5 midline contusion injury model and assessed the efficacy of a candidate therapeutic for thoracic SCI in this cervical model. The contusion generates reproducible, bilateral movement and histological deficits, although a number of injury parameters such as acute severity of injury, affected gray-to-white matter ratio, extent of endogenous remyelination, and at-level locomotion deficits do not correspond with these parameters in thoracic SCI. On the basis of reported benefits in thoracic SCI, we transplanted human embryonic stem cell (hESC)-derived oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) into this cervical model. hESC-derived OPC transplants attenuated lesion pathogenesis and improved recovery of forelimb function. Histological effects of transplantation included robust white and gray matter sparing at the injury epicenter and, in particular, preservation of motor neurons that correlated with movement recovery. These findings further our understanding of the histopathology and functional outcomes of cervical SCI, define potential therapeutic targets, and support the use of these cells as a treatment for cervical SCI.




Grid technologies are appealing to deal with the challenges raised by computational neurosciences and support multi-centric brain studies. However, core grids middleware hardly cope with the complex neuroimaging data representation and multi-layer data federation needs. Moreover, legacy neuroscience environments need to be preserved and cannot be simply superseded by grid services. This paper describes the NeuroLOG platform design and implementation, shedding light on its Data Management Layer. It addresses the integration of brain image files, associated relational metadata and neuroscience semantic data in a heterogeneous distributed environment, integrating legacy data managers through a mediation layer.
In Parkinson's disease executive functions are altered. We used a Virtual Reality version of the Multiple Errand Test in order to evaluate decision-making ability in 12 patients and 14 controls. Patients with Parkinson's disease, even if not-demented, showed strategies full of errors, suggesting that impulse control disorder, very frequent in course of disease, could precede cognitive dysfunctions.
Substance use in mentally ill patients is now a major problem that influences the course and outcome of psychosis. With prevalence ranging up to 60%, several theories were postulated to explain the link. It would be interesting to know if substances have different effects in persons with psychosis than in those without. This study aimed to explore patterns of symptomatology of dependence and comorbid psychiatric illness by comparing and contrasting it with a group suffering from pure substance dependence. Consecutively admitted patients who were matched for age, sex, and tobacco use were divided into 3 groups. These were substance dependence without any comorbid psychiatric disorder (SD; n = 32), schizophrenia with substance dependence (SC; n = 31), and bipolar disorder with substance dependence (BD; n = 31). Patients were administered the Schedules for Clinical Assessment in Neuropsychiatry (SCAN) and Mini International Neuropsychiatric Inventory (MINI) to evaluate the chronology of criterion of International Classification of Diseases (ICD)-10 dependence. Results showed that cannabis was the most common substance used by both the SC (100%) and BD (80%) groups. This was followed by alcohol as the most common substance used, with prevalence of 87% in SC and 77% in BD groups. There was a significant difference in the pattern of use of cannabis in patients with psychosis, who developed tolerance much faster (P = .018) and had longer durations of cannabis use (P = .001) than the SD group. The presence of &quot;loss of control&quot; over drug use criterion seems to be a specific marker predicting development of dependence and psychosis. Cannabis use is more strongly associated with development of psychosis than any other substance.



Environmental pollutants such as TCDD and tetraethyl lead are extremely toxic and related with pulmonary disease development. Lung mitochondria are primary cellular targets for dioxins exposure-induced toxicity. TCDD showed a delay in the repolarization after a phosphorylative cycle and a decrease on state 3 respiration, suggesting alterations at the phosphorylative system level. The ATPase activity showed no differences between control and lung mitochondria incubated with TCDD, implying alterations in other components of the phosphorylative system. Tetraethyl lead also showed a delay in the repolarization after a phosphorylative cycle and a decrease on RCR. These data suggest that lung mitochondria incubated with TCDD and tetraethyl lead showed impaired mitochondrial function, reflecting the loss of oxidative phosphorylation capacity.
This review summarizes some of the topics discussed at the 28th Annual Symposium of the Society of Toxicologic Pathology. The symposium was held in Washington, DC, in 2009 and dealt with unintended adverse events associated with cranial irradiation as part of cancer therapy. We will discuss the importance of considering genetic susceptibility and sex differences in susceptibility to develop these adverse events. Further, we will discuss potential mechanisms contributing to these events, including alterations in neurogenesis and increased oxidative stress following irradiation and potential alterations in synaptic and dendritic markers.
Lead (Pb) has been shown to disrupt cellular energy metabolism, which may underlie the learning deficits and cognitive dysfunctions associated with environmental Pb exposure. The voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) plays a central role in regulating energy metabolism in neurons by maintaining cellular ATP levels and regulating calcium buffering, and studies have shown that VDAC expression is associated with learning in mice. In this study, we examined the effect of 5 and 10microM Pb on VDAC expression in vitro in order to determine whether Pb alters VDAC expression levels in neuronal cell lines. PC-12 and SH-SY5Y cells were used since they differentiate to resemble primary neuronal cells. VDAC expression levels were significantly decreased 48 h after exposure to Pb in both cell lines. In contrast, exposure to 24 h of hypoxia failed to produce a decrease in VDAC, suggesting that decreased VDAC expression is not a general cellular stress response but is a result of Pb exposure. This decreased VDAC expression was also correlated with a corresponding decrease in cellular ATP levels. Real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction demonstrated a significant decrease in messenger RNA levels for the VDAC1 isoform, indicating that Pb reduces transcription of VDAC1. These results demonstrate that exposure to 5 and 10microM Pb reduces VDAC transcription and expression and is associated with reduced cellular ATP levels.
Lactoferrin (Lf), an iron-binding glycoprotein expressed in most biological fluids, represents a major component of the mammalian innate immune system. Lf's multiple activities rely not only on its capacity to bind iron, but also to interact with molecular and cellular components of both host and pathogens. Lf can bind and sequester lipopolysaccharide (LPS), thus preventing pro-inflammatory pathway activation, sepsis and tissue damage. However, Lf-bound LPS may retain the capacity to induce cell activation via Toll-like receptor 4-dependent and -independent mechanisms. This review discusses the complex interplay between Lf and LPS and its relevance in the regulation of the immune response.
There is growing clinical and neuropathologic evidence suggesting that cognitive decline in early Alzheimer's disease (AD) is aggravated by a synergistic relationship between AD and cerebrovascular disease associated with cardiovascular risk factors such as diabetes and hypertension. Here we used the stereologic &quot;Space Balls&quot; method to investigate the relationships between AD pathology and cardiovascular risk factors in postmortem human brains of patients with hypertension and diabetes in two groups - one consisting of cases with AD diagnosis and one of cases without. Hippocampal CA1 and CA3 microvasculature length density estimates were generated to characterize quantitatively the contribution of cardiovascular risk factors to the severity of neuropathologic changes. Our main finding is that the mean and variance of length density values in the AD group were significantly increased from the non-AD group, regardless of the absence or presence of a cardiovascular risk factor. An additional finding is that in the AD group without a risk factor, dementia severity correlated with amount of length density change in the CA1 field-this correlation did not exist in the AD groups with risk factors. Our findings suggest a role for cardiovascular risk factors in quantifiable change of hippocampal CA1 field microvasculature, as well as suggest a possible role of cardiovascular risk factors in altering microvasculature pathology in the presence of AD.
Circadian rhythms permeate mammalian biology. They are manifested in the temporal organisation of behavioural, physiological, cellular and neuronal processes. Whereas it has been shown recently that these approximately 24-hour cycles are intrinsic to the cell and persist in vitro, internal synchrony in mammals is largely governed by the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nuclei that facilitate anticipation of, and adaptation to, the solar cycle. Our timekeeping mechanism is deeply embedded in cell function and is modelled as a network of transcriptional and/or post-translational feedback loops. Concurrent with this, we are beginning to understand how this ancient timekeeper interacts with myriad cell systems, including signal transduction cascades and the cell cycle, and thus impacts on disease. An exemplary area where this knowledge is rapidly expanding and contributing to novel therapies is cancer, where the Period genes have been identified as tumour suppressors. In more complex disorders, where aetiology remains controversial, interactions with the clockwork are only now starting to be appreciated.
Optimal control theory and its more recent extension, optimal feedback control theory, provide valuable insights into the flexible and task-dependent control of movements. Here, we focus on the problem of coordination, defined as movements that involve multiple effectors (muscles, joints or limbs). Optimal control theory makes quantitative predictions concerning the distribution of work across multiple effectors. Optimal feedback control theory further predicts variation in feedback control with changes in task demands and the correlation structure between different effectors. We highlight two crucial areas of research, hierarchical control and the problem of movement initiation, that need to be developed for an optimal feedback control theory framework to characterise movement coordination more fully and to serve as a basis for studying the neural mechanisms involved in voluntary motor control.
Response reliability is complementary to more conventional measurements of response amplitudes, and can reveal phenomena that response amplitudes do not. Here we review studies that measured reliability of cortical activity within or between human subjects in response to naturalistic stimulation (e.g. free viewing of movies). Despite the seemingly uncontrolled nature of the task, some of these complex stimuli evoke highly reliable, selective and time-locked activity in many brain areas, including some regions that show little response modulation in most conventional experimental protocols. This activity provides an opportunity to address novel questions concerning natural vision, temporal scale of processing, memory and the neural basis of inter-group differences.
Recovery of consciousness following severe brain injuries can occur over long time intervals. Importantly, evolving cognitive recovery can be strongly dissociated from motor recovery in some individuals, resulting in underestimation of cognitive capacities. Common mechanisms of cerebral dysfunction that arise at the neuronal population level may explain slow functional recoveries from severe brain injuries. This review proposes a &quot;mesocircuit&quot; model that predicts specific roles for different structural and dynamic changes that may occur gradually during recovery. Recent functional neuroimaging studies that operationally identify varying levels of awareness, memory and other higher brain functions in patients with no behavioral evidence of these cognitive capacities are discussed. Measuring evolving changes in underlying brain function and dynamics post-injury and post-treatment frames future investigative work.
Chronic pain is characterized by enhanced sensory neurotransmission that underlies increased sensitivity to noxious stimuli and the perception of non-noxious stimuli as painful. Evidence from neurophysiological and pharmacological studies demonstrates that ATP produces pain by directly enhancing neuronal excitability via the activation of specific ligand-gated ion channels, the P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors. In addition, ATP activates CNS glial cells (e.g. microglia) in response to persistent nociceptive stimulation. This latter effect involves several distinct receptor-mediated signaling pathways linked to the P2X4, P2X7 and P2Y(12) receptors. This review summarizes new data that places these purinergic signaling events in a mechanistic context that illustrates the ability of ATP to initiate and maintain states of heightened sensory neuron excitability associated with persistent pain.
Neurofilament (NF) protein expression is coupled to axon development and the maintenance of neuronal homeostasis. Here, we present evidence that this tight regulation depends critically on post-transcriptionally regulated changes in NF mRNA transport, translation and stability. Recent studies have shown that post-transcriptional mechanisms modulate increases in NF gene transcription during axon regeneration to yield the final pattern of NF protein expression. Other recent work has found that post-transcriptional control of NFs shares elements with that of other axonal proteins and that its dysregulation contributes to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Such studies herald a novel approach to understanding how neurons coordinate the expressions of functionally related proteins and provide new insights into how the dysregulation of this control can lead to disease.
During neural development, the cytoskeleton of newborn neurons undergoes extensive and dynamic remodelling to facilitate the sequential steps of neurogenesis, cell migration and terminal differentiation. It is clear from studying the mechanisms that precipitate these functions that different configurations of the cytoskeleton prefigure the correct execution of each step and define cohorts of proteins the functions of which are indispensable for the control of neuronal migration but not terminal differentiation. These combinatorial protein functions are also predetermined by regulated gene expression and the precise subcellular localisation of their protein products. Here, we expand on this view in the context of recent data on how the cytoskeleton is regulated during the maturation of cortical neurons within the developing brain.
There is current interest in identifying drugs that facilitate fear extinction, as this form of learning is the basis of certain cognitive therapies for anxiety disorders. Following an initial report several years ago that the alpha2-adrenoreceptor antagonist yohimbine facilitated extinction in mice, more recent studies have shown mixed effects or even impairment. It has become clear that the effect of yohimbine on extinction depends on a number of factors, including genetic background, contextual variables and the presence of competing behaviors. To what extent theses effects of yohimbine are mediated through the alpha2-adrenoreceptor, as opposed to other sites of action, is also uncertain. More work is needed before this drug can be approved as a pharmacological adjunct for extinction-based therapies. More generally, the case of yohimbine may serve as a model for the development of other extinction facilitators.

Previous studies have shown that older subjects have difficulties discriminating the walking direction of point-light walkers. In two experiments, we investigated the underlying cause in further detail. In Experiment 1, subjects had to discriminate the walking direction of upright and inverted point-light walkers in a cloud of randomly moving dots. In general, older subjects performed less accurately and showed an increased inversion effect. Nevertheless, they were as accurate as young subjects for upright walkers during training, in which no noise was added to the display. These results indicate that older subjects are less able to extract relevant information from noisy displays. In Experiment 2, subjects discriminated the walking direction of scrambled walkers that primarily contained local motion information, random-position walkers that primarily contained global form information, and normal point-light walkers that contained both kinds of information. Both age groups performed at chance when no global form information was present in the display but were equally accurate for walkers that only contained global form information. However, when both local motion and global form information were present in the display, older subjects were less accurate then younger subjects. Older subjects again exhibited an increased inversion effect. These results indicate that both older and younger subjects rely more on global form than local motion to discriminate the direction of point-light walkers. Also, older subjects seem to have difficulties integrating global form and local motion information as efficiently as younger subjects.
Historically, it was assumed that the light-evoked neural signals driving the human pupillary light reflex (PLR) originated exclusively from rod and cone photoreceptors. However, a novel melanopsin-containing photoreceptive cell class has recently been discovered in the mammalian retina. These intrinsically-photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) project to the pretectum, the retinorecipient area of the brain responsible for the PLR. This study was therefore designed to examine the relative contribution of rod, cone and the melanopsin photoresponses of ipRGCs to the human PLR. We establish that the melanopsin photoresponse of ipRGCs contributes significantly to the maintenance of half maximal pupilloconstriction in response to light stimuli of 30s or longer, even at low photopic irradiances. Furthermore, we show that the melanopsin photoresponse contributes significantly to three-quarter maximal pupilloconstriction in response to light stimuli as short as 2s. We also demonstrate that cone photoresponses driving pupilloconstriction adapt considerably and contribute little after 30s, but rod photoresponses adapt less and contribute significantly to the maintenance of pupilloconstriction in response to steady-state light stimuli at irradiance levels which are below the threshold of the melanopsin photoresponse.
The Drosophila CheBs proteins are expressed in a variety of sexually dimorphic subsets of taste hairs, some of which have been directly implicated in pheromone detection. Their remarkable collection of expression patterns suggests that CheBs have specialized roles in gustatory detection of pheromones. Indeed, mutations in the CheB42a gene specifically alter male response to female-specific cuticular hydrocarbons. Furthermore, CheBs belong to the large ML (MD-2-like) superfamily of lipid-binding proteins and share amino acids with an essential role in the function of human GM2-activator protein (GM2-AP), a protein whose absence results in neurodegeneration and death. As GM2-AP binds specifically to the GM2 ganglioside, we have proposed that CheB42a and other CheBs function by interacting directly with the lipid-like cuticular hydrocarbons of Drosophila melanogaster and modulating their detection by transmembrane receptors. Here I review the current knowledge of the CheB family and discuss possible models for their function.
The neuropeptides corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) are crucially involved in the pathogenesis of depression. The close correlation between the etiology of depression and dysregulation of the stress responses is based upon a hyperactivity of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. CRH neurons in the paraventricular nucleus are the motor of the HPA-axis. Centrally released CRH, AVP, and increased levels of cortisol all contribute to the signs and symptoms of depression. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the CRH and AVP receptor genes are associated with the risk for depression. Activation of the HPA-axis is generally regarded to be the final common pathway of the pathogenesis of depression. Sex hormones are crucially involved in the regulation of CRH gene expression. The decreased activity of the biological clock, the suprachiasmatic nucleus, as indicated by its lower AVP expression, is the basis for the disturbed rhythms in depression. Both similarities and differences are found in the activity changes in the CRH and AVP systems in depressive disorders and depression in Alzheimer's disease.
Estrogens are a group of steroid hormones that function as the primary female sex hormone. Estrogens not only have an important role in the regulation of the estrous or menstrual cycle but also control, for example, bone formation, the cardiovascular system, and cognitive functions. Estradiol (E2), the main representative of the group, is highly lipophylic and can easily pass the blood-brain barrier to modulate neuronal activity. Particularly the limbic system, a group of tightly interconnected forebrain areas controlling mood and emotion, is rich in estrogen receptors. To date two cytoplasmatic and/or nuclear estrogen receptors named ER-alpha (ERalpha) and ER-beta (ERbeta) have been identified. In the brain, ERalpha plays a critical role in regulating reproductive neuroendocrine behavior and function. ERbeta appears to play an important role in nonreproductive behaviors, such as learning and memory, anxiety, and mood. Five splice variants of ERbeta, named Erb1, Erb2, Erb1d3, Erb2d3, and Erb1d4, have been identified with possibly different biological activities. There is evidence of a thus far not definitely characterized membrane-linked ER receptor named mER-X. In this review, the anatomy of the limbic system and the distribution of estrogen receptors (ERs) are described in relation to coping with stress and the higher prevalence of stress-related psychiatric disorders in women. Effects of cyclic estrogen administration and chronic stress on recovery and neuronal plasticity are illustrated with own results.
Estradiol is synthesized in the hippocampus and is known to increase intrinsic hippocampal excitability and capacity for synaptic plasticity. A picture emerges that at least part of these effects are due to a complex modulation of GABAergic system in developing and adult hippocampus. During development, GABAergic system undergoes profound alterations and is particularly prone to modulation. During this period, estradiol could modulate both phasic and tonic GABAergic currents and promote excitatory GABA actions. In contrast, in adult hippocampus, estradiol-induced formation of new dendritic spines in pyramidal cells is paralleled with a reduction in GABAergic drive to these neurons. Such estradiol actions could be mediated primarily through interneurons expressing estrogen receptors. In this chapter, we provide an overview of the in vitro and in vivo studies addressing the role of estradiol in regulating the GABAergic system in the hippocampal formation during development and in the adulthood. Although the mechanisms underlying such a regulation remain largely unknown, we make an attempt to present the major hypotheses and concepts related to this issue.
Neurotrophins are important regulators of neuronal function in the developing and adult brain and thus play a critical role in sustaining normal behavioral function. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been the most widely studied neurotrophin because of its important role as modulator of synaptic plasticity, which is essential to the regulation of experience-dependent behavior. Extensive work implicates BDNF in hippocampus-dependent forms of learning and memory, although it also regulates other cognitive processes. A role for BDNF in anxiety-related disorders and aggressive behavior can also be suspected. More importantly, BDNF signaling has recently emerged as a key player in the development of drug addiction and is well known to be involved in adaptation to stress and stress-related disorders. NGF in the other hand is thought to be involved in aggression and alcohol dependence. Finally, BDNF appears to participate in the therapeutic effects of drugs and interventions capable of reversing or attenuating behavioral disturbances relevant to psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. Compounds mimicking BDNF signaling, however, are unlikely to be used in a clinical context, given their adverse side effects and pharmacokinetic limitations.
Glutamate is the major fast excitatory amino acid transmitter in the CNS, and exerts its action through receptors that function as ion channels such as NMDA receptors (NMDARs), AMPA receptors (AMPARs), and kainate receptors (KARs), and also through signaling cascades via metabotropic receptors. Of the ionotropic receptors, NMDARs and AMPARs have been extensively studied for decades, while relatively fewer studies have focused on the role of the KARs in the glutamatergic synapse. Despite this, there is considerable experimental data that suggest a major role for KARs in modulating synaptic transmission and plasticity, particularly in the hippocampal formation, as well as an involvement in disease states. KARs mediate most aspects of kainate-induced seizures and excitotoxic cell death, and thus, are a rational drug target for antiepileptic drug discovery. Recent data from human studies have also highlighted a role for KARs in certain psychiatric diseases, such as schizophrenia and major depression, and a recent association of KAR gene variants with response to antidepressants has brought considerable interest in developing a clearer understanding of KAR action in the brain. We have recently found that exposure to stress and stress hormone administration can produce contrasting changes in KAR subunit expression in the rat hippocampus, suggesting that a modification of hippocampal KARs by stress may be a mechanism for predisposing individuals to stress-related psychiatric diseases. Here, we review the anatomical and functional characteristics of hippocampal KARs, their role in synaptic plasticity, their regulation by certain hormones, and briefly review what is known about their involvement in disease states such as epilepsy and depression.
Activation of ionotropic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors in limbic system nuclei, such as the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), plays an essential role in autonomic, behavioral, and affective processes that are profoundly impacted by exposure to opioids. However, the heterogeneous ultrastructural distribution of the NMDA receptor, its complex pharmacology, and the paucity of genetic models have hampered the development of linkages between functional amygdala NMDA receptors and opioid dependence. To overcome these shortcomings, high-resolution imaging and molecular pharmacology were used to (1) Identify the ultrastructural localization of the essential NMDA-NR1 receptor (NR1) subunit and its relationship to the mu-opioid receptor (microOR), the major cellular target of abused opioids like morphine, in the CeA and (2) Determine the effect of CeA NR1 deletion on the physical, and particularly, psychological aspects of opioid dependence. Combined immunogold and immuoperoxidase electron microscopic analysis showed that NR1 was prominently expressed in postsynaptic (i.e., somata, dendrites) locations of CeA neurons, where they were also frequently colocalized with the microOR. A spatial-temporal deletion of NR1 in postsynaptic sites of CeA neurons was produced by local microinjection of a neurotropic recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV), expressing the green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter and Cre recombinase (rAAV-GFP-Cre), in adult &quot;floxed&quot; NR1 (fNR1) mice. Mice with deletion of NR1 in the CeA showed no obvious impairments in sensory, motor, or nociceptive function. In addition, when administered chronic morphine, these mice also displayed an acute physical withdrawal syndrome precipitated by naloxone. However, opioid-dependent CeA NR1 knockout mice failed to exhibit a conditioned place aversion induced by naloxone-precipitated withdrawal. These results indicate that postsynaptic NMDA receptor activity in central amygdala neurons is required for the expression of a learned affective behavior associated with opioid withdrawal. The neurogenetic dissociation of physical and psychological properties of opioid dependence demonstrates the value of combined ultrastructural analysis and molecular pharmacology in clarifying the neurobiological mechanisms subserving opioid-mediated plasticity.
The use of stimulation electrodes implanted in the brain to control severely disabling neurological and psychiatric conditions is a fast emerging area of clinical neuroscience. For instance, high-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) has become the surgical therapy of choice for advanced Parkinson's disease. This therapy improves motor disability substantially and also the quality of life, but some patients show postoperative behavioral changes such as depression and mania. These behavioral effects can be explained on the basis of the anatomical data. The STN is interconnected not only with motor areas, but also with associative and limbic regions. In this chapter, the author discusses relevant articles, provides anatomical details, and presents an integrated view.
The amygdala has received considerable attention because of its established role in specific behaviors and disorders such as anxiety, depression, and autism. Studies have revealed that the amygdala is a complex and dynamic brain region that is highly connected with other areas of the brain. Previous works have focused on neurons, demonstrating that the amygdala in rodents is highly plastic and sexually dimorphic. However, our more recent work explores sex differences in nonneuronal cells, joining a rich literature concerning glia in the amygdala. Prior investigation of glia in the amygdala can generally be divided into disease-related and hormone-related categories, with both areas of research producing interesting findings concerning glia in this important brain region. Despite a wide range of research topics, the collected findings make it clear that glia in the amygdala are sensitive and plastic cells that respond and develop in a highly region specific manner.







Fate maps are generated by marking and tracking cells in vivo to determine how progenitors contribute to specific structures and cell types in developing and adult tissue. An advance in this concept is Genetic Inducible Fate Mapping (GIFM), linking gene expression, cell fate, and cell behaviors in vivo, to create fate maps based on genetic lineage. GIFM exploits X-CreER lines where X is a gene or set of gene regulatory elements that confers spatial expression of a modified bacteriophage protein, Cre recombinase (CreER(T)). CreER(T) contains a modified estrogen receptor ligand binding domain which renders CreER(T) sequestered in the cytoplasm in the absence of the drug tamoxifen. The binding of tamoxifen releases CreER(T), which translocates to the nucleus and mediates recombination between DNA sequences flanked by loxP sites. In GIFM, recombination typically occurs between a loxP flanked Stop cassette preceding a reporter gene such as GFP. Mice are bred to contain either a region- or cell type-specific CreER and a conditional reporter allele. Untreated mice will not have marking because the Stop cassette in the reporter prevents further transcription of the reporter gene. We administer tamoxifen by oral gavage to timed-pregnant females, which provides temporal control of CreER(T) release and subsequent translocation to the nucleus removing the Stop cassette from the reporter. Following recombination, the reporter allele is constitutively and heritably expressed. This series of events marks cells such that their genetic history is indelibly recorded. The recombined reporter thus serves as a high fidelity genetic lineage tracer that, once on, is uncoupled from the gene expression initially used to drive CreER(T). We apply GIFM in mouse to study normal development and ascertain the contribution of genetic lineages to adult cell types and tissues. We also use GIFM to follow cells on mutant genetic backgrounds to better understand complex phenotypes that mimic salient features of human genetic disorders. This video article guides researchers through experimental methods to successfully apply GIFM. We demonstrate the method using our well characterized Wnt1-CreER(T);mGFP mice by administering tamoxifen at embryonic day (E)8.5 via oral gavage followed by dissection at E12.5 and analysis by epifluorescence stereomicroscopy. We also demonstrate how to micro-dissect fate mapped domains for explant preparation or FACS analysis and dissect adult fate-mapped brains for whole mount fluorescent imaging. Collectively, these procedures allow researchers to address critical questions in developmental biology and disease models.


The cAMP-responsive transcription factor CREB functions in adipose tissue and liver to regulate glycogen and lipid metabolism in mammals. While Drosophila has a homolog of mammalian CREB, dCREB2, its role in energy metabolism is not fully understood. Using tissue-specific expression of a dominant-negative form of CREB (DN-CREB), we have examined the effect of blocking CREB activity in neurons and in the fat body, the primary energy storage depot with functions of adipose tissue and the liver in flies, on energy balance, stress resistance and feeding behavior. We found that disruption of CREB function in neurons reduced glycogen and lipid stores and increased sensitivity to starvation. Expression of DN-CREB in the fat body also reduced glycogen levels, while it did not affect starvation sensitivity, presumably due to increased lipid levels in these flies. Interestingly, blocking CREB activity in the fat body increased food intake. These flies did not show a significant change in overall body size, suggesting that disruption of CREB activity in the fat body caused an obese-like phenotype. Using a transgenic CRE-luciferase reporter, we further demonstrated that disruption of the adipokinetic hormone receptor, which is functionally related to mammalian glucagon and beta-adrenergic signaling, in the fat body reduced CRE-mediated transcription in flies. This study demonstrates that CREB activity in either neuronal or peripheral tissues regulates energy balance in Drosophila, and that the key signaling pathway regulating CREB activity in peripheral tissue is evolutionarily conserved.
Schizophrenia patients might experience difficulties in applying two widely used emotion regulation strategies, reappraisal and suppression. We investigated the relationships among emotion regulation strategies, alexithymia (i.e. inability to identify and verbalize feelings) and the role of pre-morbid IQ on alexithymia in schizophrenia. Participants comprised 31 schizophrenia patients and 44 healthy subjects who were tested on measures of emotion regulation strategies (ERQ), alexithymia (BVAQ) and pre-morbid IQ (NART). Patients reported significantly more use of suppression strategies and tended to use reappraisal strategies less frequently. Patients differed significantly on the cognitive-emotional component of alexithymia. This difference remained significant even with pre-morbid IQ as a covariate, but disappeared with depression as a covariate. Schizophrenia patients have specific difficulties identifying their feelings. These difficulties were related to symptoms of depression. Interventions specifically targeted at affect regulation and recognition of emotional state could promote emotional well-being in schizophrenia patients.
ATM is a PI 3-kinase involved in DNA double-strand break repair. ATM deficiency leads to ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T), a syndrome of cancer susceptibility, hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation, immune deficiency, and sterility [1, 2]-phenotypes that can straightforwardly be attributed to a defective response to DNA damage. Yet patients with A-T also suffer from ataxia, speech defects, and abnormal body movements [3-5]-neurological phenotypes whose origins remain largely unexplained. Compounding the discordance, Atm mutations in mouse interfere with DNA repair but have only mild neurological symptoms [6-9], suggesting that the link between DNA damage and the death of neurons can be broken [10-12]. We find that in neurons, ATM protein has a substantial cytoplasmic distribution. We show that in Atm(tm1Awb) mice, hippocampal long-term potentiation is significantly reduced, as is the rate of spontaneous vesicular dye release, suggesting a functional importance of cytoplasmic ATM. In the cytoplasm, ATM forms a complex with two synaptic vesicle proteins, VAMP2 and synapsin-I, both of which must be phosphorylated to bind ATM. Also, cytoplasmic ATM physically associates with the homologous PI 3-kinase, ATR. The neurological symptoms of ataxia-telangiectasia may thus result from defective nonnuclear functions of ATM not associated with DNA repair.
Patients with vestibular vertigo syndromes often suffer from anxiety and depression, whereas patients with psychiatric disorders often experience subjective unsteadiness, dizziness, or vertigo. Thus, it has been hypothesized that the vestibular system may be interlinked with the emotion processing systems. The aim of the current study was to evaluate this hypothesis by correlating vestibular and psychiatric symptoms with the course of the disease over 1 year. This interdisciplinary, prospective, longitudinal study included a total of 68 patients with acute vestibular vertigo syndromes. Four subgroups of patients with benign paroxysmal positioning vertigo (BPPV, n=19), acute vestibular neuritis (VN, n=14), vestibular migraine (VM, n=27), or Menire's disease (MD, n=8) were compared. All patients underwent neurological and neuro-otological examinations and filled out standardized self-report inventories including the Vertigo Symptom Scale (VSS), the Vertigo Handicap Questionnaire (VHQ) and the Symptom Checklist 90R (GSI, SCL-90R) at five different times (T0-T4) in the course of 1 year. VM patients experienced significantly more &quot;vertigo and related symptoms&quot; (VSS-VER), &quot;somatic anxiety and autonomic arousal&quot; (VSS-AA), and &quot;vertigo induced handicap&quot; (VHQ) than all other patients (P&lt;0.001-P=0.006). Patients with a positive history of psychiatric disorders had significantly more emotional distress (GSI, SCL-90R), regardless of the specific phenomenology of the four diagnostic subgroups. Finally, fluctuations of vestibular excitability correlated positively with the extent of subjectively perceived vertigo. VM patients are significantly more handicapped by vertigo and related symptoms. They show significantly elevated fluctuations of vestibular excitability, which correlate with the (subjective) severity of vertigo symptoms.
Aquaporin 4 (AQP4) is abundantly expressed in the perivascular glial endfeet in the central nervous system (CNS), where it is involved in the exchange of fluids between blood and brain. At this location, AQP4 contributes to the formation and/or the absorption of the brain edema that may arise following pathologies such as brain injuries, brain tumours, and cerebral ischemia. As vasopressin and its G-protein-coupled receptor (V1(a)R) have been shown to affect the outcome of brain edema, we have investigated the regulatory interaction between AQP4 and V1(a)R by heterologous expression in Xenopus laevis oocytes. The water permeability of AQP4/V1(a)R-expressing oocytes was reduced in a vasopressin-dependent manner, as a result of V1(a)R-dependent internalization of AQP4. Vasopressin-dependent internalization was not observed in AQP9/V1(a)R-expressing oocytes. The regulatory interaction between AQP4 and V1(a)R involves protein kinase C (PKC) activation and is reduced upon mutation of Ser(180) on AQP4 to an alanine. Thus, the present study demonstrates at the molecular level a functional link between the vasopressin receptor V1(a)R and AQP4. This functional interaction between AQP4 and V1(a)R may prove to be a potential therapeutic target in the prevention and treatment of brain edema.
Axonal dysfunction as a result of persistent demyelination has been increasingly appreciated as a cause of functional deficit in demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis. Therefore, it is crucial to understand the ultimate causes of ongoing axonal dysfunction and find effective measures to prevent axon loss. Our findings related to functional deficit and functional recovery of axons from a demyelinating insult are important preliminary steps towards understanding this issue. Cuprizone diet for 3-6 wks triggered extensive corpus callosum (CC) demyelination, reduced axon conduction, and resulted in loss of axon structural integrity including nodes of Ranvier. Replacing cuprizone diet with normal diet led to regeneration of myelin, but did not fully reverse the conduction and structural deficits. A shorter 1.5 wk cuprizone diet also caused demyelination of the CC, with minimal loss of axon structure and nodal organization. Switching to normal diet led to remyelination and restored callosal axon conduction to normal levels. Our findings suggest the existence of a critical window of time for remyelination, beyond which demyelinated axons become damaged beyond the point of repair and permanent functional loss follows. Moreover, initiating remyelination early within the critical period, before prolonged demyelination-induced axon damage ensues, will improve functional axon recovery and inhibit disease progression.
Cerebellar unipolar brush cells (UBCs) are glutamatergic interneurons of the granular layer. Previous studies have identified three distinct UBC subsets in the mouse cerebellar cortex: one expressing the calcium-binding protein calretinin (CR), a second expressing both the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)1alpha and phospholipase C(PLC)beta4, and a third expressing PLCbeta4 but not mGluR1alpha. We have investigated UBC topography in two strains of mutant mice: early B-cell factor 2 (Ebf2) null and scrambler. In Ebf2 null mice Purkinje cell topography is disrupted due to Purkinje cell death and ectopic gene expression. The topography of all three classes of UBCs is also abnormal: the CR(+) UBCs, which are normally aligned with zebrin II stripes, become homogeneously distributed; the numerical density of mGluRlalpha(+) UBCs is increased; and many PLCbeta4(+) UBCs are located ectopically. The UBC ectopia is not a cell-intrinsic action of the Ebf2 gene-analysis of the constitutive expression of a beta-galactoside reporter under the control of the Ebf2 promoter reveals no Ebf2 expression in UBCs at any stage of cerebellar development. In scrambler (Dab1(scm)), most Purkinje cells are ectopic but nevertheless have normal adult gene expression patterns. In scrambler, UBCs associate with specific ectopic Purkinje cell clusters. Finally, similar associations with specific Purkinje cell clusters are seen during normal cerebellar development. These data suggest that UBCs become regionally restricted during development through a non-cell-autonomous mechanism involving embryonic interactions with different Purkinje cell subtypes.
We recently developed a procedure to study fear incubation in which rats given 100 tone-shock pairings over 10 days show low fear 2 days after conditioned fear training and high fear after 30 or 60 days. Here, we studied the role of the stress-related peptides, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), in fear incubation. We gave rats either 10 or 100 30-s tone-0.5-s footshock pairings over 1 day (short training) or 10 days (long training) and then assessed tone-cue-induced conditioned suppression of lever responding 2 days after short training or 2 days and 1 month after long training. Prior to testing, we injected NPY (5-10 microg, i.c.v.), the NPY Y1 receptor antagonist BIBO3304 (20-40 microg, i.c.v.), the NPY Y2 receptor antagonist BIIE0246 (2.5-5 mg/kg s.c.), the non-selective CRF receptor antagonist D-Phe CRF(12-41) (10 microg, i.c.v.), or the CRF1 receptor antagonist MTIP (10-20 mg/kg s.c.). Conditioned suppression after long training was higher after 1 month than after 2 days (fear incubation); conditioned suppression was robustly expressed 2 days after short training (non-incubated fear). Both incubated and non-incubated fear responses were attenuated by NPY. In contrast, D-Phe CRF(12-41), MTIP, BIBO3304, or BIIE0246 had no effect on conditioned fear at the different time points. Results confirm previous work on the potent effect of exogenous NPY administration on conditioned fear, but the negative results with BIBO3304 and BIIE0246 question whether endogenous NPY contributes to incubated (or non-incubated) fear. Results also suggest that CRF receptors are not involved in cue-induced fear in the conditioned suppression procedure.
Lamina I of the spinal dorsal horn contains neurons that project to various brain regions, and approximately 80% of these projection cells express the neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1r), the main receptor for substance P. Two populations of NK1r-immunoreactive neurons have been identified in lamina I: small weakly immunoreactive cells and large cells with strong immunolabelling [Cheunsuang O and Morris R (2000) Neuroscience 97:335-345]. The main aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that the large cells are projection neurons and that the small cells are interneurons. Projection neurons were identified by injection of tracers into the caudal ventrolateral medulla and lateral parabrachial area, and this was combined with immunostaining for NK1r. We found a bimodal size distribution for NK1r-immunoreactive neurons. The small cells (with somatic cross-sectional areas &lt;200 microm(2)) showed weak immunoreactivity, while immunostaining intensity was variable among the large cells. Virtually all (99%) of the immunoreactive cells with soma areas &gt;200 microm(2) were retrogradely labelled, while only 10% of retrogradely labelled cells were smaller than this. Soma sizes of retrogradely labelled neurons that lacked NK1r did not differ from those of NK1r-expressing projection neurons. It has been suggested that a population of small pyramidal projection neurons that lack NK1r may correspond to cells activated by innocuous cooling, and we therefore assessed the morphology of retrogradely labelled cells that were not NK1r-immunoreactive. Fifteen percent of these were pyramidal, but these did not differ in size from pyramidal NK1r-immunoreactive projection neurons. These results confirm that large NK1r-immunoreactive lamina I neurons are projection cells, and suggest that the small cells are interneurons. Since almost all of the NK1r-immunoreactive cells with soma size &gt;200 microm(2) were retrogradely labelled, cells of this type can be identified as projection cells in anatomical studies.
This study aimed to investigate the effects of regular treadmill exercise on nerve growth factor (NGF) expression, the improvement of cognitive function in the hippocampus of diabetic rats, and to understand the molecular mechanisms through which the relevant signaling factors act. We investigated the effects of regular treadmill exercise for 6 weeks on NGF, tyrosine kinase receptor A (TrkA), p75 receptor, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2), cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB), and caspase-3 protein levels; we also assessed cell survival and cognitive function. Forty male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups: (1) normal control group (NCG: n=10); (2) normal exercise group (NEG: n=10); (3) diabetes control group (DCG: n=10), and (4) diabetes exercise group (DEG: n=10). Diabetes was induced by injecting streptozotocin (STZ; 55 mg/kg dissolved in 0.05 M citrate buffer, pH 4.5, i.p.) into rats. Rats were subjected to treadmill exercise for 5 days a week over 6 weeks, and the speed of the treadmill was gradually increased. In a passive avoidance test, the retention latency in the DCG was significantly shorter than that in the DEG (P&lt;0.05). Increased 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine-5'-mono-phosphate (BrdU)-labeled cells (P&lt;0.001) and significant increases in NGF and TrkA protein levels were observed in the hippocampal dentate gyrus in the NEG and DEG (P&lt;0.001 and P&lt;0.01, respectively). The p75 receptor protein level significantly increased in the NEG but decreased in the DCG (P&lt;0.001). The p-PI3-K and t-CREB protein levels significantly increased in the NEG (P&lt;0.001 and P&lt;0.05, respectively), whereas t-Erk1/2 significantly decreased in the DCG (P&lt;0.01, P&lt;0.01, respectively). p-Erk1/2 and p-CREB protein levels significantly increased in the NEG and DEG (P&lt;0.001, P&lt;0.001, and P&lt;0.01, respectively). Caspase-3 protein levels significantly increased in the DCG (P&lt;0.001). These results show that treadmill exercise improves cognitive function, increases the number of BrdU-labeled cells, and increases NGF levels, by the activation of the MAPK/Erk1/2 signaling pathway in the hippocampus of diabetic rats.
Estrogen status is a risk factor in painful temporomandibular disorders (TMJD). Previously we reported that estradiol (E2) enhanced nociceptive processing of TMJ input by neurons in superficial laminae at the spinomedullary (Vc/C(1-2)) region; however, the mechanisms for this enhancement are not known. The present study determined if ionotropic glutamate receptors contribute to TMJ nociceptive processing in an E2-dependent manner. Ovariectomized (OvX) female rats were treated with high E2 (HE2) or low dose E2 (LE2) for 2 days and neural activity was recorded in laminae I-II at the Vc/C(1-2) region. TMJ-responsive units were activated by ATP injections into the joint space. ATP-evoked unit responses in HE2 rats were reduced significantly by topical application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5) in a dose-related manner, while units from LE2 were not affected. Application of the non-NMDA receptor antagonist, 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX), inhibited the ATP-evoked responses in both groups. Spontaneous activity of TMJ units was not influenced by AP5, whereas it was reduced by DNQX similarly in both groups. The high threshold convergent cutaneous receptive field area of TMJ units was not changed by AP5, whereas DNQX caused a significant reduction in both groups. These results suggest that NMDA-dependent mechanisms contribute to the enhanced ATP-evoked responses of TMJ units in superficial laminae at the Vc/C(1-2) region under high E2 conditions, while non-NMDA-dependent mechanisms modify the encoding properties of TMJ units independent of E2 status.
Muscle weakness is consistently associated with falls in the elderly people, typically when present along with other risk factors. However, it remains unknown whether and how muscle weakness alone affects balance. This hampers development of more effective fall prevention strategies. Clinical observations suggest that the amount and distribution of muscle weakness influences balance control. We therefore investigated balance corrections in patients with either predominantly proximal (limb girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD); n=8) or distal (distal spinal muscular atrophy; n=5) leg weakness, and 27 matched healthy controls. Balance was perturbed using surface tilt rotations that were delivered randomly in eight directions. Balance measures were full body kinematics and surface electromyographic activity (EMG) of leg, arm, and trunk muscles. Both patient groups were more unstable than controls, as reflected by greater excursions of the centre of mass (COM), especially in the pitch (anterior-posterior (AP)) plane. COM displacements were greater in distal weakness patients. Patients with distal weakness had excessive and unstable trunk, knee and ankle movements, and this was present following both forward and backward directed balance perturbations, possibly reflecting the greater use of distal leg muscles in these directions. In contrast, the less weak proximal weakness patients demonstrated unstable trunk and ankle movements only for backward directed balance perturbations. Both patient groups used arm movements to compensate for their instability. We conclude that primarily distal but also proximal muscle weakness leads to significant postural instability. This observation, together with the retained ability of patients to use compensatory arm movements, provides targets that may be amenable to improvement with therapeutic intervention.
During stereotactic functional neurosurgery, stimulation procedure to control for proper target localization provides a unique opportunity to investigate pathophysiological phenomena that cannot be addressed in experimental setups. Here we report on the distribution of response modalities to 487 intraoperative thalamic stimulations performed in 24 neurogenic pain (NP), 17 parkinsonian (PD) and 10 neuropsychiatric (Npsy) patients. Threshold responses were subdivided into somatosensory, motor and affective, and compared between medial (central lateral nucleus) and lateral (ventral anterior, ventral lateral and ventral medial) thalamic nuclei and between patients groups. Major findings were as follows: in the medial thalamus, evoked responses were for a large majority (95%) somatosensory in NP patients, 47% were motor in PD patients, and 54% affective in Npsy patients. In the lateral thalamus, a much higher proportion of somatosensory (83%) than motor responses (5%) was evoked in NP patients, while the proportion was reversed in PD patients (69% motor vs. 21% somatosensory). These results provide the first evidence for functional cross-modal changes in lateral and medial thalamic nuclei in response to intraoperative stimulations in different functional disorders. This extensive functional reorganization sheds new light on wide-range plasticity in the adult human thalamocortical system.
The human natural killer-1 (HNK-1) glyco-epitope possesses a unique structural feature, a sulfated glucuronic acid attached to lactosamine on the non-reducing termini of glycans. The expression of HNK-1 is temporally and spatially regulated by glucuronyltransferase (GlcAT-P) in the brain. Our previous report showed that mice lacking GlcAT-P almost completely lost HNK-1 expression in the brain and exhibited reduced long-term potentiation (LTP) at hippocampal CA1 synapses. GlcAT-P-deficient mice also showed impaired hippocampus-dependent spatial learning. Although HNK-1 plays an essential role in synaptic plasticity and memory formation, it remains unclear how HNK-1 regulates these functions. In this study, we showed that loss of the HNK-1 epitope resulted in an increase of filopodium-like immature spines and a decrease of mushroom-like mature spines in both the early postnatal mouse hippocampus and cultured hippocampal neurons. However, HNK-1 had no influence on spine density or filopodium formation. Immunofluorescence staining revealed that loss of HNK-1 altered the distribution of postsynaptic proteins such as alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazolepropionate (AMPA)-type glutamate receptor subunit GluR2 and PSD-95 from spine heads onto dendritic shafts without affecting synapse formation, resulting in an increase of shaft synapses in cultured GlcAT-P-deficient neurons. GluR2, a major HNK-1 carrier glycoprotein in postsynaptic density, has the ability to promote spine morphogenesis. Overexpression of GluR2 promoted spine growth in both wild-type and GlcAT-P-deficient neurons, but the increase in GlcAT-P-deficient neurons was lower than that in wild-type neurons. This is the first evidence that HNK-1 is a key factor for normal dendritic spine maturation and is involved in the distribution of postsynaptic proteins.
Emotion information processing may occur in two modes which are differently represented in conscious awareness. Fast online processing involves coarse-grained analysis of salient features, and is not represented in conscious awareness; offline processing takes hundreds of milliseconds to generate fine-grained analysis, and is represented in conscious awareness. These processing modes may be studied using event-related electroencephalogram theta and delta synchronization as a marker of emotion processing. Two experiments were conducted, which differed on the mode of emotional information presentation. In the explicit mode subjects were explicitly instructed to evaluate the emotional content of presented stimuli; in the implicit mode they performed a gender discrimination task. Firstly, we show that in both experiments theta and delta synchronization is stronger upon presentation of &quot;emotional&quot; than &quot;neutral&quot; stimuli, and in subjects who are more sensitive, or experience higher emotional involvement than in less sensitive or detached subjects. Secondly, we show that in the implicit mode theta and delta synchronization is more pronounced in an early (before 250 ms post-stimulus) processing stage, whereas in the explicit mode it is more pronounced in a later processing stage. Source localization analysis showed that implicit processing of angry and happy (relative to neutral) faces is associated with higher early (before 250 ms) theta synchronization in the right parietal cortex and the right insula, respectively. Explicit processing of angry and happy faces is associated with higher late (after 250 ms) theta synchronization in the left temporal lobe and bilateral prefrontal cortex, respectively.
Spinal cord microglial toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) has been implicated in enhancing neuropathic pain and opposing morphine analgesia. The present study was initiated to explore TLR4-mediated pain modulation by intrathecal lipopolysaccharide, a classic TLR4 agonist. However, our initial study revealed that intrathecal lipopolysaccharide failed to induce low-threshold mechanical allodynia in naive rats, suggestive that TLR4 agonism may be insufficient to enhance pain. These studies explore the possibility that a second signal is required; namely, heat shock protein-90 (HSP90). This candidate was chosen for study given its known importance as a regulator of TLR4 signaling. A combination of in vitro TLR4 cell signaling and in vivo behavioral studies of pain modulation suggest that TLR4-enhancement of neuropathic pain and TLR4-suppression of morphine analgesia each likely require HSP90 as a cofactor for the effects observed. In vitro studies revealed that dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) enhances HSP90 release, suggestive that this may be a means by which DMSO enhances TLR4 signaling. While 2 and 100 microg lipopolysaccharide intrathecally did not induce mechanical allodynia across the time course tested, co-administration of 1 microg lipopolysaccharide with a drug that enhances HSP90-mediated TLR4 signaling now induced robust allodynia. In support of this allodynia being mediated via a TLR4/HSP90 pathway, it was prevented or reversed by intrathecal co-administration of a HSP90 inhibitor, a TLR4 inhibitor, a microglia/monocyte activation inhibitor (as monocyte-derived cells are the predominant cell type expressing TLR4), and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (as this proinflammatory cytokine is a downstream consequence of TLR4 activation). Together, these results suggest for the first time that TLR4 activation is necessary but not sufficient to induce spinally mediated pain enhancement. Rather, the data suggest that TLR4-dependent pain phenomena may require contributions by multiple components of the TLR4 receptor complex.
Inflammation and oxidative stress have been shown to play a critical role in the pathophysiology that leads to neurodegeneration. Omega-6 phospholipids, e.g. dilinoleoylphosphatidylcholine (DLPC), have been shown to have anti-inflammatory properties and therefore experiments were undertaken to determine whether DLPC can prevent inflammatory neurodegenerative events in the model neuronal cell line, SH-SY5Y. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF-alpha) and H(2)O(2) activate mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in SH-SY5Y cells within 5 min and this activation is completely blocked by DLPC (12 microM). DLPC blocks IkappaBalpha phosphorylation in the SH-SY5Y cells and prevents the phosphorylation and activation of nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB). The phospholipid inhibits induction of MAPK and NF-kappaB in similar fashion to the MEK1/2-inhibitor, U0126 (10 microM). DLPC completely abolishes TNF-alpha, H(2)O(2) and lipopolysaccaride (LPS)-induced neuronal tau phosphorylation. Cellular amyloid precursor protein levels are reduced by DLPC and LPS-induced amyloid-beta expression and secretion in SH-SY5Y cells are completely blocked by DLPC. Taken together, these data suggest that DLPC can act through MAPK to block neuronal inflammatory cascades and prevent potential pathological consequences in the neuronal metabolism of amyloid and tau proteins.
Male rats that copulate to ejaculation with female rats bearing an odor show a learned preference to ejaculate selectively with females that bear the odor. This conditioned ejaculatory preference reflects an association between the odor and the reward state induced by ejaculation. Although little is known about the neuronal mechanisms that mediate this form of learning, convergence of genitosensory and olfactory inputs occurs in both hypothalamic and cortical regions, notably within primary olfactory (piriform) cortex, which may be involved in the encoding or storage of the association. The present study contrasted the ability of genital investigations, mounts, intromissions, ejaculations, and a sexually conditioned olfactory stimulus, to enhance evoked synaptic field potentials in the piriform cortex. Rats in the Paired group underwent conditioning trials in which they copulated with sexually receptive females bearing an almond odor. Rats in the Unpaired control group copulated with receptive females bearing no odor. Responses in the piriform cortex evoked by electrical stimulation of the olfactory bulb were recorded in male rats as they engaged in different aspects of sexual behavior, and were also recorded after conditioning, during exposure to cotton swabs bearing the almond odor. The monosynaptic component of responses was increased during intromission and ejaculation, and the late component of responses was increased during anogenital sniffing and mounting (with or without intromission). However, no differences in the amplitudes of evoked responses were found between the Paired and Unpaired groups, and no differences in synaptic responses were found during presentation of the odor after conditioning. These data indicate that short-term alterations in synaptic responsiveness occur in piriform cortex as a function of sexual stimulation in the male rat, but that responses are not significantly altered by a conditioned odor.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular regulated kinase (MAPK/ERK) pathway plays a key role in mediating estrogen actions in the brain and neuronal sensitization during inflammation. Estrogen status is a risk factor in chronic temporomandibular muscle/joint (TMJ) disorders; however, the basis for this relationship is not known. The present study tested the hypothesis that estrogen status acts through the MAPK/ERK signaling pathway to alter TMJ nociceptive processing. Single TMJ-responsive neurons were recorded in laminae I-II at the spinomedullary (Vc/C(1-2)) junction in nave ovariectomized (OvX) female rats treated for 2 days with high-dose (20 microg/day; HE2) or low-dose estradiol (2 microg/day; LE2) and after chronic inflammation of the TMJ region by complete Freund's adjuvant for 12-14 days. Intra-TMJ injection of ATP (1 mM) was used to activate Vc/C(1-2) neurons. The MAPK/ERK inhibitor (PD98059, 0.01-1 mM) was applied topically to the dorsal Vc/C(1-2) surface at the site of recording 10 min prior to each ATP stimulus. In nave HE2 rats, low-dose PD98059 caused a maximal inhibition of ATP-evoked activity, whereas even high doses had only minor effects on units in LE2 rats. By contrast, after chronic TMJ inflammation, PD98059 produced a marked and similar dose-related inhibition of ATP-evoked activity in HE2 and LE2 rats. These results suggested that E2 status and chronic inflammation acted, at least in part, through a common MAPK/ERK-dependent signaling pathway to enhance TMJ nociceptive processing by laminae I-II neurons at the spinomedullary junction region.
Previous behavioral studies have shown that neuropeptides intrinsic to the amygdala formation can alter fear and anxiety states. We have previously shown that the anxiogenic neuropeptide cholecystokinin (CCK) increases inhibitory neurotransmission in basolateral amygdala. We have since observed that CCK induces synchronized rhythmic activity composed of compound postsynaptic potentials (cPSPs). We have now further characterized these cPSPs by inducing cPSPs routinely in 5 mM extracellular K(+). CCK facilitated cPSP occurrence in a dose dependent manner in brain slices from both young and mature rats. The cPSPs were attenuated by glutamate receptor antagonists (NBQX or DL-AP5) or low concentrations of GABA(A) receptor antagonists (bicuculline methiodide (BMI), SR95531, or picrotoxin), but not by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist, CGP52432. Low concentrations of tetrodotoxin (TTX, 10 nM) also attenuated the cPSPs. The Na-K-2Cl cotransporter blocker, bumetanide (1 or 10 microM) also blocked the cPSPs. The anxiogenic neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) facilitated cPSPs while anxiolytic neuropeptides (neuropeptide Y (NPY) and somatostatin) attenuated cPSPs. The benzodiazepine agonist diazepam dose-dependently modulated cPSPs. Mefloquine facilitated cPSPs within 10 min of application. We hypothesize that cPSPs are generated by positive feedback between a subset of interneurons and a subset of glutamatergic projection neurons.
Serotonin (5-HT) is involved in many developmental processes and influences behaviors including anxiety, aggression, and cognition. Disruption of the serotonergic system has been implicated in human disorders including autism, depression, schizophrenia, and ADHD. Although pharmacological, neurotoxin, and dietary manipulation of 5-HT and tryptophan hydroxylase has added to our understanding of the serotonergic system, the results are complicated by multiple factors. A newly identified ETS domain transcription factor, Pet-1, has direct control of major aspects of 5-HT neuronal development. Pet-1 is the only known factor that is restricted in the brain to 5-HT neurons during development and adulthood and exerts dominant control over 5-HT neuronal phenotype. Disruption of Pet-1 produces an approximately 80% loss of 5-HT neurons and content and results in increased aggression in male Pet-1(-/-) mice [Hendricks TJ, Fyodorov DV, Wegman LJ, Lelutiu NB, Pehek EA, Yamamoto B, Silver J, Weeber EJ, Sweatt JD, Deneris ES (2003) Neuron 37:233-247]. We hypothesized that Pet-1(-/-) mice would also exhibit changes in anxiety and cognition. Pet-1(-/-) mice were hypoactive which may have affected the observed lack of anxious behavior in the elevated zero maze and light-dark test. Pet-1(-/-) mice, however, were more defensive during marble burying and showed acoustic startle hyper-reactivity. No deficits in spatial, egocentric, or novel object recognition learning were found in Pet-1(-/-) mice. These findings were unexpected given that 5-HT depleting drugs given to adult or developing animals result in learning deficits [Mazer C, Muneyyirci J, Taheny K, Raio N, Borella A, Whitaker-Azmitia P (1997) Brain Res 760:68-73; Morford LL, Inman-Wood SL, Gudelsky GA, Williams MT, Vorhees CV (2002) Eur J Neurosci 16:491-500; Vorhees CV, Schaefer TL, Williams MT (2007) Synapse 61:488-499]. Lack of differences may be the result of compensatory mechanisms in reaction to a constitutive knock out of Pet-1 or 5-HT may not be as important in learning and memory as previously suspected.
The neurotrophic and neuroprotective activity of fibroblast growth factor (FGF2) is well documented. In this study, we attempted to demonstrate that binding of ATP to FGF2 is essential for its neuroprotective effect. Incubation of primary cultures of rat embryonic (E18) cortical neurons with alkaline phosphatase decreased the ATP concentration in the culture medium from about 8 to 0.3 nM measured luminometrically. Reduction of ATP concentration below 1 nM abolished the neuroprotective effect of FGF2. However, when the more stable nucleotide triphosphate gammaS-ATP was used which could not be cleaved by alkaline phosphatase, FGF2 still protected the cultured cortical neurons against damage. In control experiments alkaline phosphatase alone did not influence neuroprotection. In addition, also ATPase and apyrase were used as ATP cleaving enzymes. Added to the culture medium, both enzymes were capable of decreasing ATP below the critical level of approximately 1 nM, and the neuroprotective activity of FGF2 was abolished. Thus, our results demonstrate for the first time that the FGF2/ATP complex but not FGF2 alone mediates neuroprotection.
Nuclear exclusion of TAR DNA binding protein 43 (TDP-43) and formation of cytosolic aggregates are a pathological characteristic of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). However, the molecular basis of the aberrant distribution of TDP-43 remains elusive. Here, we show evidence that axonal ligation induced transient nuclear exclusion and peripheral accumulation of TDP-43, without apparent cytosolic aggregates in hypoglossal neurons in mice. Immunohistochemistry showed marked loss of nuclear TDP-43 7-14 days after ligation, which was accompanied by reduction of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). TDP-43 staining was restored in the nucleus on day 28 exclusively in the neurons with normalized ChAT expression. We also showed that importin beta, which was shown to mediate nuclear transport of TDP-43 was downregulated transiently by nerve ligation. The analysis of the peripheral nerves proximal to the ligation revealed that TDP-43 markedly accumulated with a concomitant decrease in active autophagosome. Moreover, we showed that TDP-43 was present in the microsome fraction containing endoplasmic reticulum (ER) or autophagosomes in the brainstem section, indicating that TDP-43 is axonally transported with vesicles. These results indicate that axonal damage is associated with redistribution of TDP-43 through the combination of defective axonal autophagy periphery and the impaired nuclear transport system in the soma. Moreover, it was also shown that transient redistribution of TDP-43 does not prevent motor neurons from axonal regeneration. Therefore, our data suggest that the subcellular distribution of TDP-43 correlates to the innervation status of motor neurons, which may be governed by unidentified cause of ALS.
Granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) is a growth factor that regulates proliferation, differentiation and survival of hematopoietic progenitor cells. There is growing evidence to suggest that G-CSF exerts a powerful neuroprotective effect in different neurological disorders. However, it has remained to be elucidated if G-CSF has a direct effect on neural stem cells (NSCs). Here, we show that G-CSF could stimulate the proliferation of NSCs and promote their differentiation in vitro. Additionally, we have shown that G-CSF-induced proliferation of NSCs is associated with phosphorylation of STAT3, and the differentiation is linked to altered expression of differentiation-related genes. Remarkably, G-CSF could not initiate the differentiation of NSCs. The added roles of G-CSF in regulating proliferation and differentiation of NSCs as shown in this study would serve as a useful reference in designing new stem cell therapy strategies for promoting brain recovery and repair.
After a lesion of the posterior parietal cortex (PPC), the perception of a contra-lesional stimulus in presence of a simultaneous, ipsilesional stimulus may be impaired, a phenomenon referred to as visual extinction. In the present study, visual extinction was transiently induced in healthy subjects by interfering with the function of the right PPC by means of continuous theta burst stimulation (TBS). We investigated to which extent the horizontal and vertical position of visual stimuli influenced the extinction rate. A single TBS train over the right PPC induced a significant increase of left visual extinctions of at least 30 min. Left visual extinction rate was higher when the left sided visual stimulus was presented at a more eccentric position on the horizontal axis (irrespective of right sided visual stimulus position) and in the lower part of the visual field. The results are discussed within the framework of current explanatory models and of putative inter- and intrahemispheric mechanisms directing visuospatial attention.
Anatomical evidence of brain damage from electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is lacking; but there are no modern stereological studies in primates documenting its safety. Magnetic seizure therapy (MST) is under development as a less invasive form of convulsive therapy, and there is only one prior report on its anatomical effects. We discerned no histological lesions in the brains of higher mammals subjected to electroconvulsive shock (ECS) or MST, under conditions that model closely those used in humans. We sought to extend these findings by determining whether these interventions affected the number of neurons or glia in the frontal cortex or hippocampus. Twenty-four animals received 6 weeks of ECS, MST, or anesthesia alone, 4 days per week. After perfusion fixation, numbers of neurons and glia in frontal cortex and hippocampus were determined by unbiased stereological methods. We found no effect of either intervention on volumes or total number or numerical density of neurons or glia in hippocampus, frontal cortex, or subregions of these structures. Induction of seizures in a rigorous model of human ECT and MST therapy does not cause a change in the number of neurons or glia in potentially vulnerable regions of brain. This study, while limited to young, healthy, adult subjects, provides further evidence that ECT and MST, when appropriately applied, do not cause structural damage to the brain.
Fetal alcohol exposure is known to induce cell death through apoptosis. We found that colivelin (CLN), a novel peptide with the sequence SALLRSIPAPAGASRLLLLTGEIDLP, prevents this apoptosis. Our initial experiment revealed that CLN enhanced the viability of primary cortical neurons exposed to alcohol. We then used a mouse model of fetal alcohol exposure to identify the intracellular mechanisms underlying these neuroprotective effects. On embryonic day 7 (E7), weight-matched pregnant females were assigned to the following groups: (1) ethanol liquid diet 25% (4.49% v/v) ethanol derived calories; (2) pair-fed control; (3) normal chow; (4) ethanol liquid diet combined with administration (i.p.) of CLN (20 microg/20 g body weight); and (5) pair-fed combined with administration (i.p.) of CLN (20 microg/20 g body weight). On E13, fetal brains were collected and assayed for TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labeling staining, caspase-3 colorimetric assay, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and Meso scale discovery electrochemiluminescence. CLN blocked the alcohol-induced decline in brain weight and prevented alcohol-induced: apoptosis, activation of caspase-3 and increases of cytosolic cytochrome c, and decreases of mitochondrial cytochrome c Analysis of proteins in the upstream signaling pathway revealed that CLN down-regulated the phosphorylation of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase. Moreover, CLN prevented alcohol-induced reduction in phosphorylation of BAD protein. Thus, CLN appears to act directly on upstream signaling proteins to prevent alcohol-induced apoptosis. Further assessment of these proteins and their signaling mechanisms is likely to enhance development of neuroprotective therapies.
The transcription factor nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) is one member of a ubiquitously expressed family of Rel-related transcription factors that serve as critical regulators of many proinflammatory genes and immunomodulators. Nevertheless, the immunomodulatory potential of thymulin and its effect on NF-kappaB in vivo, and particularly in the central nervous system (CNS), is not well characterized. In this study, the role of endotoxin (ET/LPS) in regulating NF-kappaB was deciphered in various compartments of the CNS. Stereotaxic localization reverberated specific intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of ET into the CNS, with or without pretreatment with ICV thymulin. Treatment with ET (1 microg for 45 min; ICV) upregulated the expression and nuclear localization of NF-kappaB(1) (p50), NF-kappaB(2) (p52), RelA (p65), RelB (p68) and c-Rel (p75) in the hippocampus (HC), an effect abrogated, in a dose-dependent manner, by ICV pretreatment (30 min) with thymulin. Thymulin modulated the phosphorylation of IkappaB-alpha in the HC by upregulating the cytosolic accumulation of IkappaB-alpha and downregulating its phosphorylation (pIkappaB-alpha). Further analysis of the DNA-binding activity revealed an upregulated activity in the HC relative to saline-constitutive expression of the RelA (p65) subunit, the specificity of which was determined by a mutant oligonucleotide of RelA and a cold, non-specific competitor. ET did not induce the DNA-binding activity of NF-kappaB in the diencephalon (DE) or substantia nigra (SN) at various time points, when compared with baseline levels of expression. Intraperitoneal (IP) injections of ET (25 microg for 15 min) in vivo upregulated the expression of NF-kappaB subunits in the liver and reduced the cytosolic accumulation of IkappaB-alpha by inducing pIkappaB-alpha. Furthermore, IP pretreatment with thymulin followed by ICV injection of ET attenuated and reduced the DNA-binding activity of NF-kappaB in the HC. These results indicate that ICV injection of ET regulates the nuclear translocation and activation of NF-kappaB subunits within specific compartments in the brain, an effect particularly localized to the hippocampus. Additionally, thymulin attenuated the ET-induced response, with particular involvement of the transduction pathway implicating IkappaB-alpha, the major cytosolic inhibitor of NF-kappaB. The in vivo molecular regulation of thymulin via the NF-kappaB pathway is critical to understanding the alleviating anti-inflammatory role of this nonapeptide and paving the way to unraveling pathways associated with neuroimmune interactions mediating proinflammatory signals in the CNS.
Calcium is known to regulate several phenomena like neuronal excitability and plasticity. Interestingly, the spatiotemporal profile of dendritic calcium depends on several processes, specific to each neuronal type. In this study, we investigated Ca(2+) buffering and action potential (AP)-evoked Ca(2+) signaling in the dendrites of anatomically identified oriens lacunosum-moleculare (O-LM) cells, a major type of dendrite-targeting interneurons in the hippocampal CA1 region, using a combination of whole-cell patch-clamp recording and fast Ca(2+) imaging in acute rat brain slices. Cells were loaded with fluorescent Ca(2+) indicators fura-2 or Oregon Green BAPTA-1 (OGB-1) via patch-clamping electrode, and the effect of fura-2 on AP-evoked dendritic Ca(2+) transients was determined by ratiometric Ca(2+) imaging. To estimate intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations ([Ca(2+)](i)) and endogenous Ca(2+)-binding ratio (kappa(s)) in the proximal dendrite, fluorescence signals were converted into [Ca(2+)](i) using the ratioing method and were analyzed on the basis of the &quot;single compartment model.&quot; Resting [Ca(2+)](i) was 22+/-5 nM and the build-up of [Ca(2+)](i) during a single AP was up to 656+/-226 nM. Analysis of Ca(2+) transients revealed that O-LM cells have a relatively low endogenous Ca(2+)-binding ratio (kappa(s)): the kappa(s) was 20+/-8 estimated during fura-2 loading and 27 estimated under steady-state fura-2 concentrations, respectively. To further examine the spatial profile of dendritic Ca(2+) transients, we measured somatic AP-evoked Ca(2+) transients beyond proximal dendrites using OGB-1. Dendritic Ca(2+) transients evoked by single APs or AP trains are not limited to regions close to the soma. The amplitude and decay of [Ca(2+)](i) associated with backpropagating APs are relatively independent of the distance from the soma. In sum, O-LM cells exhibit low endogenous Ca(2+)-binding ratios and relatively distance-independent Ca(2+) dynamics in the dendrites. These special features of Ca(2+) signaling in O-LM cells may have important functional implications for both normal and pathological conditions.
In physiological conditions, neurogenesis occurs in restricted regions of the adult mammalian brain, giving rise to integrated neurons into functional networks. In pathological or postlesional conditions neurogenesis and astrogenesis can also occur, as demonstrated in the deafferented vestibular nuclei after immediate unilateral vestibular neurectomy (UVN) in the adult cat. To determine whether the reactive cell proliferation and beyond neurogenesis and astrogenesis following UVN plays a functional role in the vestibular functions recovery, we examined the effects of an antimitotic drug: the cytosine-beta-d arabinofuranoside (AraC), infused in the fourth ventricle after UVN. Plasticity mechanisms were evidenced at the immunohistochemical level with bromodeoxyuridine, GAD67 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) stainings. Consequences of immediate or delayed AraC infusion on the behavioral recovery processes were evaluated with oculomotor and posturo-locomotor tests. We reported that after UVN, immediate AraC infusion blocked the cell proliferation and decreased the number of GFAP-immunoreactive cells and GABAergic neurons observed in the vestibular nuclei of neurectomized cats. At the behavioral level, after UVN and immediate AraC infusion the time course of posturo-locomotor function recovery was drastically delayed, and no alteration of the horizontal spontaneous nystagmus was observed. In contrast, an infusion of AraC beginning 3 weeks after UVN had no influence neither on the time course of the behavioral recovery, nor on the reactive cell proliferation and its differentiation. We conclude that the first 3 weeks after UVN represent a possible critical period in which important neuroplasticity mechanisms take place for promoting vestibular function recovery: reactive neurogenesis and astrogenesis might contribute highly to vestibular compensation in the adult cat.
Balance control depends on the interaction of multiple inputs originating from different sensory systems. Here, we investigated the effect on quiet human stance of changing the visual condition prior to a proprioceptive perturbation produced by vibration of dorsal neck muscles. In complete absence of visual references, the amplitude of the postural responses to neck vibration (forward shift of the centre of foot pressure) was the largest and became progressively larger as a function of the repetition of administered stimuli. The posture-destabilizing effect of vibration eyes-closed (EC) and the build-up effect were reduced if vibration was preceded by a period during which vision was allowed (EO). Similarly, the small destabilizing effect of vibration EO was increased if vibration was preceded by an EC period. The fore-period must last more than 3 s in order to affect the response to neck muscle vibration. The responsiveness to a proprioceptive disturbing input does not immediately change on adding or subtracting vision, but a finite time period must elapse before the postural &quot;set&quot; defined by vision is fully established. The findings underline the importance of time when vision is used in re-weighting the excitability of the postural control mechanisms.
Effects of pregabalin (PGB, 20-80 mg/kg i.v. injection) on spinally-organized nociception were investigated in isoflurane-anesthetized intact and spinalized rats. Responses of single deep spinal dorsal horn (DH) (laminae IV-V) nociceptive-specific (NS) neurons receiving peripheral inputs from A-delta and C fibers to repetitive electrical stimulation (intensity: 3-5 mA; frequency: 1 Hz; pulse duration: 1 ms), mechanical/heat stimulation were recorded extracellularly during physiological condition and s.c. bee venom (BV) induced inflammation. PGB significantly inhibited C-fiber mediated spinal NS neurons' late responses including phenomena of wind-up (temporal summation) and after-discharge. However, the antinociceptive effects of PGB on nociception were not observed until 30 min after its administration. In contrast, no significant inhibitory effect of PGB on A-delta fiber mediated early responses was observed during the experiments. Compared with intact rats, the inhibitory effects of PGB upon nociception vanished in the spinalized animals. This suggests that PGB-induced selective antinociceptive effect on C-fiber mediated nociception is mainly central effects involving supraspinal centers via descending inhibitory controls. Furthermore, pre-treatment, but not post-treatment, with PGB (80 mg/kg) markedly inhibited s.c. BV elicited spontaneous neuronal responses, and noxious mechanical/heat stimuli evoked hyperactivities of spinal NS neurons, indicating that PGB has efficacy of pre-emptive analgesia on pathological pain associated with central sensitization.
In the present study, we hypothesized that thymosin beta 4 (Tbeta4) is a potential therapy of multiple sclerosis (MS). To test this hypothesis, SJL/J mice (n=21) were subjected to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of MS. EAE mice were treated with saline or Tbeta4 (6 mg/kg, n=10) every 3 days starting on the day of myelin proteolipid protein (PLP) immunization for total five doses. Neurological function, inflammatory infiltration, oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) and mature oligodendrocytes were measured in the brain of EAE mice. Double immunohistochemical staining was used to detect proliferation and differentiation of OPCs. Tbeta4 was used to treat N20.1 cells (premature oligodendrocyte cell line) in vitro, and proliferation of N20.1 cells was measured by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) immunostaining. Tbeta4 treatment improved functional recovery after EAE. Inflammatory infiltrates were significantly reduced in the Tbeta4 treatment group compared to the saline groups (3.6+/-0.3/slide vs 5+/-0.5/slide, P&lt;0.05). NG2(+) OPCs (447.7+/-41.9 vs 195.2+/-31/mm(2) in subventricular zone (SVZ), 75.1+/-4.7 vs 41.7+/-3.2/mm(2) in white matter), CNPase(+) mature oligodendrocytes (267.5+/-10.3 vs 141.4+/-22.9/mm(2)), BrdU(+) with NG2(+) OPCs (32.9+/-3.7 vs 17.9+/-3.6/mm(2)), BrdU(+) with CNPase(+) mature oligodendrocytes (18.2+/-1.7 vs 10.7+/-2.2/mm(2)) were significantly increased in the Tbeta4 treated mice compared to those of saline controls (P&lt;0.05). These data indicate that Tbeta4 treatment improved functional recovery after EAE, possibly, via reducing inflammatory infiltrates, and stimulating oligodendrogenesis.
In addition to nigrostriatal pathology and corresponding motor disturbances, Parkinson's disease (PD) is often characterized by co-morbid neuropsychiatric symptoms, most notably anxiety and depression. Separate lines of evidence indicate that inflammatory processes associated with microglial activation and cytokine release may be fundamental to the progression of both PD and its co-morbid psychiatric pathology. Accordingly, we assessed the contribution of the pro-inflammatory cytokine, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), to a range of PD-like pathology provoked by the ecologically relevant herbicide and dopamine (DA) toxin, paraquat. To this end, paraquat provoked overt motor impairment (reduced home-cage activity and impaired vertical climbing) and signs of anxiety-like behavior (reduced open field exploration) in wild-type but not IFN-gamma-deficient mice. Correspondingly, paraquat promoted somewhat divergent variations in neurochemical activity among wild-type and IFN-gamma null mice at brain sites important for both motor (striatum) and co-morbid affective pathologies (dorsal hippocampus, medial prefrontal cortex, and locus coeruleus). Specifically, the herbicide provoked a dosing regimen-dependent reduction in striatal DA levels that was prevented by IFN-gamma deficiency. In addition, the herbicide influenced serotonergic and noradrenergic activity within the dorsal hippocampus and medial prefrontal cortex; and elevated noradrenergic activity within the locus coeruleus. Although genetic ablation of IFN-gamma had relatively few effects on monoamine variations within the locus coeruleus and prefrontal cortex, loss of the pro-inflammatory cytokine did normalize the paraquat-induced noradrenergic alterations within the hippocampus. These findings further elucidate the functional implications of paraquat intoxication and suggest an important role for IFN-gamma in the striatal and motor pathology, as well as the co-morbid behavioral and hippocampal changes induced by paraquat.
The aim of the present study was to examine the pattern of phonological activation during Chinese sentence reading. Terminal words in high cloze sentences were manipulated across six conditions defined by word frequency and ending types. The P200 was smaller for the congruent targets than for the unrelated control targets, while there were no differences between the homophonic and unrelated control targets. No frequency effect on the P200 was observed. More importantly, a reduced N400 to the homophonic words was observed independent of word frequency. Source analysis by low resolution electromagnetic tomography (LORETA) revealed that the highly activated areas for the P200 were located at bilateral superior frontal (BA 6) and occipital (BA 17, 18 and 19) areas, while the N400 was located at left medial frontal (BA 6) area. These findings suggest that phonology is activated automatically for both high- and low-frequency words during Chinese sentence reading, even when the task is not focused on pronunciation.
The pineal organ in fishes is a photoreceptive organ with dual outputs, neuroendocrine and neural. The neural projections of the zebrafish pineal were experimentally studied by means of tract-tracing with carbocyanine dyes (1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate (DiI), 3,3'-dioctadecyloxacarbocyanine perchlorate (DiO)). Double-labeling experiments were also performed in order to investigate the degree of overlapping of pineal, retinal or cerebellar projections in zebrafish. The pineal organ sends efferent fibers bilaterally to the rostral hypothalamus, thalamus, pretectum, posterior tubercle and the mesencephalic tegmentum. A few pinealofugal fibers could also be traced to the optic tectum. Most of the targets of the zebrafish pineal also receive retinal and/or cerebellar afferents, indicating a high degree of overlap with these projections. Since most of the targets of the pineal projections of zebrafish appear to be premotor and precerebellar centers, the neural output of the pineal organ is probably, because of its photoreceptive and circadian function, involved in photic and circadian modulation of these centers.
Many species use chemical signals to convey information relevant to social and reproductive status between members of the same species (conspecific), but some chemical signals may also provide information to another species (heterospecific). Both of these types of complex chemical signals may be detected by the vomeronasal organ, which sends projections to the accessory olfactory bulb and on to the medial amygdala. Previous reports in hamster and mouse suggest that the medial amygdala sorts this complex chemosensory information categorically, according to its biological relevance (salience). In the present set of experiments, male mice having undergone vomeronasal removal surgery (VNX) or a sham-operation (SHAM) were exposed to conspecific (male and female mouse urine) or heterospecific (hamster vaginal fluid and worn cat collar) chemical stimuli. Similarly to our previous report with intact male mice [Samuelsen and Meredith (2009) Brain Res 1263:33-42], SHAM mice exhibit different immediate early gene (IEG) expression patterns in the medial amygdala dependent upon the biological relevance of the chemical stimuli. However, regardless of biological relevance, vomeronasal organ removal eliminates all responses in the medial amygdala to any of the chemical stimuli. Interestingly, VNX also disrupts the avoidance of (an unfamiliar) predator odor, worn cat collar. Here we show that the medial amygdala response to the tested chemical signals is dependent upon an intact vomeronasal organ.
C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) is an abundant neuropeptide in the human brain and the cerebrospinal fluid. CNP is involved in anxiogenesis and exerts its effects through the natriuretic peptide receptor B (NPR-B), which is expressed in the hippocampus. Hippocampal network oscillations of distinct frequency bands like gamma (gamma)-oscillations and sharp wave-ripple complexes (SPW-Rs) are likely involved in various cognitive functions such as the storage of information and memory consolidation in vivo. Here, we tested the effects of CNP on distinct network oscillations in horizontal slices of rat hippocampus. We found that CNP decreased the power of stimulus- and ACh/physostigmine-induced gamma-oscillations. In contrast to stimulus-induced gamma-oscillations, CNP increased the frequency of ACh-induced, persistent network oscillations. Moreover, the peptide hormone reduced the incidence of LTP-associated SPW-Rs in area CA3 and CA1. Immunohistochemistry indicates that the peptide binds to receptors expressed on a subset of GAD 65-67-immunopositive cells in addition to binding to principal and other presumably non-neuronal cells. CNP caused a hyperpolarization of CA3 neurons increased their input resistance and decreased inhibitory conductance. Together, our data suggest that the effects of CNP on synchronized hippocampal network oscillations might involve effects on hippocampal interneurons.
In retinal bipolar neurons, synaptic ribbons mark the presence of exocytotic active zones in the synaptic terminal. It is unknown, however, where compensatory vesicle retrieval is localized in this cell type and by what mechanism(s) excess membrane is recaptured. To determine whether endocytosis is localized or diffuse in mouse bipolar neurons, we imaged FM4-64 to track vesicles in cells whose synaptic ribbons were tagged with a fluorescent peptide. In synaptic terminals, vesicle retrieval occurred at discrete sites that were spatially consistent over multiple stimuli, indicative of endocytotic &quot;hot spots.&quot; Retrieval sites were spatially correlated with fluorescently labeled synaptic ribbons. Electron microscopy (EM) analysis of bipolar cell terminals after photoconversion of internalized FM dye revealed that almost all of the dye was contained within vesicles approximately 30 nm in diameter. Clathrin-coated vesicles were observed budding from the plasma membrane and within the cytosol, and application of dynasore, a dynamin inhibitor, arrested membrane retrieval just after the budding stage. We conclude that synaptic vesicles in the fine branches of mouse bipolar axon terminals are retrieved locally near active zones, at least in part via a clathrin-mediated pathway.
Neonatal handling, an experimental model of early life experiences, is known to affect the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function thus increasing adaptability, coping with stress, cognitive abilities and in general brain plasticity-related processes. A molecule that plays a most critical role in such processes is the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, a tetramer consisting of two obligatory, channel forming NR1 subunits and two regulatory subunits, usually a combination of NR2A and NR2B. Since the subunit composition of the NMDA receptor affects brain plasticity, in the present study we investigated the effect of neonatal handling on NR1, NR2A and NR2B mRNA levels using in situ hybridization, and on NR2B binding sites, using autoradiography of in vitro binding of [(3)H]-ifenprodil, in adult rat limbic brain areas. We found that neonatal handling specifically increased NR2B mRNA and binding sites, while it had no effect on the NR1 and NR2A subunits. More specifically, neonatally handled animals, both males and females, had higher NR2B mRNA and binding sites in the dorsal CA1 hippocampal area, as well as the prelimbic, the anterior cingulate and the somatosensory cortex, compared to the non-handled. Moreover NR2B binding sites were increased in the dorsal CA3 area of handled animals of both sexes. Furthermore, neonatal handling had a sexually dimorphic effect, increasing NR2B mRNA and binding sites in the central and medial amygdaloid nuclei only of the females. The neonatal handling-induced increase in the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor could underlie the higher brain plasticity, which neonatally handled animals exhibit.
Activation of neurons in the anterolateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST(ALG)) plays an important role in mediating the behavioral response to stressful and anxiogenic stimuli. Application of 5-HT elicits complex postsynaptic responses in BNST(ALG) neurons, which includes (1) membrane hyperpolarization (5-HT(Hyp)), (2) hyperpolarization followed by depolarization (5-HT(Hyp-Dep)), (3) depolarization (5-HT(Dep)) or (4) no response (5-HT(NR)). We have shown that the inhibitory response is mediated by activation of postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors. Here, we used a combination of in vitro whole-cell patch-clamp recording and single cell reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to determine the pharmacological properties and molecular profile of 5-HT receptor subtypes mediating the excitatory response to 5-HT in BNST(ALG) neurons. We show that the depolarizing component of both the 5-HT(Hyp/Dep) and the 5-HT(Dep) response was mediated by activation of 5-HT(2A), 5-HT(2C) and/or 5-HT(7) receptors. Single cell RT-PCR data revealed that 5-HT(7) receptors (46%) and 5-HT(1A) receptors (41%) are the most prevalent receptor subtypes expressed in BNST(ALG) neurons. Moreover, 5-HT receptor subtypes are differentially expressed in type I-III BNST(ALG) neurons. Hence, 5-HT(2C) receptors are almost exclusively expressed by type III neurons, whereas 5-HT(7) receptors are expressed by type I and II neurons, but not type III neurons. Conversely, 5-HT(2A) receptors are found predominantly in type II neurons. Finally, bi-directional modulation of individual neurons occurs only in type I and II neurons. Significantly the distribution of 5-HT receptor subtypes in BNST(ALG) neurons predicted the observed expression pattern of 5-HT responses determined pharmacologically. Together, these results suggest that 5-HT can differentially modulate the excitability of type I-III neurons, and further suggest that bi-directional modulation of BNST(ALG) neurons occurs primarily through an interplay between 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(7) receptors. Hence, modulation of 5-HT(7) receptor activity in the BNST(ALG) may offer a novel avenue for the design of anxiolytic medications.
Recent findings highlight the participation of central glial cells in chronic pain, but less is known of a comparable role for satellite glial cells (SGCs), in dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Our previous work showed that sciatic nerve axotomy augmented SGC coupling by gap junctions. The aim of the present research was to find out whether similar changes occur in a mouse inflammation model. Sciatic nerve neuritis was induced by complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA), and isolated ganglia were examined 1 week later. Cell coupling was monitored by intracellular injection of the fluorescent dye Lucifer Yellow. Changes in gap junctions were assessed quantitatively by electron microscopy. Withdrawal threshold in the foot on the side of the inflamed nerve decreased from an average of 3.9 g in control to 0.94 g using Von Frey hairs (P&lt;0.05). In CFA-treated animals dye coupling incidence between SGCs belonging to different glial envelopes increased from 6.9% in controls to 22.5% (P&lt;0.05). Whereas in controls there was no coupling between neurons or between neurons and SGCs, after CFA application the incidence of neuron-neuron and neuron-SGC coupling was 8%. Electron microscopy showed formation of bridges between SGC sheaths surrounding different neurons, which were completely absent in controls. The mean number of gap junctions/100 microm(2) of surface of the section occupied by SGCs increased from 0.215 in controls to 0.709 (P&lt;0.01) in CFA-treated mice. The size of individual gap junctions remained the same. This is the first evidence for ultrastructural changes in SGCs following inflammation. The results support the idea that SGCs are sensitive to a variety of peripheral nerve injuries. We propose that the observed changes may alter signal transmission in DRG and thus may contribute to chronic pain.
5-Lipoxygenase (5-Lox), an enzyme involved in the metabolism of arachidonic acid participates in the modulation of the proliferation and differentiation of neural stem cells and cerebellar granule cell (CGC) precursors. Since epigenetic mechanisms including DNA methylation regulate 5-LOX expression and have been suggested as possible modulators of stem cell differentiation and aging, using primary cultures of mouse CGC (1, 5, 10, 14, 30 days in vitro; DIV), we studied DNA methylation patterns of the 5-LOX promoter and 5-LOX mRNA levels. We also measured the mRNA and protein content of the DNA methyltransferases DNMT1 and DNMT3a. 5-LOX, DNMT1, and DNMT3a mRNA levels were measured by real-time PCR. We observed that 5-LOX expression and the expression of maintenance DNMT1 is maximal at 1 DIV (proliferating neuronal precursors), whereas the expression of the de novo DNA methyltransferase DNMT3a mRNA increased in aging cultures. We analyzed the methylation status of the 5-LOX promoter using the methylation-sensitive restriction endonucleases AciI, BstUI, HpaII, and HinP1I, which digest unmethylated CpGs while leaving methylated CpGs intact. The 5-LOX DNA methylation increased with the age of the cells. Taken together, our data show that as cultured CGC mature and age in vitro, a decrease in 5-LOX mRNA content is accompanied by an increase in the methylation of the gene DNA. In addition, an increase in DNMT3a but not DNMT1 expression accompanies an increase of 5-LOX methylation during in vitro maturation.
The involvement of striatum in affective processes has been consistently reported in recent years. However, studies within this field have mainly focused on positive affect, revealing the involvement of striatum in reward situations. The present research aimed to explore the involvement of striatum in negative affect through fMRI. To that aim, participants (n=18) were presented with negative, positive and neutral pictures while they performed an indirect task, a strategy repeatedly recommended to avoid cognitive interferences. Positive and negative stimuli did not differ in their arousal levels, as assessed by participants themselves. Analyses of variance showed that caudate nucleus was sensitive to the emotional content of stimulation, negative pictures eliciting greater caudate responses than positive and neutral. Regression analyses indicated that both valence and arousal content of visual stimuli synergically contributed to explain the activation of caudate, whose strong response to negative pictures supports models proposing striatum as a key element in withdrawal situations.
Cochlear spiral ganglion neurons (SGN) provide the only pathway for transmitting sound evoked activity from the hair cells to the central auditory system. Neurotrophic factor 3 (NT-3) and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) released from hair cells and supporting cells exert a profound effect on SGN survival and neural firing patterns; however, it is unclear what the effects NT-3 and BDNF have on the type of neurotransmitter receptors expressed on SGN. To address this question, the whole-cell patch clamp recording technique was used to determine what effect NT-3 and BDNF had on the function and expression of glutamate, GABA and glycine receptors (GlyR) on SGN of cochlea from postnatal C57 mouse. Receptor currents induced by the agonist of each receptor were recorded from SGN cultured with or without BDNF or NT-3. NT-3 and BDNF exerted different effects. NT-3, and to a lesser extent BDNF, enhanced the expression of GABA receptors and had comparatively little effect on glutamate receptors. Absence of BDNF and NT-3 resulted in the emergence of glycine-induced currents; however, GlyR currents were absent from the short term cultured SGN. In contrast, NT-3 and BDNF suppressed GlyR expression on SGN. These results indicate that NT-3 and BDNF exert a profound effect on the types of neurotransmitter receptors expressed on postnatal SGN, results that may have important implications for neural development and plasticity.
Locomotion is a complex behavior affected by many different brain- and spinal cord systems, as well as by variations in the peripheral nervous system. Recently, we found increased gene expression for EphA4, a gene intricately involved in motor neuron development, between high-active parental strain C57BL/6J and the low-active chromosome substitution strain 1 (CSS1). CSS1 mice carry chromosome 1 from A/J mice in a C57BL/6J genetic background, allowing localization of quantitative trait loci (QTL) on chromosome 1. To find out whether differences in motor neuron anatomy, possibly related to the changes in EphA4 expression, are involved in the motor activity differences observed in these strains, motor performance in various behavioral paradigms and anatomical differences in the ventral roots were investigated. To correlate the behavioral profiles to the spinal motor neuron morphology, not only CSS1 and its parental strains C57BL/6J (host) and A/J (donor) were examined, but also a set of other mouse inbred strains (AKR/J, 129x1/SvJ and DBA/2J). Significant differences were found between inbred strains on home cage motor activity levels, the beam balance test, grip test performance, and on alternating versus synchronous hind limb movement (hind limb hopping). Also, considerable differences were found in spinal motor neuron morphology, with A/J and CSS1 showing smaller, possibly less developed, motor neuron axons compared to all other inbred strains. For CSS1 and C57BL/6J, only genetically different for chromosome 1, a correlation was found between motor activity levels, synchronous hind limb movement and neuro-anatomical differences in spinal motor neurons. Inclusion of the other inbred strains, however, did not show this direct correlation. These data verifies the complex nature of the mammalian motor system that may be further dissected using genetic mapping populations derived from these inbred strains.
Increasing evidence suggests that 5-HT1A receptors are involved in the pathophysiology and treatment of schizophrenia. This paper investigated 5-HT1A receptor mRNA expression and binding density in female rats treated with aripiprazole (2.25 mg/kg/day), olanzapine (1.5 mg/kg/day), haloperidol (0.3 mg/kg/day) or vehicle (control) orally three times/day for 1 or 12 weeks. Animals were sacrificed 48 h after the last administration. Aripiprazole significantly increased 5-HT1A receptor binding density by 33% in the CA1 region of the hippocampus and by 21% in the medial posterodorsal nuclei of posterior amygdala (MeP) compared to the control group after 1 week of treatment. Olanzapine significantly decreased 5-HT1A receptor binding density by 17-22% in Layers I-IV of the cingulate cortex after 1 week of treatment. Neither of these antipsychotic drugs affected 5-HT1A receptor binding density after 12 weeks drug treatment. As expected, haloperidol treatment did not have any significant effect on 5-HT1A binding density after 1 or 12 weeks of treatment. 5-HT1A receptor mRNA expression was not altered by antipsychotic treatment in any brain region. The results indicate that aripiprazole and olanzapine have differential effects on 5-HT1A receptor expression, which may contribute to their distinct profiles in improving negative symptoms and cognitive deficits in schizophrenia. Aripiprazole and olanzapine may produce adaptation and desensitization of 5-HT1A receptor expression after long term treatment.
The transient receptor potential (TRP) vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1) agonist, capsaicin, enhances glutamatergic spontaneous excitatory synaptic transmission in CNS neurons. Resiniferatoxin (RTX) has a much higher affinity for TRPV1 than capsaicin, but its ability to modulate excitatory transmission is unclear. We examined the effect of RTX on excitatory transmission using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique in substantia gelatinosa (SG) neurons of adult rat spinal cord slices. Bath-applied RTX dose-dependently increased the frequency, but not the amplitude, of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic current (sEPSC), independent of its application time. In about a half of the neurons tested, this effect was accompanied by an inward current at -70 mV that was sensitive to glutamate-receptor antagonists. Repeated application of RTX did not affect excitatory transmission. RTX was more potent than capsaicin but showed similar efficacy. RTX activity could be blocked by capsazepine or SB-366791, a TRPV1 antagonist, but not tetrodotoxin, a Na(+)-channel blocker, and could be inhibited by pretreatment with capsaicin but not the TRPA1 agonist, allyl isothiocyanate. RTX enhances the spontaneous release of L-glutamate from nerve terminals with similar efficacy as capsaicin and produces a membrane depolarization by activating TRPV1 in the SG, with fast desensitization and slow recovery from desensitization. These results indicate a mechanism by which RTX can modulate excitatory transmission in SG neurons to regulate nociceptive transmission.
The basal forebrain (BF) comprises morphologically and functionally heterogeneous cell populations, including cholinergic and non-cholinergic corticopetal neurons that are implicated in sleep-wake modulation, learning, memory and attention. Several studies suggest that glutamate may be among inputs affecting cholinergic corticopetal neurons but such inputs have not been demonstrated unequivocally. We examined glutamatergic axon terminals in the sublenticular substantia innominata in rats using double-immunolabeling for vesicular glutamate transporters (Vglut1 and Vglut2) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) at the electron microscopic level. In a total surface area of 30,000 microm(2), we classified the pre- and postsynaptic elements of 813 synaptic boutons. Vglut1 and Vglut2 boutons synapsed with cholinergic dendrites, and occasionally Vglut2 axon terminals also synapsed with cholinergic cell bodies. Vglut1 terminals formed synapses with unlabeled dendrites and spines with equal frequency, while Vglut2 boutons were mainly in synaptic contact with unlabeled dendritic shafts and occasionally with unlabeled spines. In general, Vglut1 boutons contacted more distal dendritic compartments than Vglut2 boutons. About 21% of all synaptic boutons (n=347) detected in tissue that was stained for Vglut1 and ChAT were positive for Vglut1, and 14% of the Vglut1 synapses were made on cholinergic profiles. From separate cases stained for Vglut2 and ChAT, 35% of all synaptic boutons (n=466) were positive for Vglut2, and 23% of the Vglut2 synapses were made on cholinergic profiles. On average, Vglut1 boutons were significantly smaller than Vglut2 synaptic boutons. The Vglut2 boutons that synapsed cholinergic profiles tended to be larger than the Vglut2 boutons that contacted unlabeled, non-cholinergic postsynaptic profiles. The presence of two different subtypes of Vgluts, the size differences of the Vglut synaptic boutons, and their preference for different postsynaptic targets suggest that the action of glutamate on BF neurons is complex and may arise from multiple afferent sources.
The concept of conservative scaling of mammalian brain subdivision size with respect to brain size is one of the more contentious issues in neuromorphological studies. What is generally less critically discussed is the widely-cited suggestion that a highly conserved neurogenetic sequence during brain development is the reason for this conservative scaling and other processes of mammalian brain evolution. Here I re-visit the data with which the influential notion of conserved neurogenesis and mechanistic relationship between neurogenesis and mammalian brain subdivision scaling was developed. I suggest that neurogenetic sequences in the species available are not particularly conserved, and that brain subdivision sizes do not correspond well with neurogenetic sequence timing. As an alternative, I propose favouring less generalized and more heterochrony-focused approaches of relating timing differences between species to adult morphology.
Glial activation and neuroinflammation occur in neurodegenerative disease and brain injury, however their presence in normal brain aging suggests that chronic neuroinflammation may be a factor in age-related dementia. Few studies have investigated the impact of sustained elevation of hippocampal interleukin-1beta, a pro-inflammatory cytokine upregulated during aging and Alzheimer's disease, on cognition in mice. We utilized the IL-1beta(XAT) transgenic mouse to initiate bilateral hippocampal overexpression of interleukin-1beta to determine the influence of sustained neuroinflammation independent of disease pathology. Fourteen days following transgene induction, adult male and female IL-1beta(XAT) mice were tested on non-spatial and spatial versions of the Morris water maze. For the spatial component, one retention trial was conducted 48 h after completion of a 3 day acquisition protocol (eight trials per day). Induction of IL-1beta did not impact non-spatial learning, but was associated with delayed acquisition and decreased retention of the spatial task. These behavioral impairments were accompanied by robust reactive gliosis and elevated mRNA expression of inflammatory genes in the hippocampus. Our results suggest that prolonged neuroinflammation response per se may impact mnemonic processes and support the future application of IL-1beta(XAT) transgenic mice to investigate chronic neuroinflammation in age- and pathology-related cognitive dysfunction.
We examined the roles of inertial (e(3)), shoulder-centre of mass (SH-CM) and shoulder-elbow articular (SH-EL) rotation axes in the non-visual control of unconstrained 3D arm rotations. Subjects rotated the arm in elbow configurations that yielded either a constant or variable separation between these axes. We hypothesized that increasing the motion frequency and the task complexity would result in the limbs' rotational axis to correspond to e(3) in order to minimize rotational resistances. Results showed two velocity-dependent profiles wherein the rotation axis coincided with the SH-EL axis for S and I velocities and then in the F velocity shifted to either a SH-CM/e(3) trade-off axis for one profile, or to no preferential axis for the other. A third profile was velocity-independent, with the SH-CM/e(3) trade-off axis being adopted. Our results are the first to provide evidence that the rotational axis of a multi-articulated limb may change from a geometrical axis of rotation to a mass or inertia based axis as motion frequency increases. These findings are discussed within the framework of the minimum inertia tensor model (MIT), which shows that rotations about e(3) reduce the amount of joint muscle torque that must be produced by employing the interaction torque to assist movement.
The medial preoptic area (MPO) plays an important role in many behavioral, autonomic and endocrine functions, including micturition and genital responses. Although afferents of the MPO have been studied extensively, it is unknown whether direct lumbosacral-MPO projections exist that could convey afferent information from the pelvic organs. We hypothesized that, if such direct projections exist, MPO projecting cells would be located in the lateral part of the sacral cord, where primary afferents from pelvic and pudendal nerves terminate. We used retro- and anterograde tracing techniques in cat and guinea pig to study this. In cats, injections in the MPO resulted in labeled cells throughout the spinal cord, but with the highest density in the S1-S2 segments. In guinea pigs, labeled cells were found exclusively in the S1-S3 segments after MPO injections. Labeled cells in the sacral segments were not located in the lateral parts of the gray matter, but were found in the medial laminae VI-VII and dorsal lamina VIII in cats, and mainly in lamina X in guinea pigs. Anterograde tracing results after injections in the sacral cord in cats or guinea pigs showed labeled fibers in the MPO, just ventral to the anterior commissure. The central location of the cells of origin within the sacral cord, together with the termination pattern of the spino-MPO projections, strongly suggest a role for the spino-MPO pathway in the sensory relay of pelvic viscera, important for micturition and genital responses.
Anhedonia, the loss of pleasure or interest in previously rewarding stimuli, is a core feature of major depression. While theorists have argued that anhedonia reflects a reduced capacity to experience pleasure, evidence is mixed as to whether anhedonia is caused by a reduction in hedonic capacity. An alternative explanation is that anhedonia is due to the inability to sustain positive affect across time. Using positive images, we used an emotion regulation task to test whether individuals with depression are unable to sustain activation in neural circuits underlying positive affect and reward. While up-regulating positive affect, depressed individuals failed to sustain nucleus accumbens activity over time compared with controls. This decreased capacity was related to individual differences in self-reported positive affect. Connectivity analyses further implicated the fronto-striatal network in anhedonia. These findings support the hypothesis that anhedonia in depressed patients reflects the inability to sustain engagement of structures involved in positive affect and reward.
The Ca(2+)-binding proteins (CBPs) parvalbumin, calbindin, and calretinin are phenotypic markers of terminally differentiated neurons in the adult brain. Although subtle phylogenetic variations in the neuronal distribution of these CBPs may occur, morphologically and functionally diverse subclasses of interneurons harbor these proteins in olfactory and corticolimbic areas. Secretagogin (scgn) is a recently cloned CBP from pancreatic beta and neuroendocrine cells. We hypothesized that scgn is expressed in the mammalian brain. We find that scgn is a marker of neuroblasts commuting in the rostral migratory stream. Terminally differentiated neurons in the olfactory bulb retain scgn expression, with scgn being present in periglomerular cells and granular layer interneurons. In the corticolimbic system, scgn identifies granule cells distributed along the dentate gyrus, indusium griseum, and anterior hippocampal continuation emphasizing the shared developmental origins, and cytoarchitectural and functional similarities of these neurons. We also uncover unexpected phylogenetic differences in scgn expression, since this CBP is restricted to primate cholinergic basal forebrain neurons. Overall, we characterize scgn as a neuron-specific CBP whose distribution identifies neuronal subtypes and hierarchical organizing principles in the mammalian brain.
We examined whether hippocampal activity in recognition relates to the strength of the memory or to recollective experience, a subject of considerable current debate. Participants studied word pairs and then made two successive recognition decisions on each item: first on the uncued target and then on the target presented with the studied cue word. We compared recollection and familiarity patterns of activation in fMRI for these decisions. Critically, our analyses attempted in two ways to equate perceived memory strength while varying the associative information available. First, activity for targets judged familiar before cueing was contrasted with activity for the same items in the second decision as a function of whether the targets converted to recollection or remained familiar when the context cues were provided. We found increased hippocampal activity following cueing only with recollective conversion. Second, we investigated whether hippocampal activity was modulated by the rated familiarity strength of cued items or whether it increased uniquely in recollection. Hippocampal activation was not modulated parametrically by familiarity strength and recollected items were associated with greater activity relative to highly familiar items. Together, our results support the notion that it is recollection of context, rather than memory strength, that underlies hippocampal engagement at retrieval.
In this study, we examined a number of short and long-term sensorimotor, behavioural and cognitive consequences of an experimental ischemia induced by a 60-min right middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in 129S2 mice. During 14 days after surgery, a classical sensorimotor assessment was conducted using hanging wire test, negative geotaxis test, grip strength test, accelerated rotarod test and locomotor activity-meter. In order to provide a technique for the assessment of more resistant consequences of ischemia on fine psychomotor control, the peak procedure (a modified version of the operant fixed-interval schedule of reinforcement) was used. This procedure also helped to objectify temporal perception in mice five weeks following surgery. On several sensorimotor tests, ischemic mice showed some degree of impairment which rapidly tended to improve after stroke, a profile of results substantially consistent with previous studies. Five weeks post-surgery, ischemic mice tested with the peak procedure exhibited a moderate but yet significant temporal regulation impairment along with a reduced response rate compared to control mice. The present results suggest that the peak procedure and other derived operant schedules of reinforcement may provide useful and sensitive tools for the long-term assessment of both behavioural and cognitive aspects of the consequences of an experimental ischemia.
Taking into account that most of the experimental research into the effects of antipsychotic drugs has mainly focused on behavioural aspects, the aim of the present work is to investigate the effects of a chronic therapeutic dose of risperidone (1 mg/kg/day during 140 days) on both behavioural and morphological aspects in healthy rats. The behavioural results revealed only minor modifications in prepulse inhibition, showing the risperidone-treated group higher values at 70 days of treatment with respect to the vehicle group. Moreover, in the open-field test, this group showed a greater incidence of grooming. In the active avoidance test, no differences were found between the groups studied. Additionally, in the morphological study performed to analyse cortical thickness and the number of GFAP-, CaBP-, PV- and Fos-immunostained cells no differences were seen between the two groups studied. It is important to note that the risperidone-treated group showed a slight increase in the total number of cells counted, although this increase was not significant. Our results indicate that the chronic administration of therapeutic doses of risperidone does not produce any dramatic behavioural or morphological changes in healthy animals.
The rat is an altricial species and consequently undergoes considerable postnatal development. Careful analysis of the emergence and disappearance of motor behaviours is essential to gain insight into the temporal pattern of maturation of motor system structures. This study presents a qualitative analysis of the developmental progression of skilled movement in the rat by using a skilled walking task. A new rung bridge task was used to expose rat pups to a novel environment in order to reveal their potential capabilities. Ten rat pups were filmed daily from postnatal day 7 through postnatal day 30 as they explored the rung bridge task. Discrete changes in skilled and non-skilled walking in fore- and hind-limbs were evaluated by scoring seven categories and 24 subcategories of motor behaviour, including limb flexion and extension, coordination, posture, sensorimotor responses, distal control, and tail use in rat pups. Frame-by-frame analysis of ambulatory movement revealed six distinct stages of locomotor development. The most significant transformation to mature gait patterns was found between postnatal days 15 and 19, and maturation of all motor behaviour was completed by postnatal day 27. The findings are discussed in relation to the maturation of underlying structures and their relevance to studies of brain damage.
Zebrafish, one of the preferred study species of geneticists, is gaining increasing popularity in behavioral neuroscience. This small and prolific species may be an excellent tool with which the biological mechanisms of vertebrate brain function and behavior are investigated. Zebrafish has been proposed as a model organism in the analysis of fear responses and human anxiety disorders. Species-specific cues signaling the presence of predators have been successfully utilized in such research. Zebrafish has been shown to respond to its natural alarm substance with species-typical fear reactions. However, the extraction of this alarm substance and ascertaining its consistent dosing has been problematic. A synthetic substance with a known chemical identity and molecular weight would allow precise dosing and experimental control. Previously, the chemical component, hypoxanthine 3-N-oxide, common to several fish alarm substances has been identified and has been shown to elicit alarm reactions in fish species belonging to the Osteriophysan superorder. In the current study we investigate the effect of hypoxanthine 3-N-oxide by exposing zebrafish to three different concentrations of this synthetic substance. Our results show that the substance efficaciously induces species-typical fear reactions increasing the number of erratic movement episodes and jumps in zebrafish. We discuss the translational relevance of our findings and conclude that hypoxanthine 3-N-oxide will have utility to elicit fear responses in the laboratory in a precisely controlled manner in zebrafish.
Little is known about the brain mechanisms involved in word learning during infancy and in second language acquisition and about the way these new words become stable representations that sustain language processing. In several studies we have adopted the human simulation perspective, studying the effects of brain-lesions and combining different neuroimaging techniques such as event-related potentials and functional magnetic resonance imaging in order to examine the language learning (LL) process. In the present article, we review this evidence focusing on how different brain signatures relate to (i) the extraction of words from speech, (ii) the discovery of their embedded grammatical structure, and (iii) how meaning derived from verbal contexts can inform us about the cognitive mechanisms underlying the learning process. We compile these findings and frame them into an integrative neurophysiological model that tries to delineate the major neural networks that might be involved in the initial stages of LL. Finally, we propose that LL simulations can help us to understand natural language processing and how the recovery from language disorders in infants and adults can be accomplished.
Dynamic remodeling of actin filaments are bases for a variety of cellular events including cell motility and cancer invasion, and the regulation of actin dynamics implies dynamin, well characterized endocytotic protein. Here we report that dynasore, a inhibitor of dynamin GTPase, potently destabilizes F-actin in vitro, and it severely inhibits the formation of pseudopodia and cancer cell invasion, both of which are supported by active F-actin formation. Dynasore rapidly disrupted F-actin formed in brain cytosol in vitro, and the dynasore's effect on F-actin was indirect. Dynasore significantly suppressed serum-induced lamellipodia formation in U2OS cell. Dynasore also destabilized F-actin in resting cells, which caused the retraction of the plasma membrane. A certain amount of dynamin 2 in U2OS cells localized along F-actin, and co-localized with cortactin, a physiological binding partner of dynamin and F-actin. However, these associations of dynamin were partially disrupted by dynasore treatment. Furthermore, invasion activity of H1080 cell, a lung cancer cell line, was suppressed by approximately 40% with dynasore treatment. These results strongly suggest that dynasore potently destabilizes F-actin, and the effect implies dynamin. Dynasore or its derivative would be suitable candidates as potent anti-cancer drugs.
A variety of ion channels have been detected in cancer cells. In particular, upregulation of voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) has been associated pathophysiologically with several strongly metastatic carcinomas. This review emphasises breast cancer. Inhibiting VGSC activity in a number of independent ways, using the highly selective tetrodotoxin (TTX), gene silencing and a blocking polyclonal antibody, suppressed a range of cellular behaviors, especially directional motility and invasion, integral to the metastatic cascade. Conversely, transfecting a VGSC into a weakly invasive human prostate cancer cell line significantly increased invasiveness. In vivo, also, VGSC expression has been correlated positively with metastatic status. It has been suggested, therefore (i) that VGSC upregulation is an early event in metastatic progression and (ii) that VGSC expression is a 'switch,' necessary and sufficient for engaging cancer cells in a highly invasive state. Importantly, where studied, mainly prostate and breast cancers, the dominant VGSC (Nav1.7 and Nav1.5, respectively) was found to be an embryonic/neonatal splice variant, consistent with the gene expression being &quot;oncofoetal.&quot; In breast cancer, the molecular difference between the adult and neonatal isoforms of the VGSC/Nav1.5 is largest (31 base pairs, generating 7 amino acid differences). We propose that neonatal Nav1.5 is a novel marker with significant clinical potential for management of metastatic breast cancer and describe a number of approaches which may enable tumour-specific targeting. These include various small-molecule drugs, small-interfering RNA, monoclonal antibody and natural neurotoxins.
Alcadeins (Alcs) constitute a family of neuronal type I membrane proteins, designated Alc(alpha), Alc(beta), and Alc(gamma). The Alcs express in neurons dominantly and largely colocalize with the Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein (APP) in the brain. Alcs and APP show an identical function as a cargo receptor of kinesin-1. Moreover, proteolytic processing of Alc proteins appears highly similar to that of APP. We found that APP alpha-secretases ADAM 10 and ADAM 17 primarily cleave Alc proteins and trigger the subsequent secondary intramembranous cleavage of Alc C-terminal fragments by a presenilin-dependent gamma-secretase complex, thereby generating &quot;APP p3-like&quot; and non-aggregative Alc peptides (p3-Alcs). We determined the complete amino acid sequence of p3-Alc(alpha), p3-Alc(beta), and p3-Alc(gamma), whose major species comprise 35, 37, and 31 amino acids, respectively, in human cerebrospinal fluid. We demonstrate here that variant p3-Alc C termini are modulated by FAD-linked presenilin 1 mutations increasing minor beta-amyloid species Abeta42, and these mutations alter the level of minor p3-Alc species. However, the magnitudes of C-terminal alteration of p3-Alc(alpha), p3-Alc(beta), and p3-Alc(gamma) were not equivalent, suggesting that one type of gamma-secretase dysfunction does not appear in the phenotype equivalently in the cleavage of type I membrane proteins. Because these C-terminal alterations are detectable in human cerebrospinal fluid, the use of a substrate panel, including Alcs and APP, may be effective to detect gamma-secretase dysfunction in the prepathogenic state of Alzheimer disease subjects.
Previous work from our laboratory has focused on mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) repair and cellular viability. However, other events occur prior to the initiation of apoptosis in cells. Because of the importance of mtDNA in ATP production and of ATP in fuel cell cycle progression, we asked whether mtDNA damage was an upstream signal leading to cell cycle arrest. Using quantitative alkaline Southern blot technology, we found that exposure to menadione produced detectable mtDNA damage in HeLa cells that correlated with an S phase cell cycle arrest. To determine whether mtDNA damage was causatively linked to the observed cell cycle arrest, experiments were performed utilizing a MTS-hOGG1-Tat fusion protein to target the hOGG1 repair enzyme to mitochondria and enhance mtDNA repair. The results revealed that the transduction of MTS-hOGG1-Tat into HeLa cells alleviated the cell cycle block following an oxidative insult. Furthermore, mechanistic studies showed that Chk2 phosphorylation was enhanced following menadione exposure. Treatment of the HeLa cells with the hOGG1 fusion protein prior to menadione exposure resulted in an increase in the rate of Chk2 dephosphorylation. These results strongly support a direct link between mtDNA damage and cell cycle arrest.
The aim of this study was to identify neurophysiological correlates for previously reported positive effects of exercise on academic achievement in school children using a distributed source localization algorithm. Electro-cortical activity of 11 school children (9-10y) was recorded before and after a moderate 15-min bike exercise. Data were analyzed using standardized low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA) in the alpha (7.5-12.5Hz) and beta (12.5-35Hz) frequency range. We were able to show a significant increase in alpha activity post-exercise, which could be localized in the precuneus. Moreover a distinct decrease in beta activity could be noticed post-exercise in left temporal areas including Wernicke's area. We propose that apart from health-promoting aspects school sport serves a second even more important challenge. On a central level a well observed overall state of physical relaxation after exercise is reflected by a more synchronized state in the precuneus. We speculate this to be responsible for an increase in concentrativeness and cognitive function post-exercise. Moreover a previously reported increase in academic achievement post-exercise could be directly linked to exercise induced neuroplasticity in regions that are relevant for language processing.
Recent research in social neuroscience proposes a link between mirror neuron system (MNS) and social cognition. The MNS has been proposed to be the neural mechanism underlying action recognition and intention understanding and more broadly social cognition. Pre-motor MNS has been suggested to modulate the motor cortex during action observation. This modulation results in an enhanced cortico-motor excitability reflected in increased motor evoked potentials (MEPs) at the muscle of interest during action observation. Anomalous MNS activity has been reported in the autistic population whose social skills are notably impaired. It is still an open question whether traits of autism in the normal population are linked to the MNS functioning. We measured TMS-induced MEPs in normal individuals with high and low traits of autism as measured by the autistic quotient (AQ), while observing videos of hand or mouth actions, static images of a hand or mouth or a blank screen. No differences were observed between the two while they observed a blank screen. However participants with low traits of autism showed significantly greater MEP amplitudes during observation of hand/mouth actions relative to static hand/mouth stimuli. In contrast, participants with high traits of autism did not show such a MEP amplitude difference between observation of actions and static stimuli. These results are discussed with reference to MNS functioning.
Lithium represents the first-choice and most effective drug in the treatment of bipolar disorder (BD). While its mechanism of action is far from being totally understood, a large amount of evidence pointed to a role of second messengers mediated pathways and elements of the circadian system in modulating its mood stabilizing effect. In the present paper, we tested the possible association and interaction effect of the nuclear receptor subfamily 1, group D, member 1 (NR1D1) gene and the Diacylglycerol kinase eta (DGKH) gene with the therapeutic response to lithium prophylaxis. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs12941497 and rs939347 at NR1D1 gene and SNPs rs9315885, rs1012053 and rs1170191 at DGKH gene were genotyped in a sample of 199 Sardinian BD patients characterized for the response to lithium therapy. Genotype and allele frequency distributions did not differ significantly between groups of patients Full Responders and partial/not responders to lithium prophylaxis. Moreover, no significant differences were identified between groups of patients when divided considering the improvement in symptoms after lithium treatment. The interaction analysis did not show a significant effect on these outcomes. While negative, our findings do not exclude an involvement of DGKH and NR1D1 in lithium prophylaxis. Moreover, the lack of statistic interaction might not necessarily correspond to a lack of biologic interaction between the genes studied.

My professional life over five decades meandered from a high school ambition to be a psychiatrist and understand the &quot;mind&quot; to biochemical studies of neurotransmitters and drugs. Hopefully, the tale of my quirky impatient curiosity about &quot;too many&quot; different areas will be useful for young scientists embarking on their own careers.
The combination of human genetics, animal models, and induced pluripotent stem cells is likely to revolutionize our understanding of neuropsychiatric disorders, leading to new therapies and insights into how the normal human brain works. This is the territory I would explore if I were starting my research career today.
The cellular and molecular mechanisms mediating histamine-independent itch in primary sensory neurons are largely unknown. Itch induced by chloroquine (CQ) is a common side effect of this widely used antimalarial drug. Here, we show that Mrgprs, a family of G protein-coupled receptors expressed exclusively in peripheral sensory neurons, function as itch receptors. Mice lacking a cluster of Mrgpr genes display significant deficits in itch induced by CQ but not histamine. CQ directly excites sensory neurons in an Mrgpr-dependent manner. CQ specifically activates mouse MrgprA3 and human MrgprX1. Loss- and gain-of-function studies demonstrate that MrgprA3 is required for CQ responsiveness in mice. Furthermore, MrgprA3-expressing neurons respond to histamine and coexpress gastrin-releasing peptide, a peptide involved in itch sensation, and MrgprC11. Activation of these neurons with the MrgprC11-specific agonist BAM8-22 induces itch in wild-type but not mutant mice. Therefore, Mrgprs may provide molecular access to itch-selective neurons and constitute novel targets for itch therapeutics.
By use of chemical enablement and prospective design, a novel series of selective, brain penetrant PDE9A inhibitors have been identified that are capable of producing in vivo elevations of brain cGMP.

The majority of excitatory synapses in the mammalian CNS (central nervous system) are formed on dendritic spines, and spine morphology and distribution are critical for synaptic transmission, synaptic integration and plasticity. Here, we show that a secreted semaphorin, Sema3F, is a negative regulator of spine development and synaptic structure. Mice with null mutations in genes encoding Sema3F, and its holoreceptor components neuropilin-2 (Npn-2, also known as Nrp2) and plexin A3 (PlexA3, also known as Plxna3), exhibit increased dentate gyrus (DG) granule cell (GC) and cortical layer V pyramidal neuron spine number and size, and also aberrant spine distribution. Moreover, Sema3F promotes loss of spines and excitatory synapses in dissociated neurons in vitro, and in Npn-2(-/-) brain slices cortical layer V and DG GCs exhibit increased mEPSC (miniature excitatory postsynaptic current) frequency. In contrast, a distinct Sema3A-Npn-1/PlexA4 signalling cascade controls basal dendritic arborization in layer V cortical neurons, but does not influence spine morphogenesis or distribution. These disparate effects of secreted semaphorins are reflected in the restricted dendritic localization of Npn-2 to apical dendrites and of Npn-1 (also known as Nrp1) to all dendrites of cortical pyramidal neurons. Therefore, Sema3F signalling controls spine distribution along select dendritic processes, and distinct secreted semaphorin signalling events orchestrate CNS connectivity through the differential control of spine morphogenesis, synapse formation, and the elaboration of dendritic morphology.
The discovery of &quot;mirror neurons&quot; in area F5 of the ventral premotor cortex has prompted many theories as to their possible function. However, the identity of mirror neurons remains unknown. Here, we investigated whether identified pyramidal tract neurons (PTNs) in area F5 of two adult macaques exhibited &quot;mirror-like&quot; activity. About half of the 64 PTNs tested showed significant modulation of their activity while monkeys observed precision grip of an object carried out by an experimenter, with somewhat fewer showing modulation during precision grip without an object or grasping concealed from the monkey. Therefore, mirror-like activity can be transmitted directly to the spinal cord via PTNs. A novel finding is that many PTNs (17/64) showed complete suppression of discharge during action observation, while firing actively when the monkey grasped food rewards. We speculate that this suppression of PTN discharge might be involved in the inhibition of self-movement during action observation.
Remembering experiences that lead to reward is essential for survival. The hippocampus is required for forming and storing memories of events and places, but the mechanisms that associate specific experiences with rewarding outcomes are not understood. Event memory storage is thought to depend on the reactivation of previous experiences during hippocampal sharp wave ripples (SWRs). We used a sequence switching task that allowed us to examine the interaction between SWRs and reward. We compared SWR activity after animals traversed spatial trajectories and either received or did not receive a reward. Here, we show that rat hippocampal CA3 principal cells are significantly more active during SWRs following receipt of reward. This SWR activity was further enhanced during learning and reactivated coherent elements of the paths associated with the reward location. This enhanced reactivation in response to reward could be a mechanism to bind rewarding outcomes to the experiences that precede them.
Persistent changes in synaptic strength are locally regulated by both protein degradation and synthesis; however, the coordination of these opposing limbs is poorly understood. Here, we found that the RISC protein MOV10 was present at synapses and was rapidly degraded by the proteasome in an NMDA-receptor-mediated activity-dependent manner. We designed a translational trap to capture those mRNAs whose spatiotemporal translation is regulated by MOV10. When MOV10 was suppressed, a set of mRNAs--including alpha-CaMKII, Limk1, and the depalmitoylating enzyme lysophospholipase1 (Lypla1)--selectively entered the polysome compartment. We also observed that Lypla1 mRNA is associated with the brain-enriched microRNA miR-138. Using a photoconvertible translation reporter, Kaede, we analyzed the activity-dependent protein synthesis driven by Lypla1 and alpha-CaMKII 3'UTRs. We established this protein synthesis to be MOV10 and proteasome dependent. These results suggest a unifying picture of a local translational regulatory mechanism during synaptic plasticity.
In mammals, the first step in the perception of form and texture is the activation of trigeminal or dorsal root ganglion (DRG) mechanosensory neurons, which are classified as either rapidly (RA) or slowly adapting (SA) according to their rates of adaptation to sustained stimuli. The molecular identities and mechanisms of development of RA and SA mechanoreceptors are largely unknown. We found that the &quot;early Ret(+)&quot; DRG neurons are RA mechanoreceptors, which form Meissner corpuscles, Pacinian corpuscles, and longitudinal lanceolate endings. The central projections of these RA mechanoreceptors innervate layers III through V of the spinal cord and terminate within discrete subdomains of the dorsal column nuclei. Moreover, mice lacking Ret signaling components are devoid of Pacinian corpuscles and exhibit a dramatic disruption of RA mechanoreceptor projections to both the spinal cord and medulla. Thus, the early Ret(+) neurons are RA mechanoreceptors and Ret signaling is required for the assembly of neural circuits underlying touch perception.
The N-terminal 17 amino acids of huntingtin (NT17) can be phosphorylated on serines 13 and 16; however, the significance of these modifications in Huntington's disease pathogenesis remains unknown. In this study, we developed BAC transgenic mice expressing full-length mutant huntingtin (fl-mhtt) with serines 13 and 16 mutated to either aspartate (phosphomimetic or SD) or alanine (phosphoresistant or SA). Both mutant proteins preserve the essential function of huntingtin in rescuing knockout mouse phenotypes. However, fl-mhtt-induced disease pathogenesis, including motor and psychiatric-like behavioral deficits, mhtt aggregation, and selective neurodegeneration are abolished in SD but preserved in SA mice. Moreover, modification of these serines in expanded repeat huntingtin peptides modulates aggregation and amyloid fibril formation in vitro. Together, our findings demonstrate that serines 13 and 16 are critical determinants of fl-mhtt-induced disease pathogenesis in vivo, supporting the targeting of huntingtin NT17 domain and its modifications in HD therapy.
In this issue of Neuron, Lin et al. report that LRRK2 modulates age-related neurodegeneration caused by overexpression of alpha-synuclein in the forebrain of transgenic mice. Overexpression of LRRK2 accelerates the progression of alpha-synuclein-mediated neuropathological changes, whereas deletion of LRRK2 alleviates these alterations. The results reveal an interesting interaction between alpha-synuclein and LRRK2, two gene products linked to dominantly inherited Parkinson's disease.


The ketogenic diet is a high-fat, low-carbohydrate regimen that forces ketone-based rather than glucose-based cellular metabolism. Clinically, maintenance on a ketogenic diet has been proven effective in treating pediatric epilepsy and type II diabetes, and recent basic research provides evidence that ketogenic strategies offer promise in reducing brain injury. Cellular mechanisms hypothesized to be mobilized by ketone metabolism and underlying the success of ketogenic diet therapy, such as reduced reactive oxygen species and increased central adenosine, suggest that the ketolytic metabolism induced by the diet could reduce pain and inflammation. To test the effects of a ketone-based metabolism on pain and inflammation directly, we fed juvenile and adult rats a control diet (standard rodent chow) or ketogenic diet (79% fat) ad libitum for 3-4 weeks. We then quantified hindpaw thermal nociception as a pain measure and complete Freund's adjuvant-induced local hindpaw swelling and plasma extravasation (fluid movement from the vasculature) as inflammation measures. Independent of age, maintenance on a ketogenic diet reduced the peripheral inflammatory response significantly as measured by paw swelling and plasma extravasation. The ketogenic diet also induced significant thermal hypoalgesia independent of age, shown by increased hindpaw withdrawal latency in the hotplate nociception test. Anti-inflammatory and hypoalgesic diet effects were generally more robust in juveniles. The ketogenic diet elevated plasma ketones similarly in both age groups, but caused slowed body growth only in juveniles. These data suggest that applying a ketogenic diet or exploiting cellular mechanisms associated with ketone-based metabolism offers new therapeutic opportunities for controlling pain and peripheral inflammation, and that such a metabolic strategy may offer significant benefits for children and adults.

Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) has been shown to replicate productively in cells of the monocyte-macrophage lineage, although replication occurs to a lesser extent than in infected T cells. As cells of the monocyte-macrophage lineage become differentiated and activated and subsequently travel to a variety of end organs, they become a source of infectious virus and secreted viral proteins and cellular products that likely initiate pathological consequences in a number of organ systems. During this process, alterations in a number of signaling pathways, including the level and functional properties of many cellular transcription factors, alter the course of HIV-1 long terminal repeat (LTR)-directed gene expression. This process ultimately results in events that contribute to the pathogenesis of HIV-1 infection. First, increased transcription leads to the upregulation of infectious virus production, and the increased production of viral proteins (gp120, Tat, Nef, and Vpr), which have additional activities as extracellular proteins. Increased viral production and the presence of toxic proteins lead to enhanced deregulation of cellular functions increasing the production of toxic cellular proteins and metabolites and the resulting organ-specific pathologic consequences such as neuroAIDS. This article reviews the structural and functional features of the cis-acting elements upstream and downstream of the transcriptional start site in the retroviral LTR. It also includes a discussion of the regulation of the retroviral LTR in the monocyte-macrophage lineage during virus infection of the bone marrow, the peripheral blood, the lymphoid tissues, and end organs such as the brain. The impact of genetic variation on LTR-directed transcription during the course of retrovirus disease is also reviewed.

Hyperoxic therapy for cerebral ischemia reduces cerebral blood flow (CBF) principally from the vasoconstrictive effect of oxygen on cerebral arterioles. Based on a recent study in normal volunteers, we now claim that the vasodilatory effect of carbon dioxide predominates when 5% CO(2) is added to inhaled oxygen (the mixture known as carbogen). In the present study, we measured CBF by positron emission tomography (PET) during inhalation of test gases (O(2), carbogen, and atmospheric air) in healthy volunteers (n = 10) and in patients with occlusive carotid artery disease (n = 6). Statistical comparisons by an additive ANOVA model showed that carbogen significantly increased CBF by 7.51 + or - 1.62 ml/100 g/min while oxygen tended to reduce it by -3.22 + or - 1.62 ml/100 g/min. A separate analysis of the hemisphere contralateral to the hypoperfused hemisphere showed that carbogen significantly increased CBF by 8.90 + or - 2.81 ml/100 g/min whereas oxygen inhalation produced no reliable change in CBF (-1.15 + or - 2.81 ml/100 g/min). In both patients and controls, carbogen was as efficient as oxygen in increasing Sa(O2) or PaO(2) values. The study demonstrates that concomitant increases of CBF and Sa(O2) are readily obtained with carbogen, while oxygen increases only Sa(O2). Thus, carbogen improves oxygen transport to brain tissue more efficiently than oxygen alone. Further studies with more subjects are, however, needed to investigate the applicability of carbogen for long-term inhalation and to assess its therapeutic benefits in acute stroke patients.
Hypertonic saline (HTS) is an accepted treatment for traumatic brain injury (TBI). However, the behavioral and cognitive consequences following HTS administration have not thoroughly been examined. Recent preclinical evidence has suggested that nicotinamide (NAM) is beneficial for recovery of function following TBI. The current study compared the behavioral and cognitive consequences of HTS and NAM as competitive therapeutic agents for the treatment of TBI. Following controlled cortical impact (CCI), bolus administrations of NAM (500 mg/kg), 7.5% HTS, or 0.9% saline Vehicle (1.0 mL/kg) were given at 2, 24, and 48 h post-CCI. Behavioral results revealed that animals treated with NAM and HTS showed significant improvements in beam walk and locomotor placing compared to the Vehicle group. The Morris water maze (MWM) retrograde amnesia test was conducted on day 12 post-CCI and showed that all groups had significant retention of memory compared to injured, Vehicle-treated animals. Working memory was also assessed on days 8-20 using the MWM. The NAM and Vehicle groups quickly acquired the task; however, HTS animals showed no acquisition of this task. Histological examinations revealed that the HTS-treated animals lost significantly more cortical tissue than either the NAM or Vehicle-treated animals. HTS-treated animals showed a greater loss of hippocampal tissue compared to the other groups. In general, NAM showed a faster rate of recovery than HTS without this associated tissue loss. The results of this study reiterate the strengths of NAM following injury and show concerns with bolus administrations of HTS due to the differential effects on cognitive performance and apparent tissue loss.
The existence of a hypothalamic gonadotropin-inhibiting system has been elusive. A neuropeptide named gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH, SIKPSAYLPLRF-NH(2)) which directly inhibits gonadotropin synthesis and release from the pituitary was recently identified in quail hypothalamus. Here we identify GnIH homologs in the human hypothalamus and characterize their distribution and biological activity. GnIH homologs were isolated from the human hypothalamus by immunoaffinity purification, and then identified as MPHSFANLPLRF-NH(2) (human RFRP-1) and VPNLPQRF-NH(2) (human RFRP-3) by mass spectrometry. Immunocytochemistry revealed GnIH-immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies in the dorsomedial region of the hypothalamus with axonal projections to GnRH neurons in the preoptic area as well as to the median eminence. RT-PCR and subsequent DNA sequencing of the PCR products identified human GnIH receptor (GPR147) mRNA expression in the hypothalamus as well as in the pituitary. In situ hybridization further identified the expression of GPR147 mRNA in luteinizing hormone producing cells (gonadotropes). Human RFRP-3 has recently been shown to be a potent inhibitor of gonadotropin secretion in cultured sheep pituitary cells by inhibiting Ca(2+) mobilization. It also directly modulates GnRH neuron firing. The identification of two forms of GnIH (RFRP-1 and RFRP-3) in the human hypothalamus which targets human GnRH neurons and gonadotropes and potently inhibit gonadotropin in sheep models provides a new paradigm for the regulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis in man and a novel means for manipulating reproductive functions.
Social learning, defined as learning from other individuals, has had dramatic effects on some species, including humans, in whom it has generated a rich culture. As a first step in examining the evolution of and mechanisms underlying social learning in insects, we tested for social learning in fruitflies (Drosophila melanogaster). Focal females (observers) that experienced novel food together with mated females (models), who had laid eggs on that food, subsequently exhibited a stronger preference for laying eggs on that food over another novel food compared with focal females that experienced the food alone. We observed no social learning, however, when observers experienced food with potentially more ambiguous social information provided by the presence of either virgin models or aggregation pheromone. This first documentation of social learning about egg-laying substrates in fruitflies builds on recent data indicating intricate use of social information by fruitflies and opens up exciting avenues for research on the evolution and neurogenetics of social learning using biology's major model system.
Recently, chromogranins were reported to interact specifically with mutant forms of superoxide dismutase that are linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). This interaction led us to analyze the frequencies of sequence variants of the CHGB gene in ALS patients and matched controls from three different countries. Of particular interest was the finding of the P413L CHGB variant present in 10% of ALS patients (n = 705) as compared to 4.5% in controls (n = 751), conferring a 2.2-fold greater relative risk to develop the disease (P &lt; 0.0001). This effect was mainly contributed by the samples of French origin that yielded a frequency of the P413L variation at 17% in ALS (n = 289) and 5% in controls (n = 448), conferring a 3.3-fold greater risk to develop ALS. Furthermore, the P413L CHGB variant is associated with an earlier age of onset by almost a decade in both sporadic ALS and familial ALS cases. Genetic variation influencing age of onset in ALS had not previously been reported. Expression of fusion CHGB-EGFP constructs in SHSY-5Y cells revealed that the P413L variation can cause defective sorting of CHGB into secretory granules. The finding that CHGB may act as a susceptibility gene and modifier of onset in ALS is consistent with the emerging view that dysfunction of the secretory pathway may contribute to increased vulnerability of motor neurons.
The development of functional neural circuits requires that connections between neurons be established in a precise manner. The mechanisms by which complex nervous systems perform this daunting task remain largely unknown. In the posterior lateral line of larval zebrafish, each afferent neuron forms synaptic contacts with hair cells of a common hair-bundle polarity. We investigated whether afferent neurons distinguish hair-cell polarities by analyzing differences in the synaptic signaling between oppositely polarized hair cells. By examining two mutant zebrafish lines with defects in mechanoelectrical transduction, and by blocking transduction during the development of wild-type fish, we found that afferent neurons could form specific synapses in the absence of stimulus-evoked patterns of synaptic release. Asking next whether this specificity arises through intrinsically generated patterns of synaptic release, we found that the polarity preference persisted in two mutant lines lacking essential synaptic proteins. These results indicate that lateral-line afferent neurons do not require synaptic activity to distinguish hair-cell polarities and suggest that molecular labels of hair-cell polarity guide prepatterned afferents to form the appropriate synapses.
17-Beta-estradiol (E2) is a steroid hormone involved in numerous brain functions. E2 regulates synaptic plasticity in part by enhancing NMDA receptor function and spine density in the hippocampus, resulting in increased long-term potentiation and facilitation of learning and memory. As the calcium-dependent neutral protease, calpain, is also involved in these processes, we tested whether E2 could activate calpain and examined the functional consequences of E2-mediated calpain activation in hippocampus. Calpain activity was analyzed by a fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET)-based assay that allows both quantitative determination and spatial resolution. E2 rapidly activated calpain in cultured cortical and hippocampal neurons, prominently in dendrites and dendritic spines. E2-induced calpain activation was mediated through mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), as it was completely blocked by MEK inhibitors. It was also calcium-independent, as it was still evident in presence of the calcium chelator, BAPTA-AM. Activation of ERalpha and ERbeta receptors by specific agonists stimulated calpain activity. Finally, the rapid E2-mediated increase in excitability in acute hippocampal slices was prevented by a membrane-permeable calpain inhibitor. Furthermore, E2 treatment of acute hippocampal slices resulted in increased actin polymerization and membrane levels of GluR1 but not GluR2/3 subunits of AMPA receptors; both effects were also blocked by a calpain inhibitor. Our results indicate that E2 rapidly stimulates calpain activity through MAP kinase-mediated phosphorylation, resulting in increased membrane levels of AMPA receptors. These effects could be responsible for E2-mediated increase in neuronal excitability and facilitation of cognitive processes.
Dendritic integration of excitatory and inhibitory inputs is critical for neuronal computation, but the underlying rules remain to be elucidated. Based on realistic modeling and experiments in rat hippocampal slices, we derived a simple arithmetic rule for spatial summation of concurrent excitatory glutamatergic inputs (E) and inhibitory GABAergic inputs (I). The somatic response can be well approximated as the sum of the excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP), the inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP), and a nonlinear term proportional to their product (k*EPSP*IPSP), where the coefficient k reflects the strength of shunting effect. The k value shows a pronounced asymmetry in its dependence on E and I locations. For I on the dendritic trunk, k decays rapidly with E-I distance for proximal Es, but remains largely constant for distal Es, indicating a uniformly high shunting efficacy for all distal Es. For I on an oblique branch, the shunting effect is restricted mainly within the branch, with the same proximal/distal asymmetry. This asymmetry can be largely attributed to cable properties of the dendrite. Further modeling studies showed that this rule also applies to the integration of multiple coincident Es and Is. Thus, this arithmetic rule offers a simple analytical tool for studying E-I integration in pyramidal neurons that incorporates the location specificity of GABAergic shunting inhibition.
Sensory cortical anatomy has identified a canonical microcircuit underlying computations between and within layers. This feed-forward circuit processes information serially from granular to supragranular and to infragranular layers. How this substrate correlates with an auditory cortical processing hierarchy is unclear. We recorded simultaneously from all layers in cat primary auditory cortex (AI) and estimated spectrotemporal receptive fields (STRFs) and associated nonlinearities. Spike-triggered averaged STRFs revealed that temporal precision, spectrotemporal separability, and feature selectivity varied with layer according to a hierarchical processing model. STRFs from maximally informative dimension (MID) analysis confirmed hierarchical processing. Of two cooperative MIDs identified for each neuron, the first comprised the majority of stimulus information in granular layers. Second MID contributions and nonlinear cooperativity increased in supragranular and infragranular layers. The AI microcircuit provides a valid template for three independent hierarchical computation principles. Increases in processing complexity, STRF cooperativity, and nonlinearity correlate with the synaptic distance from granular layers.
The mechanism of acupuncture, whilst not known with certainty, has previously been considered to be stimulatory. A novel hypothesis is presented here in which C fiber tactile afferent axons bifurcate at acupuncture points and then diverge, running along acupuncture meridians, to subsequently communicate with Merkel cells. It is proposed that acupuncture disrupts the bifurcation of these axons, preventing neural transmission between Merkel cells as well as central communication with the spinal cord. Making use of the known phenomenon that acupuncture points have lower electrical resistance than adjacent skin, this hypothesis was tested using an electrical circuit model and successfully predicted the observed 10(3) reduction in skin resistance at acupuncture points. In addition to explaining acupuncture and the roles of both Merkel cells and C fiber tactile afferents, the model has greater implications for neuroscience, through the postulation of a new division of the autonomic nervous system.

Relaxin-3 (RLN3) is a highly conserved, ancestral member of the insulin/relaxin peptide family. RLN3 mRNA is highly expressed in rat, mouse, and human brain and molecular genetic and pharmacological studies suggest that RLN3 is the cognate ligand for the relaxin family peptide-3 receptor (RXFP3). The distribution of RLN3/RXFP3 networks has been determined in rat and mouse brain, but not in higher species. In this study we describe the distribution of RLN3 neurons in the brain of macaque (Macaca fascicularis) using in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry. RLN3 mRNA and high levels of RLN3-like immunoreactivity (-LI) were observed in neurons within a ventromedial region of the central gray of the pons and medulla that appears to represent the primate analog of the nucleus incertus (NI) described in lower species. Nerve fibers and terminals containing RLN3-LI were observed throughout brain regions identical to those known to receive afferents from the NI in the rat, including the septum, hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, lateral, dorsomedial and ventromedial hypothalamus, supramammillary and interpeduncular nuclei, anterodorsal, paraventricular and reuniens thalamic nuclei, lateral habenula, central gray, and dorsal raphe, solitary tract, and ambiguus nuclei. Experimental studies in the rat strongly implicate a role of this neuropeptide-receptor system in arousal, feeding, and metabolism, learning and memory, and central responses to psychological stressors. These new anatomical findings support the proposition that the RLN3 system is similarly involved in the integration and modulation of behavioral activation and arousal and responses to stress in nonhuman primates and humans.

We recently demonstrated that microglia as multipotential stem cells give rise to microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2)-positive and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive cells and that microglia-derived MAP2-positive cells possess properties of functional neurons. In this study, we investigated the role of fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling in the molecular mechanism underlying the generation of microglia-derived MAP2-positive and GFAP-positive cells. Real-time quantitative PCR analyses demonstrated that mRNA levels of a family of three FGF receptors, Fgfr1-3, were upregulated in microglia treated with 70% fetal bovine serum (FBS). Immunocytochemical analyses demonstrated that basic FGF (bFGF) promoted the generation of microglia-derived MAP2-positive and GFAP-positive cells, and the FGF receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor SU5402 and the MEK inhibitor PD98059 both inhibited this process. Western blot analyses demonstrated that bFGF increased phosphorylated ERK1/2 levels without altering total ERK1/2 levels. These results suggest that bFGF promotes the generation of microglia-derived MAP2-positive and GFAP-positive cells via FGF receptors and the ERK-MAP kinase pathway.
In most tissues of the body, cellular ATP production predominantly occurs via mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation of reduced intermediates, which are in turn derived from substrates such as glucose and fatty acids. In order to maintain ATP homeostasis, and therefore cellular function, the mitochondria require a constant supply of fuels and oxygen. In many disease states, or in healthy individuals at altitude, tissue oxygen levels fall and the cell must meet this hypoxic challenge to maintain energetics and limit oxidative stress. In humans at altitude and patients with respiratory disease, loss of skeletal muscle mitochondrial density is a consistent finding. Recent studies that have used cultured cells and genetic mouse models have elucidated a number of elegant adaptations that allow cells with a diminished mitochondrial population to function effectively in hypoxia. This article reviews these findings alongside studies of hypoxic human skeletal muscle, putting them into the context of whole-body physiology and acclimatization to high-altitude hypoxia. A number of current controversies are highlighted, which may eventually be resolved by a systems physiology approach that considers the time-or tissue-dependent nature of some adaptive responses. Future studies using high-throughput metabolomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic technologies to investigate hypoxic skeletal muscle in humans and animal models could resolve many of these controversies, and a case is therefore made for the integration of resulting data into computational models that account for factors such as duration and extent of hypoxic exposure, subjects' backgrounds, and whether data have been acquired from active or sedentary individuals. An integrated and more quantitative understanding of the body's metabolic response to hypoxia and the conditions under which adaptive processes occur could reveal much about the ways that tissues function in the very many disease states where hypoxia is a critical factor.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) acts via 7 transmembrane region receptors on gonadotrophs to stimulate synthesis and secretion of the luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone. It is secreted in pulses, and its effects depend on pulse frequency, but decoding mechanisms are unknown. Here we have used (nuclear factor of activated T-cells 2 (NFAT2)-emerald fluorescent protein) to monitor GnRH signaling. Increasing [Ca(2+)](i) causes calmodulin/calcineurin-dependent nuclear NFAT translocation, a response involving proteins (calmodulins and NFATs) that decode frequency in other systems. Using live cell imaging, pulsatile GnRH caused dose- and frequency-dependent increases in nuclear NFAT2-emerald fluorescent protein, and at low frequency, translocation simply tracked GnRH exposure (albeit with slower kinetics). At high frequency (30-min intervals), failure to return to basal conditions before repeat stimulation caused integrative tracking, illustrating how the relative dynamics of up- and downstream signals can increase efficiency of GnRH action. Mathematical modeling predicted desensitization of GnRH effects on [Ca(2+)](i) and that desensitization would increase with dose, frequency, and receptor number, but no such desensitization was seen in HeLa and/or LbetaT2 cells possibly because pulsatile GnRH did not reduce receptor expression (measured by immunofluorescence). GnRH also caused dose- and frequency-dependent activation of alphaGSU, luteinizing hormone beta, and follicle-stimulating hormone beta luciferase reporters, effects that were blocked by calcineurin inhibition. Pulsatile GnRH also activated an NFAT-responsive luciferase reporter, but this response was directly related to cumulative pulse duration. This together with the lack of desensitization of translocation responses suggests that NFAT may mediate GnRH action but is not a genuine decoder of GnRH pulse frequency.
The laminins are a family of heterotrimeric basement membrane proteins that play roles in cellular adhesion, migration, and tissue morphogenesis. Through in silico analysis of the laminin-encoding genes, we identified a novel family of alternate splice isoforms derived from the 5'-end of the LAMA3 and LAMA5 genes. These isoforms resemble the netrins in that they contain a laminin N-terminal domain followed by a short stretch of laminin-type epidermal growth factor-like repeats. We suggest the terms LaNt (laminin N terminus) alpha3 and LaNt alpha5, for the predicted protein products of these mRNAs. RT-PCR confirmed the presence of these transcripts at the mRNA level. Moreover, they exhibit differential, tissue-specific, expression profiles. To confirm the existence of LaNt alpha3 protein, we generated an antibody to a unique domain within the putative polypeptide. This antibody recognizes a protein at the predicted molecular mass of 64 kDa by immunoblotting. Furthermore, immunofluorescence analyses revealed a basement membrane staining in epithelial tissue for LaNt alpha3 and LaNt alpha3 localized along the substratum-associated surface of cultured keratinocytes. We have also tested the functionality LaNt alpha3 through RNAi-mediated knockdown. Keratinocytes exhibiting specific knockdown of LaNt alpha3 displayed impaired adhesion, stress resistance, and reduced ability to close scratch wounds in vitro.
Activation of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor has been shown to produce antinociception. We have previously shown that the antinociceptive effect of clonidine, an alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist, is sex-specific and is abolished by exogenous estrogen in ovariectomized rats or high level of endogenous estrogen in proestrous females. Here, we investigated whether testosterone mediates the antinociceptive effect of clonidine in the trigeminal region of the male rat. Clonidine (7 microg/5 microl) was injected intracisternally through a PE-10 cannula implanted dorsal to the trigeminal region in orchidectomized (GDX) male Sprague-Dawley rats. In separate groups, testosterone propionate (250 microg/100 microl; GDX+T) or beta-estradiol benzoate (100 microg/100 microl; GDX+E) were injected subcutaneously 24 and 48 h respectively prior to the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA)--or heat-evoked nociceptive test. NMDA-induced number of scratches or duration of scratching behavior did not change significantly in control groups with or without hormonal replacement. Clonidine significantly reduced both measures only in the GDX+T group but not in GDX or GDX+E group. Clonidine also significantly increased head withdrawal latency (HWL) in the GDX+T group, but not in GDX or GDX+E group. The antinociceptive effect of clonidine was reversed by yohimbine, an alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist, in GDX+T group. We conclude that testosterone is required for the expression of antinociception produced by selective activation of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor in the trigeminal region of the male rat. These findings further our understanding of sex-related differences in the modulation of nociception and may provide insight into development and administration of analgesic agents in young vs. aging men.
It seems that there is a cross-talk between the cannabinoid CB1 and opioid receptors in the process of sensitization to opiates. In present study, we tried to examine the effect of solely administration of AM251, a CB1 receptor antagonist, on conditioned place preference (CPP) by ineffective dose of morphine in the rat. 102 adult male albino Wistar rats were used in these experiments. Subcutaneous administration of morphine (0.5, 1, 2.5, 5, 7.5 and 10 mg/kg) induced CPP only at the doses of &gt; or = 5 mg/kg. The dose of 0.5mg/kg of morphine was selected as the appropriate (ineffective) dose for induction of CPP in animals which were previously received AM251 (5, 25 and 125 ng/0.5 microl per side) once daily for three days as a sub-chronic administration or those that received a single dose on the test day. Bilateral intra-accumbal sub-chronic but not single administration of AM251 dose-dependently produced sensitization to morphine and induced CPP by ineffective dose of morphine (0.5 mg/kg) in the rat. Bilateral intra-accumbal administration of neither saline nor DMSO (0.5 microl/side) had effects on sensitization to morphine. Our findings indicated that CB1 receptors within the nucleus accumbens are involved in the sensitization to morphine in rats.

Changes in synaptic connections are considered essential for learning and memory formation. However, it is unknown how neural circuits undergo continuous synaptic changes during learning while maintaining lifelong memories. Here we show, by following postsynaptic dendritic spines over time in the mouse cortex, that learning and novel sensory experience lead to spine formation and elimination by a protracted process. The extent of spine remodelling correlates with behavioural improvement after learning, suggesting a crucial role of synaptic structural plasticity in memory formation. Importantly, a small fraction of new spines induced by novel experience, together with most spines formed early during development and surviving experience-dependent elimination, are preserved and provide a structural basis for memory retention throughout the entire life of an animal. These studies indicate that learning and daily sensory experience leave minute but permanent marks on cortical connections and suggest that lifelong memories are stored in largely stably connected synaptic networks.
In humans, mutations in electron transfer flavoprotein (ETF) or electron transfer flavoprotein dehydrogenase (ETFDH) lead to MADD/glutaric aciduria type II, an autosomal recessively inherited disorder characterized by a broad spectrum of devastating neurological, systemic and metabolic symptoms. We show that a zebrafish mutant in ETFDH, xavier, and fibroblast cells from MADD patients demonstrate similar mitochondrial and metabolic abnormalities, including reduced oxidative phosphorylation, increased aerobic glycolysis, and upregulation of the PPARG-ERK pathway. This metabolic dysfunction is associated with aberrant neural proliferation in xav, in addition to other neural phenotypes and paralysis. Strikingly, a PPARG antagonist attenuates aberrant neural proliferation and alleviates paralysis in xav, while PPARG agonists increase neural proliferation in wild type embryos. These results show that mitochondrial dysfunction, leading to an increase in aerobic glycolysis, affects neurogenesis through the PPARG-ERK pathway, a potential target for therapeutic intervention.
Advanced and exclusive software solutions are offered to reduce susceptibility artefacts on MRI echo-planar sequences. We present a straightforward surgical technique to reduce the cortical distortion and signal loss that normally occur using diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) of the Gttingen minipig brain. Pronounced pneumatisation of the minipig cranium causes considerable susceptibility artefacts at the air/tissue interface around the frontal sinuses. Five Gttingen minipigs had burr holes drilled through the outer lamina of the skull bilaterally at the level of bregma. The underlying frontal sinuses were filled with a suspension of an MRI-compatible alginate. DTI was obtained before and after placing the medium in the sinus, quantifying the change using mutual information and Wilcoxon's rank-sum test. Fibertracking algorithms were applied to visualize the effect of treatment. We showed that the susceptibility artefacts were reduced at the air, bone and brain interfaces and that major cortical fiberbundles could be reliably visualized. This study demonstrated that DTI fibertracking of cortical bundles in experimental animals with extensive skull pneumatisation is feasible even when advanced software is unavailable.
The molecular pathogenesis of ASD (autism spectrum disorder), one of the heritable neurodevelopmental disorders, is not well understood, although over 15 autistic-susceptible gene loci have been extensively studied. A major issue is whether the proteins that these candidate genes encode are involved in general function and signal transduction. Several mutations in genes encoding synaptic adhesion molecules such as neuroligin, neurexin, CNTNAP (contactin-associated protein) and CADM1 (cell-adhesion molecule 1) found in ASD suggest that impaired synaptic function is the underlying pathogenesis. However, knockout mouse models of these mutations do not show all of the autism-related symptoms, suggesting that gain-of-function in addition to loss-of-function arising from these mutations may be associated with ASD pathogenesis. Another finding is that family members with a given mutation frequently do not manifest autistic symptoms, which possibly may be because of gender effects, dominance theory and environmental factors, including hormones and stress. Thus epigenetic factors complicate our understanding of the relationship between these mutated genes and ASD pathogenesis. We focus in the present review on findings that ER (endoplasmic reticulum) stress arising from these mutations causes a trafficking disorder of synaptic receptors, such as GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) B-receptors, and leads to their impaired synaptic function and signal transduction. In the present review we propose a hypothesis that ASD pathogenesis is linked not only to loss-of-function but also to gain-of-function, with an ER stress response to unfolded proteins under the influence of epigenetic factors.
Neural stem cells must strike a balance between self-renewal and multipotency, and differentiation. Identification of the transcriptional networks regulating stem cell division is an essential step in understanding how this balance is achieved. We have shown that the homeodomain transcription factor, Prospero, acts to repress self-renewal and promote differentiation. Among its targets are three neural stem cell transcription factors, Asense, Deadpan and Snail, of which Asense and Deadpan are repressed by Prospero. Here, we identify the targets of these three factors throughout the genome. We find a large overlap in their target genes, and indeed with the targets of Prospero, with 245 genomic loci bound by all factors. Many of the genes have been implicated in vertebrate stem cell self-renewal, suggesting that this core set of genes is crucial in the switch between self-renewal and differentiation. We also show that multiply bound loci are enriched for genes previously linked to nervous system phenotypes, thereby providing a shortcut to identifying genes important for nervous system development.
In the developing mammalian basal telencephalon, neural progenitors from the subpallium generate the majority of inhibitory medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in the striatum, while both pallial- and subpallial-derived progenitors contribute to excitatory and inhibitory neuronal diversity in the amygdala. Using a combination of approaches, including genetic fate mapping, cell birth dating, cell migration assays, and electrophysiology, we find that cells derived from the Emx1 lineage contribute to two distinct neuronal populations in the mature basal forebrain: inhibitory MSNs in the striatum and functionally distinct subclasses of excitatory neurons in the amygdala. Our cell birth-dating studies reveal that these two populations are born at different times during early neurogenesis, with the amygdala population born before the MSNs. In the striatum, Emx1-lineage neurons represent a unique subpopulation of MSNs: they are disproportionately localized to the dorsal striatum, are found in dopamine receiving, reelin-positive patches, and are born throughout striatal neurogenesis. In addition, our data suggest that a subpopulation of these Emx1-lineage cells originate in the pallium and subsequently migrate to the developing striatum and amygdala. Our intersectional fate-mapping analysis further reveals that Emx1-lineage cells that coexpress Dlx exclusively generate MSNs but do not contribute to the excitatory neurons in the amygdala. Thus, both the timing of neurogenesis and differential combinatorial gene expression appear to be key determinants of striatal versus amygdala fate decisions of Emx1-lineage cells.
Multisensory neurons in the superior colliculus (SC) have the capability to integrate signals that belong to the same event, despite being conveyed by different senses. They develop this capability during early life as experience is gained with the statistics of cross-modal events. These adaptations prepare the SC to deal with the cross-modal events that are likely to be encountered throughout life. Here, we found that neurons in the adult SC can also adapt to experience with sequentially ordered cross-modal (visual-auditory or auditory-visual) cues, and that they do so over short periods of time (minutes), as if adapting to a particular stimulus configuration. This short-term plasticity was evident as a rapid increase in the magnitude and duration of responses to the first stimulus, and a shortening of the latency and increase in magnitude of the responses to the second stimulus when they are presented in sequence. The result was that the two responses appeared to merge. These changes were stable in the absence of experience with competing stimulus configurations, outlasted the exposure period, and could not be induced by equivalent experience with sequential within-modal (visual-visual or auditory-auditory) stimuli. A parsimonious interpretation is that the additional SC activity provided by the second stimulus became associated with, and increased the potency of, the afferents responding to the preceding stimulus. This interpretation is consistent with the principle of spike-timing-dependent plasticity, which may provide the basic mechanism for short term or long term plasticity and be operative in both the adult and neonatal SC.
Dopaminergic neurons of the ventral midbrain fire high-frequency bursts when animals are presented with unexpected rewards, or stimuli that predict reward. To identify the afferents that can initiate bursting and establish therapeutic strategies for diseases affected by altered bursting, a mechanistic understanding of bursting is essential. Our results show that bursting is initiated by a specific interaction between the voltage sensitivity of NMDA receptors and voltage-gated ion channels that results in the activation of an intrinsic, action potential-independent, high-frequency membrane potential oscillation. We further show that the NMDA receptor is uniquely suited for this because of the rapid kinetics and voltage dependence imparted to it by Mg(2+) ion block and unblock. This mechanism explains the discrete nature of bursting in dopaminergic cells and demonstrates how synaptic signals may be reshaped by local intrinsic properties of a neuron before influencing action potential generation.
The network oscillation and synaptic plasticity are known to be regulated by GABAergic inhibition, but how they are affected by changes in the GABA transporter activity remains unclear. Here we show that in the CA1 region of mouse hippocampus, pharmacological blockade or genetic deletion of GABA transporter-1 (GAT1) specifically impaired long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by theta burst stimulation, but had no effect on LTP induced by high-frequency stimulation or long-term depression induced by low-frequency stimulation. The extent of LTP impairment depended on the precise burst frequency, with significant impairment at 3-7 Hz that correlated with the time course of elevated GABAergic inhibition caused by GAT1 disruption. Furthermore, in vivo electrophysiological recordings showed that GAT1 gene deletion reduced the frequency of hippocampal theta oscillation. Moreover, behavioral studies showed that GAT1 knock-out mice also exhibited impaired hippocampus-dependent learning and memory. Together, these results have highlighted the important link between GABAergic inhibition and hippocampal theta oscillation, both of which are critical for synaptic plasticity and learning behaviors.
We have observed that passive tactile spatial acuity, the ability to resolve the spatial structure of surfaces pressed upon the skin, differs subtly but consistently between the sexes, with women able to perceive finer surface detail than men. Eschewing complex central explanations, we hypothesized that this sex difference in somatosensory perception might result from simple physical differences between the fingers of women and men. To investigate, we tested 50 women and 50 men on a tactile grating orientation task and measured the surface area of the participants' index fingertips. In subsets of participants, we additionally measured finger skin compliance and optically imaged the fingerprint microstructure to count sweat pores. We show here that tactile perception improves with decreasing finger size, and that this correlation fully explains the better perception of women, who on average have smaller fingers than men. Indeed, when sex and finger size are both considered in statistical analyses, only finger size predicts tactile acuity. Thus, a man and a woman with fingers of equal size will, on average, enjoy equal tactile acuity. We further show that sweat pores, and presumably the Merkel receptors beneath them, are packed more densely in smaller fingers.
The role of cerebellar Kv3.1 and Kv3.3 channels in motor coordination was examined with an emphasis on the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN). Kv3 channel subunits encoded by Kcnc genes are distinguished by rapid activation and deactivation kinetics that support high-frequency, narrow action potential firing. Previously we reported that increased lateral deviation while ambulating and slips while traversing a narrow beam of ataxic Kcnc3-null mice were corrected by restoration of Kv3.3 channels specifically to Purkinje cells, whereas Kcnc3-mutant mice additionally lacking one Kcnc1 allele were partially rescued. Here, we report mice lacking all Kcnc1 and Kcnc3 alleles exhibit no such rescue. For Purkinje cell output to reach the rest of the brain it must be conveyed by neurons of the DCN or vestibular nuclei. As Kcnc1, but not Kcnc3, alleles are lost, mutant mice exhibit increasing gait ataxia accompanied by spike broadening and deceleration in DCN neurons, suggesting the facet of coordination rescued by Purkinje-cell-restricted Kv3.3 restoration in mice lacking just Kcnc3 is hypermetria, while gait ataxia emerges when additionally Kcnc1 alleles are lost. Thus, fast repolarization in Purkinje cells appears important for normal movement velocity, whereas DCN neurons are a prime candidate locus where fast repolarization is necessary for normal gait patterning.
During decision making, valuation of different types of rewards may involve partially distinct neural systems, but efficient choice behavior requires a common neural coding of stimulus value. We addressed this issue by measuring neural activity with functional magnetic resonance imaging while volunteers processed delayed and probabilistic decision options. Behaviorally, participants discounted both types of rewards in a hyperbolic manner, and discount rates, reflecting individual preferences, varied considerably between participants. Ventral striatum and orbitofrontal cortex showed a domain-general coding of subjective value regardless of whether rewards were delayed or probabilistic, strongly implicating these regions in the implementation of a common neural currency of value. In contrast, fronto-polar and lateral parietal cortex, as well as a region in the posterior cingulate cortex only correlated with the value of delayed rewards, whereas superior parietal cortex and middle occipital areas only represented the value of probabilistic rewards. These results suggest a mechanism for the neural coding of subjective value in the human brain that is based on the combination of domain-general and domain-specific valuation networks.
Neuronal circuits in the spinal cord that produce the rhythmic and coordinated activities necessary for limb movements are referred to as locomotor central pattern generators (CPGs). The identities and preceding development of neurons essential for coordination between left and right limbs are not yet known. We show that the ventral floor plate chemoattractant Netrin-1 preferentially guides dorsally originating subtypes of commissural interneurons, the majority of which are inhibitory. In contrast, the excitatory and ventralmost V3 subtype of interneurons have a normal number of commissural fibers in Netrin-1 mutant mice, thus being entirely independent of Netrin-1-mediated attraction. This selective loss of commissural fibers in Netrin-1 mutant mice resulted in an abnormal circuitry manifested by a complete switch from alternating to synchronous fictive locomotor activity suggesting that the most ventral-originating excitatory commissural interneurons are an important component of a left-right synchrony circuit in the locomotor CPG. Thus, during development, Netrin-1 plays a critical role for the establishment of a functional balanced CPG.
Given the complexity of our visual environment, the ability to selectively attend to certain locations, while ignoring others, is crucial for reducing the amount of visual information to manageable levels and for optimizing behavioral performance. Sustained allocation of spatial attention causes persistent increases in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signals in portions of early visual cortex that retinotopically represent the attended location, even in the absence of a visual stimulus. Here we test the hypothesis that topographically organized posterior parietal cortical areas IPS1 and IPS2 transmit top-down spatial attention signals to early visual cortex. We employed fMRI and coherency analysis to measure functional connectivity among cortical areas V1, V2, V3, V3A, V3B, V7, IPS1, and IPS2 during sustained visual spatial attention. Attention increased the magnitude of coherency for many pairs of areas in occipital and parietal cortex. Additionally, attention-related activity in IPS1 and IPS2 led activity in several visual cortical areas by a few hundred milliseconds. These results are consistent with transmission of top-down spatial attention signals from IPS1 and IPS2 to early visual cortex.
One of the fundamental goals in neurosciences is to elucidate the formation and retrieval of brain's associative memory traces in real-time. Here, we describe real-time neural ensemble transient dynamics in the mouse hippocampal CA1 region and demonstrate their relationships with behavioral performances during both learning and recall. We employed the classic trace fear conditioning paradigm involving a neutral tone followed by a mild foot-shock 20 seconds later. Our large-scale recording and decoding methods revealed that conditioned tone responses and tone-shock association patterns were not present in CA1 during the first pairing, but emerged quickly after multiple pairings. These encoding patterns showed increased immediate-replay, correlating tightly with increased immediate-freezing during learning. Moreover, during contextual recall, these patterns reappeared in tandem six-to-fourteen times per minute, again correlating tightly with behavioral recall. Upon traced tone recall, while various fear memories were retrieved, the shock traces exhibited a unique recall-peak around the 20-second trace interval, further signifying the memory of time for the expected shock. Therefore, our study has revealed various real-time associative memory traces during learning and recall in CA1, and demonstrates that real-time memory traces can be decoded on a moment-to-moment basis over any single trial.
The neural processes underlying sensory-motor integration have always attracted strong interest. The classic view is that action and perception are two extremes of mental operations. In the past 2 decades, though, a large number of discoveries have indeed refuted such an interpretation in favor of a more integrated view. Specifically, the discovery of mirror neurons in monkey premotor cortex is a rather strong demonstration that sensory and motor processes share the same neural substrates. In fact, these cells show complex sensory-motor properties, such that observed, heard, or executed goal-directed actions could equally activate these neurons. On the other hand, the neuroscience of music has similarly emerged as an active and productive field of research. In fact, music-related behaviors are a useful model of action-perception mechanisms and how they develop through training. More recently, these two lines of research have begun to intersect into a novel branch of research. As a consequence, it has been proposed recently that mirror-like mechanisms might be at the basis of human music perception-production abilities. The scope of the present short review is to set the scientific background for mirror-like mechanisms in music by examining recent published data.
A neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the presence of large numbers of senile plaques in the brain. These deposits are rich in fibrils that are composed of 40- and 42-residue amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides. Several lines of evidence indicate that soluble Abeta aggregates as well as fibrils are important in the etiology of AD. Low levels of endogenous soluble Abeta aggregates make them difficult to characterize, but several species in extracts of AD brains have been detected by gel electrophoresis in sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and immunoblotting. Individual Abeta oligomers ranging in size from dimers through dodecamers of 4 kDa monomeric Abeta have been resolved in other laboratories as discrete species by size exclusion chromatography (SEC). In an effort to reconstitute soluble Abeta aggregates in vitro that resemble the endogenous soluble Abeta aggregates, we previously found that monomeric Abeta(1-42) rapidly forms soluble oligomers in the presence of dilute SDS micelles. Here we extend this work in two directions. First, we contrast the size and secondary structure of these oligomers with those of synthetic Abeta(1-42) fibrils. SEC and multiangle light scattering were used to obtain a molecular mass of 150 kDa for the isolated oligomers. The oligomers partially dissociated to monomers through nonamers when incubated with SDS, but in contrast to endogenous oligomers, we saw no evidence of these discrete species prior to SDS treatment. One hypothesis to explain this difference is that endogenous oligomers are stabilized by covalent cross-linking induced by unknown cellular agents. To explore this hypothesis, optimal mass spectrometry (MS) analysis procedures need to be developed for Abeta cross-linked in vitro. In our second series of studies, we began this process by treating monomeric and aggregated Abeta(1-42) with three cross-linking agents: transglutaminase, glutaraldehyde, and Cu(II) with peroxide. We compared the efficiency of covalent cross-linking with these agents, the effect of cross-linking on peptide secondary structure, the stability of the cross-linked structures to thermal unfolding, and the sites of peptide cross-linking obtained from proteolysis and MS.


Growth mixture modelling, a less explored method in genetic research, addresses unobserved heterogeneity in population samples. We applied this technique to longitudinal data of the Framingham Heart Study. We examined systolic blood pressure (BP) measures in 1060 males from 692 families and detected three subclasses, which varied significantly in their developmental trajectories over time. The first class consisted of 60 high-risk individuals with elevated BP early in life and a steep increase over time. The second group of 131 individuals displayed first normal BP, but showed a significant increase over time and reached high BP values late in their life time. The largest group of 869 individuals could be considered a normative group with normal BP on all exams. To identify genetic modulators for this phenotype, we tested 2,340 single-nucleotide polymorphisms on chromosome 8 for association with the class membership probabilities of our model. The probability of being in Class 1 was significantly associated with a very rare variant (rs1445404) present in only four individuals from four different families located in the coding region of the gene EYA (eyes absent homolog 1 in Drosophila) (p = 1.39 x 10-13). Mutations in EYA are known to cause brachio-oto-renal syndrome, as well as isolated renal malformations. Renal malformations could cause high BP early in life. This result awaits replication; however, it suggests that analyzing genetic data stratified for high-risk subgroups defined by a unique development over time could be useful for the detection of rare mutations in common multi-factorial diseases.
Statins were designed as cholesterol-lowering drugs for the prevention of coronary artery disease. It is estimated that there are currently 33.5 million U.S. patients on chronic statin treatment regimens. Recently, statins have been shown to have pleiotropic including anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective effects. In this study, we assessed the pharmacological effects of simvastatin administered alone and in combination with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) on measures of ischemia and hemorrhage in large clot embolized New Zealand white rabbits. For these studies, simvastatin (20 mg/kg, SC in DMSO) was administered 24 and 4 h prior to large clot embolization in order to achieve a &quot;loading dose&quot; pretreatment with the drug. In combination studies, tPA (3.3 mg/kg, IV) was administered 1 h following embolization. Intravenous tPA administration significantly increased hemorrhage volume by 175% (p=0.015) and hemorrhage incidence by 60% (p&gt;0.05) compared to control, but did not affect infarct incidence or volume. Simvastatin treatment significantly decreased tPA-induced hemorrhage incidence (p=0.022) and volume (p=0.0001) following embolization. The study suggests that simvastatin treatment blocks or attenuates mechanisms involved in tPA-induced hemorrhage. Based upon our results, patients on simvastatin treatment may have significantly reduced tPA-induced side effects should they require tPA administration following an embolic stroke.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) is reported to have anticonvulsant effects in animal seizure models and certain intractable epileptic patients. However, its duration of action is limited by rapid tissue metabolism and the blood brain barrier. Direct nose-brain delivery of neuropeptides in sustained-release biodegradable nanoparticles (NPs) is a promising mode of therapy for enhancing CNS bioavailability. Bioactivity/neuroprotection of d,l polylactide nanoparticles containing TRH was assessed against glutamate toxicity in cultured rat fetal hippocampal neurons. Subsequently, we utilized the kindling model of temporal lobe epilepsy to determine if intranasal administration of nanoparticles containing TRH (TRH-NPs) could inhibit kindling development. Animals received daily treatments of either blank (control) or TRH-NPs for 7 days before initiation of kindling. On day 8 and each day thereafter until either fully kindled or until day 20, the animals received daily treatments before receiving a kindling stimulus 3 h later. Afterdischarge duration (ADD) was assessed via electroencephalographs recorded from electrodes in the basolateral amygdalae and behavioral seizure stereotypy was simultaneously recorded digitally. Intranasal application of TRH-NPs resulted in a significant reduction in seizure ADD as kindling progressed, while the number of stimulations required to reach stage V seizures and to become permanently kindled was significantly greater in TRH-NP-treated subjects. Additionally, delay to clonus was significantly prolonged while clonus duration was reduced indicating a less severe seizure in TRH-NP-treated subjects. Our results provide proof of principle that intranasal delivery of sustained-release TRH-NPs may be neuroprotective and can be utilized to suppress seizures and perhaps epileptogenesis.
A recent study of how incompatible behaviors are suppressed during feeding in the medicinal leech Hirudo provides new insights into the mechanisms of decision-making in neuronal networks.
Our subjective experience of the order in which things happens feels secure to us: C follows B follows A. This impression of order is simply that, an impression. A recent study shows that our impressions can sometimes be illusory.
We enjoy the illusion that visual resolution is high across the entire field of vision. However, this illusion can be easily dispelled by trying to identify objects in a cluttered environment out of the corner of your eye. This reflects, in part, the well-known decline in visual resolution in peripheral vision; however, the main bottleneck for reading or object recognition in peripheral vision is crowding. Objects that can be easily identified in isolation seem indistinct and jumbled in clutter. Crowding is thought to reflect inappropriate integration of the target and flankers in peripheral vision [1, 2]. Here, we uncover and explain a paradox in peripheral crowding: under certain conditions, increasing the size or number of flanking rings results in a paradoxical decrease in the magnitude of crowding-i.e., the bigger or more numerous the flanks, the smaller the crowding. These surprising results are predicted by a model in which crowding is determined by the centroids of approximately 4-8 independent features within approximately 0.5x the target eccentricity. These features are then integrated into a texture beyond the stage of feature analysis. We speculate that this process may contribute to the illusion of high resolution across the field of vision.
Oral naltrexone is used to treat alcohol and heroin dependence but is associated with poor patient compliance. Sustained-release preparations have been developed to overcome noncompliance. Many sustained-release preparations are composed of polymers combined with naltrexone. Limited data indicate that polymers induce variable levels of tissue reactivity and that naltrexone may increase this effect. A slow-release subcutaneous naltrexone-poly (DL-lactide) implant is currently being trialed to treat heroin dependence in Western Australia. A minority of women fall pregnant and, although tissue reactivity in nonpregnant humans is relatively minor, detailed chronological data during pregnancy are lacking. Histological changes in pregnant rats were assessed; a single active tablet containing poly[trans-3,6-dimethyl-1,4-dioxyane-2,5-dione] (DL-lactide) loaded with 25 mg of naltrexone was implanted subcutaneously, and tissue response was compared with inactive polymer implantation. Rats were timed mated at 13-26 days postimplant. Tissue assessment up to 75 days by a pathologist showed that naltrexone induced chronic inflammatory response in a dose-dependent manner, although still at a low level. Furthermore, for inactive implants, minimal foreign body reaction and fibrosis, together with low-level inflammation, suggested good long-term biocompatibility. We conclude that the Australian naltrexone-poly(DL-lactide) implant is tolerated in pregnant rats, reinforcing its potential role for managing alcohol and heroin dependence in pregnant humans.
The success of acrosomal exocytosis, a complex process with a variety of inter-related steps, relies on the coordinated interaction of participating signaling molecules. Since the acrosome reaction resembles Ca(2+)-regulated exocytosis in neurons, we investigated whether cognate neuronal binding partners of the multi-PDZ domain protein MUPP1, which recruits molecules that control the initial tethering and/or docking between the acrosomal vesicle and the plasma membrane, are also expressed in spermatozoa, and whether they contribute to the regulation of acrosomal secretion. We observed that CaMKIIalpha colocalizes with MUPP1 in the acrosomal region of epididymal spermatozoa where the kinase selectively binds to a region encompassing PDZ domains 10-11 of MUPP1. Furthermore, we found that pre-treating mouse spermatozoa with a CaMKII inhibitor that directly blocks the catalytic region of the kinase, as well as a competitive displacement of CaMKIIalpha from PDZ domains 10-11, led to a significant increase in spontaneous acrosomal exocytosis. Since Ca(2+)-calmodulin releases CaMKIIalpha from the PDZ scaffolding protein, MUPP1 represents a central signaling platform to dynamically regulate the assembly and disassembly of binding partners pertinent to acrosomal secretion, thereby precisely adjusting an increase in Ca(2+) to synchronized fusion pore formation.


Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the gene encoding frataxin, a mitochondrial protein implicated in iron metabolism. Current evidence suggests that loss of frataxin causes iron overload in tissues, and increase in free-radical production leading to oxidation and inactivation of mitochondrial respiratory chain enzymes, particularly Complexes I, II, III and aconitase. Glutathione plays an important role in the detoxification of ROS in the Central Nervous System (CNS), where it also provides regulation of protein function by glutathionylation. The cytoskeletal proteins are particularly susceptible to oxidation and appear constitutively glutathionylated in the human CNS. Previously, we showed loss of cytoskeletal organization in fibroblasts of patients with FRDA found to be associated with increased levels of glutathione bound to cytoskeletal proteins. In this study, we analysed the glutathionylation of proteins in the spinal cord of patients with FRDA and the distribution of tubulin and neurofilaments in the same area. We found, for the first time, a significant rise of the dynamic pool of tubulin as well as abnormal distribution of the phosphorylated forms of human neurofilaments in FRDA motor neurons. In the same cells, the cytoskeletal abnormalities co-localized with an increase in protein glutathionylation and the mitochondrial proteins were normally expressed by immunocytochemistry. Our results suggest that in FRDA oxidative stress causes abnormally increased protein glutathionylation leading to prominent abnormalities of the neuronal cytoskeleton.
A double-blind sham-controlled study demonstrated that high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the supplementary motor area (SMA) provided relief of motor symptoms in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). However, it remains to be determined which parkinsonian symptoms were improved by this treatment. Subanalysis of Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale revealed that rTMS over SMA significantly improved bradykinesia in PD. Results support the hypothesis that neuronal activity of SMA was profoundly associated with hypokinetic symptoms in PD.
The term Tourettism refers to Tourette Syndrome (TS)-like symptoms which appear secondary to a variety of both acquired and congenital neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders or following an exposure to several drugs. The association between Tourettism and Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is very rare. Only two cases of patients affected by MS who also showed a simple phonic tic and complex vocal tics respectively have been reported. The case here described reports of a 30 year-old woman affected by secondary-progressive MS who developed, 7 years after the onset of the disease, TS-like symptoms which were responsive to quetiapine. At that time her brain MRI, when compared with the previous scan, showed an increased lesion burden and an increased atrophy in the regions around Sylvian fissures. Considering recent findings on TS, the increased atrophy in these strategic brain regions could be responsible for the tics onset in our patient. At the same time, the diffuse involvement of the white matter and the progressive brain atrophy which we observed could have impaired the cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuits consistently implicated in the pathogenesis of TS. In conclusion, we can hypothesize that in our case Tourettism and MS could be considered causal related more than coincidentally associated.
The plus-maze discriminative avoidance paradigm has been used to study the relationship between aversive memory and anxiety. The present study aims to verify if the elevated plus-maze can provide information about appetitive memory and anxiety-like behavior, through a task motivated by food reward. Animals were allowed to explore an elevated plus-maze and received reinforcement in one of the enclosed arms. In a test session performed 24h later, in the absence of reward, rats showed preference for the previously rewarded enclosed arm over the neutral enclosed arm. The administration of diazepam and pentylenetetrazole before training induced, respectively, anxiolytic and anxiogenic effects (as evaluated by open-arm exploration). Both drugs induced amnestic effects, i.e., lack of preference for the rewarded arm in the test session. The results suggest that appetitive memory can be influenced by anxiety levels as well. The plus-maze appetitive discrimination task seems to be a useful model to investigate the relationship between memory and anxiety.
Although clinical references recommend evoking sensory nerve action potentials (SNAPs) using supramaximal stimulation, many patients and research subjects report that the maximal and supramaximal stimulation is uncomfortable. The purpose of this study was to determine whether using stimulation intensities at maximal and submaximal levels results in differences in SNAP latency or amplitude outcomes relative to SNAPs recorded using supramaximal stimulation. Twenty healthy male and female subjects participated. Antidromic SNAPs were evoked at two separate sites along the course of the median nerve: (1) just proximal to the wrist and (2) just proximal to the antecubital fossa in each subject. All evoked potentials were recorded from the second digit. The stimulation current that resulted in a maximal amplitude SNAP was determined and 10 SNAPs were ensemble averaged using this stimulation level. Ten SNAPs were then evoked at each of four other stimulation intensities (20% and 10% both above and below that which generated a maximal amplitude SNAP) and were ensemble averaged. For each stimulation intensity and stimulation site, SNAP amplitude and latency determined for each ensemble average. SNAP amplitudes and latencies were compared among stimulus levels and between sexes using a repeated measures analyses of variance. The results of this study suggest that stimulus intensities used to generate SNAPs at the median nerve do not need to be supramaximal in order to generate valid and reliable SNAP data, with stimulation intensities as low as 20% below maximal proving to be sufficient, particularly for the measurement of SNAP latency.
A common method to eliminate unwanted power line interference in neurobiology laboratories where sensitive electronic signals are measured is with a notch filter. However a fixed-frequency notch filter cannot remove all power line noise contamination since inherent frequency and phase variations exist in the contaminating signal. One way to overcome the limitations of a fixed-frequency notch filter is with adaptive noise cancellation. Adaptive noise cancellation is an active approach that uses feedback to create a signal that when summed with the contaminated signal destructively interferes with the noise component leaving only the desired signal. We have implemented an optimized least mean square adaptive noise cancellation algorithm on a low-cost 16 MHz, 8-bit microcontroller to adaptively cancel periodic 60 Hz noise. In our implementation, we achieve between 20 and 25 dB of cancellation of the fundamental 60 Hz noise component.
This report describes an integrated software package, DataView, which contains a number of tools for analysing rhythmic neural activity. These include simple autocorrelation, a merge-and-drop filter, an enhanced version of the Poisson surprise method and a flexible hill-and-valley analysis tool. The package contains facilities for identifying, examining, and if appropriate, correcting, outliers arising from misidentification or rhythm abnormalities. The package has a full graphical user interface which provides flexible and rapid feedback on the progress of analysis, and the consequences of choices regarding parameters for the various tools. The user can thus easily experiment with different methodologies and tool settings, and tune the analysis to the most appropriate form for the data in question.
The sprouting, stabilization and growth of neurites is a dynamic process by which developing neurons establish connections with the other elements of the nervous system; this process is under the control of extracellular cues, among which neurotrophic factors play a crucial role. Due to the complexity of the spatiotemporal evolution of the neurite network, particularly in the early stages of growth, it is not easy to obtain information about the relevant parameters from qualitative observations. We have developed a quantitative description of the dynamics of production and stabilization of neuritic processes in a well-characterized experimental model of peripheral neurons in culture, and we have combined it with a simulation approach to extract the differences between the behaviour in the absence and in the presence of the neurotrophic factor basic Fibroblast Growth Factor (bFGF). We show that the factor rapidly stabilizes the neuronal morphology to a bipolar phenotype, by shifting the sprouting process from a disordered phase to a more ordered and organized one.
The identification of animal disease-like models for cognitive symptoms in schizophrenia is of central importance to the successful development of pharmacological therapies for psychosis resulting in a functional outcome in patients. Executive function is one of the most severely affected cognitive domains in schizophrenia that remains inadequately treated by existing therapies. The rat attentional set-shifting (or intra-dimensional-extra-dimensional (ID/ED)) task has been developed to test executive function in rodents and successful translation of pre-clinical data into the clinical setting now depends on the identification of a predictive animal disease-like model. The present study investigates whether a continuous 14-day mini-pump infusion of the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP) leads to a deficit in the ID/ED task, and subsequently evaluates the effect of modafinil in this model. Lister hooded rats were implanted subcutaneously with osmotic mini-pumps containing saline or PCP (15 mg/kg/day) for 14 days followed by a 7-day drug-free recovery phase. Rats were then tested in the ID/ED task following an acute injection of either vehicle or modafinil. PCP-treated animals displayed a selective deficit at the ED shift stage resembling that observed in schizophrenic patients. This deficit was reversed by an acute injection of modafinil. The PCP-induced impairment and its reinstatement by modafinil are quantitatively and qualitatively similar to that described earlier by our group following sub-chronic intraperitoneal PCP administration, indicative that sub-chronic PCP infusion via osmotic mini-pumps may represent an attractive alternative to the systemic administration protocols generally employed to date.
The use of radiolabelled probes for in situ hybridization (ISH) bears the advantage of high sensitivity and quantifiability. The crucial disadvantages are laborious hybridization protocols, exposition of hybridized sections to film for up to several weeks and the time consuming need to prepare tissue standards with relatively short-lived isotopes like (33)P or (35)S for each experiment. The quantification of rare mRNAs like those encoding for subunits of neurotransmitter receptors is therefore a challenge in ISH. Here, we describe a method for fast, quantitative in situ hybridization (qISH) of mRNAs using (33)P-labelled oligonucleotides together with (14)C-polymer standards (Microscales, Amersham Biosciences) and a phosphorus imaging system (BAS 5000 BioImage Analyzer, Raytest-Fuji). It enables a complete analysis of rare mRNAs by ISH. The preparation of short-lived (33)P-standards for each experiment was replaced by co-exposition and calibration of long-lived (14)C-standards together with (33)P-labelled brain paste standards. The use of a phosphorus imaging system allowed a reduction of exposition time following hybridization from several weeks to a few hours or days. We used this approach as an example for applications to quantify the expression of GluR1 and GluR2 subunit mRNAs of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor in the hippocampus of untreated rats, and after intraperitoneal application of the organo-arsenic compound dimethyl arsenic acid.
Neuroscience research projects often use intracranial (IC) microinfusions to target drug delivery to specific brain areas during behavioral testing. These experiments require accurate and precisely-timed delivery of small volumes. We present here a stepper motor-powered micropump assembly for such delivery. This system is hands-free, does not use a potentially leaky fluid swivel or use long delivery tubes that are subject to peristaltic forces during animal movements, and has been applied in combination with other paradigms. This micropump system reliably delivers a wide range of fluid volumes (e.g. 50 nL to 1 microL in tissue or greater for intraventricular injections) bilaterally from two independent, commercially available microsyringes through standard surgically implanted guide cannulae. It is easy to build and disassemble for cleaning or changing microsyringes. This system can also be used for a variety of purposes, e.g. intracranial self-administration, place conditioning, and many more, with the advantage that it provides a way to gather important data in the seconds and minutes following IC microinfusion without disruption of the animal's behavior by handling.
Direct measurement of absolute brain concentration of amphetamine and dopamine were obtained using metaquant (MQ) microdialysis, which achieves near 100% recovery, in the caudate nucleus. Conventional microdialysis monoprobes were also implanted in the caudate nucleus in the contralateral side of the same animals to compare the brain concentrations obtained from these two probe types. In addition plasma concentrations of amphetamine were obtained simultaneously from the same animals. The distribution of amphetamine in the plasma and of amphetamine and dopamine in both probe types followed same profile at each time interval. The basal dialysate concentration of dopamine in the caudate nucleus measured by MQ, was 9.40+/-0.60 nM, while measured by conventional microdialysis it was 6.35+/-0.36 nM. This study demonstrates that MQ microdialysis is an appropriate method for determination of true extracellular levels of drugs and neurotransmitters in the brain, under dynamic conditions. Since these measurements, together with measurements of plasma concentrations of the drug, can be made in a single animal, the method can be used to study pharmacokinetic-pharmacodyamics profile of psychoactive agents.
Immunofluorescence is the basis for many techniques used to quantify phenomena in neuroscience research, in both normal and pathological tissue. Autofluorescence (non-specific, broad spectrum background fluorescence) is an unfortunate consequence of damage to brain tissue. Damage-induced autofluorescence potentially confounds analyses of tissue labeled with fluorescent markers in many experiments. This is especially problematic in protocols that utilize co-localization methods such as BrdU/NeuN in which autofluorescence might lead to overestimates of the number of double-labeled cells. Techniques to reduce autofluorescence are variable and relatively ineffective in damaged brain tissue. Here we show using confocal microscopy that damage-induced autofluorescence does not co-localize with the nuclear specific markers DAPI or Hoechst. Further co-localization of nuclear markers such as Ki67 or BrdU/NeuN with DAPI or Hoechst should serve to help discriminate between intended and spurious fluorescent signal.
We examine the performance of approximate models (AM) of the head in solving the EEG inverse problem. The AM are needed when the individual's MRI is not available. We simulate the electric potential distribution generated by cortical sources for a large sample of 305 subjects, and solve the inverse problem with AM. Statistical comparisons are carried out with the distribution of the localization errors. We propose several new AM. These are the average of many individual realistic MRI-based models, such as surface-based models or lead fields. We demonstrate that the lead fields of the AM should be calculated considering source moments not constrained to be normal to the cortex. We also show that the imperfect anatomical correspondence between all cortices is the most important cause of localization errors. Our average models perform better than a random individual model or the usual average model in the MNI space. We also show that a classification based on race and gender or head size before averaging does not significantly improve the results. Our average models are slightly better than an existing AM with shape guided by measured individual electrode positions, and have the advantage of not requiring such measurements. Among the studied models, the Average Lead Field seems the most convenient tool in large and systematical clinical and research studies demanding EEG source localization, when MRI are unavailable. This AM does not need a strict alignment between head models, and can therefore be easily achieved for any type of head modeling approach.
Myeloarchitecture, the pattern of myelin density across the cerebral cortex, has long been visualized in histological sections to identify distinct anatomical areas of the cortex. In humans, two-dimensional (2D) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been used to visualize myeloarchitecture in select areas of the cortex, such as the stripe of Gennari in the primary visual cortex and Heschl's gyrus in the primary auditory cortex. Here, we investigated the use of MRI contrast based on longitudinal relaxation time (T(1)) to visualize myeloarchitecture in vivo over the entire cortex of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small non-human primate that is becoming increasingly important in neuroscience and neurobiology research. Using quantitative T(1) mapping, we found that T(1) at 7T in a cortical region with a high myelin content was 15% shorter than T(1) in a region with a low myelin content. To maximize this T(1) contrast for imaging cortical myelination patterns, we optimized a magnetization-prepared rapidly acquired gradient echo (MP-RAGE) sequence. In whole-brain, 3D T(1)-weighted images made in vivo with the sequence, we identified six major cortical areas with high myelination and confirmed the results with histological sections stained for myelin. We also identified several subtle features of myeloarchitecture, showing the sensitivity of our technique. The ability to image myeloarchitecture over the entire cortex may prove useful in studies of longitudinal changes of the topography of the cortex associated with development and neuronal plasticity, as well as for guiding and confirming the location of functional measurements.
The use of viral vectors as gene transfer tools for the central nervous system has seen a significant growth in the last decade. Improvements in the safety, efficiency and specificity of vectors for clinical applications have proven to be beneficial also for basic neuroscience research. This review will discuss the viral systems currently available to neuroscientists and some of the recent achievements in the study of synaptic function, memory and drug addiction.
Isolated taste cells, taste buds and strips of lingual tissue from taste papillae secrete ATP upon taste stimulation. Taste bud receptor (Type II) cells have been identified as the source of ATP secretion. Based on studies on isolated taste buds and single taste cells, we have postulated that ATP secreted from receptor cells via pannexin 1 hemichannels acts within the taste bud to excite neighbouring presynaptic (Type III) cells. This hypothesis, however, remains to be tested in intact tissues. In this report we used confocal Ca(2+) imaging and lingual slices containing intact taste buds to test the hypothesis of purinergic signalling between taste cells in a more integral preparation. Incubating lingual slices with apyrase reversibly blocked cell-to-cell communication between receptor cells and presynaptic cells, consistent with ATP being the transmitter. Inhibiting pannexin 1 gap junction hemichannels with CO(2)-saturated buffer or probenecid significantly reduced cell-cell signalling between receptor cells and presynaptic cells. In contrast, anandamide, a blocker of connexin gap junction channels, had no effect of cell-to-cell communication in taste buds. These findings are consistent with the model for peripheral signal processing via ATP and pannexin 1 hemichannels in mammalian taste buds.
In this prospective study of 34 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), measurements of the short duration levodopa motor response have been performed every 3 years in defined off states. The mean time from initiation of levodopa treatment was 14.8 years, and 17 patients survived to the latest assessment stage. Off phase motor function worsened at a yearly rate of 2.2% of the maximum disability score. The magnitude of the levodopa response is well preserved as the disease progresses, and patients who developed motor fluctuations maintained better on phase motor function than nonfluctuators (P = 0.01). Ten patients, of whom 5 survive, developed dementia. There was no difference in pretreatment disability or initial levodopa response between demented and nondemented subjects. However, dementia was associated with worse on and off motor disability scores after 11 and 14 years (P &lt; 0.001), and a smaller levodopa response magnitude after 14 years (P = 0.008). The plot of sequential scores shows the association between cognitive decline and accelerating increase in motor disability. This suggests that the advanced phase of PD, when Lewy body pathology involves the cerebral cortex, progresses in an exponential rather than linear fashion.
Connexin 35/36 (Cx35/36) gap junction protein is expressed in various regions of the brain, including the retina. In this work, the expression of Cx35/36 in the outer retina of carp was studied by immunocytochemistry. By light microscopy, strong punctate Cx35/36-immunoreactivity was observed in the outer plexiform layer. Double labeling experiments on vertical retinal sections showed that Cx35/36 puncta were localized beneath cone pedicles, stained by recoverin, but not on them. In addition, few of the dendrites of rod-dominant ON type bipolar cells (rod-ON-BCs), stained by PKCalpha, were labelled with Cx35/36 in the retinal sections. In isolated cell preparations, Cx35/36 was clearly expressed on the dendrites of cone-dominant ON type bipolar cells (cone-ON-BCs), but the expression was much less on rod-ON-BCs. Moreover, Cx35/36 puncta were found in the dendrites of isolated horizontal cells (labelled by GAD 65/67) driven by cones, including H1 and H2 cells, but not in those of cells driven by rods (H4 cells). At the ultrastructural level, reaction product was found in H1 and H2 cell dendrites invaginating cone terminals, but not in H4 cell dendrites invaginating rod terminals. Moreover, dendrites of cone-ON-BCs, were also labebed. These results suggest that Cx35/36 could be specifically involved in modulation of the cone signal pathway in the outer retina of carp.
To examine the role of 5-HT2 receptors in the central cardiorespiratory network, and in particular the respiratory modulation of parasympathetic activity to the heart, we used an in vitro medullary slice that allowed simultaneous examination of rhythmic inspiratory-related activity recorded from hypoglossal rootlet and excitatory inspiratory-related neurotransmission to cardioinhibitory vagal neurons (CVNs) within the nucleus ambiguus (NA). Focal application of ketanserin, a 5-HT2 receptor antagonist, did not significantly alter the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic excitatory currents (EPSCs) in CVNs in control conditions. However, ketanserin diminished spontaneous excitatory neurotransmission to CVNs during hypoxia. The inhibitory action of ketanserin was on 5-HT3 mediated EPSCs during hypoxia since these responses were blocked by the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist ondansetron. In addition, a robust inspiratory-related excitatory neurotransmission was recruited during recovery from hypoxia. Focal application of ketanserin during this posthypoxia period evoked a significant augmentation of the frequency of inspiratory-related, but not spontaneous EPSCs in CVNs. This excitatory effect of ketanserin was prevented by application of the purinergic receptor blocker pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS). These results demonstrate 5-HT2 receptors differentially modulate excitatory neurotransmission to CVNs during and after hypoxia. Activation of 5-HT2 receptors acts to maintain excitatory neurotransmission to CVNs during hypoxia, likely via presynaptic facilitation of 5-HT3 receptor-mediated neurotransmission to CVNs. However, activation of 5HT2 receptors diminishes the subsequent inspiratory-related excitatory neurotransmission to CVNs that is recruited during the recovery from hypoxia likely exerting an inhibitory action on inspiratory-related purinergic signaling.
N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist drugs (NMDA-A), such as dizocilpine (MK801), induce long-lasting behavioral disturbances reminiscent to psychotic disorders in humans. To identify cortical structures affected by NMDA-A, we used a single dose of MK801 (10 mg/kg) that caused low and high neurodegeneration in intact and orchiectomized male rats, respectively. Degenerating somas (neuronal death) and axonal/synaptic endings (terminal degeneration) were depicted by a silver technique, and functionally affected cortical neuronal subpopulations by Egr-1, c-Fos, and FosB/DeltaFosB-immunolabeling. In intact males, MK801 triggered a c-Fos induction that remained high for more than 24 h in selected layers of the retrosplenial, somatosensory and entorhinal cortices. MK801-induced neurodegeneration reached its peak at 72 h. Degenerating somas were restricted to layer IV of the granular subdivision of the retrosplenial cortex, and were accompanied by suppression of Egr-1 immunolabeling. Terminal degeneration extended to selected layers of the retrosplenial, somatosensory and parahippocampal cortices, which are target areas of retrosplenial cortex. Induction of FosB/DeltaFosB by MK801 also extended to the same cortical layers affected by terminal degeneration, likely reflecting the damage of synaptic connectivity. In orchiectomized males, the neurodegenerative and functional effects of MK801 were exacerbated. Degenerative somas in layer IV of the retrosplenial cortex significantly increased, with a parallel enhancement of terminal degeneration and FosB/DeltaFosB-expression in the mentioned cortical structures, but no additional areas were affected. These observations reveal that synaptic dysfunction/degeneration in the retrosplenial, somatosensory and parahippocampal cortices might underlie the long-lasting impairments induced by NMDA-A.
To verify whether vagal dysfunction is associated with chronic pain, we evaluated the effects of subdiaphragmatic vagotomy (vgx) on the sensitivity toward noxious stimuli in rats. Vgx rats showed sustained hyperalgesia in the gastrocnemius muscle without tissue damage (no increase in vgx-induced plasma creatine phosphokinase or lactose dehydrogenase levels) accompanied by hypersensitivity to colonic distension. We found a dramatic increase in the levels of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5, protein kinase C (PKC) gamma and phosphorylated-PKCgamma within the spinal cord dorsal horn in vgx rats, which suggests that vgx may evoke sensory nerve plasticity. Morphine produced a dose-dependent increase in the withdrawal threshold in both vgx and sham-operated rats, but the effect of a lower dose in vgx rats was weaker than that in sham-operated rats. Muscle hyperalgesia in vgx rats was also attenuated by gabapentin and amitriptyline, but was not affected by diclofenac, dexamethasone or diazepam. These findings indicate that subdiaphragmatic vagal dysfunction caused chronic muscle hyperalgesia accompanied by visceral pain and both gabapentin and amitriptyline were effective for subdiaphragmatic vagotomy-induced pain, which are partially similar to fibromyalgia syndrome. Furthermore, this chronic muscle pain may result from nociceptive neuroplasticity of the spinal cord dorsal horn.
Triple transgenic (3xTg-AD) mice harboring the presenilin 1, amyloid precursor protein, and tau transgenes (Oddo et al., 2003b) display prominent levels of amyloid-beta (Abeta) immunoreactivity in forebrain regions. The Abeta immunoreactivity is first seen intracellularly in neurons and later as extracellular plaque deposits. The present study examined Abeta immunoreactivity that occurs in layer III of the granular division of retrosplenial cortex (RSg). This pattern of Abeta immunoreactivity in layer III of RSg develops relatively late, and is seen in animals older than 14 months. The appearance of the Abeta immunoreactivity is similar to an axonal terminal field and thus may offer a unique opportunity to study the relationship between afferent projections and the formation of Abeta deposits. Axonal tract tracing techniques demonstrated that the pattern of axon terminal labeling in layer III of RSg, following placement of DiI in medial septum, is remarkably similar to the pattern of cholinergic axons in RSg, as detected by acetylcholinesterase histochemical staining, choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity, or p75 receptor immunoreactivity; this pattern also is strikingly similar to the band of Abeta immunoreactivity. In animals sustaining early damage to the medial septal nucleus (prior to the advent of Abeta immunoreactivity), the band of Abeta in layer III of RSg does not develop; the corresponding band of cholinergic markers also is eliminated. In older animals (after the appearance of the Abeta immunoreactivity) damage to cholinergic afferents by electrolytic lesions, immunotoxin lesions, or cutting the cingulate bundle, result in a rapid loss of the cholinergic markers and a slower reduction of Abeta immunoreactivity. These results suggest that the septal cholinergic axonal projections transport Abeta or amyloid precursor protein (APP) to layer III of RSg.
Inhibitory neurons play important roles in a number of brain functions. They are composed of GABAergic neurons and glycinergic neurons, and vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT) is specifically expressed in these neurons. Since the inhibitory neurons are scattered around in the CNS, it is difficult to identify these cells in living brain preparations. The glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) 67-GFP knock-in mouse has been widely used for the identification of GABAergic neurons, but their GAD67 expression was decreased compared to the wild-type mice. To overcome such a problem and to highlight the function and morphology of inhibitory neurons, we generated four lines of VGAT-Venus transgenic mice (lines #04, #29, #39 and #49) expressing Venus fluorescent protein under the control of mouse VGAT promoter. We found higher expression level of Venus transcripts and proteins as well as brighter fluorescent signal in line #39 mouse brains, compared to brains of other lines examined. By Western blots and spectrofluorometric measurements of forebrain, the line #39 mouse showed stronger GFP immunoreactivity and brighter fluorescent intensity than the GAD67-GFP knock-in mouse. In addition, Venus was present not only in somata, but also in neurites in the line #39 mouse by histological studies. In situ hybridization analysis showed that the expression pattern of Venus in the line #39 mouse was similar to that of endogenous VGAT. Double immunostaining analysis in line #39 mouse showed that Venus-expressing cells are primarily immunoreactive for GABA in cerebral cortex, hippocampus and cerebellar cortex and for GABA or glycine in dorsal cochlear nucleus. These results demonstrate that the VGAT-Venus line #39 mouse should be useful for studies on function and morphology of inhibitory neurons in the CNS.
Gonadal hormones modulate fear acquisition, but less is known about the influence of gonadal hormones on fear extinction. We assessed sex differences and the influence of gonadal hormone fluctuations and exogenous manipulations of estrogen and progesterone on acquisition, extinction learning and extinction recall in a 3 day auditory fear conditioning and extinction protocol. Experiments were conducted on males and naturally cycling female rats. Regarding female rats, significant differences in fear extinction were observed between subgroups of females, depending on their phase of the estrous cycle. Extinction that took place during the proestrus (high estrogen/progesterone) phase was more fully consolidated, as evidenced by low freezing during a recall test. This suggests that estrogen and/or progesterone facilitate extinction. In support of this, injection of both estrogen and progesterone prior to extinction learning in female rats during the metestrus phase of the cycle (low estrogen/progesterone) facilitated extinction consolidation, and blockade of estrogen and progesterone receptors during the proestrus phase impaired extinction consolidation. When comparing male to female rats without consideration of the estrous cycle phase, no significant sex differences were observed. When accounting for cycle phase in females, sex differences were observed only during extinction recall. Female rats that underwent extinction during the metestrus phase showed significantly higher freezing during the recall test relative to males. Collectively, these data suggest that gonadal hormones influence extinction behavior possibly by influencing the function of brain regions involved in the consolidation of fear extinction. Moreover, the elevated fear observed in female relative to male rats during extinction recall suggests that gonadal hormones may in part play a role in the higher prevalence of anxiety disorders in women.
Glutamatergic N-methyl-d-aspartate NMDA receptors (NMDAR) are considered to play a key role in ischemia-induced damage. Long-term (hours) changes in their expression upon ischemia have been shown. Here we report short-term changes in the mRNA levels of the major hippocampal NMDAR subunits (NR1, NR2A and NR2B), as well as c-fos, in an ex vivo ischemia model using hippocampal slices. This effect can be observed also in a calcium free incubation solution. Striking early decreases in the NMDAR subunit mRNA levels were observed after 30 min of oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) as well as a partial recovery when the tissues were returned to the balanced salt solution (reperfusion-like period) for 3 h. Since OGD-induced damage has been reported to be a consequence of the increase in OGD-related glutamate release, we also analyzed NMDAR mRNA levels following increased glutamate levels in hippocampal sections in which no significant effects on NMDAR subunit mRNA levels were detected. Furthermore, we describe that the presence of MK-801 (a selective NMDAR antagonist), CNQX (a selective AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist) or their combined action in the incubation solution is able to induce a significant decrease in NMDAR expression but in these conditions the OGD does not induce further decreases in mRNA levels. We suggest that the mechanisms triggered during OGD to downregulate mRNA levels of NMDAR subunits could be the same than those induced by glutamate receptor antagonists.
A specific mutation (DeltaE302/303) in the torsinA gene underlies most cases of dominantly inherited early-onset torsion dystonia. This mutation causes the protein to aggregate and form intracellular inclusion bodies in cultured cells and animal models. Co-expression of the wildtype and mutant proteins resulted in the redistribution of the wildtype protein from the endoplasmic reticulum to inclusion bodies in cultured HEK293 cells, and this was associated with increased interaction between the two proteins. Expression of DeltaE302/303 but not wildtype torsinA in primary postnatal midbrain neurons resulted in the formation of intracellular inclusion bodies, predominantly in dopaminergic neurons. Tyrosine hydroxylase was sequestered in these inclusions and this process was mediated by increased protein-protein interaction between mutant torsinA and tyrosine hydroxylase. Analysis in an inducible neuroblastoma cell culture model demonstrated altered tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the presence of the mutant but not wildtype torsinA protein. Our results suggest that the interaction of tyrosine hydroxylase and mutant torsinA may contribute to the phenotype and reported dopaminergic dysfunction in torsinA-mediated dystonia.
Neurons in the dorsomedial hypothalamus (DMH) play a key role in mediating tachycardia elicited by emotional stress. DMH activation by microinjections of the GABA(A) antagonist evokes tachycardia and physiological changes typically seen in experimental stress. DMH inhibition abolishes the tachycardia evoked by stress. Based on anatomic evidences for lateralization in the pathways from DMH, we investigated a possible inter-hemispheric difference in DMH-evoked cardiovascular responses. In anesthetized rats we compared changes in heart rate (HR), renal sympathetic activity (RSNA), mesenteric blood flow (MBF) and tail vascular conductance produced by activation of right (R) and left (L) sides of the DMH. We also evaluated the tachycardia produced by air jet stress after inhibition of R or L DMH. There were always greater increases in RSNA when bicuculline was injected ipsilaterally to the side where these parameters were recorded (average DeltaRSNA: L=+50% and R=+26%; P&lt;0.05). Compared to pre-injection values, right DMH activation caused pronounced decrease (0.87+/-0.1% vs. 0.4+/-0.11%/mm Hg; P&lt;0.05), whereas bicuculline methiodide (BMI) into left DMH produced no significant changes (0.95+/-0.09% vs. 1.04+/-0.25%/mm Hg) in tail vascular conductance. R or L DMH disinhibition produced decreases in MBF, but no differences in the range of these changes were observed. Activation of the right DMH caused greater tachycardia compared to the left DMH activation (average DeltaHR: R=+92 bpm; L=+48 bpm; P&lt;0.05). Tachycardia evoked by air jet stress was smallest after right DMH inhibition (average DeltaHR: R=+57 bpm and L=+134 bpm; P&lt;0.05). These results indicate that the descending cardiovascular pathways from DMH are predominantly lateralized and the right DMH might exert a prominent control on heart rate changes during emotional stress.
The purpose of this study was to analyze the transcriptional regulation of the zebrafish solute carrier family 6 member 3 gene (slc6a3, dopamine transporter, dat), as a first step towards isolating regulatory sequences useful for driving transgene expression within dopaminergic neurons of the zebrafish CNS in vivo. We found that the 3.0 kb slc6a3 mRNA is expressed in each of the major groups of dopaminergic neurons previously identified in the zebrafish CNS. The slc6a3 gene spans &gt;20 kb of genomic DNA and contains 15 exons. The genomic organization of slc6a3 is highly conserved with respect to its human orthologue, including the presence of an untranslated first exon. The promoter lacks a canonical TATA box and there are multiple transcriptional start sites. Functional analysis of cis-acting elements responsible for the expression pattern of slc6a3 was carried out by generating stable transgenic zebrafish lines expressing fluorescent reporters under transcriptional control of fragments of slc6a3 genomic sequence. The region between -2 kb and +5 kb with respect to the transcriptional start site contains the core slc6a3 promoter, in addition to neuronal enhancers and/or non-neuronal repressors that restrict expression to the CNS, but this region lacks cis-acting elements responsible for slc6a3 expression in dopaminergic neurons. The upstream sequence between -6 kb and -2 kb contains an enhancer element that drives slc6a3 expression in dopaminergic neurons of the pretectal region, and additional sequences that partially repress expression in non-dopaminergic neurons. However, expression of slc6a3 in dopaminergic neurons of the ventral diencephalon and telencephalon is dependent on elements that lie outside the region -6 kb to +5 kb. These data provide a detailed analysis of the slc6a3 gene and show that its expression in different populations of dopamine neurons is driven by discrete enhancers, rather than a single target sequence for a terminal factor involved in specifying neurochemical phenotype.
Receptor-type protein tyrosine phosphatase zeta/beta (RPTPzeta) is a transmembrane chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG) and has been shown to play crucial roles in controlling axonal growth and neuronal migration. The RPTPzeta has two transmembranous isoforms, shorter receptor form of RPTPzeta (sRPTPzeta) and full-length receptor form of RPTPzeta (fRPTPzeta), but no studies have been reported about functional difference of these two isoforms. In the present study, therefore, we examined whether or not two RPTPzeta isoforms have different role in controlling dendritic morphology and synaptic number in cultured hippocampal neurons using the quantitative morphometrical analysis. Confocal microscopic observation showed that the immunoreactivity of RPTPzeta was observed throughout cells such as axons, growth cones, and dendrites at the early stages of neuronal culture, while it was seen predominantly on dendrites at the late stages. Western blotting analysis revealed that fRPTPzeta was mainly expressed at the early stages of culture and both RPTPzeta isoforms were expressed at late stages of culture. The overexpression of sRPTPzeta in hippocampal neurons increased the dendritic arborization without altering the average length of dendritic branches, whereas that of fRPTPzeta decreased the dendritic arborization and increased the average length of dendritic branches. The RNA interference of fRPTPzeta expression increased the dendritic arborization without altering the average length of dendritic branches. The overexpression of fRPTPzeta decreased the density of hippocampal dendritic synapses, but that of sRPTPzeta had no effects. Pleiotrophin, a ligand for RPTPzeta to interfere the phosphatase activity, increased the density of hippocampal dendritic synapses. Thus, the present study demonstrates that two transmembranous RPTPzeta isoforms have different functions for regulating dendritogenesis and synaptogenesis.
Glutamine plays multiple roles in the CNS, including metabolic functions and production of the neurotransmitters glutamate and GABA. It has been proposed to be taken up into neurons via a variety of membrane transport systems, including system A, which is a sodium-dependent electrogenic amino acid transporter system. In this study, we investigate glutamine transport by application of amino acids to individual principal neurons of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) in acutely isolated rat brain slices. A glutamine transport current was studied in patch-clamped neurons, which had the electrical and pharmacological properties of system A: it was sodium-dependent, had a non-reversing current-voltage relationship, was activated by proline, occluded by N-(methylamino)isobutyric acid (MeAIB), and was unaffected by 2-aminobicyclo-[2.2.1]-heptane-2-carboxylic acid (BCH). Additionally, we examined the expression of different system A transporter isoforms using immunocytochemical staining with antibodies raised against system A transporter 1 and 2 (SAT1 and SAT2). Our results indicate that both isoforms are expressed in MNTB principal neurons, and demonstrate that functional system A transporters are present in the plasma membrane of neurons. Since system A transport is highly regulated by a number of cellular signaling mechanisms and glutamine then goes on to activate other pathways, the study of these transporters in situ gives an indication of the mechanisms of neuronal glutamine supply as well as points of regulation of neurotransmitter production, cellular signaling and metabolism in the native neuronal environment.
Neurons in the chicken nucleus laminaris (NL), the third order auditory nucleus involved in azimuth sound localization, receive bilaterally segregated (ipsilateral vs contralateral) glutamatergic excitation from the cochlear nucleus magnocellularis and GABAergic inhibition from the ipsilateral superior olivary nucleus (SON). Here, I investigate the voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) that trigger the excitatory and the inhibitory transmission in the NL. Whole-cell recordings were performed in acute brainstem slices. The excitatory transmission was predominantly mediated by N-type VGCCs, as the specific N-type blocker omega-Conotoxin-GVIA (omega-CTx-GVIA, 1-2.5 microM) inhibited excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) by approximately 90%. Blockers for P/Q- and L-type VGCCs produced no inhibition, and blockade of R-type VGCCs produced a small inhibition. In individual cells, the effect of each VGCC blocker on the EPSC elicited by activation of the ipsilateral input was the same as that on the EPSC elicited by activation of the contralateral input, and the two EPSCs had similar kinetics, suggesting physiological symmetry between the two glutamatergic inputs to single NL neurons. The inhibitory transmission in NL neurons was almost exclusively mediated by N-type VGCCs, as omega-CTx-GVIA (1 microM) produced a approximately 90% reduction of inhibitory postsynaptic currents, whereas blockers for other VGCCs produced no inhibition. In conclusion, N-type VGCCs play a dominant role in triggering both the excitatory and the inhibitory transmission in the NL, and the presynaptic VGCCs that mediate the two bilaterally segregated glutamatergic inputs to individual NL neurons are identical. These features may play a role in optimizing coincidence detection in NL neurons.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) has an important role in mood regulation, and its dysfunction in the central nervous system (CNS) is associated with depression. Reports of mood and immune disorder co-morbidities indicate that immune-5-HT interactions may mediate depression present in immune compromised disease states including HIV/AIDS, multiple sclerosis, and Parkinson's disease. Chemokines, immune proteins that induce chemotaxis and cellular adhesion, and their G-protein coupled receptors distribute throughout the CNS, regulate neuronal patterning, and mediate neuropathology. The purpose of this study is to investigate the neuroanatomical and neurophysiological relationship between the chemokine fractalkine/CX3CL1 and its receptor CX3CR1 with 5-HT neurons in the rat midbrain raphe nuclei (RN). Immunohistochemistry was used to examine the colocalization of CX3CL1 or CX3CR1 with 5-HT in the RN, and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in rat brain slices were used to determine the functional impact of CX3CL1 on 5-HT dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) neurons. Greater than 70% of 5-HT neurons colocalize with CX3CL1 and CX3CR1 in the RN. CX3CL1 localizes as discrete puncta throughout the cytoplasm, whereas CX3CR1 concentrates to the perinuclear region of 5-HT neurons and exhibits microglial expression. CX3CL1 and CX3CR1 also colocalize with one another on individual RN cells. Electrophysiology studies indicate a CX3CL1-mediated enhancement of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current (sIPSC) amplitude and dose-dependent increase of evoked IPSC (eIPSC) amplitude without affecting eIPSC paired-pulse ratio, a finding observed selectively in 5-HT neurons. CX3CL1's effect on eIPSC amplitude is blocked by pretreatment with an anti-CX3CL1 neutralizing antibody. Thus, CX3CL1 enhances postsynaptic GABA receptor number or sensitivity on 5-HT DRN neurons under conditions of both spontaneous and synaptically-evoked GABA release. CX3CL1 may indirectly inhibit 5-HT neurotransmission by increasing the sensitivity of 5-HT DRN neurons to GABA inputs. Therapies targeting CX3CL1 may treat serotonin related mood disorders, including depression experienced by patients with compromised immune systems.
A stem cell's microenvironment, or &quot;niche,&quot; is a critical regulator of its behaviour. In the adult mammalian spinal cord, central canal ependymal cells possess latent neural stem cell properties, but the ependymal cell niche has not yet been described. Here, we identify important similarities and differences between the central canal ependymal zone and the forebrain subventricular zone (SVZ), a well-characterized niche of neural stem cells. First, direct immunohistochemical comparison of the spinal cord ependymal zone and the forebrain SVZ revealed distinct patterns of neural precursor marker expression. In particular, ependymal cells in the spinal cord were found to be bordered by a previously uncharacterized sub-ependymal layer, which is relatively less elaborate than that of the SVZ and comprised of small numbers of astrocytes, oligodendrocyte progenitors and neurons. Cell proliferation surrounding the central canal occurs in close association with blood vessels, but unlike in the SVZ, involves mainly ependymal rather than sub-ependymal cells. These proliferating ependymal cells typically self-renew rather than produce transit-amplifying progenitors, as they generate doublets of progeny that remain within the ependymal layer and show no evidence of a lineage relationship to sub-ependymal cells. Interestingly, the dorsal pole of the central canal was found to possess a sub-population of tanycyte-like cells that express markers of both ependymal cells and neural precursors, and their presence correlates with higher numbers of dorsally proliferating ependymal cells. Together, these data identify key features of the spinal cord ependymal cell niche, and suggest that dorsal ependymal cells possess the potential for stem cell activity. This work provides a foundation for future studies aimed at understanding ependymal cell regulation under normal and pathological conditions.
Despite high levels of use, the mechanism of action of effective pharmacotherapies in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is unknown. It has recently been hypothesized that one site of therapeutic action is the midbrain superior colliculus, a structure traditionally associated with visual processing, but also strongly implicated in distractibility, a core symptom of ADHD. We used male juvenile Wistar rats to examine the effects of therapeutically relevant doses of methylphenidate and d-amphetamine on collicular activity in vitro. Here we report a novel shared mechanism of the two drugs whereby they enhance the signal-to-noise ratio in the superior colliculus. The effects on the signal-to-noise ratio were mediated by serotonin (5-HT) via a pre-synaptic mechanism. This modulatory action would bias the system towards salient events and lead to an overall decrease in distractibility.
Dysfunction of the intrinsic cardiac nervous system is implicated in the genesis of atrial and ventricular arrhythmias. While this system has been studied extensively in animal models, far less is known about the intrinsic cardiac nervous system of humans. This study was initiated to anatomically identify neurotransmitters associated with the right atrial ganglionated plexus (RAGP) of the human heart. Biopsies of epicardial fat containing a portion of the RAGP were collected from eight patients during cardiothoracic surgery and processed for immunofluorescent detection of specific neuronal markers. Colocalization of markers was evaluated by confocal microscopy. Most intrinsic cardiac neuronal somata displayed immunoreactivity for the cholinergic marker choline acetyltransferase and the nitrergic marker neuronal nitric oxide synthase. A subpopulation of intrinsic cardiac neurons also stained for noradrenergic markers. While most intrinsic cardiac neurons received cholinergic innervation evident as punctate immunostaining for the high affinity choline transporter, some lacked cholinergic inputs. Moreover, peptidergic, nitrergic, and noradrenergic nerves provided substantial innervation of intrinsic cardiac ganglia. These findings demonstrate that the human RAGP has a complex neurochemical anatomy, which includes the presence of a dual cholinergic/nitrergic phenotype for most of its neurons, the presence of noradrenergic markers in a subpopulation of neurons, and innervation by a host of neurochemically distinct nerves. The putative role of multiple neurotransmitters in controlling intrinsic cardiac neurons and mediating efferent signaling to the heart indicates the possibility of novel therapeutic targets for arrhythmia prevention.
In the adult brain, sensory cortical neurons undergo transient changes of their response properties following prolonged exposure to an appropriate stimulus (adaptation). In cat V1, orientation-selective cells shift their preferred orientation after being adapted to a non-preferred orientation. There are conflicting reports as to the direction of those shifts, towards (attractive) or away (repulsive) from the adapter. Moreover, the mechanisms underlying attractive shifts remain unexplained. In the present investigation we show that attractive shifts are the most frequent outcome of a 12 min adaptation. Overall, cells displaying selectivity for oblique orientations exhibit significantly larger shifts than cells tuned to cardinal orientations. In addition, cells selective to cardinal orientations had larger shift amplitudes when the absolute difference between the original preferred orientation and the adapting orientation increased. Conversely, cells tuned to oblique orientations exhibited larger shift amplitudes when this absolute orientation difference was narrower. Hence, neurons tuned to oblique contours appear to show more plasticity in response to small perturbations. Two different mechanisms appear to produce attractive and repulsive orientation shifts. Attractive shifts result from concurrent response depression on the non-adapted flank and selective response facilitation on the adapted flank of the orientation tuning curve. In contrast, repulsive shifts are caused solely by response depression on the adapted flank. We suggest that an early mechanism leads to repulsive shifts while attractive shifts engage a subsequent late facilitation. A potential role for attractive shifts may be improved stimulus discrimination around the adapting orientation.
The cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) is a neuronal-anchored glycoprotein that has been associated with various functions in the CNS such as synaptic plasticity, cognitive processes and neuroprotection. Here we investigated age-related behavioral and neurochemical alterations in wild-type (Prnp(+/+)), PrP(C) knockout (Prnp(0/0)) and the PrP(C) overexpressing Tg-20 mice. Three- or 11 month-old animals were submitted to a battery of behavioral tasks including open field, activity cages, elevated plus-maze, social recognition and inhibitory avoidance tasks. The 11 month-old Prnp(+/+) and Prnp(0/0) mice exhibited significant impairments in their locomotor activity and social recognition memory and increased anxiety-related responses. Remarkably, Tg-20 mice did not present these age-related impairments. The i.c.v. infusion of STI1 peptide 230-245, which includes the PrP(C) binding site, improved the age-related social recognition deficits in Prnp(+/+). In comparison with the two other age-matched genotypes, the 11 month-old Tg-20 mice also exhibited reduced activity of seric acetylcholinesterase, increased expression of the protein synaptophysin and decreased caspase-3 positive-cells in the hippocampus. The present findings obtained with genetic and pharmacological approaches provide convincing evidence that PrP(C) exerts a critical role in the age-related behavioral deficits in mice probably through adaptive mechanisms including apoptotic pathways and synaptic plasticity.
Endogenous angiotensin (Ang) II and/or an Ang II-derived peptide, acting on Ang type 1 (AT(1)) and Ang type 2 (AT(2)) receptors, can carry out part of the nociceptive control modulated by periaqueductal gray matter (PAG). However, neither the identity of this putative Ang-peptide, nor its relationship to Ang II antinociceptive activity was clarified. Therefore, we have used tail-flick and incision allodynia models combined with an HPLC time course of Ang metabolism, to study the Ang III antinociceptive effect in the rat ventrolateral (vl) PAG using peptidase inhibitors and receptor antagonists. Ang III injection into the vlPAG increased tail-flick latency, which was fully blocked by Losartan and CGP 42,112A, but not by divalinal-Ang IV, indicating that Ang III effect was mediated by AT(1) and AT(2) receptors, but not by the AT(4) receptor. Ang III injected into the vlPAG reduced incision allodynia. Incubation of Ang II with punches of vlPAG homogenate formed Ang III, Ang (1-7) and Ang IV. Amastatin (AM) inhibited the formation of Ang III from Ang II by homogenate, and blocked the antinociceptive activity of Ang II injection into vlPAG, suggesting that aminopeptidase A (APA) formed Ang III from Ang II. Ang III can also be formed from Ang I by a vlPAG alternative pathway. Therefore, the present work shows, for the first time, that: (i) Ang III, acting on AT(1) and AT(2) receptors, can elicit vlPAG-mediated antinociception, (ii) the conversion of Ang II to Ang III in the vlPAG is required to elicit antinociception, and (iii) the antinociceptive activity of endogenous Ang II in vlPAG can be ascribed preponderantly to Ang III.
The neurochemical phenotype(s) of metabolic sensing neurons in the dorsal vagal complex (DVC) remains unclear. These studies utilized single-cell quantitative real-time RT-PCR, in conjunction with laser-catapult microdissection, to address the hypothesis that DVC A2 neurons express genes that encode the characterized metabolic transducers, e.g. glucokinase (GCK) and the energy-dependent potassium channel, K(ATP). Studies show that either glucose or lactate alters synaptic firing of DVC chemosensory neurons, and that delivery of the latter fuel into the caudal hindbrain amplifies insulin-induced hypoglycemia (IIH) and elevates neuronal glucose and monocarboxylate transporter, GCK, and sulfonylurea-1 mRNA in the DVC. We thus examined the additional premise that IIH modifies A2 substrate transporter and metabolic transducer gene profiles, and that such transcriptional responses may be reversed by exogenous lactate and/or glucose. Individual tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive (-ir) A2 neurons were microdissected from the caudal DVC 2 h after injection of insulin or saline, and continuous caudal fourth ventricular (CV4) infusion of lactate, glucose, or artificial cerebrospinal fluid. The data show that IIH decreased MCT2, but elevated GLUT3, GLUT4, GCK, and SUR-1 transcripts in A2 neurons. Blood glucose levels in insulin-injected rats were further reduced by CV4 infusion of either lactate or glucose. Lactate plus insulin reversed hypoglycemic reductions in MCT2 mRNA and further augmented GLUT3 transcripts in A2 neurons, whereas glucose infusion in insulin-injected rats further increased GLUT3 and GCK gene profiles. The present results demonstrate that caudal DVC A2 neurons express molecular markers for metabolic sensing, and genes that encode glucose and monocarboxylate transporters. Evidence that IIH reduces A2 MCT2, but elevates GLUT3 and GLUT4 gene profiles suggests that glucose may be a primary energy source to these cells during hypoglycemia, while decreased lactate uptake, alone or relative to glucose uptake, may be a critical manifestation of systemic glucose deficiency at the cellular level. Findings that singular fuel repletion does not normalize hypoglycemic patterns of glucose transporter, GCK, or SUR-1 mRNA expression in A2 neurons imply that sufficient supply of both energy substrates is required for metabolic balance, and that cellular adaptation to the prevalence of either fuel may increase cellular dependence on glucose-specific metabolites or other products.
Introduction of autologous stem cells into the site of a nerve injury presents a promising therapy to promote axonal regeneration and remyelination following peripheral nerve damage. Given their documented ability to differentiate into Schwann cells (SCs) in vitro, we hypothesized that skin-derived precursor cells (SKPs) could represent a clinically-relevant source of transplantable cells that would enhance nerve regeneration following peripheral nerve injury. In this study, we examined the potential for SKP-derived Schwann cells (SKP-SCs) or nerve-derived SCs to improve nerve regeneration across a 12 mm gap created in the sciatic nerve of Lewis rats bridged by a freeze-thawed nerve graft. Immunohistology after 4 weeks showed survival of both cell types and early regeneration in SKP seeded grafts was comparable to those seeded with SCs. Histomorphometrical and electrophysiological measurements of cell-treated nerve segments after 8 weeks survival all showed significant improvement as compared to diluent controls. A possible mechanistic explanation for the observed results of improved regenerative outcomes lies in SKP-SCs' ability to secrete bioactive neurotrophins. We therefore conclude that SKPs represent an easily accessible, autologous source of stem cells for transplantation therapies which act as functional Schwann cells and show great promise in improving regeneration following nerve injury.
The fundamental network for locomotion in all vertebrates contains a central pattern generator or CPG that produces the required motor output in the spinal cord. In the lamprey spinal cord different classes of interneuron's forming the core CPG circuitry have been characterized based on their morphological and electrophysiological features. The commissural interneuron's (C-INs) represent one essential component of CPG that have been implicated in controlling left-right alternation of the motor activity during swimming. However, it is still unclear if the C-INs displays a homogenous neurotransmitter phenotype and how they are distributed. In this paper we investigated the segmental distribution of glycine, glutamate and GABA-immunoreactive (ir) C-INs by combining retrograde Neurobiotin tracing with specific antibodies for these transmitters. The C-INs were more abundant in caudal and rostral segments adjacent to the injection site and their number gradually decreased in more distal segments, suggesting that these interneurons project over a short distance. The glycine-ir neurons represented around 50% of the total C-INs, while glutamate-ir neurons represented only 29%. Both types of C-INs were homogenously distributed over different segments along the spinal cord. Finally, no Neurobiotin labeled C-INs displayed GABA-ir, although many interneurons were ir to GABA, suggesting that GABAergic interneurons are not directly responsible for controlling left-right alternation of activity during locomotion in lamprey. Overall, these results show that the C-INs display a gradual rostrocaudal distribution and consist of both glycine- and glutamate-ir neurons. The difference in the proportion of inhibitory and excitatory C-INs represents an anatomical substrate that can ensure the predominance of alternating activity during locomotion.
Synaptosome-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP25) is a component of the fusion complex that mediates synaptic vesicle exocytosis, regulates calcium dynamics and neuronal plasticity. Despite its crucial role in vesicle release, SNAP25 is not distributed homogenously within the brain. It seems to be virtually absent in mature inhibitory terminals and is observed in a subtype of excitatory neurons defined by the expression of vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGluT1). Since a complementary distribution of VGluT1 and VGluT2 in excitatory synapses is correlated with different probabilities of release (Pr), we evaluated whether SNAP25 localization is associated with specific synaptic properties. In the cerebellum, climbing fiber (CF) and parallel fiber (PF) inputs, which impinge onto the same Purkinje cell (PC), have very different functional properties. In the cerebellum of adult rats, using confocal and electron microscopy, we observed that VGluT2-positive CFs, characterized by a high Pr, only weakly express SNAP25, while VGluT1-positive PFs that show a low Pr abundantly express SNAP25. Moreover, SNAP25 was less profuse in the VGluT2-positive rosettes of mossy fibers (MFs) and was almost absent in inhibitory terminals. We extended our analysis to the SNAP23 homolog; this is expressed at different levels in both gamma-aminobutyric acid-containing terminals (GABAergic) and glutamatergic terminals of the cerebellar cortex. In conclusion, the preferential localization of SNAP25 in specific synaptic boutons suggests a correlation between SNAP25 and the Pr. This evidence supports the hypothesis that SNAP25 has a modulatory role in shaping synaptic responses.
With increasing age, a subset of otherwise healthy individuals undergoes impairments in learning and memory that have been termed mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The enhanced neuronal activity associated with learning and memory requires increased cerebral blood flow (CBF) to specific brain regions. However, the interactions between cerebral blood flow and MCI remain unclear. In this study, we address whether baseline or hypercapnia-induced (increased blood CO(2) levels) changes in CBF are modified with age, and whether these measures are predictive of cognitive status in rodents. Adult and aged rats were evaluated using a hippocampally-dependent task in a water maze. Aged rats were classified as memory-impaired or memory-intact based on performance comparisons with adult rats. Cerebral blood flow was assessed using flow-alternating inversion recovery (FAIR) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), before and after breathing 10% CO(2). The transition period between CO(2) concentrations was examined with blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) MRI. Separation of aged animals into memory-intact and impaired categories revealed increased basal perfusion in the dorsal hippocampus of memory-impaired versus memory-intact aged animals. Linear regression revealed that higher hippocampal perfusion was correlated with impaired memory in aged animals, and a logistic regression indicated that hippocampal perfusion predicted spatial memory ability. Several brain regions of aged rats demonstrated an attenuation of the perfusion increase normally observed in adult rats under hypercapnia. Memory-impaired animals were the primary contributor to this effect, as their perfusion response to hypercapnia was significantly reduced compared to adult animals. Aged, memory-intact animals were not significantly different from adults. BOLD MRI demonstrated a reduced response in aged animals to hypercapnia, with impaired animals being the primary contributor to the effect. A logistic regression model based on basal and hypercapnia perfusion correctly predicted cognitive status in 83.3% of animals tested. Our results indicate that age-related changes in vascular reactivity and perfusion are important contributing factors in memory impairment.
Histamine H(3) autoreceptors induce a negative feedback on histamine synthesis and release. While it is known that cAMP/cAMP dependent protein kinase (PKA) and Ca(2+)/CaMKII transduction pathways mediate H(3) effects on histamine synthesis, the pathways regulating neuronal histamine release are poorly known. Given the potential use of H(3) ligands in cognitive diseases, we have developed a technique for the determination of H(3) effects on histamine synthesis and release in brain cortical miniprisms. Potassium-induced depolarization effects were impaired by blockade of calcium entry through N and P/Q channels, as well as of CaMKII, but release was not affected by activators or inhibitors of the cAMP/PKA pathway (1-methyl-3-isobutylxanthine (IBMX), N6,2'-O-dibutyryladenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate sodium salt (db-cAMP) or myristoyl PKA inhibitor peptide 14-22 (PKI(14-22)). In contrast, forskolin stimulated histamine release, although independently of PKA. Stimulation of histamine H(3) receptors with the agonist imetit markedly reduced the depolarization increase of histamine release, apparently through P/Q calcium channel inhibition. The H(3) antagonist/inverse agonist thioperamide modestly stimulated histamine release. Thioperamide effect on release was not modified by the PKA inhibitor PKI(14-22), but it was blocked by the CaMKII inhibitor KN-62. These results indicate that H(3) autoreceptors regulate neuronal histamine release (1) independently of the cAMP/PKA cascade, and (2) through modulation of calcium entry and CaMKII activation during depolarization.
We previously showed that when rats were trained to fear an auditory conditioned stimulus (CS) by pairing it with a mild unilateral shock to the eyelid (the unconditioned stimulus, or US), conditioned freezing depended upon the amygdala contralateral but not ipsilateral from the US. It was proposed that convergent activation of amygdala neurons by the CS and US occurred mainly in the amygdala contralateral from US delivery, causing memories of the CS-US association to be stored primarily by that hemisphere. In the present study, we further tested this interpretation by administering unilateral infusions of U0126 (in 50% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) vehicle) to block phosphorylation of extracellular signal-responsive kinase (ERK) in the amygdala prior to CS-US pairings. Conditioned freezing was impaired 24 h after training when U0126 was infused contralaterally-but not ipsilaterally-from the US, suggesting that fear memories were consolidated mainly by the contralateral amygdala. However, immunostaining experiments revealed that ERK phosphorylation was elevated in both hemispheres of the amygdale's lateral (LA) and centrolateral (CeL) nuclei after paired (but not unpaired (UNP)) presentations of the CS and US. Thus, fear acquisition induced ERK phosphorylation bilaterally in the amygdala, even though the ipsilateral hemisphere did not appear to participate in conditioned freezing. These findings suggest that associative plasticity may occur in both amygdala hemispheres even when only one hemisphere is involved in freezing behavior. Conditioning-induced ERK phosphorylation was identical in both hemispheres of LA, but was slightly greater in the contralateral than ipsilateral hemisphere of CeL. Hence, asymmetric induction of plasticity in CeL might help to explain why conditioned freezing depends preferentially upon the amygdala contralateral from the US in our fear conditioning paradigm.
Soluble forms of amyloid-beta (Abeta) have been considered responsible for cognitive dysfunction prior to senile plaque formation in Alzheimer's disease (AD). As its mechanism is not well understood, we examined the effects of repeated i.c.v. infusion of soluble Alphabeta(25-35) on peptidergic system and glial cells in the pathogenesis of AD. The present study aims to investigate the protective effects of memantine on Abeta(25-35)-induced changes in peptidergic and glial systems. Infusion of Alphabeta(25-35) decreased the level of immunoreactive somatostatin (SS) and substance P (SP) in the hippocampus prior to neuronal loss or caspase activation, which is correlated with the loss of spine density and activation of inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS). Biochemical experiment with peptide-degrading enzymes, prolyl oligopeptidase (POP) and endopeptidase 24.15 (EP 24.15) activities demonstrated a concomitant increase with the activation of glial marker proteins, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and CD11b in the Abeta-treated hippocampus. Double immunostaining experiments of EP 24.15 and GFAP/CD11b antibodies clearly demonstrated the co-localization of neuro peptidases with astrocytes and microglia. Treatment with memantine, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist significantly attenuated Abeta(25-35)-induced changes of neuropeptides, their metabolizing enzymes, glial marker proteins, and activation of iNOS. Taken together, the data implies that memantine exerts its protective effects by modulating the neuropeptide system as a consequence of suppressing the glial cells and oxidative stress in AD model rat brain regions.
Previous studies have indicated that the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is implicated in the induction of sodium appetite in rats and that different dietary sodium intakes influence the mRNA expression of central and peripheral RAAS components. To determine whether dietary sodium deprivation activates regional brain neurons related to sodium appetite, and changes their gene expression of RAAS components of rats, the present study examined the c-Fos expression after chronic exposure to low sodium diet, and determined the relationship between plasma and brain angiotensin I (ANG I), angiotensin II (ANG II) and aldosterone (ALD) levels and the sodium ingestive behavior variations, as well as the effects of prolonged dietary sodium deprivation on ANG II type 1 (AT1) and ANG II type 2 (AT2) receptors and angiotensin-convertion enzyme (ACE) mRNA levels in the involved brain regions using the method of real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Results showed that the Fos immunoreactivity (Fos-ir) expression in forebrain areas such as subfornical organ (SFO), paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei (PVN), supraoptic nucleus (SON) and organum vasculosum laminae terminalis (OVLT) all increased significantly and that the levels of ANG I, ANG II and ALD also increased in plasma and forebrain in rats fed with low sodium diet. In contrast, AT1, ACE mRNA in PVN, SON and OVLT decreased significantly in dietary sodium depleted rats, while AT2 mRNA expression did not change in the examined areas. These results suggest that many brain areas are activated by increased levels of plasma and/or brain ANG II and ALD, which underlies the elevated preference for hypertonic salt solution after prolonged exposure to low sodium diet, and that the regional AT1 and ACE mRNA are down-regulated after dietary sodium deprivation, which may be mediated by increased ANG II in plasma and/or brain tissue.
Coordinated eye-head gaze shifts have been evoked during electrical stimulation of the frontal cortex (supplementary eye field (SEF) and frontal eye field (FEF)) and superior colliculus (SC), but less is known about the role of lateral intraparietal cortex (LIP) in head-unrestrained gaze shifts. To explore this, two monkeys (M1 and M2) were implanted with recording chambers and 3-D eye+ head search coils. Tungsten electrodes delivered trains of electrical pulses (usually 200 ms duration) to and around area LIP during head-unrestrained gaze fixations. A current of 200 muA consistently evoked small, short-latency contralateral gaze shifts from 152 sites in M1 and 243 sites in M2 (Constantin et al., 2007). Gaze kinematics were independent of stimulus amplitude and duration, except that subsequent saccades were suppressed. The average amplitude of the evoked gaze shifts was 8.46 degrees for M1 and 8.25 degrees for M2, with average head components of only 0.36 and 0.62 degrees respectively. The head's amplitude contribution to these movements was significantly smaller than in normal gaze shifts, and did not increase with behavioral adaptation. Stimulation-evoked gaze, eye and head movements qualitatively obeyed normal 3-D constraints (Donders' law and Listing's law), but with less precision. As in normal behavior, when the head was restrained LIP stimulation evoked eye-only saccades in Listing's plane, whereas when the head was not restrained, stimulation evoked saccades with position-dependent torsional components (driving the eye out of Listing's plane). In behavioral gaze-shifts, the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) then drives torsion back into Listing's plane, but in the absence of subsequent head movement the stimulation-induced torsion was &quot;left hanging&quot;. This suggests that the position-dependent torsional saccade components are preprogrammed, and that the oculomotor system was expecting a head movement command to follow the saccade. These data show that, unlike SEF, FEF, and SC stimulation in nearly identical conditions, LIP stimulation fails to produce normally-coordinated eye-head gaze shifts.
Mesoventromedial dopamine neurons projecting from the medial ventral tegmental area to the ventromedial shell of the nucleus accumbens play a role in attributing incentive salience to environmental stimuli that predict important events, and appear to be particularly sensitive to the effects of psychostimulant drugs. Despite the observation that these dopamine neurons make up almost the entire complement of neurons in the projection, stimulating their cell bodies evokes a fast glutamatergic response in accumbens neurons. This is apparently due to dopamine neuron glutamate cotransmission, suggested by the extensive coexpression of vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) in the neurons. To examine the interplay between the dopamine and glutamate signals, we used acute quasi-horizontal brain slices made from DAT-YFP mice in which the intact mesoventromedial projection can be visualized. Under current clamp, when dopamine neurons were stimulated repeatedly, dopamine neuron glutamate transmission showed dopamine-mediated facilitation, solely at higher, burst-firing frequencies. Facilitation was diminished under voltage clamp and flipped to inhibition by intracellular Cs(+) or GDPbetaS, indicating that it was mediated postsynaptically. Postsynaptic facilitation was D1 mediated, required activation of NMDA receptors and closure of voltage gated K(+)-channels. When postsynaptic facilitation was blocked, D2-mediated presynaptic inhibition became apparent. These counterbalanced pre- and postsynaptic actions determine the frequency dependence of dopamine modulation; at lower firing frequencies dopamine modulation is not apparent, while at burst firing frequency postsynaptic facilitation dominates and dopamine becomes facilitatory. Dopamine neuron glutamate cotransmission may play an important role in encoding the incentive salience value of conditioned stimuli that activate goal-directed behaviors, and may be an important subtract for enduring drug-seeking behaviors.
There is evidence of structural and functional deterioration in the brain, including the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus, during the normal aging process in animals and humans. Extracellular matrix-associated glycoproteins, such as chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs), are involved in not only maintaining the structures and functions of adult neurons, but also regulating the proliferation, migration, and neurite outgrowth of neural stem cells in the brain. On the other hand, a herbal medicine, yokukansan (YKS), is used in a variety of clinical situations for treating symptoms associated with age-related neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, but its pharmacological properties have not been fully understood. The present study was designed to clarify the influence of aging and the improving effects of YKS on the expression of aggrecan, a major molecule of CSPGs, and on the proliferation and migration of neural stem/progenitor cells identified by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation in the PFC and hippocampus including the dentate gyrus. Aged rats (24 months old) showed a significant increase in aggrecan expression throughout the PFC and in the hippocampus particularly in the CA3 subfield, but not the dentate gyrus compared to young rats (5 months old), evaluated by the immunohistochemical method. YKS treatment decreased the age-related increase in aggrecan expression as well as normal expression in young rats. Aged rats also showed a decreased number of BrdU-labeled cells in the PFC and hippocampus, and these decreases were improved by YKS treatment, which also increased the numbers in young rats. These results suggest that aging influences the microenvironment for adult and immature neurons in the brain, which may affect the proliferation and migration of neural stem/progenitor cells, and YKS has pharmacological potency for these age-related events. These findings help to understand the physiology and pathology of the aged brain and provide an anti-aging strategy for the brain.
The exposure of rats to an enriched environment (EE) has several effects in common with the administration of antidepressants. However, there is still little information about the molecular underpinnings of these effects on rats subjected to experimental models of depression. The aim of this research was to evaluate the effects of EE on rats exposed to the learned helplessness paradigm (LH), a well-known model of the disease. We found that a 21 day exposure to EE reverts helplessness behavior to normal in LH animals. Inmunohistochemical labeling showed that this effect was accompanied by normalization of two structural proteins of hippocampal neurons to control values: the light neurofilament subunit (NFL) and the postsynaptic density 95 (PSD-95) protein, which were decreased in LH animals housed in standard cages. The decrease in the presynaptic protein synaptophysin (SYN) observed in LH animals remained unchanged after exposure to EE. There was no increase in neurogenesis as measured by quantification of double-labeled cells with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) and the neuronal marker beta-tubulin class III. These results show that EE may have behavioral and synaptic effects on animals exposed to an experimental model of depression, and that such actions seem to be independent from neurogenesis.
The ventral part of the oral pontine reticular nucleus (vRPO) is involved in the generation and maintenance of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Both GABAergic and serotonergic neurotransmission have been implicated in the control of the sleep-wakefulness cycle. Nevertheless, the synaptic organization of serotonergic terminals in the vRPO has not yet been characterized. We performed an electron microscope study of serotonin-immunoreactive (5-HT-IR) terminals using immunoperoxidase or immunogold-silver methods. In a second set of experiments, combining GABA immunoperoxidase and 5-HT immunogold-silver techniques, we examined inputs from GABA-immunoreactive (GABA-IR) terminals to serotonergic neurons. 5-HT-IR terminals were located primarily on dendrites and occasionally on somata of unlabeled and 5-HT-IR neurons. The majority of the synapses formed by 5-HT-IR terminals were of the symmetrical type, making contacts primarily with unlabeled dendritic profiles. Moreover, 5-HT-IR terminals contacted unlabeled axon terminals that formed asymmetric synapses on dendrites. Double immunolabeling experiments showed 5-HT-IR and GABA-IR afferents, in apposition to each other, making synapses with the same dendrites. Finally, GABA-IR terminals innervated 5-HT-IR and GABA-IR dendrites. Our findings indicate that serotonin would modulate the neuronal activity through inhibitory or excitatory influences, although the action of serotonin on the vRPO would predominantly be inhibitory. Moreover, the present results suggest that the serotonin modulation of vRPO neurons might involve indirect connections. In addition, GABA might contribute to the induction and maintenance of REM sleep by inhibiting serotonergic and GABAergic neurons in the vRPO.
Impaired cognitive functions are well-described in the aging process. GABA(B) antagonists can facilitate learning and memory in young subjects, but these agents have not been well-characterized in aging. Here we show a complete reversal of olfactory discrimination learning deficits in cognitively-impaired aged Fischer 344 rats using the GABA(B) antagonist CGP55845, such that drug treatment restored performance to that on par with young and cognitively-unimpaired aged subjects. There was no evidence that this improved learning was due to enhanced olfactory detection abilities produced by the drug. These results highlight the potential of targeting GABA(B) receptors to ameliorate age-related cognitive deficits and demonstrate the utility of olfactory discrimination learning as a preclinical model for testing novel therapies to improve cognitive functions in aging.
The rare amino acid isovaline has analgesic properties in pain models and is a structural analogue of the inhibitory neurotransmitter glycine. Glycinergic inhibition is prevalent in pain pathways. In this paper, we examined the possibility that isovaline inhibits neurons by activating strychnine (Str)-sensitive glycine(A) receptors in ventrobasal thalamus. Sagittal brain sections containing ventrobasal nuclei were prepared from P10-P15 rats. Whole-cell recordings were made in current-clamp and voltage-clamp modes. R-isovaline (R-Iva) increased input conductance and hyperpolarized the membrane. The conductance increase shunted action potentials and low-threshold Ca(2+) spikes evoked by current pulse injection. Unlike the Cl(-)-mediated responses to glycine, isovaline responses were insensitive to Str antagonism and usually not reversible. The concentration-response curve was non-sigmoidal, rising to a maximum at approximately 100 microM, and thereafter declining in amplitude. Current-voltage relationships showed that isovaline increased inward and outward rectification. The isovaline current reversed polarity close to the K(+) equilibrium potential. The relationships were negligibly affected by tetrodotoxin (TTX), chelation of intracellular Ca(2+) or blockade of the hyperpolarization-activated current, I(h). Internal Cs(+) and external Ba(2+) or Cs(+) prevented isovaline responses. In conclusion, isovaline inhibited firing mainly by activating rectifying and possibly leak K(+) currents. Isovaline-induced changes shunted action potentials and suppressed rebound excitation in ventrobasal neurons, as expected for analgesic actions.
Area 21a, located on the cat's lateral suprasylvian cortex, is considered as a higher-order cortical area. Little is known about its specific role in visual processing. In this study, the functional organization of area 21a was investigated by optical imaging of intrinsic signals and was compared to that of primary visual areas. We found a clear modular pattern for orientation selectivity in area 21a, with signal amplitude being four times lower than that in primary visual areas. There were no significant differences between the domains' characteristics, nor the tuning bandwidth, in areas of the primary visual cortex (17 and 18) and 21a. This suggests that the basic cortical structure is independent of the hierarchical level or function of one area. A uniform representation of spatial frequency was found in areas 17 and 18, as well as in area 21a. The mean preferred spatial frequency in area 21a was 0.30 c/deg. In contrast to area 18, no direction maps were observed in area 21a whether drifting gratings or random dot kinematograms were used. This study supports the proposal that area 21a plays a pivotal role along the ventral processing stream and is mainly involved in form processing.
Mutations in the connexin26 gene (GJB2) are the most common genetic cause of congenital bilateral non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss. Transgenic mice were established carrying human Cx26 with the R75W mutation that was identified in a deaf family with autosomal dominant negative inheritance [Kudo T et al. (2003) Hum Mol Genet 12:995-1004]. A dominant-negative Gjb2 R75W transgenic mouse model shows incomplete development of the cochlear supporting cells, resulting in profound deafness from birth [Inoshita A et al. (2008) Neuroscience 156:1039-1047]. The Cx26 defect in the Gjb2 R75W transgenic mouse is restricted to the supporting cells; it is unclear why the auditory response is severely disturbed in spite of the presence of outer hair cells (OHCs). The present study was designed to evaluate developmental changes in the in vivo and in vitro function of the OHC, and the fine structure of the OHC and adjacent supporting cells in the R75W transgenic mouse. No detectable distortion product otoacoustic emissions were observed at any frequencies in R75W transgenic mice throughout development. A characteristic phenotype observed in these mice was the absence of the tunnel of Corti, Nuel's space, and spaces surrounding the OHC; the OHC were compressed and squeezed by the surrounding supporting cells. On the other hand, the OHC developed normally. Structural features of the lateral wall, such as the membrane-bound subsurface cisterna beneath the plasma membrane, were intact. Prestin, the voltage-dependent motor protein, was observed by immunohistochemistry in the OHC basolateral membranes of both transgenic and non-transgenic mice. No significant differences in electromotility of isolated OHCs during development was observed between transgenic and control mice. The present study indicates that normal development of the supporting cells is indispensable for proper cellular function of the OHC.
This study aimed to investigate the effect of hypoxia on the expression of cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), microsomal prostaglandin-E synthase (mPGES-1), E-prostanoid receptor 2 (EP2) in microglia; and the roles of EP2-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) signaling pathway in the prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) regulation of inflammatory mediators released by hypoxic BV-2 cells. Immunoexpression of COX-1, COX-2, mPGES-1 and EP2 was localized in the amoeboid microglial cells (AMC), a nascent brain macrophage in the developing brain, as confirmed by double labeling with OX-42 and lectin, specific markers of microglia. AMC emitted a more intense immunofluorescence in hypoxic rats when compared with the matching controls. In postnatal rats subjected to hypoxia, mRNA and protein expression levels of COX-1, COX-2 and mPGES-1 along with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), inducible nitric-oxide synthase (iNOS) and PGE(2) product in the callosal tissue were significantly increased. The results were shared in the BV-2 cells except for COX-1 mRNA and protein whose levels remained unaltered. Interestingly, treatment with EP2 antagonist AH-6809 resulted in suppression of hypoxia induced EP2, IL-1beta and iNOS mRNA and protein expression, TNF-alpha protein expression and intracellular cAMP level in BV-2 cells. It is suggested that PGE(2) may regulate above inflammatory mediators in the activated microglia via EP2-cAMP signaling pathway in hypoxic conditions.
The 50 kHz ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) in rats have been associated with positive affect and rewarding experience. We have previously reported that stable inter-individual differences exist in the expression of these USVs (chirps). We have examined the effect of four weeks of chronic variable stress on cerebral oxidative metabolism, and depression and anxiety related behavior in male and female high (HC) and low (LC) chirping rats. Significant differences in regional oxidative metabolic activity as measured by cytochrome c oxidase (COX) histochemistry were found between male and female rats: Females had lower oxidative metabolism in several brainstem areas such as dorsal and median raphe and pontine nucleus, some cortical areas, and reward-related forebrain regions such as striatum and nucleus accumbens, but higher oxidative metabolism in amygdala and related limbic regions. Chronic stress increased oxidative metabolism in several depression-related brain regions in male but not female LC-rats such as amygdala, hippocampus and anterior thalamus. No systematic behavioral effect of stress was evident in females. In LC males, stress elicited increased levels of 22-kHz USVs, earlier and more stable reduction of weight gain, persistently lower sucrose intake and preference, and higher levels of immobility in the forced swimming test. These behavioral changes, accompanied by increased oxidative metabolism in limbic brain regions, indicate greater vulnerability to stress of male LC-rats, and suggest that in males low inherent positive affectivity predisposes to anxiety and affective disorders.
The circadian rhythm of body temperature (T(b)) is a well-known phenomenon. However, it is unknown how the circadian system including the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and clock genes affects thermoregulation. Food deprivation in mice induces a greater reduction of T(b) particularly in the light phase. We examined the role of Clock, one of key clock genes and the SCN during induced hypothermia. At 20 degrees C with fasting, mice increased their metabolic heat production in the dark phase and maintained T(b), whereas in the light phase, heat production was less, resulting in hypothermia. Under these conditions, neuronal activity in the SCN, assessed by cFos expression, increased only in the light phase. However, such differences in thermoregulatory and neural responses between the phases in Clock mutant mice were less marked. The neural network between the SCN and paraventricular nucleus appeared to be important in hypothermia. These findings suggest that the circadian system per se is influenced by both the feeding condition and environmental temperature and that it modulates thermoregulation.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an incurable progressive paralytic motor neuron disease with limited therapeutic options. Since their creation by Gurney et al. (1994) [Science 264:1772-1775], transgenic superoxide dismutase-1 with glycine to alanine switch at codon 93 (SOD1(G93A)) mice have become the benchmark pre-clinical model for screening ALS therapies. Surprisingly, despite physiological, anatomical, ultrastructural and biochemical evidence of early motor system dysfunction, it has proven difficult to detect motor performance deficits in pre-symptomatic SOD1(G93A) mice. As an alternative to conventional forced motor tests, we investigated the progression of motor performance deficits in freely behaving pre-symptomatic congenic B6.SOD1(G93A) mice. We found that motor performance deficits began several weeks prior to the onset of overt clinical symptoms (postnatal day 45). More importantly, once motor performance deficits manifested, they persisted in parallel with disease progression. In addition, two physical measures of muscle girth revealed progressive hindlimb muscle atrophy that predicted genotype in individual pre-symptomatic mice with 80% accuracy. Together, these data suggest that muscle girth is a reliable and indirect measure of hindlimb muscle denervation and an early, objective marker for disease onset in congenic B6.SOD1(G93A) ALS mice. Moreover, we present regression equations based on hindlimb muscle girth for predicting genotype in future studies using B6.SOD1(G93A) mice. These findings support new objective criteria for clinical disease onset and provide objective measures that require little expertise. These studies demonstrate a cost-effective approach for more thorough evaluation of neuroprotective strategies that seek to disrupt disease mechanisms early in the disease process. To our knowledge, these findings are the first to report early chronic motor performance and physical deficits that are coincident with the earliest known motor dysfunction in any ALS mouse model.
Cortical auditory evoked potential (CAEP) testing, a non-invasive technique, is widely employed to study auditory brain development. The aim of this study was to investigate the development of the auditory electrophysiological signal without addressing specific abilities such as speech or music discrimination. We were interested in the temporal and spectral domains of conventional auditory evoked potentials. We analyzed cerebral responses to auditory stimulation (broadband noises) in 40 infants and children (1 month to 5 years 6 months) and 10 adults using high-density electrophysiological recording. We hypothesized that the adult auditory response has precursors that can be identified in infant and child responses. Results confirm that complex adult CAEP responses and spectral activity patterns appear after 5 years, showing decreased involvement of lower frequencies and increased involvement of higher frequencies. In addition, time-locked response to stimulus and event-related spectral pertubation across frequencies revealed alpha and beta band contributions to the CAEP of infants and toddlers before mutation to the beta and gamma band activity of the adult response. A detailed analysis of electrophysiological responses to a perceptual stimulation revealed general development patterns and developmental precursors of the adult response.
The purpose of the study was to determine whether the central nervous system (CNS) requires the sensory feedback generated by balance perturbations in order to trigger postural responses (PRs). In Experiment 1, twenty-one participants experienced toes-up support-surface tilts in two blocks. Control blocks involved unexpected balance perturbations whereas an auditory tone cued the onset of balance perturbations in Conditioning blocks. A single Cue-Only trial followed each block (Cue-Only(Control) and Cue-Only(Conditioning) trials) in the absence of balance perturbations. Cue-Only(Conditioning) trials were used to determine whether postural perturbations were required in order to trigger PRs. Counter-balancing the order of Control and Conditioning blocks allowed Cue-Only(Control) trials to examine both the audio-spinal/acoustic startle effects of the auditory cue and the carryover effects of the initial conditioning procedure. In Experiment 2, six participants first experienced five consecutive Tone-Only trials that were followed by twenty-five conditioning trials. After conditioning, five Tone-Only trials were again presented consecutively to first elicit and then extinguish the conditioned PRs. Surface electromyography (EMG) recorded muscle activity in soleus (SOL), tibialis anterior (TA) and rectus femoris (RF). EMG onset latencies and amplitudes were calculated together with the onset latency, peak and time-to-peak of shank angular accelerations. Results indicated that an auditory cue could be conditioned to initiate PRs in multiple muscles without balance-relevant sensory triggers generated by balance perturbations. Postural synergies involving excitation of TA and RF and inhibition of SOL were observed following the Cue-Only(Conditioning) trials that resulted in shank angular accelerations in the direction required to counter the expected toes-up tilt. Postural synergies were triggered in response to the auditory cue even 15 min post-conditioning. Furthermore, conditioned PRs were quickly extinguished as participants became unresponsive by the third trial in extinction. In conclusion, our results reveal that the CNS does not require sensory feedback from postural perturbations in order to trigger PRs.
Central neuropathic pain (CNP) developing after spinal cord injury (SCI) is described by the region affected: above-level, at-level and below-level pain occurs in dermatomes rostral, at/near, or below the SCI level, respectively. People with SCI and rodent models of SCI develop above-level pain characterized by mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. Mechanisms underlying this pain are unknown and the goals of this study were to elucidate components contributing to the generation of above-level CNP. Following a thoracic (T10) contusion, forelimb nociceptors had enhanced spontaneous activity and were sensitized to mechanical and thermal stimulation of the forepaws 35 days post-injury. Cervical dorsal horn neurons showed enhanced responses to non-noxious and noxious mechanical stimulation as well as thermal stimulation of receptive fields. Immunostaining dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells and cord segments with activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3, a marker for neuronal injury) ruled out neuronal damage as a cause for above-level sensitization since few C8 DRG cells expressed AFT3 and cervical cord segments had few to no ATF3-labeled cells. Finally, activated microglia and astrocytes were present in thoracic and cervical cord at 35 days post-SCI, indicating a rostral spread of glial activation from the injury site. Based on these data, we conclude that peripheral and central sensitization as well as reactive glia in the uninjured cervical cord contribute to CNP. We hypothesize that reactive glia in the cervical cord release pro-inflammatory substances which drive chronic CNP. Thus a complex cascade of events spanning many cord segments underlies above-level CNP.
The aim of the present study was to examine the role of the spinal serotonergic system in the pain relieving effect of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) using a rat model of mononeuropathy. Tactile withdrawal thresholds, cold responses and heat withdrawal latencies were assessed before and after SCS. In some rats, SCS produced an attenuation of the hypersensitivity following nerve injury (SCS responding rats). When SCS was applied immediately prior to sacrifice, the 5-HT content in the dorsal quadrant of the spinal cord ipsilateral to the nerve injury was increased in SCS responding rats. But there was no change in responding rats without stimulation, or in SCS non-responding rats with or without stimulation or in controls. Immunohistochemical examination showed a high density of 5-HT stained terminals in the dorsal horn superficial laminae (I-II) in SCS responding rats following stimulation. It was also found that i.t. administration of a sub-effective dose of serotonin in SCS non-responding rats markedly enhanced the pain relieving effect of SCS on tactile and cold hypersensitivity, while there was no effect on heat hyperalgesia. This enhanced effect on tactile hypersensitivity could be partially blocked by a GABA(B) receptor antagonist (CGP 35348) but not by a muscarinic M(4) receptor antagonist (Muscarinic toxin 3) administered i.t. shortly before the 5-HT injection. In conclusion, there is evidence that the spinal 5-HT system plays an important role in the mode of action of SCS involving the activation of descending serotonergic pathways that may inhibit spinal nociceptive processing partially via a GABAergic link.
Endometriosis is a painful disorder defined by extrauteral endometrial growths whose contribution to pain symptoms is poorly understood. Endometriosis is created in rats by autotransplanting on abdominal arteries pieces of either uterus (ENDO), which form cysts, or fat (shamENDO), which do not form cysts. ENDO, but not shamENDO induces vaginal hyperalgesia. We tested the hypothesis that the cysts are necessary to maintain vaginal hyperalgesia by assessing the effect of surgically removing them. Complete-cyst-removal eliminated ENDO-induced vaginal hyperalgesia up to 4 months post-operatively. Sham-cyst-removal in ENDO rats, in which cysts were not removed, or partial cyst-removal increased the ENDO-induced hyperalgesia. The decreases and increases both took 3-6 weeks to develop. Changes in ENDO-induced hyperalgesia did not occur in a control group of ENDO rats who had no surgery after ENDO. In a double-surgery control group, neither shamENDO surgery nor a subsequent sham surgery that mimicked &quot;removal&quot; of non-existent cysts influenced vaginal nociception. In a no-surgery control group, vaginal nociception remained stable for &gt;6 months. The increases in ENDO-induced hyperalgesia produced by the sham-cyst-removal surgery were smaller in proestrus than in other estrous stages. During the other stages (but not during proestrus), sympathetic innervation of the cysts increased. These results suggest that maintenance of ENDO-induced vaginal hyperalgesia requires continued presence of at least some ectopic endometrial tissue, and that surgical treatment that fails to remove ectopic endometrial tissue can exacerbate the hyperalgesia, possibly due in part to an increase in the cysts' sympathetic innervation.
The central processing of peripheral nociceptive messages is highly controlled by the activity of local inhibitory networks in the spinal cord and supraspinal centers. Recently, it has been shown that endogenous 3alpha-reduced neurosteroids (3alphaNS) exert a significant spinal antinociception by potentiating GABA(A) receptor function. Because endogenous 3alphaNS can be produced in many relay structures of the nociceptive system, we tested the potential analgesic efficacy of promoting the production of neurosteroids by using etifoxine (ETX, 50mg/kg i.p.). This prescribed non-benzodiazepine anxiolytic was shown previously to stimulate neurosteroidogenesis in its early step after binding to the mitochondrial translocator protein complex (TSPO). Using an animal model of generalized neuropathic pain resulting from a 2-week treatment with the antitumoral agent vincristine sulfate (VCR, 0.1mg/kg i.p.), we show that injections of ETX (50mg/kg i.p.) given every day reduced the VCR-induced mechanical and thermal pain symptoms but also prevented their appearance, if used in prophylaxia 1 week before VCR. Both the curative and preventive effects of ETX on pain symptoms were mediated by the production of 3alphaNS as demonstrated in animals treated with the enzymatic inhibitor provera (6-medroxyprogesterone acetate; 20mg/kg s.c.). Altogether, this study shows for the first time that promoting 3alphaNS could be a possible therapeutic strategy to treat neuropathic pain symptoms. Since ETX is already available as an anxiolytic, its use in humans, provided that its analgesic properties are confirmed, could be rapidly considered.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) and its activator p35 are critical for radial migration and lamination of cortical neurons. However, how this kinase is regulated by extracellular and intracellular signals during cortical morphogenesis remains unclear. Here, we show that PKCdelta, a member of novel PKC expressing in cortical neurons, could stabilize p35 by direct phosphorylation. PKCdelta attenuated the degradation of p35 but not its mutant derivative, which could not be phosphorylated by PKCdelta. Down-regulation of PKCdelta by in utero electroporation of specific small interference RNA (siRNA) severely impaired the radial migration of cortical neurons. This migration defect was similar to that caused by down-regulation of p35 and could be prevented by cotransfection with the wild-type but not the mutant p35. Furthermore, PKCdelta could be activated by the promigratory factor brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and was required for the activation of Cdk5 by BDNF. Both PKCdelta and p35 were required for the promigratory effect of BDNF on cultured newborn neurons. Thus, PKCdelta may promote cortical radial migration through maintaining the proper level of p35 in newborn neurons.
Retinal degenerations are a class of neurodegenerative disorders that ultimately lead to blindness due to the death of retinal photoreceptors. In most cases, death is the result of long-term exposure to environmental, inflammatory, and genetic insults. In age-related macular degeneration, significant vision loss may take up to 70-80 years to develop. The protracted time to develop blindness suggests that retinal neurons have an endogenous mechanism for protection from chronic injury. Previous studies have shown that endogenous protective mechanisms can be induced by preconditioning animals with sublethal bright cyclic light. Such preconditioning can protect photoreceptors from a subsequent damaging insult and is thought to be accomplished through induced expression of protective factors. Some of the factors shown to be associated with protection bind and activate the signal transducing receptor gp130. To determine whether stress-induced endogenous protection of photoreceptors requires gp130, we generated conditional gp130 knockout (KO) mice with the Cre/lox system and used light-preconditioning to induce neuroprotection in these mice. Functional and morphological analyses demonstrated that the retina-specific gp130 KO impaired preconditioning-induced endogenous protection. Photoreceptor-specific gp130 KO mice had reduced protection, although the Mller cell KO mice did not, thus gp130-induced protection was restricted to photoreceptors. Using an animal model of retinitis pigmentosa, we found that the photoreceptor-specific gp130 KO increased sensitivity to genetically induced photoreceptor cell death, demonstrating that gp130 activation in photoreceptors had a general protective role independent of whether stress was caused by light or genetic mutations.
Myelination requires a massive increase in glial cell membrane synthesis. Here, we demonstrate that the acute phase of myelin lipid synthesis is regulated by sterol regulatory element-binding protein (SREBP) cleavage activation protein (SCAP), an activator of SREBPs. Deletion of SCAP in Schwann cells led to a loss of SREBP-mediated gene expression involving cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis. Schwann cell SCAP mutant mice show congenital hypomyelination and abnormal gait. Interestingly, aging SCAP mutant mice showed partial regain of function; they exhibited improved gait and produced small amounts of myelin indicating a slow SCAP-independent uptake of external lipids. Accordingly, extracellular lipoproteins partially rescued myelination by SCAP mutant Schwann cells. However, SCAP mutant myelin never reached normal thickness and had biophysical abnormalities concordant with abnormal lipid composition. These data demonstrate that SCAP-mediated regulation of glial lipogenesis is key to the proper synthesis of myelin membrane, and provide insight into abnormal Schwann cell function under conditions affecting lipid metabolism.
The hippocampus and cerebellum are critically involved in trace eyeblink classical conditioning (EBCC). The mechanisms underlying the hippocampal-cerebellar interaction during this task are not well-understood, although hippocampal theta (3-7 Hz) oscillations are known to reflect a favorable state for EBCC. Two groups of rabbits received trace EBCC in which a brain-computer interface administered trials in either the explicit presence or absence of naturally occurring hippocampal theta. A high percentage of robust theta led to a striking enhancement of learning accompanied by rhythmic theta-band (6-7 Hz) oscillations in the interpositus nucleus (IPN) and cerebellar cortex that were time-locked both to hippocampal rhythms and sensory stimuli during training. Rhythmic oscillations were absent in the cerebellum of the non-theta group. These data strongly suggest a beneficial impact of theta-based coordination of hippocampus and cerebellum and, importantly, demonstrate that hippocampal theta oscillations can be used to index, and perhaps modulate, the functional properties of the cerebellum.
Little is known about the proteins that mediate mechanoelectrical transduction, the process by which acoustic and accelerational stimuli are transformed by hair cells of the inner ear into electrical signals. In our search for molecules involved in mechanotransduction, we discovered a line of deaf and uncoordinated zebrafish with defective hair-cell function. The hair cells of mutant larvae fail to incorporate fluorophores that normally traverse the transduction channels and their ears lack microphonic potentials in response to vibratory stimuli. Hair cells in the posterior lateral lines of mutants contain numerous lysosomes and have short, disordered hair bundles. Their stereocilia lack two components of the transduction apparatus, tip links and insertional plaques. Positional cloning revealed an early frameshift mutation in tmie, the zebrafish ortholog of the mammalian gene transmembrane inner ear. The mutant line therefore affords us an opportunity to investigate the role of the corresponding protein in mechanoelectrical transduction.
Epidemiologic and laboratory studies suggest that paraquat can be an environmental etiologic factor in Parkinson's disease (PD). One mechanism by which paraquat may mediate cell death of dopaminergic neurons is by inducing endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, as suggested in a recent report. In this study, we further investigated this linkage by examining ER stress cascades. To this aim, human neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y cells) were treated with paraquat and the signaling cascades through which ER stress results in apoptosis were examined. Then, it was examined whether ER stress is produced by paraquat. Paraquat increased ER stress biomarker proteins, glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78), ER degradation-enhancing alpha-mannosidae-like protein (EDEM), and C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP). Then, it was investigated which ER stress cascades are affected by paraquat. Paraquat activated inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1), apoptosis signal regulating kinase 1 (ASK1), and c-jun kinase (JNK). Also, paraquat activated calpain and caspase 3, but did not affect the levels of intracellular calcium and the activity of caspase 12. Finally, apoptotic DNA damage by paraquat was investigated and this damage was attenuated by salubrinal (ER stress inhibitor), thioredoxin (ASK1 inhibitor) and SP600125 (JNK inhibitor). Therefore, current data indicate that paraquat activates the IRE1/ASK1/JNK cascade associated with apoptosis in SY5Y cells.
In this report, we demonstrate that chronic prenatal exposure to a moderate dose of caffeine disrupts novel object recognition and radial arm maze behaviors in adult male and female rats. Pregnant dams were administered either tap water or 75 mg/L caffeinated tap water throughout gestation. Oral self-administration in the drinking water led to an approximate maternal intake of 10mg/kg/day, equivalent to 2-3 cups of coffee/day in humans based on a metabolic body weight conversion. In adulthood, the offspring underwent testing on novel object recognition, radial arm maze, and Morris water maze tasks. Prenatal caffeine exposure was found to impair 24-h memory retention in the novel object recognition task and impair both working and reference memory in the radial arm maze. However, prenatal caffeine exposure did not alter Morris water maze performance in either a simple water maze procedure or in an advanced water maze procedure that included reversal and working memory paradigms. These findings demonstrate that chronic oral intake of caffeine throughout gestation can alter adult cognitive behaviors in rats.
Weight regain after weight loss is a major hurdle for combating obesity. The aim of this study is to examine orexigenic and anorectic neuropeptides of the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (Arc) in response to weight loss after chronic energy intake restriction. Thirty mice were fed with a high-fat diet for 8 weeks and then classified as diet-induced obese (DIO; n=10) or diet-resistant (DR; n=10) mice according to the highest and lowest body weight gainers. Five mice from DIO and DR groups were placed on an energy restricted diet or continued on their high-fat diet ad libitum for 6 weeks. An additional five mice were on a LF diet throughout the course of this study as controls. Results showed that a six-week energy restricted diet completely reversed the increased body weight, fat mass and leptin in the DIO mice to the levels of the LF and DR mice. Arc neuropeptide Y (NPY) and agouti-related protein (AgRP) mRNA expression in DIO mice after obesity reversal were significantly higher than DIO mice without obesity reversal (17%, 47%, both p&lt;0.05), while the Arc pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) mRNA showed no difference. Both NPY and AgRP expression in DIO mice were negatively correlated with plasma leptin (R=-0.78, p&lt;0.05; R=-0.72, p&lt;0.05). In conclusion, while chronic energy restriction will lead to weight loss, it can up-regulate hypothalamic orexigenic peptides, which may be an important contributing factor to weight regain after a weight loss program from an energy restricted diet.
In despite the similarity of mechanisms of action between both selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) and MDMA (main compound of &quot;Ecstasy&quot;) there are relatively few reports on the effects of the later on animal models of depression. There are many animal models designed to create or to assess depression. Mild chronic stress (MCS) is a procedure designed to create depression. MCS includes the chronic exposure of the animal to several stressors. After that, rats show behavioural changes associated to depression. In the other hand, the active avoidance task (AAT) is an experimental situation in which an animal has to accomplish a particular behaviour in order to avoid the application of a stressor. Animals exhibiting depression fail to acquire avoidance responses as rapidly as normal animals do. In order to assess the effect of MDMA on the acquisition of an active avoidance response, forty-five rats were divided in two groups exposed or not exposed to MCS. Rats also received chronic intracerebroventricular MDMA (0.2microg/microl; 1microl), fluoxetine (2.0microg/microl; 1microl) or saline solution (0.9%; 1microl). Our results showed that the effect of MDMA depends upon the level of stress. MDMA treated animals showed better acquisition (F([2,37])=7.046; P=0.003) and retention (F([2,37])=3.900; P=0.029) of the avoidance response than fluoxetine or saline treated animals when exposed to MCS. This finding suggests that MDMA (and no fluoxetine) was able to change the aversive valence of the stressors maybe enhancing coping strategies. This effect could serve as a protective factor against helplessness and maybe post-traumatic stress.
Previous studies have associated stress with poor outcome in individuals affected by stroke. It was suggested that the effects of stress depend on the stressor's type and strength. Here we compare the effects of chronic predictable restraint stress and chronic unpredictable variable stress on motor recovery after focal lesion in the rat motor cortex. Adult male rats were pre-trained and tested in skilled reaching and skilled walking tasks. Animals were assigned to daily treatments of either restraint stress or variable stress starting 1 week prior to lesion up to 2 weeks post-lesion. One group served as lesion only control. The results revealed a distinct pattern of recovery and compensation of skilled movement. Animals exposed to predictable restraint stress had significantly lower reaching success at both pre- and post-lesion time points, and higher error rates in skilled walking when compared to lesion controls. Overall, restraint stress induced more pronounced motor impairments prior to and after injury than variable stress. Variable stress increased the number of attempts required to grasp food pellets and changed movement pattern performance. By contrast, variable stress improved limb placement accuracy when compared to lesion controls. The behavioural changes were not accompanied by differences in infarct size. These findings are in agreement with other studies reporting that both chronic predicable restraint stress and unpredictable variable stress influence the course of recovery following stroke, however, restraint stress might affect stroke recovery through a different route than variable stress.
These experiments examined the effects of prior stress, corticosterone, or epinephrine on learning in mazes that can be solved efficiently using either place or response strategies. In a repeated stress condition, rats received restraint stress for 6h/day for 21 days, ending 24h before food-motivated maze training. In two single stress conditions, rats received a 1-h episode of restraint stress ending 30 min or 24h prior to training. Single stress ending 30 min prior to training resulted in a significant interaction of stress and learning on the two tasks, with significant enhancement of learning in the response task and non-significant impairment in the place task. Neither acute nor chronic stress significantly altered learning in either task when the stress ended 24h before training. Thus, the anterograde effects of stress on maze learning ended within a single day. Two stress-related hormones, corticosterone and epinephrine, were tested for effects on learning parallel to those of acute stress. When administered 30 min prior to training, a corticosterone dose (40 mg/kg) that enhanced memory on a spontaneous alternation task did not significantly enhance or impair learning in either task. Two doses of epinephrine that modulate memory in other settings were used to test the effects of epinephrine on learning. Pre-training injections of 0.03 mg/kg epinephrine impaired place learning, while 0.1mg/kg epinephrine impaired response learning. The epinephrine results mimicked those seen with acute stress on the place task, but were opposite those seen after acute stress on the response task. Thus, corticosterone does not appear to be a major factor mediating the effects of acute stress on place and response learning and epinephrine is, at most, a partial contributor to these effects.
Maternal behavior in rats undergoes considerable plasticity in parallel to the developmental stage of the pups, resulting in distinct patterns of maternal behavior and care at different postpartum time points. The medial preoptic area (mPOA) of the hypothalamus is one critical neural substrate underlying the onset and early expression of maternal behavior in rats but little is known about its specific functional role in the evolving expression of maternal behavior across the postpartum period. The present study uses a reversible local neural inactivation method to examine the role of the mPOA in the regulation of maternal behavior throughout the postpartum period, particularly extending into the late postpartum, a little examined period. This approach avoids the compensatory plasticity in CNS that occurs after permanent lesions, and allows the repeated testing of same individuals. Early (PPD7-8) and late (PPD13-14) postpartum maternal behavior was evaluated in female rats following infusions of bupivacaine or vehicle into the mPOA or into control areas. As expected, mPOA inactivation severely but transiently disrupted early postpartum maternal behavior whereas infusion of vehicle or inactivation of adjacent control sites did not. Later in the postpartum period, however, transient mPOA inactivation facilitated the expression of maternal behaviors, highly contrasting the behavioral expression levels characteristic of late postpartum. Results strongly demonstrate that the mPOA is differentially engaged throughout postpartum in orchestrating appropriate maternal responses with the developmental stage of the pups.
The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that sensitivity of ingestive behavior of infant rat to the pharmacological effects of ethanol changes between postnatal (P) days 9 and 12. The intake of 0.1% saccharin and water, general motor activity, and myoclonic twitching activity were assessed following administration of three doses of ethanol (0, 0.25, and 0.5 g/kg) while fluids were free available to the animals. The 0.5 g/kg dose of ethanol attenuated saccharin intake in P9 pups and enhanced saccharin intake in P12 rats. On P12 some sex-related differences emerged at 0.5 g/kg of ethanol, with saccharin intake being higher in females than in their male counterparts. Taste reactivity probe revealed that 0.5 g/kg of ethanol increased taste responsiveness to saccharin on P12 but only to infusions presented at a high rate. The results of the present study indicate that ontogenetic changes in sensitivity to the effects of ethanol on ingestive behavior occur during the second postnatal week, with P9 animals being more sensitive to the inhibitory (sedative) effects on saccharin intake and P12 rats being more sensitive to the stimulatory effects of ethanol. We suggest that acute ethanol enhanced saccharin intake via sensitization of oral response to appetitive taste stimulation.
Transplantation experiments have shown that neurologic deficits may be reversed by engrafting fresh tissue or engineered cells within dysfunctional neural circuitry. In experimental and clinical settings, this approach has provided insights into the pathology and treatment of neurologic diseases, primarily movement disorders. The present experiments were designed to investigate whether a similar strategy is feasible as a method to investigate, and perhaps repair, circuitry integral to emotional disorders. We focused on the amygdala, a macrostructure known to be involved in the expression of anxiety- and fear-related behaviors. GABAergic cell-rich suspensions were prepared from E17 rat lateral ganglionic eminence and engrafted bilaterally into the lateral and basolateral amygdaloid nuclei of young adult rats. After 6 weeks, increased numbers of GABAergic neurons were identified in the vicinity of the graft sites, and electron microscopy provided evidence for functional integration of transplanted cells. Rats with these grafts spent more time in the open arms of the elevated-plus maze, consistent with an anxioloytic-like phenotype. These rats were also less sensitive to the unconditioned anxiogenic effects of light on the acoustic startle response, although fear-potentiated startle was not affected, suggesting that the grafts produced an attenuation of unlearned fear but did not affect acquisition of conditioned fear. Our results raise the possibility that distinct components of emotion can be modulated by strategic neural engraftment.
Mast cells stimulated with antigen undergo extensive changes in their cytoskeleton. In the present study, we assess the impact of actin-modifying drugs and report that, in the presence of cytochalasin D, mast cells stop membrane ruffling, but instead bleb. Bleb formation is reversible following washout of cytochalasin D and occurs in an actin-polymerization-dependent manner. Bleb formation is inhibited by expression of constitutively active ezrin-T567D. Blebbing is also inhibited by blebbistatin, a myosin II inhibitor, implying myosin II activation in the process. We used a selection of inhibitors and observed that myosin II activation is dependent mainly on Ca2+-calmodulin, with only a small contribution from Rho kinase. The signalling pathways stimulated by antigen include PLC (phospholipase C) and PLD (phospholipase D). Bleb formation was dependent on activation of PLC, but not PLD. Primary alcohols, used previously as a means to reduce PLD-derived phosphatidic acid, were potent inhibitors of membrane blebbing, but a more selective inhibitor of PLD, FIPI (5-fluoro-2-indolyl des-chlorohalopemide), was without effect. FIPI also did not inhibit membrane ruffling or degranulation of mast cells, indicating that inhibition by primary alcohols works through an unidentified mechanism rather than via diversion of PLD activity as assumed. We also examined the requirement for ARF6 (ADP-ribosylation factor 6) and observed that its expression led to an increase in bleb size and a further increase was observed with the dominant-active mutant, ARF6-Q67L. Since ARF6-T27N had no effect on bleb size, we conclude that ARF6 needs to be active to regulate the size of the blebs.
Cortical blindness is a well described neuro-ophthalmologic complication of angiography due to neurotoxicity following contrast media exposure. A rarer association with retrograde amnesia has also been reported. Since ischemic stroke due to embolism remains the most common aetiology of neurological complications of diagnostic and therapeutic arterial catheterisation, prompt identification of the mechanism responsible for the clinical symptoms is essential for patient management. Although CT and conventional MRI findings have been reported in this condition, experience with diffusion weighted (DW) sequences is lacking especially in cases associated with memory impairment. A 65-year-old man with tinnitus underwent cerebral angiography for suspicion of a dural arteriovenous fistula. During the procedure the patient developed complete loss of vision and rapidly became confused. Brain CT showed bilateral cortical enhancement in the occipital lobes. MR with DWI was performed 3.5 hours after angiography. Early DWI showed no signal abnormalities thereby excluding an ischaemic complication. Gradual improvement of visual function occurred over the next 24 hours. After 48 hours the patient was alert and orientated but profound retrograde amnesia persisted with no memory for the events of the day of angiography. CT follow-up at one year was normal. DWI is invaluable in the evaluation of patients with cortical blindness with or without memory deficits precipitated by angiography and may advance understanding of the pathophysiology. Diffusion-weighted MRI is crucial in differentiating neuro-ophthalmologic complications precipitated by intracortical contrast leakage after angiography from an ischaemic stroke needing a prompt and often invasive treatment.
Over the past decade preventive endovascular treatment is increasingly being considered for intracranial aneurysms irrespective of whether ruptured or unruptured. Few studies have dealt with in-vivo characteristics of intracranial aneurysms. We compare the angiographic morphology of ruptured and unruptured intracranial aneurysms using short interval serial DSA. 37 patients with intracranial aneurysms and who underwent at least two digital subtraction angiograms were included in the study. Based on the clinical presentation there were two subgroups of patients, Group A patients presenting acutely with Sub arachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and Group B patients who had no clinical or imaging features suggestive of bleed. Clinical and serial angiographic data were correlated. Aneurysms in Group A (1.04 mm(3)) were significantly (p=0.010) smaller than in Group B (4.53 mm(3)). Aneurysms in group A showed increase in size and those in Group B showed a decrease in size (p=0.019). Hypertensive patients in both the groups showed a tendency for a decrease in the size of the aneurysms. Aneurysms having stasis at the time of initial angiogram had significantly reduced in size on follow up (p=0.013) at a faster rate (p=0.017). Presence of spasm in adjacent vessels was associated with increase in size of aneurysm on follow up in both Groups. There are significant differences between a ruptured aneurysm and an unruptured one. Ruptured aneurysms are small and show rapid increase in size. The presence of spasm increased the size of the aneurysm in the post rupture period and anti hypertensive medication and stasis were associated with decrease in size.
Functional 3 tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques such as diffusion and perfusion imaging and MR spectroscopy (MRS) allow a more accurate diagnosis of central nervous system tumours. This retrospective study analysed the MRI scans of 121 consecutive patients with a diagnosis of glial brain tumours who underwent surgery and/or biopsy and whose histological reports were available. Our aim was to establish if and how functional MRI techniques had enhanced the diagnostic accuracy with respect to morphological examination. To quantify the diagnostic contribution of these techniques and their predictive value, a questionnaire was compiled by an observer blinded to the neuroradiological diagnosis and to the histological results after surgery/biopsy. Patients were divided into two groups based on the time of 3T MRI examination performed: before or after surgery/biopsy. In the group of non-operated patients low grade gliomas could be distinguished from high grade malignant tumours, whereas in the group of operated patients signs of tumour persistence or recurrence could be distinguished from the effects of previous treatments. Functional MRI techniques improved the accuracy of diagnosis with respect to morphological examination alone in both groups of patients: areas of increased cellularity, neoangiogenesis or metabolic changes were identified confirming diagnosis, whereas methodological errors were disclosed in cases of incorrect diagnosis.
Virchow-Robin spaces are pial-lined, interstitial fluid-filled structures that do not directly communicate with the subarachnoid space, and accompany penetrating arteries and veins. They are common, incidental, &quot;leave me alone&quot; lesions that should not be mistaken for more ominous disease. They are frequently seen in the supratentorial white matter, basal ganglia region, around the anterior commissure, and surrounding penetrating lenticulostriate arteries, thalamus, midbrain, cerebellum, insular cortex, corpus callosum, cingulate gyrus, extreme capsule, along the optical tracts, and in the hippocampus. Most are small, well-defined fluid-filled cysts less than five mm in diameter, and are isointense to CSF on all pulse sequences. They are often mistaken for lacunar infarcts, cystic neoplasms or infectious cysts. We retrospectively analyzed various appearances of VRS as seen on magnetic resonance imaging of brain in 100 cases, in an attempt to provide a better understanding of these lesions and their significance in various physiological and pathological conditions.


Why bodies? It is rather puzzling that given the massive interest in affective neuroscience in the last decade, it still seems to make sense to raise the question 'Why bodies' and to try to provide an answer to it, as is the goal of this article. There are now hundreds of articles on human emotion perception ranging from behavioural studies to brain imaging experiments. These experimental studies complement decades of reports on affective disorders in neurological patients and clinical studies of psychiatric populations. The most cursory glance at the literature on emotion in humans, now referred to by the umbrella term of social and affective neuroscience, shows that over 95 per cent of them have used faces as stimuli. Of the remaining 5 per cent, a few have used scenes or auditory information including human voices, music or environmental sounds. But by far the smallest number has looked into whole-body expressions. As a rough estimate, a search on PubMed today, 1 May 2009, yields 3521 hits for emotion x faces, 1003 hits for emotion x music and 339 hits for emotion x bodies. When looking in more detail, the body x emotion category in fact yields a majority of papers on well-being, nursing, sexual violence or organ donation. But the number of cognitive and affective neuroscience studies of emotional body perception as of today is lower than 20. Why then have whole bodies and bodily expressions not attracted the attention of researchers so far? The goal of this article is to contribute some elements for an answer to this question. I believe that there is something to learn from the historical neglect of bodies and bodily expressions. I will next address some historical misconceptions about whole-body perception, and in the process I intend not only to provide an impetus for this kind of work but also to contribute to a better understanding of the significance of the affective dimension of behaviour, mind and brain as seen from the vantage point of bodily communication. Subsequent sections discuss available evidence for the neurofunctional basis of facial and bodily expressions as well as neuropsychological and clinical studies of bodily expressions.
The expressions we see in the faces of others engage a number of different cognitive processes. Emotional expressions elicit rapid responses, which often imitate the emotion in the observed face. These effects can even occur for faces presented in such a way that the observer is not aware of them. We are also very good at explicitly recognizing and describing the emotion being expressed. A recent study, contrasting human and humanoid robot facial expressions, suggests that people can recognize the expressions made by the robot explicitly, but may not show the automatic, implicit response. The emotional expressions presented by faces are not simply reflexive, but also have a communicative component. For example, empathic expressions of pain are not simply a reflexive response to the sight of pain in another, since they are exaggerated when the empathizer knows he or she is being observed. It seems that we want people to know that we are empathic. Of especial importance among facial expressions are ostensive gestures such as the eyebrow flash, which indicate the intention to communicate. These gestures indicate, first, that the sender is to be trusted and, second, that any following signals are of importance to the receiver.
Acamprosate is a widely utilized, efficacious treatment for relapse prevention in alcohol dependent patients. The mechanism of acamprosate action is hypothesized to be by modulation of craving responses. Previous research has suggested that acamprosate may affect the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis as well as beta-endorphin. The aim of the present study was to investigate if acamprosate attenuates alcohol craving following a short-term treatment, and if craving and drinking measures are correlated to changes in HPA-axis hormones and beta-endorphin. In a double-blind design, 56 alcohol dependent treatment seeking patients were randomized to 21 days of either acamprosate (1998 mg/day) or placebo treatment. Subjective, physiological and biological measurements were recorded at inclusion and on day 21. The results showed that acamprosate treated patients showed significantly reduced craving compared to placebo. Further, a significant correlation was shown between craving and alcohol consumption during study. No changes in hormonal levels were found in acamprosate treated patients compared to placebo.
This study examines the effects of NOP agonists nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) and Ro 64-6198, NOP antagonists [Nphe(1)]N/OFQ(1-13)-NH(2) Nphe(1) and naloxone benzoylhydrazone (NalBzoH) on spatial memory in NMRI mice and pronociceptin (proNC) knockout (KO) mice using the water maze task. N/OFQ, administered i.c.v. (1, 5 and 10 nmol/mouse) and into hippocampal CA3 (1 nmol/mouse, bilaterally), impaired acquisition and retention in the maze. Impairments were blocked by pre-treatment with Nphe(1) (10 nmol, i.c.v.). Ro 64-6198 (0.1-0.3-1 mg/kg i.p.) also dose-dependently impaired learning. However, pre-treatment with NalBzoH (1 mg/kg, s.c.) failed to modify the effects of Ro 64-6198. Nphe(1) (10 nmol/mouse i.c.v.) and NalBzoH (1 mg/kg, s.c.) by themselves failed to affect maze performance, despite a tendency for enhanced performance. Prepro N/OFQ knockout (ppN/OFQ -/-) showed evidence of improved learning, evident at retention trials and in reversal training. ppN/OFQ -/- mice were not impaired by N/OFQ (10 nmol i.c.v.) in the task, suggesting that changes in postsynaptic NOP receptors may occur in such KO mice. It is concluded that N/OFQ and NOP receptors have an important role in hippocampus-dependent spatial learning and memory, probably by modulation of glutamatergic functions.
Anxiety disorders, depression and animal models of vulnerability to a depression-like syndrome have been associated with dysregulation of serotonergic systems in the brain. To evaluate the effects of early life experience, adverse experiences during adulthood, and potential interactions between these factors on serotonin transporter (slc6a4) mRNA expression, we investigated in rats the effects of maternal separation (180 min/day from days 2 to 14 of life; MS180), neonatal handing (15 min/day from days 2 to 14 of life; MS15), or normal animal facility rearing (AFR) control conditions with or without subsequent exposure to adult social defeat on slc6a4 mRNA expression in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) and caudal linear nucleus. At the level of specific subdivisions of the DR, there were no differences in slc6a4 mRNA expression between MS15 and AFR rats. Among rats exposed to a novel cage control condition, increased slc6a4 mRNA expression was observed in the dorsal part of the DR in MS180 rats, relative to AFR control rats. In contrast, MS180 rats exposed to social defeat as adults had increased slc6a4 mRNA expression throughout the DR compared to both MS15 and AFR controls. Social defeat increased slc6a4 mRNA expression, but only in MS180 rats and only in the &quot;lateral wings&quot; of the DR. Overall these data demonstrate that early life experience and stressful experience during adulthood interact to determine slc6a4 mRNA expression. These data support the hypothesis that early life experience and major stressful life events contribute to dysregulation of serotonergic systems in stress-related neuropsychiatric disorders.
Ethanol is known to directly interact with the glycine receptor (GlyR). GlyRs are membrane proteins and are constituted as either alpha-homomers or alpha-beta heteromers with a subunit stoichiometry of 2 alpha 3 beta. Previous studies by our group have suggested a role for GlyRs and its endogenous ligands glycine and taurine in the mesolimbic dopamine activating and reinforcing effects of ethanol. Here we use quantitative PCR (qPCR) to compare the relative GlyR expression in Alko Alcohol/Non-Alcohol (AA/ANA) rats. These animals have been selectively bred to create distinct populations regarding alcohol consumption and preference, presumably mainly due to genetic differences. The aim of this study was to examine the relative gene expression of GlyR subunits (alpha1-3 and beta) in different brain areas and relate it to alcohol consumption. The hypothesis was that AA/ANA rats are differently disposed to ethanol consumption due to their GlyR set-ups and/or compositions. Results from the present study indicate that alpha2 is the most widely expressed alpha-subunit in the forebrain regions and that the alpha 2 beta-heteromer seems to be the most common subunit composition in this part of the CNS. Despite displaying different drinking behaviours the anticipated differences in mRNA expression were few. However, correlations found between alcohol consumption and/or preference and GlyR expression support a role for GlyRs in alcohol consumption. Tentative differences between AA and ANA animals related to GlyR transmission could therefore lie in, for example, the regulation of the levels of the endogenous ligand(s) for the receptor or in mechanisms downstream to GlyR activation.
Susceptibility to alcoholism and antisocial behavior exhibits an evident link to monoaminergic neurotransmission. The serotonin system in particular, which is associated with regulation of mood and behavior, has an influence on personality characters that are firmly connected to risk of developing alcoholism and antisocial behavior, such as impulsiveness, and aggression. The transcription factor TFAP2b has repeatedly been shown to be involved in monoaminergic transmission, likely due to a regulatory effect on genes that are fundamental to this system, e.g. monoamine oxidase type A, and the serotonin transporter. Recent research has identified a functional polymorphism in the gene encoding TFAP2B that regulates its level of expression. In the present study we have compared a sample of female alcoholics (n=107), sentenced to institutional care for their severe addiction, contrasted against a control sample of adolescent females (n=875). The results showed that parental alcohol misuse was significantly more common among the alcoholic females, and also that parental alcohol misuse was associated with a reduction in age of alcohol debut. We also addressed the question of whether a functional TFAP2b polymorphism was associated with alcoholism. Results showed that the high-functioning allele was significantly more common among the female alcoholics, compared to the non-alcoholic controls. Furthermore, the results also indicated that psychosocial factors, in terms of parental alcohol misuse, depression or psychiatric disorder, had an influence on the association. It was observed that the genetic association was restricted to the subset of cases that had not experienced these negative psychosocial factors.
Though stress causes complex sleep disruptions that are different in females and males, little is known about how sex influences the ability of stress to alter sleep. To date there have been no comprehensive examinations of whether effects of stress on sleep are sensitive to determinants of sex, such as reproductive hormones. Since restraint stress produces a sexually dimorphic increase in rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) amount in mice that is greater in males than females, in the current study we sought to determine whether estrogens and androgens influence the ability of restraint stress to alter sleep states. We removed the gonads from adult female and male C57BL/6J mice and implanted the mice with recording electrodes to monitor sleep-wake states. Gonadectomized females and males exhibited similar amounts of REMS in response to restraint stress. Mice were then implanted with continuous release hormone pellets. Females received 17beta-estradiol and males received testosterone. Hormone replacement (HR) in females decreased the REMS response to restraint stress while HR in males increased the REMS response to restraint stress. The combined effects of HR in females and males restored the sex difference in the ability of restraint stress to alter REMS. These results demonstrate that sex differences in the effects of stress on REMS are dependent on reproductive hormones and support the view that endogenous or exogenous changes in the reproductive hormone environment influence sleep responses to stress.
To test whether the retrieval of arithmetic facts is independent of numerical notations, this study investigated the event-related potentials elicited by single-digit addition and multiplication problems in Arabic digits and Chinese number words. The results showed that, in comparison with addition, multiplication elicited a greater N300-like component at the left anterior electrodes and greater late positive potentials at the right posterior electrodes, regardless of numerical notations. The operation effects lasted from 250 to 900 ms for Arabic digits, but from 250 to 1400 ms for Chinese number words when participants were asked to respond only to false arithmetic equations (experiment one), and lasted from 350 to 1400 ms for Arabic digits and Chinese number words when participants were asked to respond to both true and false arithmetic equations (experiment two). The consistency in the operation effects in ERPs (i.e., a dissociation of brain organization for different arithmetic operations) for different number notations suggests that mental representation and retrieval of arithmetic facts may be relatively independent of numerical notations.
Co-occurring alcohol and nicotine dependence is common, as is alcohol use disorder and overeating. However, major risk genes for these disorders need to be identified. Certain subtypes of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the ventral tegmental area (a reward node) have preclinically been shown to be important for alcohol reward. Therefore the aim was to investigate nicotine receptor subunit genes in a haplotype study of alcohol use. This study includes a Spanish population (n=417) of three groups based on their alcohol consumption; abstainers (n=142), moderate (&lt;280 g/week, n=111) and heavy drinkers (&gt;280 g/week, n=164). 20 tag SNPs in five nicotine receptor subunit genes (CHRNA3, 4, and 6; CHRNB2 and 3) were genotyped and analysed for single marker and haplotype associations. Two haplotypes of the CHRNA6 (CCCC and TCGA) were associated with heavy alcohol consumption (p=0.004 and p=0.035 respectively) and with increased alcohol intake (p=0.004) for the CCCC haplotype compared to non-carriers of these haplotypes. Moreover, one haplotype of the CHRNA4 (GGTG) was associated with increased body weight as compared to non-carriers of this haplotype, especially in the heavy consumers of alcohol (p=0.004).The present findings are the first to disclose a haplotype association between the CHRNA6 gene and heavy alcohol use as well as an association of the CHRNA4 gene with increased body mass in heavy consumers of alcohol. Taken together with previous preclinical data, this targets the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors for development of novel treatment strategies of addictive behaviours, and, more specifically, of a subgroup of individuals with co-morbid alcohol use disorder and overeating.
The common marmoset, Callithrix jacchus, is of growing importance for research in neuroscience and related fields. In the present work, we describe a combined histological and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) atlas constructed from the brains of two adult female marmosets. Histological sections were processed from Nissl staining and digitized to produce an atlas in a large format that facilitates visualization of structures with significant detail. Naming of identifiable brain structures was performed utilizing current terminology. The histological sections and a simplified schematic atlas are available online at http://udn.nichd.nih.gov/brainatlas_home.html.
Isoform-specific protein kinase C (PKC) activators may be useful as therapeutic agents for the treatment of Alzheimer disease. Three new epsilon-specific PKC activators, made by cyclopropanation of polyunsaturated fatty acids, have been developed. These activators, AA-CP4, EPA-CP5, and DHA-CP6, activate PKCepsilon in a dose-dependent manner. Unlike PKC activators that bind to the 1,2-diacylglycerol-binding site, such as bryostatin and phorbol esters, which produce prolonged down-regulation, the new activators produced sustained activation of PKC. When applied to cells expressing human APPSwe/PS1delta, which produce large quantities of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta), DCP-LA and DHA-CP6 reduced the intracellular and secreted levels of Abeta by 60-70%. In contrast to the marked activation of alpha-secretase produced by PKC activators in fibroblasts, the PKC activators produced only a moderate and transient activation of alpha-secretase in neuronal cells. However, they activated endothelin-converting enzyme to 180% of control levels, suggesting that the Abeta-lowering ability of these PKCepsilon activators is caused by increasing the rate of Abeta degradation by endothelin-converting enzyme and not by activating nonamyloidogenic amyloid precursor protein metabolism.
Triadin is a multiple proteins family, some isoforms being involved in muscle excitation-contraction coupling, and some having still unknown functions. To obtain clues on triadin functions, we engineered a triadin knock-out mouse line and characterized the physiological effect of triadin ablation on skeletal muscle function. These mice presented a reduced muscle strength, which seemed not to alter their survival and has been characterized in the present work. We first checked in these mice the expression level of the different proteins involved in calcium homeostasis and observed in fast muscles an increase in expression of dihydropyridine receptor, with a large reduction in calsequestrin expression. Electron microscopy analysis of KO muscles morphology demonstrated the presence of triads in abnormal orientation and a reduction in the sarcoplasmic reticulum terminal cisternae volume. Using calcium imaging on cultured myotubes, we observed a reduction in the total amount of calcium stored in the sarcoplasmic reticulum. Physiological studies have been performed to evaluate the influence of triadin deletion on skeletal muscle function. Muscle strength has been measured both on the whole animal model, using hang test or electrical stimulation combined with NMR analysis and strength measurement, or on isolated muscle using electrical stimulation. All the results obtained demonstrate an important reduction in muscle strength, indicating that triadin plays an essential role in skeletal muscle function and in skeletal muscle structure. These results indicate that triadin alteration leads to the development of a myopathy, which could be studied using this new animal model.
ACK1 (activated Cdc42-associated kinase 1), a cytoplsmic tyrosine kinase, is implicated in metastatic behavior, cell spreading and migration, and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signaling. The function of ACK1 in the regulation of receptor tyrosine kinases requires a C-terminal region that demonstrates a significant homology to the EGFR binding domain of MIG6. In this study, we have identified additional receptor tyrosine kinases, including Axl, leukocyte tyrosine kinase, and anaplastic lymphoma kinase, that can bind to the ACK1/MIG6 homology region. Unlike the interaction between MIG6 and EGFR, our data suggest that these receptor tyrosine kinases require the adaptor protein Grb2 for efficient binding, which interacts with highly conserved proline-rich regions that are conserved between ACK1 and MIG6. We have focused on Axl and compared how ACK1/Axl differs from the ACK1/EGFR axis by investigating effects of knockdown of endogenous ACK1. Although EGFR activation promotes ACK1 turnover, Axl activation by GAS6 does not; interestingly, the reciprocal down-regulation of GAS6-stimulated Axl is blocked by removing ACK1. Thus, ACK1 functions in part to control Axl receptor levels. Silencing of ACK1 also leads to diminished ruffling and migration in DU145 and COS7 cells upon GAS6-Axl signaling. The ability of ACK1 to modulate Axl and perhaps anaplastic lymphoma kinase (altered in anaplastic large cell lymphomas) might explain why ACK1 can promote metastatic and transformed behavior in a number of cancers.
In the study of complex neurobiological movement systems, measurement indeterminacy has typically been overcome by imposing artificial modelling constraints to reduce the number of unknowns (e.g., reducing all muscle, bone and ligament forces crossing a joint to a single vector). However, this approach prevents human movement scientists from investigating more fully the role, functionality and ubiquity of coordinative structures or functional motor synergies. Advancements in measurement methods and analysis techniques are required if the contribution of individual component parts or degrees of freedom of these task-specific structural units is to be established, thereby effectively solving the indeterminacy problem by reducing the number of unknowns. A further benefit of establishing more of the unknowns is that human movement scientists will be able to gain greater insight into ubiquitous processes of physical self-organising that underpin the formation of coordinative structures and the confluence of organismic, environmental and task constraints that determine the exact morphology of these special-purpose devices.
The pore forming properties of synthetic cecropin-melittin hybrid peptide (Acetyl-KWKLFKKIGAVLKVL-CONH(2); CM15) were investigated by using photoreceptor rod outer segments (OS) isolated from frog retinae obtained by using the whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique. CM15 was applied (and removed) to (from) the OS in approximately 50 ms with a computer-controlled microperfusion system. Once the main OS endogenous conductance was blocked with light, the OS membrane resistance was &gt;or=1 G Omega, allowing high resolution, low-noise recordings. Different to alamethicines, CM15 produced voltage-independent membrane permeabilisation, repetitive peptide application caused a progressive permeabilisation increase, and no single-channel events were detected at low peptide concentrations. Collectively, these results indicate a toroidal mechanism of pore formation by CM15.
Endothelin-1 produces spontaneous nociceptive-associated behaviors that are modulated by the peripheral opioid system. The present study tests the hypothesis that single or repeated exposure to endothelin-1 during infancy decreases opioid analgesia in weanling rats. Morphine analgesia was measured in male and female postnatal day 21 rats following intraplantar endothelin-1 on postnatal day 7, or 11 or both days 7 and 11. In males, exposure to endothelin-1 on postnatal day 11 or both days 7 and 11 produced a statistically significant decrease in morphine analgesia (EC(50)=0.902 and 1.326mg/kg, respectively) compared to control (EC(50)=0.486mg/kg). Similarly in females, exposure to endothelin-1 on postnatal day 11 or both days 7 and 11 produced a statistically significant decrease in morphine analgesia (EC(50)=1.367 and 1.226mg/kg, respectively) compared to control (EC(50)=0.468mg/kg). In addition, females exposed to endothelin-1 on postnatal day 7 exhibited an intermediate decrease in morphine analgesia with an EC(50) of 0.752mg/kg. In males, exposure to endothelin-1 decreased mu opioid receptor expression without changing endothelin-A receptor or endothelin-B receptor expression in the hindpaw skin. In contrast, in females, exposure to endothelin-1 increased expression of both endothelin receptors and the mu opioid receptor in hindpaw skin. These findings suggest a sex-difference in the window of vulnerability and the mechanism by which an acute nociceptive event can induce morphine tolerance.
Mu opioid receptors (MOP) are transducers of the pharmacological effects of many opioid drugs, including analgesia and tolerance/dependence. Previously, we observed increased MOP signaling during postnatal development that was not associated with increased MOP or G protein expression. A yeast two-hybrid screen of a human brain cDNA library using the MOP C-terminus as bait identified RanBPM as a potential MOP-interacting protein. RanBPM has been recognized as a multi-functional scaffold protein that interacts with a variety of signaling receptors/proteins. Co-immunoprecipitation studies in HEK293 cells indicated that RanBPM constitutively associates with MOP. Functionally, RanBPM had no effect on MOP-mediated inhibition of adenylyl cyclase, yet reduced agonist-induced endocytosis of MOP. Mechanistically, RanBPM interfered with beta arrestin2-GFP translocation stimulated by MOP but not alpha(1B)-adrenergic receptor activation, indicating selectivity of action. Our findings suggest that RanBPM is a novel MOP-interacting protein that negatively regulates receptor internalization without altering MOP signaling through adenylyl cyclase.
Starting from a general description of noisy limit cycle oscillators, we derive from the Fokker-Planck equations the linear response of the instantaneous oscillator frequency to a time-varying external force. We consider the time series of zero crossings of the oscillator's phase and compute the mutual information between it and the driving force. A direct link is established between the phase response curve summarizing the oscillator dynamics and the ability of a limit cycle oscillator, such as a heart cell or neuron, to encode information in the timing of peaks in the oscillation.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) is highly expressed in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS). It is involved in multiple physiological functions and is a target for treatment of various CNS disorders, including schizophrenia. We report that Norbin, a neuron-specific protein, physically interacts with mGluR5 in vivo, increases the cell surface localization of the receptor, and positively regulates mGluR5 signaling. Genetic deletion of Norbin attenuates mGluR5-dependent stable changes in synaptic function measured as long-term depression or long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus. As with mGluR5 knockout mice or mice treated with mGluR5-selective antagonists, Norbin knockout mice showed a behavioral phenotype associated with a rodent model of schizophrenia, as indexed by alterations both in sensorimotor gating and psychotomimetic-induced locomotor activity.

Modified electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a controlled medical procedure in which a seizure is induced in an anaesthetized patient to produce a therapeutic effect. ECT is the most acutely effective treatment available for affective disorders and is more effective than antidepressant drugs. Although in use for 70 years, ECT continues to attract controversy and there is considerable stigma associated with its use that often overshadows the empirical evidence for its effectiveness. One way to overcome this is for health professionals to be educated about contemporary ECT practice. Patients need to make informed decisions when consenting to ECT and this process can be influenced by preconceived ideas and scientific fact. It is, therefore, essential that nurses possess sufficient information to help patients make rational and informed treatment decisions and be able to care for both the clinical and psychological needs of patients treated with ECT. This review outlines the nursing role in ECT and summarizes the main aspects of contemporary ECT practice relevant to general and psychiatric nursing practice.
SynCAM1 and neuroligins (NLGs) are adhesion molecules that govern synapse formation in vitro. In vivo, the molecules are expressed during synaptogenesis, and altered NLG function is linked to synapse dysfunction in autism. Less is known about SynCAM1 and NLGs in adult synapse remodeling. CNS synapse elimination occurs after peripheral nerve injury, which causes a transient decrease in synapse number on spinal motoneurons. Here we have studied the expression of SynCAM1 and NLGs in relation to changes in synaptic covering on spinal motoneurons. We performed sciatic nerve transection (SNT) or crush (SNC), axotomy models that result in poor or good conditions for axon regeneration, respectively. The two lesions resulted in similar synapse elimination and in poor (SNT) and good (SNC) return of synapses after 70 days. Functional recovery was good after SNC but absent after SNT. SynCAM1 mRNA decreased after 14 days in both models and was restored 70 days after SNC, but not after SNT. NLG2 and -3 mRNAs decreased to a smaller degree after SNC than after SNT. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity correlated with SynCAM1 mRNA 70 days after SNT and NLG2 mRNA 70 days after SNC. Surprisingly, an inverse correlation was seen between NLG3 mRNA and Vglut2, a marker for excitatory synapses, 70 days after SNT. We conclude that 1) SynCAM1 mRNA levels seem to reflect the loss and restoration of synapses on motoneurons, 2) down-regulation of NLGs is not a prerequisite for synapse elimination, and 3) expression of SynCAM1 and NLGs is regulated by different mechanisms during regeneration.
Detailed metabolic characterization of 8, an earlier lead pyrazinone-based corticotropin-releasing factor-1 (CRF(1)) receptor antagonist, revealed that this compound formed significant levels of reactive metabolites, as measured by in vivo and in vitro biotransformation studies. This was of particular concern due to the body of evidence suggesting that reactive metabolites may be involved in idiosyncratic drug reactions. Further optimization of the structure-activity relationships and in vivo properties of pyrazinone-based CRF(1) receptor antagonists and studies to assess the formation of reactive metabolites led to the discovery of 19e, a high affinity CRF(1) receptor antagonist (IC(50) = 0.86 nM) wherein GSH adducts were estimated to be only 0.1% of the total amount of drug-related material excreted through bile and urine, indicating low levels of reactive metabolite formation in vivo. A novel 6-(difluoromethoxy)-2,5-dimethylpyridin-3-amine group in 19e contributed to the potency and improved in vivo properties of this compound and related analogues. 19e had excellent pharmacokinetic properties in rats and dogs and showed efficacy in the defensive withdrawal model of anxiety in rats. The lowest efficacious dose was 1.8 mg/kg. The results of a two-week rat safety study with 19e indicated that this compound was well-tolerated.


The genetic basis of cognition and behavioral adaptation to the environment remains poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that the histone methyltransferase complex GLP/G9a controls cognition and adaptive responses in a region-specific fashion in the adult brain. Using conditional mutagenesis in mice, we show that postnatal, neuron-specific deficiency of GLP/G9a leads to derepression of numerous nonneuronal and neuron progenitor genes in adult neurons. This transcriptional alteration is associated with complex behavioral abnormalities, including defects in learning, motivation, and environmental adaptation. The behavioral changes triggered by GLP/G9a deficiency are similar to key symptoms of the human 9q34 mental retardation syndrome that is associated with structural alterations of the GLP/EHMT1 gene. The likely causal role of GLP/G9a in mental retardation in mice and humans suggests a key role for the GLP/G9a-controlled histone H3K9 dimethylation in regulation of brain function through maintenance of the transcriptional homeostasis in adult neurons.
Mammalian motor programs are controlled by networks of spinal interneurons that set the rhythm and intensity of motor neuron firing. Motor neurons have long been known to receive prominent &quot;C bouton&quot; cholinergic inputs from spinal interneurons, but the source and function of these synaptic inputs have remained obscure. We show here that the transcription factor Pitx2 marks a small cluster of spinal cholinergic interneurons, V0(C) neurons, that represents the sole source of C bouton inputs to motor neurons. The activity of these cholinergic interneurons is tightly phase locked with motor neuron bursting during fictive locomotor activity, suggesting a role in the modulation of motor neuron firing frequency. Genetic inactivation of the output of these neurons impairs a locomotor task-dependent increase in motor neuron firing and muscle activation. Thus, V0(C) interneurons represent a defined class of spinal cholinergic interneurons with an intrinsic neuromodulatory role in the control of locomotor behavior.
For more than two decades, neuroscientists have debated the role of &quot;gain fields&quot; in sensorimotor transformations. In this issue of Neuron, Chang et al. demonstrate a tight correlation between eye and hand position gain fields in the &quot;parietal reach region,&quot; strongly suggesting that they play a functional role in computing the reach command.
Strategies to improve function after CNS injuries must contend with the failure of axons to regrow after transection in adult mammals. In this issue of Neuron, Smith et al. provide an important advance by demonstrating that SOCS3 acts as a key negative regulator of adult optic nerve regeneration.

Insulator elements have long been associated with a proposed domain boundary function, ensuring appropriate associations between regulatory elements and transcription units through the physical organisation of the genome into looped domains. Recent experiments in Drosophila have, however, highlighted a more direct involvement of insulators in transcriptional regulation.
Spontaneous neuronal activity is a ubiquitous feature of cortex. Its spatiotemporal organization reflects past input and modulates future network output. Here we study whether a particular type of spontaneous activity is generated by a network that is optimized for input processing. Neuronal avalanches are a type of spontaneous activity observed in superficial cortical layers in vitro and in vivo with statistical properties expected from a network operating at &quot;criticality.&quot; Theory predicts that criticality and, therefore, neuronal avalanches are optimal for input processing, but until now, this has not been tested in experiments. Here, we use cortex slice cultures grown on planar microelectrode arrays to demonstrate that cortical networks that generate neuronal avalanches benefit from a maximized dynamic range, i.e., the ability to respond to the greatest range of stimuli. By changing the ratio of excitation and inhibition in the cultures, we derive a network tuning curve for stimulus processing as a function of distance from criticality in agreement with predictions from our simulations. Our findings suggest that in the cortex, (1) balanced excitation and inhibition establishes criticality, which maximizes the range of inputs that can be processed, and (2) spontaneous activity and input processing are unified in the context of critical phenomena.
Most presynaptic terminals in the brain contain G-protein-coupled receptors that function to reduce action potential-evoked neurotransmitter release. These neuromodulatory receptors, including those for glutamate, GABA, endocannabinoids, and adenosine, exert a substantial portion of their effect by reducing evoked presynaptic Ca(2+) transients. Many axons form synapses with multiple postsynaptic neurons, but it is unclear whether presynaptic attenuation in these synapses is homogeneous, as suggested by population-level Ca(2+) imaging. We loaded Ca(2+)-sensitive dyes into cerebellar parallel fiber axons and imaged action potential-evoked Ca(2+) transients in individual presynaptic boutons with application of three different neuromodulators and found that adjacent boutons on the same axon showed striking heterogeneity in their strength of attenuation. Moreover, attenuation was predicted by bouton size or basal Ca(2+) response: smaller boutons were more sensitive to adenosine A1 agonist but less sensitive to CB1 agonist, while boutons with high basal action potential-evoked Ca(2+) transient amplitude were more sensitive to mGluR4 agonist. These results suggest that boutons within brief segment of a single parallel fiber axon can have different sensitivities toward neuromodulators and may have different capacities for both short-term and long-term plasticities.
Restraint stress produces changes in the sleep pattern that are mainly characterized by a delayed increase in rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) amounts. Because the serotonin (5-HT) and the hypocretin (hcrt) systems that regulate REMS are interconnected, we used mutant mice deficient in the 5-HT transporter (5-HTT(-/-)) to examine the role of 5-HT and hcrt neurotransmissions in the sleep response to stress. In contrast to wild-type mice, restraint stress did not induce a delayed increase in REMS amounts in 5-HTT(-/-) mice, indicating impaired sleep homeostasis in mutants. However, pharmacological blockade of the hcrt type 1 receptor (hcrt-R1) before restraint stress restored the REMS increase in 5-HTT(-/-) mice. In line with this finding, 5-HTT(-/-) mutants displayed after restraint stress higher long-lasting activation of hypothalamic preprohcrt neurons than wild-type mice and elevated levels of the hcrt-1 peptide and the hcrt-R1 mRNA in the anterior raphe area. Thus, hypocretinergic neurotransmission was enhanced by stress in 5-HTT(-/-) mice. Furthermore, in 5-HTT(-/-) but not wild-type mice, hypothalamic levels of the 5-HT metabolite 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid significantly increased after restraint stress, indicating a marked enhancement of serotonergic neurotransmission in mutants. Altogether, our data show that increased serotonergic -and in turn hypocretinergic- neurotransmissions exert an inhibitory influence on stress-induced delayed REMS. We propose that the direct interactions between hcrt neurons in the hypothalamus and 5-HT neurons in the anterior raphe nuclei account, at least in part, for the adaptive sleep-wakefulness regulations triggered by acute stress.
Successful regeneration of damaged neurons depends on the coordinated expression of neuron-intrinsic genes. At present however, there is no comprehensive view of the transcriptional regulatory mechanisms underlying neuronal regeneration. We used high-content cellular screening to investigate the functional contribution of 62 transcription factors to regenerative neuron outgrowth. Ten transcription factors are identified that either increase or decrease neurite outgrowth. One of these, NFIL3, is specifically upregulated during successful regeneration in vivo. Paradoxically however, knockdown of NFIL3 and overexpression of dominant-negative NFIL3 both increase neurite outgrowth. Our data show that NFIL3, together with CREB, forms an incoherent feedforward transcriptional regulatory loop in which NFIL3 acts as a negative regulator of CREB-induced regeneration-associated genes.
Testosterone-induced singing in songbirds is thought to involve testosterone-dependent morphological changes that include angiogenesis and neuronal recruitment into the HVC, a central part of the song control circuit. Previous work showed that testosterone induces the production of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptor (VEGFR2 tyrosine kinase), which in turn leads to an upregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) production in HVC endothelial cells. Here we report for the first time that systemic inhibition of the VEGFR2 tyrosine kinase is sufficient to block testosterone-induced song in adult female canaries, despite sustained androgen exposure and the persistence of the effects of testosterone on HVC morphology. Expression of exogenous BDNF in HVC, induced locally by in situ transfection, reversed the VEGFR2 inhibition-mediated blockade of song development, thereby restoring the behavioral phenotype associated with androgen-induced song. The VEGFR2-inhibited, BDNF-treated females developed elaborate male-like song that included large syllable repertoires and high syllable repetition rates, features known to attract females. Importantly, although functionally competent new neurons were recruited to HVC after testosterone treatment, the time course of neuronal addition appeared to follow BDNF-induced song development. These findings indicate that testosterone-associated VEGFR2 activity is required for androgen-induced song in adult songbirds and that the behavioral effects of VEGFR2 inhibition can be rescued by BDNF within the adult HVC.
The properties of synaptic receptors determine their mode of action at presynaptic and postsynaptic loci. Here, we investigated the atypical biophysical properties of GluK3-containing kainate receptors, which contribute to presynaptic facilitation at hippocampal mossy fiber synapses. We show, using fast glutamate applications on outside-out patches and kinetic modeling, that the low sensitivity of GluK3 receptors for glutamate is attributable to fast desensitization of partially bound receptors. Consequently, these receptors can only be activated by fast transients of high glutamate concentration. In addition, GluK3 receptors are very sensitive to voltage-dependent block by intracellular spermine that precludes activation of substantial currents at potentials positive to -50 mV. Two specific residues within the channel pore define this high-affinity site. Finally, GluK3 are calcium permeable in the same way as unedited GluK2 receptors. These receptors present unique properties among AMPA/kainate receptors that could reflect a specialized presynaptic function.
Anxiety is among the most prevalent and costly diseases of the CNS, but its underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. Although attenuated theta rhythms have been observed in human subjects with increased anxiety, no study has been done on the possible physiological link between these two manifestations. We found that the mutant mouse for phospholipase C beta 4 (PLC-beta 4(-/-)) showed attenuated theta rhythm and increased anxiety, presenting the first animal model for the human condition. PLC-beta 4 is abundantly expressed in the medial septum, a region implicated in anxiety behavior. RNA interference-mediated PLC-beta 4 knockdown in the medial septum produced a phenotype similar to that of PLC-beta 4(-/-) mice. Furthermore, increasing cholinergic signaling by administering an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor cured the anomalies in both cholinergic theta rhythm and anxiety behavior observed in PLC-beta 4(-/-) mice. These findings suggest that (1) PLC-beta 4 in the medial septum is involved in controlling cholinergic theta oscillation and (2) cholinergic theta rhythm plays a critical role in suppressing anxiety. We propose that defining the cholinergic theta rhythm profile may provide guidance in subtyping anxiety disorders in humans for more effective diagnosis and treatments.
Salla disease and infantile sialic acid storage disease are autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorders caused by mutations in the gene encoding sialin, a membrane protein that transports free sialic acid out of the lysosome after it is cleaved from sialoglycoconjugates undergoing degradation. Accumulation of sialic acid in lysosomes defines these disorders, and the clinical phenotype is characterized by neurodevelopmental defects, including severe CNS hypomyelination. In this study, we used a sialin-deficient mouse to address how loss of sialin leads to the defect in myelination. Behavioral analysis of the sialin(-/-) mouse demonstrates poor coordination, seizures, and premature death. Analysis by histology, electron microscopy, and Western blotting reveals a decrease in myelination of the CNS but normal neuronal cytoarchitecture and normal myelination of the PNS. To investigate potential mechanisms underlying CNS hypomyelination, we studied myelination and oligodendrocyte development in optic nerves. We found reduced numbers of myelinated axons in optic nerves from sialin(-/-) mice, but the myelin that was present appeared grossly normal. Migration and density of oligodendrocyte precursor cells were normal; however, a marked decrease in the number of postmitotic oligodendrocytes and an associated increase in the number of apoptotic cells during the later stages of myelinogenesis were observed. These findings suggest that a defect in maturation of cells in the oligodendrocyte lineage leads to increased apoptosis and underlies the myelination defect associated with sialin loss.

The literature on vertical disparity is complicated by the fact that several different definitions of the term &quot;vertical disparity&quot; are in common use, often without a clear statement about which is intended or a widespread appreciation of the properties of the different definitions. Here, we examine two definitions of retinal vertical disparity: elevation-latitude and elevation-longitude disparities. Near the fixation point, these definitions become equivalent, but in general, they have quite different dependences on object distance and binocular eye posture, which have not previously been spelt out. We present analytical approximations for each type of vertical disparity, valid for more general conditions than previous derivations in the literature: we do not restrict ourselves to objects near the fixation point or near the plane of regard, and we allow for non-zero torsion, cyclovergence, and vertical misalignments of the eyes. We use these expressions to derive estimates of the latitude and longitude vertical disparities expected at each point in the visual field, averaged over all natural viewing. Finally, we present analytical expressions showing how binocular eye position-gaze direction, convergence, torsion, cyclovergence, and vertical misalignment-can be derived from the vertical disparity field and its derivatives at the fovea.
Caffeine is a widely self-administered psychostimulant with purported neuroprotective and procognitive effects in rodent models of aging. The cholinergic basal forebrain is important for arousal and attention and is implicated in age-related cognitive decline. Accordingly, we determined the effects of caffeine on cholinergic neuron activation in the rat basal forebrain. Young adult (age 2 months) male rats were treated with caffeine (0, 10, or 50 mg/kg) and killed 2 h later. Caffeine significantly increased c-Fos expression in cholinergic neurons of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca but not other basal forebrain regions such as the medial septum or substantia innominata. The horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca provides cholinergic innervation to the olfactory bulb, suggesting that deficits in this structure may contribute to diminished olfactory function observed in Alzheimer's disease patients. These results suggest that part of the cognitive-enhancing effects of caffeine may be mediated through activation of this part of the cholinergic basal forebrain.
Multiple sclerosis, the most common cause of progressive neurological disability in young adults, is a chronic inflammatory disease. There is solid evidence for a genetic influence in multiple sclerosis, and deciphering the causative genes could reveal key pathways influencing the disease. A genome region on rat chromosome 9 regulates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, a model for multiple sclerosis. Using interval-specific congenic rat lines and association of single-nucleotide polymorphisms with inflammatory phenotypes, we localized the gene of influence to Vav1, which codes for a signal-transducing protein in leukocytes. Analysis of seven human cohorts (12,735 individuals) demonstrated an association of rs2546133-rs2617822 haplotypes in the first VAV1 intron with multiple sclerosis (CA: odds ratio, 1.18; CG: odds ratio, 0.86; TG: odds ratio, 0.90). The risk CA haplotype also predisposed for higher VAV1 messenger RNA expression. VAV1 expression was increased in individuals with multiple sclerosis and correlated with tumor necrosis factor and interferon-gamma expression in peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid cells. We conclude that VAV1 plays a central role in controlling central nervous system immune-mediated disease and proinflammatory cytokine production critical for disease pathogenesis.

PTEN is a tumor suppressor gene that is either mutated or deleted in a number of human cancers. PTEN acts as a negative regulator of the PI3K/Akt survival pathway and thus plays an important role in cell fate, proliferation, growth, and migration. Recent evidence suggests that PTEN may also be involved in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative disorders such as spinal cord injury (SCI). Overexpression of PTEN appears to cause inactivation/dephosphorylation of Akt in neurons, resulting in increased cell death. Given this newly discovered role for PTEN, it has been identified as a potential molecular target for the development of novel therapeutic strategies against neurodegeneration. Motoneuron degeneration following SCI may occur due to up-regulation of pro-inflammatory and cytotoxic cytokines including IFN-gamma. Exposure of VSC4.1 motoneurons to IFN-gamma (10 ng/ml) for 24 h resulted in significant overexpression of PTEN and decreased levels of activated Akt. Up-regulation of PTEN following IFN-gamma exposure was associated with decreased overall cell viability due to increased apoptosis, as assessed by Wright staining and analysis of cell death markers including Bax, Bcl-2, calpain activity, and caspase-3 activity, indicating a prominent role for PTEN in suppression of the PI3K/Akt survival pathway to promote motoneuron death. Addition of estrogen (100 nM) to VSC4.1 cells for 1 h prior to IFN-gamma exposure partially decreased PTEN expression, allowing adequate activation or phosphorylation of Akt (p-Akt) to prevent apoptotic cell death. Thus, it appears that estrogen may mediate neuroprotection through decrease in PTEN expression. In conclusion, our studies suggest that PTEN inactivation may be used as an important parameter for evaluation of the efficacy of estrogen in prevention of neuronal loss in neurodegenerative disorders.
Regions of the temporal and parietal lobes are particularly damaged in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and this leads to a predictable pattern of brain atrophy. In vivo quantification of subregional atrophy, such as changes in cortical thickness or structure volume, could lead to improved diagnosis and better assessment of the neuroprotective effects of a therapy. Toward this end, we have developed a fast and robust method for accurately quantifying cerebral structural changes in several cortical and subcortical regions using serial MRI scans. In 169 healthy controls, 299 subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 129 subjects with AD, we measured rates of subregional cerebral volume change for each cohort and performed power calculations to identify regions that would provide the most sensitive outcome measures in clinical trials of disease-modifying agents. Consistent with regional specificity of AD, temporal-lobe cortical regions showed the greatest disease-related changes and significantly outperformed any of the clinical or cognitive measures examined for both AD and MCI. Global measures of change in brain structure, including whole-brain and ventricular volumes, were also elevated in AD and MCI, but were less salient when compared to changes in normal subjects. Therefore, these biomarkers are less powerful for quantifying disease-modifying effects of compounds that target AD pathology. The findings indicate that regional temporal lobe cortical changes would have great utility as outcome measures in clinical trials and may also have utility in clinical practice for aiding early diagnosis of neurodegenerative disease.
During early adulthood, a phase in which the central nervous system displays considerable plasticity and in which important cognitive traits are shaped, the effects of exercise on cognition remain poorly understood. We performed a cohort study of all Swedish men born in 1950 through 1976 who were enlisted for military service at age 18 (N = 1,221,727). Of these, 268,496 were full-sibling pairs, 3,147 twin pairs, and 1,432 monozygotic twin pairs. Physical fitness and intelligence performance data were collected during conscription examinations and linked with other national databases for information on school achievement, socioeconomic status, and sibship. Relationships between cardiovascular fitness and intelligence at age 18 were evaluated by linear models in the total cohort and in subgroups of full-sibling pairs and twin pairs. Cardiovascular fitness, as measured by ergometer cycling, positively associated with intelligence after adjusting for relevant confounders (regression coefficient b = 0.172; 95% CI, 0.168-0.176). Similar results were obtained within monozygotic twin pairs. In contrast, muscle strength was not associated with cognitive performance. Cross-twin cross-trait analyses showed that the associations were primarily explained by individual specific, non-shared environmental influences (&gt; or = 80%), whereas heritability explained &lt; 15% of covariation. Cardiovascular fitness changes between age 15 and 18 y predicted cognitive performance at 18 y. Cox proportional-hazards models showed that cardiovascular fitness at age 18 y predicted educational achievements later in life. These data substantiate that physical exercise could be an important instrument for public health initiatives to optimize educational achievements, cognitive performance, as well as disease prevention at the society level.
Reputation formation pervades human social life. In fact, many people go to great lengths to acquire a good reputation, even though building a good reputation is costly in many cases. Little is known about the neural underpinnings of this important social mechanism, however. In the present study, we show that disruption of the right, but not the left, lateral prefrontal cortex (PFC) with low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) diminishes subjects' ability to build a favorable reputation. This effect occurs even though subjects' ability to behave altruistically in the absence of reputation incentives remains intact, and even though they are still able to recognize both the fairness standards necessary for acquiring and the future benefits of a good reputation. Thus, subjects with a disrupted right lateral PFC no longer seem to be able to resist the temptation to defect, even though they know that this has detrimental effects on their future reputation. This suggests an important dissociation between the knowledge about one's own best interests and the ability to act accordingly in social contexts. These results link findings on the neural underpinnings of self-control and temptation with the study of human social behavior, and they may help explain why reputation formation remains less prominent in most other species with less developed prefrontal cortices.
Phase-amplitude cross-frequency coupling (CFC) between theta (4-12 Hz) and gamma (30-100 Hz) oscillations occurs frequently in the hippocampus. However, it still remains unclear whether theta-gamma coupling has any functional significance. To address this issue, we studied CFC in local field potential oscillations recorded from the CA3 region of the dorsal hippocampus of rats as they learned to associate items with their spatial context. During the course of learning, the amplitude of the low gamma subband (30-60 Hz) became more strongly modulated by theta phase in CA3, and higher levels of theta-gamma modulation were maintained throughout overtraining sessions. Furthermore, the strength of theta-gamma coupling was directly correlated with the increase in performance accuracy during learning sessions. These findings suggest a role for hippocampal theta-gamma coupling in memory recall.
It has long been known that heavy alcohol consumption leads to neuropathology and neuronal death. While the response of neurons to an ethanol insult is strongly influenced by genetic background, the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we show that even a single intoxicating exposure to ethanol causes non-cell-autonomous apoptotic death specifically of Drosophila olfactory neurons, which is accompanied by a loss of a behavioral response to the smell of ethanol and a blackening of the third antennal segment. The Drosophila homolog of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3)beta, Shaggy, is required for ethanol-induced apoptosis. Consistent with this requirement, the GSK-3beta inhibitor lithium protects against the neurotoxic effects of ethanol, indicating the possibility for pharmacological intervention in cases of alcohol-induced neurodegeneration. Ethanol-induced death of olfactory neurons requires both their neural activity and functional NMDA receptors. This system will allow the investigation of the genetic and molecular basis of ethanol-induced apoptosis in general and provide an understanding of the molecular role of GSK-3beta in programmed cell death.
Animal models are critical for the study of psychiatric disorders since they allow the use of invasive methods that cannot be used for ethical reasons in humans. Currently there are three general models of schizophrenia; (i) those produced with acute pharmacological intervention (i.e. MK-801, ketamine, PCP and amphetamine), (ii) genetic models (i.e. mutant DISC-1, D(2)-R over expression) and (iii) developmental disruption models (i.e. MAM, neonatal ventral hippocampal lesion, isolation rearing, maternal infection). Here we review evidence for the validity of gestational (day 17) MAM administration as a developmental disruption rodent model of schizophrenia. Offspring from MAM-treated dams are reported to display deficits consistent with those observed in schizophrenia patients, including anatomical changes, behavioral deficits and altered neuronal information processing. Thus gestational MAM administration has been demonstrated to induce a pathodevelopmental process leading to neuroanatomical and behavioral phenotypes consistent with that observed in schizophrenia in humans.
There is compelling postmortem evidence that GABA cell dysfunction plays a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia (SZ). Based on a unique distribution of postmortem abnormalities in layer II of the anterior cingulate cortex and sectors CA3/2 of the hippocampus, we postulated that afferent fibers from the basolateral amygdala to these sites may contribute to diminished GABAergic modulation in these disorders. To test this hypothesis, picrotoxin (PICRO), a non-competitive antagonist of the GABA-A receptor, is stereotaxically infused the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA) to increase the flow of excitatory activity into stratum oriens (SO) of sectors CA3/2 of the hippocampus. This pharmacological manipulation results in a selective reduction of GABAergic interneurons containing parvalbumin, calbindin and calretinin in CA3/2. Using single cell recordings in a hippocampal slide preparation, these changes in PICRO-treated rats seem to be associated with a reduction in evoked and spontaneous inhibitory post-synaptic potentials (sIPSCs) recorded from pyramidal neurons in sector CA3/2, but not CA1. A lower resting membrane potential and an increased action potential firing rate have been recorded in interneurons in the SO of CA2/3, but not CA1. Additionally, currents associated with hyperpolarization-activated cationic channels (Ih), which help to control neuronal firing rates of GABA cells in the hippocampus, were also increased. Overall, these studies support the view that postmortem studies contribute information for the development of empiric models of SZ, ones that can be used as translational tools for elucidating the functional changes that may be present in GABA cell subtypes their molecular regulatory mechanisms in this disorder.
Neurons and endocrine cells secrete neurotransmitter and hormones in discrete packets in a process called quantal exocytosis. Electrochemical microelectrodes can detect spikes in current resulting from the oxidation of individual quanta of transmitter only if the electrodes are small and directly adjacent to release sites on the cell. Here we report development of a microchip device that uses microfluidic traps to automatically target individual or small groups of cells to small electrochemical electrodes. Microfluidic channels and traps were fabricated by multi-step wet etch of a silicon wafer whereas Pt electrodes were patterned in register with the trap sites. We demonstrate high-resolution amperometric measurement of quantal exocytosis of catecholamines from chromaffin cells on the device. This reusable device is a step towards developing high-throughput lab-on-a-chip instruments for recording quantal exocytosis to increase the pace of basic neuroscience research and to enable screening of drugs that target exocytosis.
The relative size and relaxation of the invisible pool of bound spins (T(1b)) underlying magnetization transfer (MT) was quantified in eight subjects in vivo at 1.5 T from progressive saturation experiments using repetitive MT pulses. The evolution of the binary spin-bath was sampled by increasing the repetition period from 8 to 200 ms. Single-shot echo-planar images at TE = 50 ms were evaluated in the central white matter. Three models were fitted: the general solution, and with constraints of equal relaxation and T(1b) = 1 s for the invisible pool. The general solution of unconstrained T(1b) provided a significantly better fit, indicating fast-to-intermediate exchange. The bound pool fraction was 17 +/- 4%, the relaxation times T(1f) = 1.6 +/- 0.2 s for free water and T(1b) = 171 +/- 22 ms for the bound pool. The constrained models did not differ from each other, since here T(1b) was similar to the observed T(1) of 1.1 +/- 0.1 s. They underestimate the bound pool fraction and its relaxation. Thus, the standard assumption of continuous-wave MT models may underestimate the relaxation via the bound pool by more than a factor of five.
Drug-associated cues and stress increase craving and lead to greater risk of relapse in abstinent drug addicts. This risk may be increased when these factors occur simultaneously. The current study examined whether the presentation of three different levels of intermittent footshock would trigger reinstatement or potentiate reinstatement of cocaine-seeking caused by conditioned cues. Male, Long Evans rats underwent daily i.v. cocaine self-administration, followed by extinction of lever responding in the absence of previously cocaine-paired cues. Reinstatement of cocaine-seeking was measured during presentation of cocaine-paired cues, following pretreatment with three levels of intermittent footshock (0.25, 0.5, and 0.75 mA), or after the combination of footshock and cues. Footshock at the 0.5 and 0.75 mA levels led to significant reinstatement when presented alone, and also potentiated the reinstatement triggered by the presentation of conditioned cues. These results demonstrate that while stress and drug-paired cues reinstate drug-seeking when presented in isolation, their interaction leads to potentiated reinstatement. Dual targeting of stress and cues is thus a critical consideration for treatment intervention in abstinent drug users.
Recent experiments showed that in a one-bottle test conducted 16h after sc injection of polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution, hypovolemic rats consumed water or 0.30 M NaCl in an initial drinking episode but did not empty the ingested fluid from the stomach or absorb it from the small intestine very rapidly, certainly not as rapidly as when 0.15M NaCl was consumed (Smith et al., Am J Physiol 292: R2089-R2099, 2007). The present experiments examined the patterns of water and 0.30 M NaCl ingestion and the movement of consumed fluid through the gastrointestinal tract when PEG-treated rats were given a two-bottle delayed-access test. We found that both fluids always were consumed in the first drinking episode, that the fluid mixture ingested was equivalent to 0.10-0.15M NaCl, and that gastric emptying rate and net fluid absorption from the small intestine usually were much faster than when PEG-treated rats drank either water or hypertonic saline alone. Thus, ingestion of water and 0.30 M NaCl by hypovolemic rats in the same episode adaptively facilitated the movement into the circulation of a near-isotonic fluid that is ideal for restoring plasma volume deficits.
Magel2 belongs to the MAGE/necdin family of proteins, which have roles in cell cycle, differentiation, and apoptosis. The Magel2 gene is expressed in various brain regions, most notably the hypothalamus. Mice with a targeted deletion of Magel2 display hypoactivity, blunted circadian rhythm, decreased fertility, and increased adiposity. The human ortholog, MAGEL2, is one of a set of paternally expressed, imprinted genes inactivated in most cases of Prader-Willi syndrome, a complex neurodevelopmental disorder. To explore the role of Magel2, brain morphology, brain neurochemistry, and behavior were measured in Magel2-null mice. Brain volume was reduced in specific regions, particularly in the parieto-temporal lobe of the cerebral cortex, the amygdala, the hippocampus, and the nucleus accumbens, as measured by quantitative magnetic resonance imaging. Abnormal neurochemistry was detected in brain samples from adult mice, consisting of decreased serotonin and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the cortex and the hypothalamus, and decreased dopamine in the hypothalamus. Magel2-null mice displayed relatively normal motor and learning abilities, but exhibited abnormal behavior in novel environments. This study lends support to the important role of the circadian rhythm output gene Magel2 in brain structure and behavior.
A simple and sensitive LC-MS method was developed and validated for the simultaneous quantification of aripiprazole (ARI), atomoxetine (ATO), duloxetine (DUL), clozapine (CLO), olanzapine (OLA), sertindole (STN), venlafaxine (VEN) and their active metabolites dehydroaripiprazole (DARI), norclozapine (NCLO), dehydrosertindole (DSTN) and O-desmethylvenlafaxine (OVEN) in human plasma. The above mentioned compounds and the internal standard (remoxipride) were extracted from 0.5 mL plasma by solid-phase extraction (mix mode support). The analytical separation was carried out on a reverse phase liquid chromatography at basic pH (pH 8.1) in gradient mode. All analytes were monitored by MS detection in the single ion monitoring mode and the method was validated covering the corresponding therapeutic range: 2-200 ng/mL for DUL, OLA, and STN, 4-200 ng/mL for DSTN, 5-1000 ng/mL for ARI, DARI and finally 2-1000 ng/mL for ATO, CLO, NCLO, VEN, OVEN. For all investigated compounds, good performance in terms of recoveries, selectivity, stability, repeatability, intermediate precision, trueness and accuracy, was obtained. Real patient plasma samples were then successfully analysed.


Selective degeneration of midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neurons is associated with Parkinson's disease (PD), and thus an in-depth understanding of molecular pathways underlying mDA development will be crucial for optimal bioassays and cell replacement therapy for PD. In this study, we identified a novel Wnt1-Lmx1a autoregulatory loop during mDA differentiation of ESCs and confirmed its in vivo presence during embryonic development. We found that the Wnt1-Lmx1a autoregulatory loop directly regulates Otx2 through the beta-catenin complex and Nurr1 and Pitx3 through Lmx1a. We also found that Lmx1a and Lmx1b cooperatively regulate mDA differentiation with overlapping and cross-regulatory functions. Furthermore, coactivation of both Wnt1 and SHH pathways by exogenous expression of Lmx1a, Otx2, and FoxA2 synergistically enhanced the differentiation of ESCs to mDA neurons. Together with previous works, this study shows that two regulatory loops (Wnt1-Lmx1a and SHH-FoxA2) critically link extrinsic signals to cell-intrinsic factors and cooperatively regulate mDA neuron development.
Neuronal diversity is generated from small pools of progenitors whose fate potential changes over time. Recently in Cell, Baumgardt et al. (2009) showed that multiple, simultaneously activated transcriptional cascades regulate the timing and specification of distinct neurons from the lineage of a single embryonic Drosophila neural stem cell.
Tetrodotoxin (TTX) is a potent blocker of voltage-gated sodium channels, but not all sodium channels are equally sensitive to inhibition by TTX. The molecular basis of differential TTX sensitivity of mammalian sodium channels has been largely elucidated. In contrast, our knowledge about the sensitivity of invertebrate sodium channels to TTX remains poor, in part because of limited success in functional expression of these channels. In this study, we report the functional characterization in Xenopus oocytes of the first non-insect, invertebrate voltage-gated sodium channel from the varroa mite (Varroa destructor), an ecto-parasite of the honeybee. This arachnid sodium channel activates and inactivates rapidly with half-maximal activation at -18 mV and half-maximal fast inactivation at -29 mV. Interestingly, this arachnid channel showed surprising TTX resistance. TTX blocked this channel with an IC(50) of 1 microM. Subsequent site-directed mutagenesis revealed two residues, Thr-1674 and Ser-1967, in the pore-forming region of domains III and IV, respectively, which were responsible for the observed resistance to inhibition by TTX. Furthermore, sequence comparison and additional amino acid substitutions suggested that sequence polymorphisms at these two positions could be a widespread mechanism for modulating TTX sensitivity of sodium channels in diverse invertebrates.
Blue native gel electrophoresis purification and immunoprecipitation of F(0)F(1)-ATP synthase from bovine heart mitochondria revealed that cyclophilin (CyP) D associates to the complex. Treatment of intact mitochondria with the membrane-permeable bifunctional reagent dimethyl 3,3-dithiobis-propionimidate (DTBP) cross-linked CyPD with the lateral stalk of ATP synthase, whereas no interactions with F(1) sector subunits, the ATP synthase natural inhibitor protein IF1, and the ATP/ADP carrier were observed. The ATP synthase-CyPD interactions have functional consequences on enzyme catalysis and are modulated by phosphate (increased CyPD binding and decreased enzyme activity) and cyclosporin (Cs) A (decreased CyPD binding and increased enzyme activity). Treatment of MgATP submitochondrial particles or intact mitochondria with CsA displaced CyPD from membranes and activated both hydrolysis and synthesis of ATP sustained by the enzyme. No effect of CsA was detected in CyPD-null mitochondria, which displayed a higher specific activity of the ATP synthase than wild-type mitochondria. Modulation by CyPD binding appears to be independent of IF1, whose association to ATP synthase was not affected by CsA treatment. These findings demonstrate that CyPD association to the lateral stalk of ATP synthase modulates the activity of the complex.
Amphiphysin 1, an endocytic adaptor concentrated at synapses that couples clathrin-mediated endocytosis to dynamin-dependent fission, was also shown to have a regulatory role in actin dynamics. Here, we report that amphiphysin 1 interacts with N-WASP and stimulates N-WASP- and Arp2/3-dependent actin polymerization. Both the Src homology 3 and the N-BAR domains are required for this stimulation. Acidic liposome-triggered, N-WASP-dependent actin polymerization is strongly impaired in brain cytosol of amphiphysin 1 knock-out mice. FRET-FLIM analysis of Sertoli cells, where endogenously expressed amphiphysin 1 co-localizes with N-WASP in peripheral ruffles, confirmed the association between the two proteins in vivo. This association undergoes regulation and is enhanced by stimulating phosphatidylserine receptors on the cell surface with phosphatidylserine-containing liposomes that trigger ruffle formation. These results indicate that actin regulation is a key function of amphiphysin 1 and that such function cooperates with the endocytic adaptor role and membrane shaping/curvature sensing properties of the protein during the endocytic reaction.
The enteric nervous system (ENS) is a self-contained network with identified functions, capable of performing complex behaviors in isolation. Its neurons (10 to 25 microm in diameter) are arranged in plexuses that are confined to distinct planes of the gut wall (1); the myenteric plexus can be found between the longitudinal and circular muscle layers, and the submucous plexus between the circular muscle layer and the mucosa. Since the effector systems for these plexuses (transporting epithelium, endocrine cells, immune elements, blood vessels and smooth muscle) are also contained within the gut wall, semi-intact preparations can be dissected that preserve individual components of different reflex pathways. The behavior of the effector systems is controlled by the submucous and myenteric plexuses acting in concert. Therefore, detailed knowledge of synaptic interactions within and between ganglia, and of communication between the plexuses, is essential for understanding normal gastrointestinal function. The ENS, as an intact nervous system, is a unique experimental model in which one can correlate molecular and cellular events with the electrical behavior of the neuronal network and its physiological outputs. Because of the quasi-two-dimensional organization of its plexuses, the ENS is particularly well suited for the study of neural networks using multiple site optical recording techniques that employ voltage-sensitive dyes (2,7,8,9). We will illustrate here the use of a relatively new naphthylstyryl-pyridinium dye (di-4-ANEPPDHQ) (3) that offers multiple advantages over its predecessors, including very low phototoxicity, slow rate of internalization, and remarkable chemical stability. When used in conjunction with a camera that permits sub-millisecond time resolution, this dye allows us to monitor the electrical activity of all the neurons in the field of view with a maximal spatial resolution of approximately 2.5 microm at 100X magnification. At lower magnification (10X or 20X), the sacrifice of single-cell resolution is compensated by a gain in perspective, revealing the intricacies of the inter-ganglionic circuitry.
Granger causality is a statistical notion of causal influence based on prediction via vector autoregression. Developed originally in the field of econometrics, it has since found application in a broader arena, particularly in neuroscience. More recently transfer entropy, an information-theoretic measure of time-directed information transfer between jointly dependent processes, has gained traction in a similarly wide field. While it has been recognized that the two concepts must be related, the exact relationship has until now not been formally described. Here we show that for Gaussian variables, Granger causality and transfer entropy are entirely equivalent, thus bridging autoregressive and information-theoretic approaches to data-driven causal inference.
Heterologous channel expression can be used to control activity in select neuronal populations, thus expanding the tools available to modern neuroscience. However, the secondary effects of exogenous channel expression are often left unexplored. We expressed two transient receptor potential (TRP) channel family members, TRPV1 and TRPM8, in cultured hippocampal neurons. We compared functional expression levels and secondary effects of channel expression and activation on neuronal survival and signaling. We found that activation of both channels with appropriate agonist caused large depolarizing currents in voltage-clamped hippocampal neurons, exceeding the amplitude responses to a calibrating 30 mM KCl stimulation. Both TRPV1 and TRPM8 currents were reduced but not eliminated by 4 hr incubation in saturating agonist concentration. In the case of TRPV1, but not TRPM8, prolonged agonist exposure caused strong calcium-dependent toxicity. In addition, TRPV1 expression depressed synaptic transmission dramatically without overt signs of toxicity, possibly due to low-level TRPV1 activation in the absence of exogenous agonist application. Despite evidence of expression at presynaptic sites, in addition to somatodendritic sites, TRPM8 expression alone exhibited no effects on synaptic transmission. Therefore, by a number of criteria, TRPM8 proved the superior choice for control over neuronal membrane potential. This study also highlights the need to explore potential secondary effects of long-term expression and activation of heterologously introduced channels.
Superoxide anion (O(2)(-*)) production was previously reported to be increased in celiac ganglia (CG) during DOCA-salt hypertension, possibly via activation of the reduced nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase. This suggested a role for neuronal NADPH oxidase in autonomic neurovascular control. However, the expression and localization of NADPH oxidase in the peripheral neurons are not fully known. The purpose of this study was to examine the subcellular localization of NADPH oxidase in sympathetic and sensory ganglion neurons and perivascular nerve fibers. In rat CG, p22(phox) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) were colocalized in all neurons. P22(phox) was also localized to dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons that contain calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP). In mesenteric arteries, p22(phox) and p47(phox) were colocalized with NPY or CGRP in perivascular nerve terminals. A similar pattern of nerve terminal staining of p22(phox) and p47(phox) was also found in cultured CG neurons and nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells. These data demonstrate a previously uncharacterized localization of NADPH oxidase in perivascular nerve fibers. The presence of a O(2)(-*)-generating enzyme in close vicinity to the sites of neurotransmitter handling in the nerve fibers suggests the possibility of novel redox-mediated mechanisms in peripheral neurovascular control.
A dominant basal ganglia (BG) model consists of two functionally opposite pathways: one facilitates motor output and the other suppresses it. Although this idea was originally proposed to account for motor deficits, it has been extended recently also to explain cognitive deficits. Here, we employed the antisaccade paradigm (look away from a stimulus) to address the role of the caudate nucleus, the main BG input stage where the two pathways diverge, in conflict resolution. Using single neuron recordings in awake monkeys, we identified the following three groups of neurons. The first group of neurons showed activity consistent with sensory-driven (automatic) saccades toward a contralateral visual stimulus. The second group of neurons showed activity consistent with internally driven (volitional) saccades toward the contralateral side regardless of stimulus locations. The third group of neurons showed similar firing characteristics with the second group of neurons, except that their preferred saccade direction was ipsilateral. The activity of the three groups of neurons was correlated with behavioral outcome. Based on these findings, we suggest the following hypothesis: the first and second groups of neurons encoding automatic and volitional saccades, respectively, might give rise to the facilitation (direct) pathway and promote saccades toward the opposite directions, which creates a response conflict. This conflict could be resolved by the third group of caudate neurons, which might give rise to the suppression (indirect) pathway and attenuate inappropriate saccade commands toward the stimulus.
The role and contribution of the dense noradrenergic innervation in the ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (vBNST) and anteroventral thalamic nucleus (AV) to biological function and animal behaviors is poorly understood due to the small size of these nuclei. The aim of this study was to compare norepinephrine release and uptake in the vBNST with that in the AV of anesthetized rats. Measurements were made in vivo with fast-scan cyclic voltammetry following electrical stimulation of noradrenergic projection pathways, either the dorsal noradrenergic bundle (DNB) or the ventral noradrenergic bundle (VNB). The substance detected was identified as norepinephrine based upon voltammetric, anatomical, neurochemical and pharmacological evidence. Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry enables the selective monitoring of local norepinephrine overflow in the vBNST evoked by the stimulation of either the DNB or the VNB while norepinephrine in the AV was only evoked by DNB stimulation. The alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine and the norepinephrine uptake inhibitor desipramine increased norepinephrine overflow and slowed its disappearance in both regions. However, control of extracellular norepinephrine by both autoreceptors and uptake was greater in the AV. The greater control exerted by autoreceptors and uptake in the AV resulted in reduced extracellular concentration compared with the v BNST when large numbers of stimulation pulses were employed. The differences in noradrenergic transmission observed in the terminal fields of the v BNST and the AV may differentially regulate activity in these two regions that both contain high densities of norepinephrine terminals.


Scales are collections of tones that divide octaves into specific intervals used to create music. Since humans can distinguish about 240 different pitches over an octave in the mid-range of hearing, in principle a very large number of tone combinations could have been used for this purpose. Nonetheless, compositions in Western classical, folk and popular music as well as in many other musical traditions are based on a relatively small number of scales that typically comprise only five to seven tones. Why humans employ only a few of the enormous number of possible tone combinations to create music is not known. Here we show that the component intervals of the most widely used scales throughout history and across cultures are those with the greatest overall spectral similarity to a harmonic series. These findings suggest that humans prefer tone combinations that reflect the spectral characteristics of conspecific vocalizations. The analysis also highlights the spectral similarity among the scales used by different cultures.
The three human alleles of apolipoprotein E (APOE) differentially influence outcome after CNS injury and affect one's risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). It remains unclear how ApoE isoforms contribute to various AD-related pathological changes (e.g., amyloid plaques and synaptic and neuron loss). Here, we systematically examined whether apoE isoforms (E2, E3, E4) exhibit differential effects on dendritic spine density and morphology in APOE targeted replacement (TR) mice, which lack AD pathological changes. Using Golgi staining, we found age-dependent effects of APOE4 on spine density in the cortex. The APOE4 TR mice had significantly reduced spine density at three independent time points (4 weeks, 3 months, and 1 year, 27.7% +/- 7.4%, 24.4% +/- 8.6%, and 55.6% +/- 10.5%, respectively) compared with APOE3 TR mice and APOE2 TR mice. Additionally, in APOE4 TR mice, shorter spines were evident compared with other APOE TR mice at 1 year. APOE2 TR mice exhibited longer spines as well as significantly increased apical dendritic arborization in the cortex compared with APOE4 and APOE3 TR mice at 4 weeks. However, there were no differences in spine density across APOE genotypes in hippocampus. These findings demonstrate that apoE isoforms differentially affect dendritic complexity and spine formation, suggesting a role for APOE genotypes not only in acute and chronic brain injuries including AD, but also in normal brain functions.
The frequency profiles of various extracellular field oscillations are known to reflect functional brain states, yet we lack detailed explanations of how these brain oscillations arise. Of particular clinical relevance are the high-frequency oscillations (HFOs) associated with interictal events and the onset of seizures. These time periods are also when pyramidal firing appears to be vetoed by high-frequency volleys of inhibitory synaptic currents, thereby providing an inhibitory restraint that opposes epileptiform spread (Trevelyan et al., 2006, 2007). The pattern and timing of this inhibitory volley is suggestive of a causal relationship between the restraint and HFOs. I show that at these times, isolated inhibitory currents from single pyramidal cells have a similarity to the extracellular signal that significantly exceeds chance. The ability to extrapolate from discrete currents in single cells to the extracellular signal arises because these inhibitory currents are synchronized in local populations of pyramidal cells. The visibility of these inhibitory currents in the field recordings is greatest when local pyramidal activity is suppressed: the correlation between the inhibitory currents and the field signal becomes worse when local activity increases, suggestive of a switch from one source of HFO to another as the restraint starts to fail. This association suggests that a significant component of HFOs reflects the last act of defiance in the face of an advancing ictal event.
In neocortex, the induction and expression of long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) vary depending on cortical area and laminae of presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons. Layer 4 (L4) is the initial site of sensory afference in barrel cortex and primary visual cortex (V1) in which excitatory inputs from thalamus, L6, and neighboring L4 cells are integrated. However, little is known about plasticity within L4. We studied plasticity at excitatory synaptic connections between pairs and triplets of interconnected L4 neurons in guinea pig V1 using a fixed delay pairing protocol. Plasticity outcomes were heterogeneous, with some connections undergoing LTP (n = 7 of 42), some LTD (n = 19 of 42), and some not changing (n = 16 of 42). Although quantal analysis revealed both presynaptic and postsynaptic plasticity expression components, reduction in quantal size (a postsynaptic property) contributing to LTD was ubiquitous, whereas in some cell pairs, this change was overridden by an increase in the probability of neurotransmitter release (a presynaptic property) resulting in LTP. These changes depended on the initial reliability of the connections: highly reliable connections depressed with contributions from presynaptic and postsynaptic effects, and unreliable connections potentiated as a result of the predominance of presynaptic enhancement. Interestingly, very strong, reliable pairs of connected cells showed little plasticity. Pairs of connected cells with a common presynaptic or postsynaptic L4 cell behaved independently, undergoing plasticity of different or opposite signs. Release probability of a connection with initial 100% failure rate was enhanced after pairing, potentially avoiding silencing of the presynaptic terminal and maintaining L4-L4 synapses in a broader dynamic range.
Rho GTPases are thought to mediate the action of several axonal growth inhibitors in the adult brain and spinal cord. RhoA has been targeted pharmacologically in both humans and animals to promote neurite outgrowth and functional recovery following CNS trauma. However, rat spinal cord injury studies suggest a complicated and partial benefit of inhibiting Rho or its downstream effector, Rho-associated kinase (ROCKII). This limited benefit may reflect inhibition of other kinases, poor access, or a minimal role of ROCKII in vivo. Therefore, we studied ROCKII mutant mice to probe this pathway genetically. ROCKII(-/-) dorsal root ganglion neurons are less sensitive to inhibition by Nogo protein or by chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan in vitro. We examined adult ROCKII(-/-) mice in two injury paradigms, cervical multilevel dorsal rhizotomy and midthoracic dorsal spinal cord hemisection. After dorsal root crush injury, the ROCKII(-/-) mice recovered use of the affected forepaw more quickly than did controls. Moreover, multiple classes of sensory axons regenerated across the dorsal root entry zone into the spinal cord of mice lacking ROCKII. After the spinal cord injury, ROCKII(-/-) mice showed enhanced local growth of raphespinal axons in the caudal spinal cord and corticospinal axons into the lesion site. Improved functional recovery was not observed by Basso Mouse Scale score following dorsal hemisection, likely due to developmental defects in the nervous system. Together, these findings demonstrate that the ROCKII gene product limits axonal growth after CNS trauma.
In the nervous system, spontaneous Ca(2+) transients play important roles in many developmental processes. We previously found that altering the frequency of electrically recorded rhythmic spontaneous bursting episodes in embryonic chick spinal cords differentially perturbed the two main pathfinding decisions made by motoneurons, dorsal-ventral and pool-specific, depending on the sign of the frequency alteration. Here, we characterized the Ca(2+) transients associated with these bursts and showed that at early stages while motoneurons are still migrating and extending axons to the base of the limb bud, they display spontaneous, highly rhythmic, and synchronized Ca(2+) transients. Some precursor cells in the ependymal layer displayed similar transients. T-type Ca(2+) channels and a persistent Na(+) current were essential to initiate spontaneous bursts and associated transients. However, subsequent propagation of activity throughout the cord resulted from network-driven chemical transmission mediated presynaptically by Ca(2+) entry through N-type Ca(2+) channels and postsynaptically by acetylcholine acting on nicotinic receptors. The increased [Ca(2+)](i) during transients depended primarily on L-type and T-type channels with a modest contribution from TRP (transient receptor potential) channels and ryanodine-sensitive internal stores. Significantly, the drugs used previously to produce pathfinding errors altered transient frequency but not duration or amplitude. These observations imply that different transient frequencies may differentially modulate motoneuron pathfinding. However, the duration of the Ca(2+) transients differed significantly between pools, potentially enabling additional distinct pool-specific downstream signaling. Many early events in spinal motor circuit formation are thus potentially sensitive to the rhythmic Ca(2+) transients we have characterized and to any drugs that perturb them.
A(2A) receptors are a major class of G-protein-coupled receptors for adenosine. Highly expressed in the striatum, on the projection neurons giving rise to the striatopallidal or &quot;indirect&quot; pathway, they have been implicated in sleep, addiction, and other processes, yet their role in the control of striatal circuits and behavior remains unclear. Using established assays from the instrumental learning paradigm, we showed that mice with striatum-specific deletion of A(2A) receptors were selectively impaired in habit formation. After training that generated habitual lever pressing in wild-type controls, the performance of striatum-specific A(2A) knock-out mice remained goal directed, being highly sensitive to outcome devaluation and reversal of the action-outcome contingency. These data demonstrate a critical role for A(2A) receptors on striatopallidal medium spiny projection neurons in shaping behavior and decision making, providing the first instance of a selective alteration in instrumental learning after striatum-specific genetic manipulations.
An array of cortical and subcortical structures have been implicated in the recognition of emotion from facial expressions. It remains unknown how these regions communicate as parts of a system to achieve recognition, but white matter tracts are likely critical to this process. We hypothesized that (1) damage to white matter tracts would be associated with recognition impairment and (2) the degree of disconnection of association fiber tracts [inferior longitudinal fasciculus (ILF) and/or inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus (IFOF)] connecting the visual cortex with emotion-related regions would negatively correlate with recognition performance. One hundred three patients with focal, stable brain lesions mapped onto a reference brain were tested on their recognition of six basic emotional facial expressions. Association fiber tracts from a probabilistic atlas were coregistered to the reference brain. Parameters estimating disconnection were entered in a general linear model to predict emotion recognition impairments, accounting for lesion size and cortical damage. Damage associated with the right IFOF significantly predicted an overall facial emotion recognition impairment and specific impairments for sadness, anger, and fear. One subject had a pure white matter lesion in the location of the right IFOF and ILF. He presented specific, unequivocal emotion recognition impairments. Additional analysis suggested that impairment in fear recognition can result from damage to the IFOF and not the amygdala. Our findings demonstrate the key role of white matter association tracts in the recognition of the facial expression of emotion and identify specific tracts that may be most critical.
New olfactory bulb granule cells (GCs) are GABAergic interneurons continuously arising from neuronal progenitors and integrating into preexisting bulbar circuits. They receive both GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic inputs from olfactory bulb intrinsic neurons and centrifugal afferents. Here, we investigated the spatiotemporal dynamic of newborn GC synaptogenesis in adult mouse olfactory bulb. First, we established that GABAergic synapses onto mature GC dendrites contain the GABA(A) receptor alpha2 subunit along with the postsynaptic scaffolding protein gephyrin. Next, we characterized morphologically and electrophysiologically the development of GABAergic and glutamatergic inputs onto newborn GCs labeled with eGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein) using lentiviral vectors. Already when reaching the GC layer (GCL), at 3 d post-vector injection (dpi), newborn GCs exhibited tiny voltage-dependent sodium currents and received functional GABAergic and glutamatergic synapses, recognized immunohistochemically by apposition of specific presynaptic and postsynaptic markers. Thereafter, GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic contacts increased differentially in the GCL, and at 7 dpi, PSD-95 clusters outnumbered gephyrin clusters. Thus, the weight of GABAergic input was predominant at early stages of GC maturation, but not later. Newborn GC dendrites first reached the external plexiform layer at 4 dpi, where they received functional GABAergic contacts at 5 dpi. Reciprocal synapses initially were formed on GC dendritic shafts, where they might contribute to spine formation. Their presence was confirmed ultrastructurally at 7 dpi. Together, our findings unravel rapid synaptic integration of newborn GCs in adult mouse olfactory bulb, with GABAergic and glutamatergic influences being established proximally before formation of output synapses by apical GC dendrites onto mitral/tufted cells.

Nitrergic myenteric neurons are especially susceptible to the development of neuropathy in functional gastrointestinal disorders. Investigations of the similarities and dissimilarities in the organization of nitrergic neurons in the various mammalian species are therefore important in an effort to determine the extent to which the results obtained in different animal models can be generalized. In the present work, the density and the spatial organization of the nitrergic neurons in the myenteric plexus of the duodenum were investigated in 7 mammalian species. After nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry, the Plexus Pattern Analysis software (PPAs) was applied to count the nuclei of nitrergic neurons, calculate the proportions of the areas covered by the plexus and perform randomization analysis. All 7 species exhibited a large population of nitrergic myenteric neurons, with densities in the range 12-56 cells/mm 2 . The distribution patterns of these neurons differed markedly in the different species, however, the rat was the only species in which the nitrergic neurons appeared to be randomly distributed. The PPAs in conjunction with NADPH-d histochemistry proved to be a simple and fast tool with which to reveal similarities and dissimilarities in the spatial arrangement of the nitrergic neurons in the different species.


A cognitive neuropsychiatric analysis will be proposed by presenting recent research on -1-motor control, and -2-action monitoring in two psychiatric disorders i.e. major depression and schizophrenia. Motor control is best studied from the broader cognitive neuropsychological perspective of action control. Even very simple actions implicate quite diverse brain activities reflecting the cognitive processes of planning, selection, visuomotor integration, timing, force adjustment, and action monitoring. The extent to which deficits in these cognitive processes cause slowed or stereotypic actions can be experimentally studied in clinical settings by means of graphic tasks, as will be illustrated. A central process in motor/action control is error monitoring. The last decade research on this higher cognitive control process has been booming, also because the detection of errors is accompanied by a clear peak in the EEG, known as the error-related negativity (ERN). Deficient error monitoring has been observed in several psychiatric disorders. ERN studies in major depression and schizophrenia will be discussed. Psychiatric disorders can best be understood by considering three perspectives, i.e. psychopathology, cognitive neuropsychology and neuroscience. The findings support the view that cognitive neuropsychiatry should involve the combined study of psychiatric symptoms, cognitive dimensions and neurological structures.






Reduced dietary intake increases lifespan in a wide variety of organisms. It also retards disease progression. We tested whether dietary supplementation of citric acid cycle metabolites could mimic this lifespan effect. We report that oxaloacetate supplementation increased lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans. The increase was dependent on the transcription factor, FOXO/DAF-16, and the energy sensor, AMP-activated protein kinase, indicating involvement of a pathway that is also required for lifespan extension through dietary restriction. These results demonstrate that supplementation of the citric acid cycle metabolite, oxaloacetate, influences a longevity pathway, and suggest a tractable means of introducing the health-related benefits of dietary restriction.

Women's disclosure of their HIV serostatus across social network ties was examined in a sample of women living in Los Angeles (n = 234), using multivariate random intercept logistic regressions. Women with disclosure-averse attitudes were less likely to disclose, while women with higher CD4+ counts were significantly more likely to disclose, regardless of relationship type. Relative to all other types of relationships, spouses/romantic partners were greater than four times more likely to be the targets of disclosure. Women were more than 2.5 times more likely to disclose to a given network member if that target provided the woman with social support. Social network members whom women believed to be HIV-positive were more than 10 times more likely to be the targets of disclosure. The implications for how social roles and social identities are manifest in these results are discussed, including the implications such an interpretation has for future prevention research.

Alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate glutamatergic receptors (AMPAR) mediate most of the fast excitatory synaptic transmission in mature neurons. In contrast, a number of developing synapses do not express AMPARs; these are gradually acquired in an activity-driven manner during the first week of life in rats, which is equivalent to the third trimester of human pregnancy. Neuronal stimulation has been shown to drive high conductance Ca(2+)-permeable AMPARs into the synapse, strengthening glutamatergic synaptic transmission. Alterations in this process could induce premature stabilization or inappropriate elimination of newly formed synapses and contribute to the hippocampal abnormalities associated with fetal alcohol spectrum disorder. Previous studies from our laboratory performed with hippocampal slices from neonatal rats showed that acute ethanol exposure exerts potent stimulant effects on CA1 and CA3 neuronal networks. However, the impact of these in vitro actions of acute ethanol exposure is unknown. Here, we tested the hypothesis that repeated in vivo exposure to ethanol strengthens AMPAR-mediated neurotransmission in the CA1 region by means of an increase in synaptic expression of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPARs. We exposed rats to ethanol vapor (serum ethanol concentration approximately 40 mM) or air for 4h/day from postnatal day (P) 2-6. In brain slices prepared at P4-6, we found no significant effect of ethanol exposure on input-output curves for AMPAR-mediated field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs), the contribution of Ca(2+)-permeable AMPARs to these fEPSPs, or the acute effect of ethanol on fEPSP amplitude. These results suggest that homeostatic plasticity mechanisms act to maintain glutamatergic synaptic strength and ethanol sensitivity in response to repeated developmental ethanol exposure.


Anorexia that accompanies cellular dehydration in rats (DE-anorexia) offers a relatively simple model for investigating the functional organization of neural mechanisms that can suppress feeding during dehydration. Previous studies strongly suggest that the inputs that drive ingestive behavior control neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) and lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) remain active during DE-anorexia. Here we examine whether these two regions retain their sensitivity to neuropeptide Y (NPY). NPY is an important component in two major feeding-related inputs from the arcuate nucleus and the hindbrain. We found that intake responses to NPY injections in the LHA and PVH were suppressed in DE-anorexia, but the PVH remained less sensitive to the effects of NPY than the LHA in DE-anorexic animals. Indeed the higher dose of NPY (238 pmol) completely overcame shorter periods of DE-anorexia when injected into the LHA but not the PVH. However, the latency to eat after NPY injections remained unchanged from control animals, regardless of NPY dose, injection location, or intensity of anorexia. Furthermore, the onset and size of the strong and rapidly induced compensatory feeding that follows the return of water to DE-anorexic animals was also unaffected by any NPY injections. These data support the hypothesis that DE-anorexia develops as a consequence of the premature termination of regularly initiated meals, which perhaps involves processes that alter the sensitivity of satiety mechanisms downstream to the PVH and LHA.
It was demonstrated that comparison of the autofluorescence spectra induced with laser radiation in ultraviolet and visible allows the identification of brain tumor tissues and normal tissues as well as the difference between them. The measurements were performed on homogenates to ensure an optimal reproducibility of the results. We conclude that the autofluorescence spectra of the tumor samples are close to those measured for normal tissues, but there are differences between them that allow distinguishing the tumor from the normal tissue. One difference is that for each pair of tumor/normal tissue samples, the peak autofluorescence for the normal tissue is shifted with respect to that for the tumor-typically between 10 and 20 nm; overall autofluorescence intensity is also different for the components of the same pair, the difference being in the range 15%-30%. A parameter that can also be used is the variation of the ratio of some fluorescence intensity peaks between normal and tumor tissue samples. Measurements of this parameter yielded variations ranging between 10% and 40%. Another conclusion of the study is that in vitro experiments show that it is mandatory to use pairs of samples (normal/tumor tissue) taken from the same patient. The results show that, after further experimental in vitro tests, the method may be adapted to real-time intraoperative conditions by measuring the autofluorescence of the tumor and of the adjacent normal tissue.
Astrocytes release factors like cholesterol, apoE, and pleiotropic molecules that influence synaptogenesis in the central nervous system. In vitro studies have shown that guanosine elicits the production and further release of these synaptogenic factors. To demonstrate that such astrocytic factors are synaptogenic in vivo, osmotic pumps were implanted in primary visual cortex (VC) of Sprague-Dawley rats to deliver guanosine. Simultaneous injection of dextran amine as an anterograde tracer at the same site where the osmotic pumps were implanted enabled the morphology of the fibers emerging from the VC to be visualized as well. The guanosine-treated efferent connections from these animals showed a significant increase in the number and size of synaptic boutons along the efferent fibers when compared with controls. A similar increase in the number and size of synaptic boutons was also detected when the cortico-cortical connection to the lateral secondary visual area was studied in more detail. The ensuing morphological changes to the synapses did not show a clear preference for any particular type or site of the axonal branches that integrates this cortical connection. Moreover, the distribution of boutons along the fibers was clearly stochastic according to their size. Thus, guanosine administration appears to open up the possibility of manipulating connections to compensate for total or partial denervation.
Neurogenesis in the embryo involves many signaling pathways and transcriptional programs and an elaborate orchestration of cell cycle exit in differentiating precursors. However, while the neurons differentiate into a plethora of different subtypes and different identities, they also presume a highly polar structure with a particular morphology of the cytoskeleton, thereby making it almost impossible for any differentiated cell to re-enter the cell cycle. It has been observed that dysregulated or forced cell cycle reentry is closely linked to neurodegeneration and apoptosis in neurons, most likely through changes in the neurocytoskeleton. However, proliferative cells still exist within the nervous system, and adult neural stem cells (NSCs) have been identified in the Central Nervous System (CNS) in the past decade, raising a great stir in the neuroscience community. NSCs present a new therapeutic potential, and much effort has since gone into understanding the molecular mechanisms driving differentiation of specific neuronal lineages, such as dopaminergic neurons, for use in regenerative medicine, either through transplanted NSCs or manipulation of existing ones. Nevertheless, differentiation and proliferation are two sides of the same coin, just like tumorigenesis and degeneration. Tumor formation may be regarded as a de-differentiation of tissues, where cell cycle mechanisms are reactivated in differentiated cell types. It is thus important to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying various brain tumors in this perspective. The recent Cancer Stem Cell (CSC) hypothesis also suggests the presence of Brain Tumor Initiating Cells (BTICs) within a tumor population, although the exact origin of these rare and mostly elusive BTICs are yet to be identified. This review attempts to investigate the correlation of neural stem cells/precursors, mature neurons, BTICs and brain tumors with respect to cell cycle regulation and the impact of cell cycle in neurodegeneration.

This article emphasizes some key points in the preoperative evaluation of patients with neurologic disease. The amount of neurologic disease in the general population is a difficult number to assess accurately. This is, in part, because of the wide-sweeping scope of neurologic disease. The International Classification of Diseases has the highest number of conditions attributable to neurologic disease. Patients with neurologic disease are commonly encountered, and their illness is often complicated by significant comorbid disease. It is important to think of the patient as a whole rather than the sum of his or her systems. While it is tempting to consider the traditional preoperative evaluation from a &quot;cardiac clearance&quot; point of view, we must resist this urge, and evaluate which risk factors we can modify and hopefully mitigate to optimize the perioperative period.
Interferons (IFNs) are widely used in therapy for viral, neoplastic, and inflammatory disorders, but clinical response varies among patients. The biological basis for variable clinical response is not known. We determined the primary molecular response to IFN-beta (IFN-beta) injections in 35 treatment-nave multiple sclerosis (MS) patients using a customized cDNA macroarray with 186 interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs). Our results revealed striking interindividual heterogeneity, both in the magnitude as well as the nature of the primary molecular response to IFN-beta injections. Despite marked between-subject variability in the molecular response, responses within individual subjects were stable over a 6-month interval. Our data suggest that clinical response to IFN-beta therapy for MS differs among patients because of qualitative rather than quantitative variability in the primary molecular response to the drug.





In the present study, it was investigated whether humans acquire an aversion for a flavor paired with a single bout of exercise, and if so, to what degree this effect requires the experience of gastrointestinal distress. To this end, a total of 58 participants either consumed or merely tasted a specifically flavored solution directly prior to a 30 min running exercise. In both cases this led to a negative shift in subjective liking of the flavor (taste and odor) in comparison to the evaluation of another flavor not explicitly paired with exercise, indicative of a conditioned flavor aversion. The degree of subjectively experienced exercise-related gastrointestinal distress did not predict this negative hedonic shift for the flavor paired with the running exercise, implying that such distress may not be a prerequisite for exercise-induced flavor aversion learning in humans.


The last decade has witnessed a rapid progress in understanding of the molecular cascades that may underlie memory and memory disorders. Among the critical players, activity of protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms is essential for many types of learning and memory and their dysfunction, and is critical in memory disorders. PKC inhibition and functional deficits lead to an impairment of various types of learning and memory, consistent with the observations that neurotoxic amyloid inhibits PKC activity and that transgenic animal models with PKCbeta deficit exhibit impaired capacity in cognition. In addition, PKC isozymes play a regulatory role in amyloid production and accumulation. Restoration of the impaired PKC signal pathway pharmacologically results in an enhanced memory capacity and synaptic remodeling / repair and synaptogenesis, and, therefore, represents a potentially important strategy for the treatment of memory disorders, including Alzheimer's dementia. The PKC activators, especially those that are isozyme-specific, are a new class of drug candidates that may be developed as future memory therapeutics.


Recent estimates suggest that 31% of children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) meet diagnostic criteria for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and another 24% of children with ASD exhibit subthreshold clinical ADHD symptoms. Presence of ADHD symptoms in the context of ASD could have a variety of effects on cognition, autistic traits, and adaptive/maladaptive behaviors including: exacerbating core ASD impairments; adding unique impairments specific to ADHD; producing new problems unreported in ASD or ADHD; having no clear impact; or producing some combination of these scenarios. Children with ASD and co-morbid ADHD symptoms (ASD+ADHD; n = 21), children with ASD without ADHD (ASD; n = 28), and a typically developing control group (n = 21) were included in the study; all groups were matched on age, gender-ratio, IQ, and socioeconomic status. Data were collected on verbal and spatial working memory, response inhibition, global executive control (EC), autistic traits, adaptive functioning, and maladaptive behavior problems. In this sample, the presence of ADHD symptoms in ASD exacerbated impairments in EC and adaptive behavior and resulted in higher autistic trait, and externalizing behavior ratings. ADHD symptoms were also associated with greater impairments on a lab measure of verbal working memory. These findings suggest that children with ASD+ADHD symptoms present with exacerbated impairments in some but not all domains of functioning relative to children with ASD, most notably in adaptive behavior and working memory. Therefore, ADHD may moderate the expression of components of the ASD cognitive and behavioral phenotype, but ASD+ADHD may not represent an etiologically distinct phenotype from ASD alone.
This report investigates in what way functional connectivity may explain how two memory systems that share almost all their structures, can function as separate systems. The first series of experiments was aimed at demonstrating the reliability of our experimental design by showing that acquisition of the spatial version of a water cross-maze task (stimulus-stimulus associations) was impaired by dorsal hippocampal lesions whereas the cue version (stimulus-reinforcement association) was altered by amygdala lesion. Then, we evaluated how these two tasks induce different patterns of connectivity. The connectivity was evaluated by calculating the correlations between the zif-268 immunoreactivity of 22 structures composing the hippocampus and the amygdala systems. We designed a new statistical procedure to demonstrate double dissociations on the basis of brain regional intercorrelations. Our data show that the correlations between the hippocampus and the other structures of the memory system are higher in the place-learning group compared to the cue-learning group, whereas they are enhanced with the amygdala in the latter group compared to the former. This demonstrates that the activation of a memory system consists in the focusing of functional connectivity toward the central structure of the system. This may explain how several memory systems can share the same structures while remaining independent.
The dopamine (DA) projections from the ventral tegmental area to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) are the key component of the brain reward circuitry. The encoded information by DA in reward-related memory within this circuit during opiate reinforcement requires further clarification. The present study was designed to explore the correlations between morphine dose, retention of morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP), morphine-induced changes in levels of DA and its metabolites in the NAc in expression and retention of CPP in Sprague-Dawley male rats. A dose-effect curve for morphine-induced CPP (0.01-10 mg/kg, i.p.) was obtained using 4-day conditioning sessions followed by a CPP test; the retention of morphine CPP was measured with CPP tests after the development of CPP. We found a dose-dependent effect of morphine (from 0.01 to 10.0 mg/kg, i.p.) on both the magnitude and the retention of CPP. During the retention of morphine-induced CPP, a morphine-dose- and time-dependent elevation of DA and its metabolites was observed in the NAc. These changes were absent if the same dose of morphine was injected outside of the conditioning environment (i.e., in the home cage). These results suggest that that the long-lasting elevation of DA and its metabolites in the NAc is attributable mainly to drug-associated context, rather than the residual effect of morphine.
Inbred Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats have been proposed as a model of anxiety vulnerability as they display behavioral inhibition and a constellation of learning and reactivity abnormalities relative to outbred Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. Together, the behaviors of the WKY rat suggest a hypervigilant state that may contribute to its anxiety vulnerability. To test this hypothesis, open-field behavior, acoustic startle, pre-pulse inhibition and timing behavior were assessed in WKY and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. Timing behavior was evaluated using a modified version of the peak-interval timing procedure. Training and testing of timing first occurred without audio-visual (AV) interference. Following this initial test, AV interference was included on some trials. Overall, WKY rats took much longer to leave the center of the arena, made fewer line crossings, and reared less, than did SD rats. WKY rats showed much greater startle responses to acoustic stimuli and significantly greater pre-pulse inhibition than did the SD rats. During timing conditions without AV interference, timing accuracy for both strains was similar; peak times for WKY and SD rats were not different. During interference conditions, however, the timing behavior of the two strains was very different. Whereas peak times for SD rats were similar between non-interference and interference conditions, peak times for WKY rats were shorter and response rates higher in interference conditions than in non-interference conditions. The enhanced acoustic startle response, greater prepulse inhibition and altered timing behavior with audio-visual interference supports a characterization of WKY strain as hypervigilant and provides further evidence for the use of the WKY strain as a model of anxiety vulnerability.
Many animal species use their forelimbs to assist in eating, such as occurs in a reach-to-eat task (skilled reaching) in which a forelimb is extended to grasp food that is placed in the mouth for eating. It is unclear the extent to which the skilled reaching movements of different species share common ancestry and so are homologous or evolved independently and so are analogous (homoplasy). Here hand shaping (the movements of the hand and digits) that occur as the hand is transported to the target, were examined using high-speed (1000 frames/s) video recording and kinematic measurement (Peak Motus) in the rat (Rattus norvegicus) and human (Homo sapiens). Ten movement similarities were identified from the point that the limb initiated transport towards the food item to the point that the food was grasped. The digits were closed and semi-flexed as the hand was lifted (released from a substrate) and supinated. They closed further as the hand was collected for aiming. They then extended as the hand was transported to the target and then opened in conjunction with pronation to orient the hand for grasping (manipulation). Finally the digits were flexed and closed for grasping. These movements occurred at approximately the same point of limb transport in both species even though the rat used a whole paw grasp and the humans used a pincer grasp. Bushbabies (Galago garnettii), titi monkeys (Callicebus brunneus), rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) and the bonobo (Pan paniscus) displayed similar hand shaping in skilled reaching despite species differences in grasping movements. Homologous hand shaping in the rodent clade and the primate clade and within the primate lineage is discussed in relation to its possible derivation from hand shaping movements associated with stepping.
The current study examined whether modafinil would reinstate an extinguished cocaine conditioned place preference (CPP). Following extinction of a cocaine CPP, rats were administered modafinil (128 mg/kg), cocaine (5 mg/kg) or vehicle and given a 60-min reinstatement test. While the effect of cocaine was transient, modafinil robustly reinstated a cocaine CPP following extinction, suggesting that modafinil may induce relapse or increase the vulnerability of addicts to the reinforcing effects of environmental triggers.
Chronic psychosocial stress has been suggested as &quot;second hit&quot; in the etiology of neuropsychiatric disease, but experimental evidence is scarce. We employed repetitive social defeat stress in juvenile mice, housed individually or in groups, and measured sensorimotor gating by pre-pulse inhibition (PPI), a marker of neuronal network function. Using the resident-intruder paradigm, 28-day old C57BL/6NCrl mice were subjected daily for 3 weeks to social defeat. PPI and basic behaviour were analyzed 10 weeks later. Whereas stress increased the level of anxiety in all animals, persistent PPI deficits were found only in individually housed mice. Thus, social support in situations of severe psychosocial stress may prevent lasting impairment in basic information processing.
The pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) has been implicated in both inflammatory processes and nociceptive neurotransmission. Activation of P2X7 receptors is the mechanism by which ATP stimulates the rapid maturation and release of IL-1beta from macrophages and microglial cells. Recently, selective P2X7 receptor antagonists have been shown to reduce inflammatory and neuropathic pain in animal models. However, the mechanisms underlying these analgesic effects are unknown. The present studies characterize the pharmacology and antinociceptive effects of a structurally novel P2X7 antagonist. A-839977 potently (IC50=20-150 nM) blocked BzATP-evoked calcium influx at recombinant human, rat and mouse P2X7 receptors. A-839977 also potently blocked agonist-evoked YO-PRO uptake and IL-1beta release from differentiated human THP-1 cells. Systemic administration of A-839977 dose-dependently reduced thermal hyperalgesia produced by intraplantar administration of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) (ED50=100 micromol/kg, i.p.) in rats. A-839977 also produced robust antihyperalgesia in the CFA model of inflammatory pain in wild-type mice (ED50=40 micromol/kg, i.p.), but the antihyperalgesic effects of A-839977 were completely absent in IL-1alphabeta knockout mice. These data demonstrate that selective blockade of P2X7 receptors in vivo produces significant antinociception in animal models of inflammatory pain and suggest that the antihyperalgesic effects of P2X7 receptor blockade in an inflammatory pain model in mice are mediated by blocking the release of IL-1beta.
The ventral tegmental area (VTA) plays a critical role in motivated behavior. However, it remains unclear whether intact VTA function is necessary for motivated behavior to seek contexts repeatedly paired with natural stimuli and/or pharmacological stimuli. In the present study, conditioned place preference (CPP) was induced with highly salient natural or drug stimuli attributed with strong incentive-motivational value in each of 2 female models: Postpartum females were conditioned to associate one unique context in the CPP apparatus with young offspring (pups) and a second context with a neutral stimulus, and virgin females were conditioned to associate unique contexts with cocaine (5 mg/kg ip) and saline injections. Immediately before CPP testing, each female received a microinfusion of bupivacaine bilaterally into the VTA to transiently inactivate the region; subjects were also tested after saline microinfusion into the VTA. Postpartum females' preference for the pup-paired context was abolished by VTA inactivation but was restored to high control levels after saline microinfusion. In separate tests, VTA inactivation also reduced motivated pup licking and pup retrieval in postpartum females, suggesting that intact VTA function is required for the expression of both pup CPP and motivated pup-directed behaviors. Cocaine CPP remained unaffected by VTA inactivation. Locomotion was not affected by VTA microinfusions but was severely impaired by bupivacaine microinfusions into the substantia nigra. We concluded that the VTA is differentially involved in the expression of conditioned preference for contexts paired with pups, a salient natural stimulus, and contexts paired with cocaine.
Fragile X associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS) is a neurodegenerative disorder that is the result of a CGG trinucleotide repeat expansion in the range of 55-200 in the 5' UTR of the FMR1 gene. To better understand the progression of this disorder, a knock-in (CGG KI) mouse was developed by substituting the mouse CGG8 trinucleotide repeat with an expanded CGG98 repeat from human origin. It has been shown that this mouse shows deficits on the water maze at 52 weeks of age. In the present study, this CGG KI mouse model of FXTAS was tested on behavioral tasks that emphasize spatial information processing. The results demonstrate that at 12 and 24 weeks of age, CGG KI mice were unable to detect a change in the distance between two objects (metric task), but showed intact detection of a transposition of the objects (topological task). At 48 weeks of age, CGG KI mice were unable to detect either change in object location. These data indicate that hippocampal-dependent impairments in spatial processing may occur prior to parietal cortex-dependent impairments in FXTAS.

Early life experience impacts emotional development in the infant. In rat pups, repeated, brief (i.e., 15 min) maternal separation (MS15) during the first 1-2 postnatal weeks has been shown to increase active maternal care and to reduce later anxiety-like behavior in the offspring. We hypothesized that the anxiolytic effect of MS15 is partly due to increased intestinal release of cholecystokinin (CCK) in rat pups as a result of increased maternal contact. We predicted that rats with a history of MS15 would display less anxiety in the elevated plus maze (EPMZ) and novelty-suppressed feeding (NSF) tests, as compared with nonseparated (NS) controls, and that the anxiolytic effect of MS15 would be attenuated in rats in which daily MS15 was accompanied by systemic administration of a CCK-1 receptor antagonist (i.e., devazepide). Treatment groups included NS control litters, litters exposed to MS15 from postnatal days (P)1-10, inclusive, and litters exposed to MS15 with concurrent subcutaneous injection of devazepide or vehicle. Litters were undisturbed after P10 and were weaned on P21. Subsets of adolescent males from each litter were tested in the EPMZ on P40-41, while others were tested for NSF on P50-52. As predicted, rats with a developmental history of MS15 displayed reduced anxiety-like behavior in the EPMZ and NSF tests. The anxiolytic effect of MS15 was preserved in vehicle-treated rats, but was reversed in devazepide-treated rats. These results support the view that endogenous CCK-1 receptor signaling in infants is a potential pathway through which maternal-pup interactions regulate the development and functional organization of emotional circuits that control anxiety-like behavior in the offspring.
Although decorticated rats are able to engage in play, their play is abnormal in three ways. First, decorticates do not display the normal, age-related shifts in defensive strategies during development. Second, decorticates do not modify their defensive tactics in response to the social identity of their partners. Third, decorticates display a global shift in defensive tactics from more complex to less complex strategies. It has been shown that lesions of the motor cortex (MC) selectively produce the abnormal developmental effects on play, and that lesions of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) selectively produce the deficits in behavioral discrimination between social partners. In the current set of experiments, we demonstrate that lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) produce the shift from more complex to less complex defensive tactics, while leaving intact the age-related and partner-related modulation of defensive strategies. Thus, we have evidence for a triple dissociation of function between the MC, the OFC, and the mPFC with respect to social play behavior.
Using a visual search methodology we investigated the effect of feared animal stimuli on attention. Our results confirmed the important role of emotion on attention. All participants detected fear-relevant stimuli (snakes and spiders) faster than neutral (mushrooms) ones against a background of fruits. In addition, spider fearful participants were sensitized specifically to detect their feared stimulus (spiders), compared to their fear-relevant but non-feared (snakes) and neutral stimuli. However, for participants fearful of snakes there was no significant difference in detection latencies between the feared (snakes) and the fear-relevant but non-feared animal stimuli (spiders). The results from the attention task were mirrored in the emotional ratings, which showed that spider fear was highly specific, whereas snake fear was associated with a more generalized enhanced evaluation of all negative stimuli.
Long-term BZ (benzodiazepine) anxiolytic therapy increases the risk of physical dependence manifested as withdrawal anxiety. BZ-induced potentiation of GABA(A)R (gamma-aminobutyric acid type-A receptor) function by 1-week oral administration of FZP (flurazepam) bi-directionally modulates excitatory glutamatergic synaptic transmission in hippocampal CA1 neurons during drug withdrawal. Previous electrophysiological studies on acutely isolated and intact CA1 neurons, as well as immunofluorescence and post-embedding immunogold electron microscopy studies, suggest increased synaptic insertion of GluR (glutamate receptor) 2-lacking AMPARs (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptors) in 2-day FZP-withdrawn rats. Preliminary studies indicated a similar increase in GluR1, then phospho-Ser(831)-GluR1, as well as CaMKIIalpha (Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIalpha), but not phospho-Thr(286)-CaMKII levels at the same time point. In our studies, whole-cell recordings in hippocampal slices revealed that AMPAR mEPSC [miniature EPSC (excitatory postsynaptic current)] amplitude was increased in 1-day FZP-withdrawn rats followed by an increase in estimated single-channel conductance in 2-day-FZP-withdrawn rats. Enhanced conductance was no longer observed in slices pre-incubated for 2 h in the CaMKII inhibitor KN-93, but not the inactive analogue KN-92. To evaluate whether CaMKII-mediated AMPA potentiation could occlude LTP (long-term potentiation), LTP was induced by TBS (theta burst stimulation) and recorded using whole-cell and extracellular techniques. LTP was induced in both groups, but only maintained for &lt;15 min in 2-day FZP-withdrawn rats. LTP was fully restored after 7-day withdrawal. Despite the lack of LTP maintenance, impairment of object recognition, place and context was not observed in 2-day-FZP-withdrawn rats. Since L-VGCC (L-type voltage-gated calcium channel) current density was doubled on drug withdrawal and up to 2 days, Ca(2+) entry through L-VGCCs and perhaps subsequently through Ca(2+)-permeable AMPARs are proposed to be responsible for enhanced CaMKIIalpha levels and AMPAR potentiation. Mechanisms associated with several different models of activity-dependent plasticity may underlie BZ physical dependence.
Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system playing critical roles in basal synaptic transmission and mechanisms of learning and memory. Under normal conditions, glutamate is sequestered within synaptic vesicles (approximately 100 mM) with extracellular glutamate concentrations being limited (&lt;1 microM), via retrieval by plasma-membrane transporters on neuronal and glial cells. In the case of central nervous system trauma, stroke, epilepsy, and in certain neurodegenerative diseases, increased concentrations of extracellular glutamate (by vesicular release, cell lysis and/or decreased glutamate transporter uptake/reversal) stimulate the overactivation of local ionotropic glutamate receptors that trigger neuronal cell death (excitotoxicity). Other natural agonists, such as domoic acid, alcohol and auto-antibodies, have also been reported to induce excitotoxicity.
The regulation of synaptic glutamate receptor and GABA(A)R (gamma-aminobutyric acid subtype A receptor) levels is a key component of synaptic plasticity. Most forms of neuronal plasticity are associated with the induction of the transcription factor zif268 (egr1). Hence, it is predicted that zif268 may regulate transcription of genes associated with glutamate receptors and/or GABA(A)Rs. It turns out that receptor regulation by zif268 tends to be indirect. Induction of zif268 in neurons leads to altered expression of proteasome subunit and proteasome-regulatory genes, thereby changing the capacity of the neuron to degrade synaptic proteins, including receptors and receptor subunits. In addition, zif268 alters the transcription of genes associated with GABA(A)R expression and trafficking, such as ubiquilin and gephyrin. This indirect regulation of receptor turnover is likely to contribute to the delayed, but long-lasting, phases of synaptic plasticity and also to the synaptic dysfunction associated with diseases such as schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease, where zif268 expression is reduced.
NMDARs (N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors) are critical for synaptic function throughout the CNS (central nervous system). NMDAR-mediated Ca(2+) influx is implicated in neuronal differentiation, neuronal migration, synaptogenesis, structural remodelling, long-lasting forms of synaptic plasticity and higher cognitive functions. NMDAR-mediated Ca(2+) signalling in dendritic spines is not static, but can be remodelled in a cell- and synapse-specific manner by NMDAR subunit composition, protein kinases and neuronal activity during development and in response to sensory experience. Recent evidence indicates that Ca(2+) permeability of neuronal NMDARs, NMDAR-mediated Ca(2+) signalling in spines and induction of NMDAR-dependent LTP (long-term potentiation) at hippocampal Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses are under control of the cAMP/PKA (protein kinase A) signalling cascade. Thus, by enhancing Ca(2+) influx through NMDARs in spines, PKA can regulate the induction of LTP. An emerging concept is that activity-dependent regulation of NMDAR-mediated Ca(2+) signalling by PKA and by extracellular signals that modulate cAMP or protein phosphatases at synaptic sites provides a dynamic and potentially powerful mechanism for bi-directional regulation of synaptic efficacy and remodelling.
It is well established that leptin is a circulating hormone that enters the brain and regulates food intake and body weight via its hypothalamic actions. However, it is also known that leptin receptors are widely expressed in the CNS (central nervous system), and evidence is accumulating that leptin modulates many neuronal functions. In particular, recent studies have indicated that leptin plays an important role in the regulation of hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Indeed leptin-insensitive rodents display impairments in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and defects in spatial memory tasks. We have also shown that leptin facilitates the induction of hippocampal LTP (long-term potentiation) via enhancing NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor function and that leptin has the ability to evoke a novel form of NMDA receptor-dependent LTD (long-term depression). In addition, leptin promotes rapid alterations in hippocampal dendritic morphology and synaptic density, which are likely to contribute to the effects of this hormone on excitatory synaptic strength. Recent studies have demonstrated that trafficking of AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid) receptors is pivotal for activity-dependent hippocampal synaptic plasticity. However, little is known about how AMPA receptor trafficking processes are regulated by hormonal systems. In the present paper, we discuss evidence that leptin rapidly alters the trafficking of AMPA receptors to and away from hippocampal CA1 synapses. The impact of these leptin-driven changes on hippocampal excitatory synaptic function are discussed.
GABA(A)Rs [GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) type-A receptors] are heteropentameric chloride-selective ligand-gated ion channels that mediate fast inhibition in the brain and are key therapeutic targets for benzodiazepines, barbiturates, neurosteroids and general anaesthetics. In the brain, most of the benzodiazepine-sensitive synaptic receptor subtypes are assembled from alpha(1-3), beta(1-3) and gamma(2) subunits. Although it is evident that the pharmacological manipulation of GABA(A)R function can have profound effects on behaviour, the endogenous mechanisms that neurons use to promote sustained changes in the efficacy of neuronal inhibition remain to be documented. It is increasingly clear that GABA(A)Rs undergo significant rates of constitutive endocytosis and regulate recycling processes that can determine the efficacy of synaptic inhibition. Their endocytosis is regulated via the direct binding of specific endocytosis motifs within the intracellular domains of receptor beta(1-3) and gamma(2) subunits to the clathrin adaptor protein AP2 (adaptor protein 2). These binding motifs contain major sites of both serine and tyrosine phosphorylation within GABA(A)Rs. Their phosphorylation can have dramatic effects on binding to AP2. In the present review, we evaluate the role that these phospho-dependent interactions play in regulating the construction of inhibitory synapses, efficacy of neuronal inhibition and neuronal structure.
Glutamate and GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) are the predominant excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters in the mammalian CNS (central nervous system) respectively, and as such have undergone intense investigation. Given their predominance, it is no wonder that the reciprocal receptors for these neurotransmitters have attracted so much attention as potential targets for the promotion of health and the treatment of disease. Indeed, dysfunction of these receptors underlies a number of well-characterized neuropathological conditions such as anxiety, epilepsy and neurodegenerative diseases. Although intrinsically linked, the glutamatergic and GABAergic systems have, by and large, been investigated independently, with researchers falling into the 'excitatory' or 'inhibitory' camps. Around 70 delegates gathered at the University of St Andrews for this Biochemical Society Focused Meeting aimed at bringing excitation and inhibition together. With sessions on behaviour, receptor structure and function, receptor trafficking, activity-dependent changes in gene expression and excitation/inhibition in disease, the meeting was the ideal occasion for delegates from both backgrounds to interact. This issue of Biochemical Society Transactions contains papers written by those who gave oral presentations at the meeting. In this brief introductory review, I put into context and give a brief overview of these contributions.
HD (Huntington's disease) is a late onset heritable neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by neuronal dysfunction and death, particularly in the cerebral cortex and medium spiny neurons of the striatum. This is followed by progressive chorea, dementia and emotional dysfunction, eventually resulting in death. HD is caused by an expanded CAG repeat in the first exon of the HD gene that results in an abnormally elongated polyQ (polyglutamine) tract in its protein product, Htt (Huntingtin). Wild-type Htt is largely cytoplasmic; however, in HD, proteolytic N-terminal fragments of Htt form insoluble deposits in both the cytoplasm and nucleus, provoking the idea that mutHtt (mutant Htt) causes transcriptional dysfunction. While a number of specific transcription factors and co-factors have been proposed as mediators of mutHtt toxicity, the causal relationship between these Htt/transcription factor interactions and HD pathology remains unknown. Previous work has highlighted REST [RE1 (repressor element 1)-silencing transcription factor] as one such transcription factor. REST is a master regulator of neuronal genes, repressing their expression. Many of its direct target genes are known or suspected to have a role in HD pathogenesis, including BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor). Recent evidence has also shown that REST regulates transcription of regulatory miRNAs (microRNAs), many of which are known to regulate neuronal gene expression and are dysregulated in HD. Thus repression of miRNAs constitutes a second, indirect mechanism by which REST can alter the neuronal transcriptome in HD. We will describe the evidence that disruption to the REST regulon brought about by a loss of interaction between REST and mutHtt may be a key contributory factor in the widespread dysregulation of gene expression in HD.
Spike synchronization remains an important issue in neuroscience, and inhibitory networks are the best candidates to provide such synchrony. Increasing evidence indicates that in many brain area inhibitory interneurons of similar properties make reciprocal connections. We found that a hybrid, as well as model network, consisting of two reciprocally inhibitory spiking neurons may express a peak of synchronization in a narrow range of low spiking frequencies in addition to classically described plateau of synchrony at a wide range of high frequencies. Occurrence of the low frequency peak of synchrony requires a moderate-to-strong inhibitory coupling and relatively fast synapses. This novel possibility of synchronization in a narrow range of network parameters may have an important implication in discrimination and encoding of signals of precise intensity, as well as in altering network ability to process information.


The study of alternative model organisms has yielded tremendous insights into the regulation of behavioral and physiological traits not displayed by more widely used animal models, such as laboratory rats and mice. In particular, comparative approaches often exploit species ideally suited for investigating specific phenomenon. For instance, comparative studies of socially monogamous prairie voles and polygamous meadow voles have been instrumental toward gaining an understanding of the genetic and neurobiological basis of social bonding. However, laboratory studies of less commonly used organisms, such as prairie voles, have been limited by a lack of genetic tools, including the ability to manipulate the genome. Here, we show that lentiviral vector-mediated transgenesis is a rapid and efficient approach for creating germline transgenics in alternative laboratory rodents. Injection of a green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing lentiviral vector into the perivitelline space of 23 single-cell embryos yielded three live offspring (13 %), one of which (33%) contained germline integration of a GFP transgene driven by the human ubiquitin-C promoter. In comparison, transfer of 23 uninjected embryos yielded six live offspring (26%). Green fluorescent protein is present in all tissues examined and is expressed widely in the brain. The GFP transgene is heritable and stably expressed until at least the F(2) generation. This technology has the potential to allow investigation of specific gene candidates in prairie voles and provides a general protocol to pursue germline transgenic manipulation in many different rodent species.
HIV-1 enters the brain shortly after infection, which may lead to neurological complications and in the most severe cases to encephalitis, dementia and death. The introduction of antiretroviral therapy reduced the incidence of the most severe conditions, nevertheless, approximately half of those infected with this virus will suffer to various degrees from HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders. Despite many years of research, there are no biomarkers that can objectively measure and, more importantly, predict the onset and the tempo of HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorders. Here we review biomarker candidates of neurocognitive impairment due to HIV infection of the brain that have been proposed during the last two decades, and discuss perspectives and limitations of proteomic approaches in the search for new, more sensitive and specific biomarkers.
The purpose of this study was to assess chronic mercury exposure within the US population. Time trends were analyzed for blood inorganic mercury (I-Hg) levels in 6,174 women, ages 18-49, in the NHANES, 1999-2006 data sets. Multivariate logistic regression distinguished a significant, direct correlation within the US population between I-Hg detection and years since the start of the survey (OR = 1.49, P &lt; 0.001). Within this population, I-Hg detection rose sharply from 2% in 1999-2000 to 30% in 2005-2006. In addition, the population averaged mean I-Hg concentration rose significantly over that same period from 0.33 to 0.39 /L (Anova, P &lt; 0.001). In a separate analysis, multivariate logistic regression indicated that I-Hg detection was significantly associated with age (OR = 1.02, P &lt; 0.001). Furthermore, multivariate logistic regression revealed significant associations of both I-Hg detection and mean concentration with biomarkers for the main targets of mercury deposition and effect: the liver, immune system, and pituitary. This study provides compelling evidence that I-Hg deposition within the human body is a cumulative process, increasing with age and in the population over time, since 1999, as a result of chronic mercury exposure. Furthermore, our results indicate that I-Hg deposition is associated with the significant biological markers for main targets of exposure, deposition, and effect. Accumulation of focal I-Hg deposits within the human body due to chronic mercury exposure provides a mechanism which suggests a time dependent rise in the population risks for associated disease.
2-Amino-5-aryl-pyridines, exemplified by compound 1, had been identified as a synthetically tractable series of CB(2) agonists from a high-throughput screen of the GlaxoSmithKline compound collection. Described herein are the results of an investigation of the structure-activity relationships (SAR) which led to the identification a number of potent and selective agonists.
Benign central neurocytoma (CN) is a rare neuronal tumour of the central nervous system recognised since the early eighties. More than 300 articles have been published in the literature, mostly comprising of case reports and short series from individual specialties. These tumours, though normally benign, are more often likely to recur after surgery than previously thought. A multi-modality team involvement, therefore, has become increasingly necessary for their optimum management. In this article, the authors from various neurosciences sub-specialties, with a specific interest and experience in managing CN, review the epidemiology, clinical features, pathological findings, radiological characteristics and surgical treatment, with an emphasis on the latest developments in their histology, molecular biology and adjuvant treatment modalities for recurrent or residual disease.





This article discusses Charles Darwin's interest in topics that may broadly be defined as 'neurological' in character. Using published and manuscript materials, it examines the sources of Darwin's knowledge of neurological matters and seeks to explain why questions concerning the relation of mind and brain both in humans and other animals were relevant to his wider concerns. The paper concludes with a discussion of Darwin's impact on late 19th and early 20th century neurological thought. The 150th anniversary of the publication of the Origin of Species and the 200th of the birth of its author afford an opportunity to reflect on Charles Darwin's relationship to neurology. The first section of this article considers the part played by what might broadly be defined as 'neurological' materials in the shaping of Darwin's theory. The following section provides a brief review of the impact that Darwin's ideas were to have upon subsequent neurological thought.
Individuals with developmental prosopagnosia exhibit severe and lasting difficulties in recognizing faces despite the absence of apparent brain abnormalities. We used voxel-based morphometry to investigate whether developmental prosopagnosics show subtle neuroanatomical differences from controls. An analysis based on segmentation of T1-weighted images from 17 developmental prosopagnosics and 18 matched controls revealed that they had reduced grey matter volume in the right anterior inferior temporal lobe and in the superior temporal sulcus/middle temporal gyrus bilaterally. In addition, a voxel-based morphometry analysis based on the segmentation of magnetization transfer parameter maps showed that developmental prosopagnosics also had reduced grey matter volume in the right middle fusiform gyrus and the inferior temporal gyrus. Multiple regression analyses relating three distinct behavioural component scores, derived from a principal component analysis, to grey matter volume revealed an association between a component related to facial identity and grey matter volume in the left superior temporal sulcus/middle temporal gyrus plus the right middle fusiform gyrus/inferior temporal gyrus. Grey matter volume in the lateral occipital cortex was associated with component scores related to object recognition tasks. Our results demonstrate that developmental prosopagnosics have reduced grey matter volume in several regions known to respond selectively to faces and provide new evidence that integrity of these areas relates to face recognition ability.
White matter tracts, which play a crucial role in the coordination of information flow between different regions of grey matter, are particularly vulnerable to multiple sclerosis. Many studies have shown that the white matter lesions in multiple sclerosis are associated with focal abnormalities of grey matter, but little is known about the alterations in the coordinated patterns of cortical morphology among regions in the disease. Here, we used cortical thickness measurements from structural magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the relationship between the white matter lesion load and the topological efficiency of structural cortical networks in multiple sclerosis. Network efficiency was defined using a 'small-world' network model that quantifies the effectiveness of information transfer within brain networks. In this study, we first classified patients (n = 330) into six subgroups according to their total white matter lesion loads, and identified structural brain networks for each multiple sclerosis group by thresholding the corresponding inter-regional cortical thickness correlation matrix, followed by a network efficiency analysis with graph theoretical approaches. The structural cortical networks in multiple sclerosis demonstrated efficient small-world architecture regardless of the lesion load, an organization that maximizes the information processing at a relatively low wiring cost. However, we found that the overall small-world network efficiency in multiple sclerosis was significantly disrupted in a manner proportional to the extent of total white matter lesions. Moreover, regional efficiency was also significantly decreased in specific brain regions, including the insula and precentral gyrus as well as regions of prefrontal and temporal association cortices. Finally, we showed that the lesions also altered many cortical thickness correlations in the frontal, temporal and parietal lobes. Our results suggest that the white matter lesions in multiple sclerosis might be associated with aberrant neuronal connectivity among widely distributed brain regions, and provide structural (morphological) evidence for the notion of multiple sclerosis as a disconnection syndrome.
Congenital amusia refers to a lifelong disorder of music processing and is linked to pitch-processing deficits. The present study investigated congenital amusics' short-term memory for tones, musical timbres and words. Sequences of five events (tones, timbres or words) were presented in pairs and participants had to indicate whether the sequences were the same or different. The performance of congenital amusics confirmed a memory deficit for tone sequences, but showed normal performance for word sequences. For timbre sequences, amusics' memory performance was impaired in comparison to matched controls. Overall timbre performance was found to be correlated with melodic contour processing (as assessed by the Montreal Battery of Evaluation of Amusia). The present findings show that amusics' deficits extend to non-verbal sound material other than pitch, in this case timbre, while not affecting memory for verbal material. This is in line with previous suggestions about the domain-specificity of congenital amusia.

There is currently much interest in investigating the neural substrates of metaphor processing. In particular, it has been suggested that the right hemisphere plays a special role in the comprehension of figurative (non-literal) language, and in particular metaphors. However, some studies find no evidence of right hemisphere involvement in metaphor comprehension (e.g. [Lee, S. S., &amp; Dapretto, M. (2006). Metaphorical vs. literal word meanings: fMRI evidence against a selective role of the right hemisphere. NeuroImage, 29, 536-544; Rapp, A. M., Leube, D. T., Erb, M., Grodd, W., &amp; Kircher, T. T. J. (2004). Neural correlates of metaphor processing. Cognitive Brain Research, 20, 395-402]). We suggest that lateralization differences between literal and metaphorical language may be due to factors such as differences in familiarity ([Schmidt, G. L., DeBuse, C. J., &amp; Seger, C. A. (2007). Right hemisphere metaphor processing? Characterizing the lateralization of semantic processes. Brain and Language, 100, 127-141]), or difficulty ([Bookheimer, S. (2002). Functional MRI of language: New approaches to understanding the cortical organization of semantic processing. Annual Review of Neuroscience, 25, 151-188; Rapp, A. M., Leube, D. T., Erb, M., Grodd, W., &amp; Kircher, T. T. J. (2004). Neural correlates of metaphor processing. Cognitive Brain Research, 20, 395-402]) in addition to figurativeness. The purpose of this study was to separate the effects of figurativeness, familiarity, and difficulty on the recruitment of neural systems involved in language, in particular right hemisphere mechanisms. This was achieved by comparing neural activation using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) between four conditions: literal sentences, familiar and easy to understand metaphors, unfamiliar and easy to understand metaphors, and unfamiliar and difficult to understand metaphors. Metaphors recruited the right insula, left temporal pole and right inferior frontal gyrus in comparison with literal sentences. Familiar metaphors recruited the right middle frontal gyrus when contrasted with unfamiliar metaphors. Easy metaphors showed higher activation in the left middle frontal gyrus as compared to difficult metaphors, while difficult metaphors showed selective activation in the left inferior frontal gyrus as compared to easy metaphors. We conclude that the right hemisphere is involved in metaphor processing and that the factors of figurativeness, familiarity and difficulty are important in determining neural recruitment of semantic processing.
For over four decades the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) has been one of the most distinctive tests of prefrontal function. Clinical research and recent brain imaging have brought into question the validity and specificity of this test as a marker of frontal dysfunction. Clinical studies with neurological patients have confirmed that, in its traditional form, the WCST fails to discriminate between frontal and non-frontal lesions. In addition, functional brain imaging studies show rapid and widespread activation across frontal and non-frontal brain regions during WCST performance. These studies suggest that the concept of an anatomically pure test of prefrontal function is not only empirically unattainable, but also theoretically inaccurate. The aim of the present review is to examine the causes of these criticisms and to resolve them by incorporating new methodological and conceptual advances in order to improve the construct validity of WCST scores and their relationship to prefrontal executive functions. We conclude that these objectives can be achieved by drawing on theory-guided experimental design, and on precise spatial and temporal sampling of brain activity, and then exemplify this using an integrative model of prefrontal function [i.e., Miller, E. K. (2000). The prefrontal cortex and cognitive control. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 1, 59-65.] combined with the formal information theoretical approach to cognitive control [Koechlin, E., &amp; Summerfield, C. (2007). An information theoretical approach to prefrontal executive function. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 11, 229-235.].

Human actions, emotions, and decision making are products of complex interactions between explicit and implicit processes at various levels of spatial and temporal scales. Although it may not be possible to obtain to experimental data for all the complexity of human behavioral and emotional processes in our everyday life, recent studies have investigated the effects of social contexts on actions, emotions, and decision making; these studies include those in the fields of experimental psychology, cognitive science, and neuroscience. In this paper, we review several empirical studies that exemplify how our actions, social emotions, and decision making are influenced by the presence of implicit external, rather than internal factors, particularly by presence of other individuals. The following are the main principles identified. (1) Unconscious behavioral contagion: Individuals tend to mimic others' actions. This tendency occurs unconsciously even when the observed and the to-be-executed movements are unrelated at various levels and aspects of behaviors (e. g., behavioral tempo and speed). (2) Neural substrates of social emotions: Various social emotions, including admiration, compassion, envy, and schadenfreude, are represented in neuronal networks that are similar to those of basic emotional processes. (3) Evasive nature of human decision making: Individuals tend to overrate their own subjective impression of and emotional reaction in forecasting affective reaction to events in the future, even though the predictive power of information from peer group is much larger in this regard. Individuals are seldom aware of the dissociation between their intended choice and excuted actions and are willing to give elaborate explanations for the choices they, in fact, did not make. Using these empirical examples, I will illustrate the considerable influences of implicit, unconscious processes on human actions, emotions, and decision making.
Somatotopy, which is the representation of various body parts on the topographic map in the sensory and motor cortices, is one of the most well-known concepts in neuroscience. However, defining motor cortex areas, for instance, the hand region, the terms of somatotopic organization is a complex process. The &quot;hand region&quot; can be defined either by (i) low-threshold induction of twitch in hand muscles on repetitive microstimulation, (ii) detection of sensory inputs from the hand, (iii) presence of cortico-motoneuronal (CM) cells that communicate directly with the motoneurons of hand muscles, or (iv) presence of neurons that exhibit increase in firing activity before the onset of hand movements. The relationship between these criteria is not clear. Further the somatotopic map is known changes in response to environmental conditions and lesions of the central nervous system. However, the nature of changes depends on the manner in which a given region is defined. To define cortical regions on the basis of somatotopic organization, it is essential to carefully inspect the stimulus threshold for induction of movements and correlate the obtained response and the presence of CM cells. It is also necessary to identity the communicating pathways between the CM cells of a given region and the respective motoneurons. It will lead to understanding the relation between the structural change in the somatotopic representation map and its functional roles in the motor control.
Sensory information of various modalities is integrated in the amygdala, where the emotional information is subsequently generated. The resultant emotional information is then sent to the widespread cortical and subcortical areas. This output to the cortex is directed to the prefrontal cortex and the medial temporal lobe, a memory system, and modulates the higher cortical functions as well as the learning and memory. The output to the subcortical structures is directed to the hypothalamus and brainstem, and the autonomic, hormonal and behavioral responses are elicited as the expression of the emotional response. Taking into account the above mentioned emotional system, the examination of somatotopic representation in the amygdala and related structures is very difficult. However, recent studies have elucidated the somatotopic representation of the amygdalar output system in the brain of rhesus monkey. The lateral basal nucleus of the monkey amygdala was proved to project to the cingulate motor cortex M3, and the target cortical neurons project somatotopically to the facial nucleus in the brain stem. Accordingly, the amygdala-cingulate cortex-facial nucleus system is involved in the emotional expression by the facial movement. This system might be involved in the pathophysiology of temporal lobe epilepsy and the facial expression of patients with Parkinson disease. Furthermore, the amygdala-cingulate cortex projection develops from adolescence to adulthood and reflects the emotional maturation and the development of social adaptation.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is a component of the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system involved in psychostimulant-induced hyperactivity and previous studies have shown that altering DA transmission or D2 receptors within the mPFC can decrease this stimulant effect. The goal of this study was to investigate a potential modulatory role for D1 receptors in the mPFC in amphetamine (AMPH)- and methamphetamine (METH)-induced hyperactivity. Locomotor activity in an open-field arena was measured in male, Sprague-Dawley rats given an intra-mPFC infusion of vehicle or the D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.25 or 1.0 microg) prior to systemic (i.p.) injection of saline, AMPH (1 mg/kg), or METH (1 mg/kg). We found that SCH 23390 produced a dose-dependent decrease in AMPH- and METH-induced locomotion and rearing but had no significant effect on spontaneous behavior that occurred following systemic saline injections. Because SCH 23390 has been shown to have agonist-like properties at 5-HT(2C) receptors, a follow-up experiment was performed to determine if this contributed to the attenuation of METH-induced activity that we observed. Rats were given intra-mPFC infusions of both SCH 23390 (1.0 microg) and the 5-HT(2C) antagonist RS 102221 (0.25 microg) prior to METH (1 mg/kg, i.p.). The addition of the 5-HT(2C) antagonist failed to alter SCH 23390-induced decreases in METH-induced locomotion and rearing; infusion of RS 102221 alone had no significant effects on locomotion and produced a non-significant decrease in rearing. The results of these studies suggest that D1 activation in the mPFC plays a significant role in AMPH- and METH-induced hyperactivity.
In his famous book, 'On Growth and Form', D'Arcy Thompson demonstrated that the shapes of related animals, or parts thereof, can be transformed into each other by a simple graphical procedure, called the method of coordinates. In this procedure, an object is inscribed in a net of Cartesian coordinates. It appeared that the shape of related objects could be characterized by means of simple, harmonious deformations of the initial orthogonal system of coordinates. Here, I demonstrate that: (1) the central nervous system contains a built-in, natural coordinate system; (2) differences in shape and proportion of cross sections through the brain stem of various mammals can be easily analyzed with the aid of this coordinate system, and (3) sets of structures in the mammalian brain stem, which are closely related to the neocortex, but form part of entirely different functional systems, form spatially constrained complexes, and have the capacity to expand jointly and harmoniously within these complexes.
Over the past few decades there has been a massive amount of research on the geniculo-striate visual system in primates. However, studies of the avian visual system have provided a rich source of data contributing to our understanding of visual processing. In this paper we review the connectivity and function of the optic tectum (homolog of the superior colliculus) in birds. We highlight the retinotopic projections that the optic tectum has with the isthmal nuclei, and the functional topographic projections that the optic tectum has with the nucleus rotundus and entopallium (homologs of the pulvinar and extrastriate cortex, respectively) where retinotopy has been sacrificed. This work has been critical in our understanding of basic visual processes including attention, parallel processing, and the binding problem.
Congenital blindness is one of the rare human models to explore the role of experience-driven cross-modal compensation after early sensory deprivation. We re-examined spatial attention abilities in congenitally blind participants and sighted controls using a paradigm comparable to the one of our previous study (Collignon, Renier, Bruyer, Tranduy, &amp; Veraart, 2006), except that this time the auditory and tactile stimuli were now presented in sequence. Although both groups performed the task with similar accuracy, we observed that blind participants had shorter reaction times than sighted controls for the detection of spatial targets in both sensory modalities. Moreover, this finding held true for both the selective and divided attention conditions. These results not only confirm previous reports on the superiority of the blind during auditory and tactile attention tasks, but also broaden our knowledge of the mechanisms underlying cross-modal compensation.
Myocardial ischemia is the main cause of death in the Western societies. Therapeutic strategies aimed to protect the ischemic myocardium have been extensively studied. Reperfusion is the definitive treatment for acute coronary syndromes, especially acute myocardial infarction; however, reperfusion has the potential to exacerbate tissue injury, a process termed reperfusion injury. Ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury may lead to cardiac arrhythmias and contractile dysfunction that involve apoptosis and necrosis in the heart. The present review describes the mitochondrial role on cardiomyocyte death and some potential pharmacological strategies aimed at preventing the opening of the box, i.e., mitochondrial dysfunction and membrane permeabilization that result into cell death. Data in the literature suggest that mitochondrial disruption during I/R can be avoided, although uncertainties still exist, including the fact that the optimal windows of treatment are still fairly unknown. Despite this, the protection of cardiac mitochondrial function should be critical for the patient survival, and new strategies to avoid mitochondrial alterations should be designed to avoid cardiomyocyte loss.
Various stressful conditions such as ischemia in cold cardioplegic solutions and reperfusion occur during heart transplantation. Since ATP production is essential for the maintenance of contractile activity, mitochondrial function may be a mediator of ischemia and ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. We aimed at testing the ability of two distinct cardioplegic solutions, Celsior (Cs) and Histidine Buffer (HBS), to protect rat heart mitochondria (HM) function during ischemia alone or ischemia followed by reperfusion. A standard Krebs-Henseleit solution (KH) was used as &quot;negative&quot; control. Male and Female Wistar rats were divided into control (Ctrl), reperfusion control (Ctrl_R), ischemia and I/R groups. Ischemia and I/R were divided into three subgroups depending on the cardioplegic solution used (Cs, HBS or KH) and subjected to 4-or 6-h ischemia alone or followed by reperfusion. HM respiration and transmembrane electric potential (Deltapsi) were measured with oxygen and TPP(+)-selective electrodes, respectively. Mitochondrial electron microscopy and detection of protein carbonyl groups content were also performed. After ischemic heart preservation, mitochondrial respiration and Deltapsi were not significantly affected except for the respiratory control ratio (RCR). After I/R, state 3 respiration, RCR and Deltapsi were decreased, especially in HM from male and for complex I substrates (CxI). HM preserved in HBS had less membrane disruption, segregation or disintegration. We conclude that (a) female HM were less sensitive to I/R, (b) CxI was particularly affected by I/R, (c) two cardioplegic solutions tested act in different mitochondrial targets preventing mitochondrial collapse.
The authors' laboratory has reported potent block of Pannexin1 (Panx1) currents by the antimalarial quinine derivative mefloquine. However, other laboratories have found little or no mefloquine sensitivity of Panx1 currents or processes attributable to these channels. In order to resolve this issue, the authors have performed extensive dose-response studies on Panx1-transfected neuroblastoma (Neuro2A) and rat insulinoma (Rin) cells, comparing mefloquine obtained from three suppliers and also comparing the sensitivity to diastereomers. Results indicate a 20-fold difference in sensitivity to the (-)-threo-(11R/2R) diastereomer compared to the erythro enatiomers and much lower potency of (+/-)-erythro-(R*/S*)-mefloquine obtained from one of the commercial sources. This markedly lower efficacy presumably accounts for the disparity in results from different laboratories who have applied it in Panx1 studies.
Platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF) has been reported to provide tropic support for neurons in the central nervous system. The protective role of PDGF on dopaminergic neurons, especially in the context of HIV-associated dementia (HAD), however, remains largely unknown. Here, we show that exogenous PDGF was neuroprotective against toxicity induced by HIV-1 Tat in primary midbrain neurons. Furthermore, we report the involvement of transient receptor potential canonical (TRPC) channels in PDGF-mediated neuroprotection. TRPC channels are Ca(2+)-permeable, nonselective cation channels with a variety of physiological functions. Blocking TRPC channels with either a blocker or short-interfering RNAs (specific for TRPC 5 and 6) in primary neurons resulted in suppression of both PDGF-mediated neuroprotection as well as elevations in intracellular Ca(2+). PDGF-mediated neuroprotection involved parallel but distinct ERK/CREB and PI3K/Akt pathways. TRPC channel blocking also resulted in suppression of PDGF-induced Pyk2/ERK/CREB activation, but not Akt activation. Relevance of these findings in vivo was further corroborated by intrastriatal injections of PDGF and HIV-1 Tat in mice. Administration of PDGF was able to rescue the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra from Tat-induced neurotoxicity. This effect was attenuated by pre-treatment of mice with the TRP blocker, thus underscoring the novel role of TRPC channels in the neuroprotection mediated by PDGF.
The activity of low voltage-activated Ca(2+) (Ca(V)3) channels is tightly coupled to neurotransmitter and hormone secretion. Previous studies have shown that Ca(V)3 channels are regulated by glucocorticoids (GCs), though the mechanism underlying channel regulation remains unclear. Here, using the pituitary GH(3) cell line as a model, we investigated whether Ca(V)3 channel expression is under the control of GCs, and if their actions are mediated by transcriptional and/or post-transcriptional mechanisms. RT-PCR and western blot analyses showed that Ca(V)3.1 but not Ca(V)3.2 and Ca(V)3.3 channels is expressed in the GH(3) cells, and patch clamp recordings confirmed that Ca(2+) currents through low voltage-activated channels were decreased after chronic treatment with GCs. Consistent with this, total plasma membrane expression of Ca(V)3.1 protein as analyzed by cell-surface biotinylation assays and semi-quantitative western blotting was also down-regulated, while quantitative real-time RT-PCR analysis revealed a significant decrease of Ca(V)3.1 mRNA expression in the treated cells. In contrast, patch-clamp recordings on HEK-293 cells stably expressing recombinant Ca(V)3.1 channels showed that Ca(2+) currents were not affected by GC treatment. These results suggest that decreased transcription is a likely mechanism to explain the inhibitory actions of GCs on the functional expression of native Ca(V)3.1 channels.

Reactive oxygen species produced by oxidative stress may participate in the apoptotic death of dopamine neurons distinctive of Parkinson's disease. Resveratrol, a red wine extract, and quercetin, found mainly in green tea, are two natural polyphenols, presenting antioxidant properties in a variety of cellular paradigms. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of resveratrol and quercetin on the apoptotic cascade induced by the administration of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+)), a Parkinsonian toxin, provoking the selective degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. Our results show that a pre-treatment for 3 h with resveratrol or quercetin before MPP(+) administration could greatly reduce apoptotic neuronal PC12 death induced by MPP(+). We also demonstrated that resveratrol or quercetin modulates mRNA levels and protein expression of Bax, a pro-apoptotic gene, and Bcl-2, an anti-apoptotic gene. We then evaluated the release of cytochrome c and the nuclear translocation of the apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF). Altogether, our results indicate that resveratrol and quercetin diminish apoptotic neuronal cell death by acting on the expression of pro- and anti-apoptotic genes. These findings support the role of these natural polyphenols in preventive and/or complementary therapies for several human neurodegenerative diseases caused by oxidative stress and apoptosis.
The Pax6 transcription factor is a key element along brain development in both the visual and olfactory systems. The involvement of Pax6 in neural fate is well documented in the visual system, whereas in the olfactory system, and in particular in the olfactory bulb (OB), its expression during adulthood has only begun to be elucidated. In the OB, the modulation of primary sensory information is first performed by periglomerular cells (PG). A considerable body of information has unveiled the neurochemical heterogeneity of these neurons. Thus it is well known that Pax6 coexists with dopaminergic/GABAergic mouse PG. However, the presence of this transcription factor in other mouse PG subpopulations has not been studied. Here, we analyzed whether Pax6 is expressed in PG containing the calcium-binding proteins neurocalcin and parvalbumin, and the neuropeptide cholecystokinin. Our results show that Pax6 is not expressed by these PG subpopulations, suggesting that it is mainly restricted to GABAergic PG populations. These findings provide new data in the chemical characterization of mouse Pax6-positive PG.
One of the more fascinating recent discoveries in neuroscience is the widespread influence of hormones on brain regions and functions underlying pathological behaviors. A story is unfolding that points to critical roles played by hypothalamic - pituitary - gonadal (HPG) and hypothalamic - pituitary - adrenal (HPA) axes on a startling array of mental disorders, from depression to dementia. The influence of peptides and steroids does not end with hormones released from the two axes, however. It is now clear that the brain has adapted, &quot;highjacked&quot; is more descriptive, HPG and HPA hormones for uses unrelated to their original functions in reproduction and responses to stress. Findings of neuromodulatory effects of HPA and HPG hormones on monoamine, GABA, glutamate and opioid pathways and of hormone receptors and enzymes involved in hormone synthesis, particularly of steroids, in the hippocampus, amygdala and other subcortical brain regions provide the brain with multiple evolutionary means to adapt to new functions. The complexity of the metabolic cascade for the steroids also leaves open mechanisms by which endogenous errors and exogenous chemicals could be involved in the etiology of psychopathologies. The planned review will examine the recent literature for evidence of steroidal and peptidergic influences on basic biological functions and on mood disorders, anxiety and PTSD, schizophrenia, substance abuse and dementia. Emphasis will be placed on animal models, although findings with patient populations will be prominently included. Special attention will be paid to novel pathways by which the precursors and metabolites of sex steroids can influence psychopathologies. We also will speculate on promising treatments with hormone modulators that may be useful in mollifying the symptomology of the mental disorders.
Previous studies have proposed a variety of mechanisms by which attention influences neuronal activity. Here we investigated the mechanisms of attention in the striate cortex of monkeys performing a spatial or an object-based attention task at various stimulus contrasts and compared neuronal contrast response functions with and without attention. Our data are best described by an &quot;additive&quot; interaction: The influence of attention on the neuronal response is relatively independent of the stimulus contrast, at least when the stimulus has enough contrast to become visible. This shows that attention adds to the neuronal responses in a largely contrast invariant manner. These data support recent functional magnetic resonance imaging studies and suggest that feedback from higher areas exerts a constant attentional drive that is mostly task not stimulus driven.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), a neuropeptide, regulates a wide variety of cellular functions, but little is known about its role in neuronal cell migration. Recent studies revealed that PACAP has short-term, cortical layer-specific effects on neuronal cell migration. In this article, we focus on the role of PACAP in controlling the migration of cerebellar granule cells.
A long-standing question in neuroscience is how the brain controls movement that requires precisely timed muscle activations. Studies using Pavlovian delay eyeblink conditioning provide good insight into this question. In delay eyeblink conditioning, which is believed to involve the cerebellum, a subject learns an interstimulus interval (ISI) between the onsets of a conditioned stimulus (CS) such as a tone and an unconditioned stimulus such as an airpuff to the eye. After a conditioning phase, the subject's eyes automatically close or blink when the ISI time has passed after CS onset. This timing information is thought to be represented in some way in the cerebellum. Several computational models of the cerebellum have been proposed to explain the mechanisms of time representation, and they commonly point to the granular layer network. This article will review these computational models and discuss the possible computational power of the cerebellum.
Resveratrol is a plant polyphenol capable of exerting beneficial metabolic effects which are thought to be mediated in large by the activation of the NAD(+)-dependent protein deacetylase SIRT1. Although resveratrol has been claimed to be a bona fide SIRT1 activator using a peptide substrate (Fluor de Lys-SIRT1 peptide substrate), recent reports indicate that this finding might be an experimental artifact and need to be clarified. Here, we show that: (i) the Fluor de Lys-SIRT1 peptide is an artificial SIRT1 substrate because in the absence of the covalently linked fluorophore the peptide itself is not a substrate of the enzyme, (ii) resveratrol does not activate SIRT1 in vitro in the presence of either a p53-derived peptide substrate or acetylated PGC-1alpha isolated from cells, and (iii) although SIRT1 deacetylates PGC-1alpha in both in vitro and cell-based assays, resveratrol did not activate SIRT1 under these conditions. Based on these observations, we conclude that the pharmacological effects of resveratrol in various models are unlikely to be mediated by a direct enhancement of the catalytic activity of the SIRT1 enzyme. In consequence, our data challenge the overall utility of resveratrol as a pharmacological tool to directly activate SIRT1.


Management of intracranial dural sinus thrombosis with involvement of multiple sinuses is complex, often involving not only the primary problem (thrombosis) but acute adverse events consequent to the disease. We highlight the novel use of an endovascular device (typically for suction thrombectomy in the peripheral vascular system) used in our patient with a life-threatening multi-sinus thrombosis. As there is no standard treatment yet for cranial sinus thrombosis, our review of the literature highlights some effective management strategies. A 35-year-old woman developed associated complications of cranial sinus thrombosis that included intracranial hypertension caused by an expanding intracranial hematoma, pulmonary embolism treated by placement of filters in superior and inferior vena cava to eliminate intra- and extracranial sources of emboli, and procedure-related retroperitoneal hematoma that necessitated peripheral vascular intervention. After failure of several common devices during mechanical thrombolysis, a thrombectomy catheter (typically for peripheral vascular intervention to aide in the clot removal) was used. Our case highlights the fine balance of anticoagulation and thrombolysis and the proactive, aggressive approach used by our multispecialty team to manage concurrent factors.

The management of a ruptured pseudoaneurysm of intracranial vertebral artery (VA), which is the sole supplier to an isolated vertebrobasilar system, is challenging. The authors report on such a case in a 49-year-old man who suffered a grade III subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) caused by a dissecting fusiform pseudoaneurysm of the left VA. The right VA terminated in the posterior inferior cerebellar artery and posterior communicating arteries were absent. The patient developed symptoms consistent with vasospasm on day 9 after SAH, which was treated by intra-arterial vasolytic therapy, followed by stent placement and &quot;in-stent&quot; balloon angioplasty. Angiography 2 weeks later showed near-complete resolution of the pseudoaneurysm. At discharge, the patient's modified Rankin score was one. In this complicated case in which an isolated vertebrobasilar circulation precluded parent vessel sacrifice, we detail the successful management using a combination of intra-arterial vasolytic therapy, stent reconstruction, and balloon angioplasty.

The highest incidence of seizures occurs during the first hours to days after birth. The immature brain is prone to seizures because of reduced inhibition. GABA, which is the primary inhibitory neurotransmitter in the mature brain, is depolarizing and excitatory in the immature brain. Seizures are an ominous sign, indicating either an acquired brain insult or a genetic abnormality. While the primary outcome determinant of neonatal seizures is etiology, whether seizures can result in long-term adverse consequences independently is not clear. While the clinical data is uncertain, there is now a considerable body of evidence indicating that in animals, neonatal seizures can adversely alter the developing brain. Animal data indicates that the sequelae of seizures are strongly age dependent; seizures will affect the developing and plastic neuronal circuitry much differently than the fixed circuitry of the mature brain. Seizures at an early developmental stage can dramatically affect the construction of networks, resulting in severe and permanent handicaps in some patients. In the young brain, the long-lasting detrimental consequences of seizures are caused by an alteration of developmental programs rather than by neuronal cell loss, as occurs in adults. In animal models, neonatal seizures result in decreases in neurogenesis, sprouting of mossy fibers, and long-standing changes in signaling properties. Seizures in rat pups are also associated with abnormalities in firing patterns of single cells in the hippocampus. Furthermore, these anatomic and physiologic changes correlate well with behavioral dysfunction.
The toll-like receptors (TLRs) are a family of microbe-sensing receptors on peripheral immune cells. TLRs have also been discovered to be present in the brain, particularly in circumventricular organs, microglia, and astrocytes. Some TLRs are strongly expressed in the embryonic brain and TLR3 and TLR8 have been implicated in neurogenesis and neurite outgrowth in the developing brain, whereas TLR2 and TLR4 have been shown to regulate adult neurogenesis. TLR2 and TLR4 also play a role in acute ischemic brain injury in the adult, although no neuroprotection was observed following perinatal hypoxic-ischemic injury. These findings suggest that different TLRs have specific roles in the immature and adult brain following brain damage.
A significant proportion of military personnel deployed in support of Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) has been exposed to war-zone events potentially associated with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). There has been significant controversy regarding healthcare policy for those service members and military veterans who returned from OEF/OIF deployments with both mild TBI and PTSD. There is currently little empirical evidence available to address these controversies. This review uses a cognitive neuroscience framework to address the potential impact of mild TBI on the development, course, and clinical management of PTSD. The field would benefit from research efforts that take into consideration the potential differential impact of mild TBI with versus without persistent cognitive deficits, longitudinal work examining the trajectory of PTSD symptoms when index trauma events involve TBI, randomized clinical trials designed to examine the impact of mild TBI on response to existing PTSD treatment interventions, and development and examination of potential treatment augmentation strategies.


Migraine is a leading cause of disability worldwide; approximately half of those affected have such severe attacks that they cannot function normally in routine daily activities. Research is beginning to focus upon the burden of migraine between attacks, referred to as interictal burden. This burden encompasses worry and expectation of future attacks that consequently may be associated with limitations in social and family interactions, as well as work capacity. This review aims to increase physician awareness of the degree and scope of functional impairment associated with migraine. Physicians are in a position to assess the true impact of migraine in their patients using techniques such as open-ended questions during visits, and paper-based migraine assessment tools such as the Migraine Disability Assessment questionnaire. Eliciting such information on interictal burden may help the physician prescribe the most appropriate therapy based on their patients' degree of impairment. This article also describes the instruments most widely used for measuring migraine-related functional impairment, summarizes studies assessing the effects of migraine on indicators of health-related quality of life and presents data on how preventive migraine treatment may beneficially influence migraine-related functional impairment.
The therapeutic potential of cannabinoids has been the topic of extensive investigation following the discovery of cannabinoid receptors and their endogenous ligands. Cannabinoid receptors and their endogenous ligands are present at supraspinal, spinal and peripheral levels. Cannabinoids suppress behavioral responses to noxious stimulation and suppress nociceptive processing through activation of cannabinoid CB(1) and CB(2) receptor subtypes. Endocannabinoids, the brain's own cannabis-like substances, share the same molecular target as Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, the main psychoactive component in cannabis. Endocannabinoids serve as synaptic circuit breakers and regulate multiple physiological and pathological conditions, e.g. regulation of food intake, immunomodulation, inflammation, analgesia, cancer, addictive behavior, epilepsy and others. This review will focus on uncovering the roles of anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol, the two best characterized endocannabinoids identified to date, in controlling nociceptive responding. The roles of anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol, released under physiological conditions, in modulating nociceptive responding at different levels of the neuraxis will be emphasized in this review. Effects of modulation of endocannabinoid levels through inhibition of endocannabinoid hydrolysis and uptake is also compared with effects of exogenous administration of synthetic endocannabinoids in acute, inflammatory and neuropathic pain models. Finally, the therapeutic potential of the endocannabinoid signaling system is discussed in the context of identifying novel pharmacotherapies for the treatment of pain.
In the past decade there has been increasing interest in the potential benefit of early pharmacological intervention in schizophrenia. Patients with schizophrenia show nonpsychotic and nonspecific prodromal symptoms (e.g., depression and cognitive deficits) for several years preceding the onset of frank psychosis. Several studies have demonstrated that medication with atypical antipsychotic drugs in people with prodromal symptoms may reduce the risk of subsequent transition to schizophrenia. Furthermore, a naturalistic treatment study in young people with prodromal symptoms demonstrated that medication with antidepressants could prevent the development of psychosis. Although the sample in this study was small, the results were striking. Some antidepressants, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), had high to moderate affinities at the endoplasmic reticulum protein sigma-1 receptors, which are implicated in neuroprotection and neuronal plasticity. Among all antidepressants, fluvoxamine was the most potent sigma-1 receptor agonist. Since the effects of fluroxaming were antagonized by the selective sigma-1 receptor antagonist NE-100. Based on the role of sigma-1 receptors in the pathophysiology of cognition and depression, the author would like to propose a hypothesis that SSRIs (e.g., fluvoxamine) with sigma-1 receptor agonism may reduce the risk of subsequent transition to schizophrenia.
Due to the increasing number of data demonstrating a connection between diabetes and Alzheimer's disease (AD), efforts have been developed to elucidate the exact mechanism(s) underlying this connection. Although both disorders possess several overlapping features, mitochondrial dysfunction is one of the most relevant rendering mitochondria an important target of scientific research. This review discusses clinical and biochemical features shared by AD and diabetes, giving special attention to the involvement of mitochondria. The realization that mitochondria are at the intersection of cells' life and death has made them a promising target for drug discovery and therapeutic interventions. Here we also discuss in vitro, in vivo and clinical studies that examined the effect of mitochondria-directed therapeutics particularly mitochondrial target antioxidants and Szeto-Schiller peptides.
Neuroeconomics refers to a combination of paradigms derived from neuroscience, psychology, and economics for the study of decision making and is an area that has received considerable scientific attention in the recent literature. Using realistic laboratory tasks, researchers seek to study the neurocognitive processes underlying economic decision making and outcome-based decision learning, as well as individual differences in these processes and the social and affective factors that modulate them. To this point, one question has remained largely unanswered: What happens to decision-making processes and their neural substrates during aging? After all, aging is associated with neurocognitive change, which may affect outcome-based decision making. In our study, we use the subjective expected utility model-a well-established decision-making model in economics-as a descriptive framework. After a short survey of the brain areas and neurotransmitter systems associated with outcome-based decision making-and of the effects of aging thereon-we review a number of decision-making studies. Their general data pattern indicates that the decision-making process is changed by age: The elderly perform less efficiently than younger participants, as demonstrated, for instance, by the smaller total rewards that the elderly acquire in lab tasks. These findings are accounted for in terms of age-related deficiencies in the probability and value parameters of the subjective expected utility model. Finally, we discuss some implications and suggestions for future research.



From both functional and biological considerations, it is widely believed that action production, planning, and goal-oriented behaviors supported by the frontal cortex are organized hierarchically [Fuster (1991); Koechlin, E., Ody, C., &amp; Kouneiher, F. (2003). Neuroscience: The architecture of cognitive control in the human prefrontal cortex. Science, 424, 1181-1184; Miller, G. A., Galanter, E., &amp; Pribram, K. H. (1960). Plans and the structure of behavior. New York: Holt]. However, the nature of the different levels of the hierarchy remains unclear, and little attention has been paid to the origins of such a hierarchy. We address these issues through biologically-inspired computational models that develop representations through reinforcement learning. We explore several different factors in these models that might plausibly give rise to a hierarchical organization of representations within the PFC, including an initial connectivity hierarchy within PFC, a hierarchical set of connections between PFC and subcortical structures controlling it, and differential synaptic plasticity schedules. Simulation results indicate that architectural constraints contribute to the segregation of different types of representations, and that this segregation facilitates learning. These findings are consistent with the idea that there is a functional hierarchy in PFC, as captured in our earlier computational models of PFC function and a growing body of empirical data.
Helplessness, a belief that the world is not subject to behavioral control, has long been central to our understanding of depression, and has influenced cognitive theories, animal models and behavioral treatments. However, despite its importance, there is no fully accepted definition of helplessness or behavioral control in psychology or psychiatry, and the formal treatments in engineering appear to capture only limited aspects of the intuitive concepts. Here, we formalize controllability in terms of characteristics of prior distributions over affectively charged environments. We explore the relevance of this notion of control to reinforcement learning methods of optimising behavior in such environments and consider how apparently maladaptive beliefs can result from normative inference processes. These results are discussed with reference to depression and animal models thereof.
Research on human and animal behavior has long emphasized its hierarchical structure-the divisibility of ongoing behavior into discrete tasks, which are comprised of subtask sequences, which in turn are built of simple actions. The hierarchical structure of behavior has also been of enduring interest within neuroscience, where it has been widely considered to reflect prefrontal cortical functions. In this paper, we reexamine behavioral hierarchy and its neural substrates from the point of view of recent developments in computational reinforcement learning. Specifically, we consider a set of approaches known collectively as hierarchical reinforcement learning, which extend the reinforcement learning paradigm by allowing the learning agent to aggregate actions into reusable subroutines or skills. A close look at the components of hierarchical reinforcement learning suggests how they might map onto neural structures, in particular regions within the dorsolateral and orbital prefrontal cortex. It also suggests specific ways in which hierarchical reinforcement learning might provide a complement to existing psychological models of hierarchically structured behavior. A particularly important question that hierarchical reinforcement learning brings to the fore is that of how learning identifies new action routines that are likely to provide useful building blocks in solving a wide range of future problems. Here and at many other points, hierarchical reinforcement learning offers an appealing framework for investigating the computational and neural underpinnings of hierarchically structured behavior.
According to the world's prevalence rate, alcoholism is in the third place after heart and blood vessel diseases and malignant tumors. With the development of neuroscience, the causes of alcoholism's biological etiologic sources are still being studied. Considering that dermatoglyphics are highly determined by heritage, we contemplated the possibilities of their discrimination in alcoholic patients in relation to phenotypically healthy subjects. We analyzed the quantitative and qualitative dermatoglyphics properties of 100 alcoholic patients without psychiatric comorbidity, who have been cured in the Psychiatric Hospital Sveti Ivan two or more times, and those of 100 phenotypically healthy men. Through the t-test we evaluated the heterogeneity of the examined groups. Results showed a statistically significant difference on five examined variables. In the calculation of fluctuating asymmetry measure, we found no statistically significant differences in the correlation of values of the right and the left hand on the tested variables, beside one. Chi-square tests showed that there is no relation between the dermatoglyphic qualitative properties of alcoholic patients and those of the examinees from the comparison group. Despite the indisputable genetic role in the genesis of alcoholism, the analysis of the dermatoglyphics carried out in our study did not show any etiological connection between the results of the test on dermatoglyphics and the appearance of alcoholism.
Unconscious processing of stimuli with emotional content can bias affective judgments. Is this subliminal affective priming merely a transient phenomenon manifested in fleeting perceptual changes, or are long-lasting effects also induced? To address this question, we investigated memory for surprise faces 24 h after they had been shown with 30-ms fearful, happy, or neutral faces. Surprise faces subliminally primed by happy faces were initially rated as more positive, and were later remembered better, than those primed by fearful or neutral faces. Participants likely to have processed primes supraliminally did not respond differentially as a function of expression. These results converge with findings showing memory advantages with happy expressions, though here the expressions were displayed on the face of a different person, perceived subliminally, and not present at test. We conclude that behavioral biases induced by masked emotional expressions are not ephemeral, but rather can last at least 24 h.
We investigate the processes underlying the feeling of control over one's actions (&quot;sense of agency&quot;). Sense of agency may depend on internal motoric signals, and general inferences about external events. We used priming to modulate the sense of agency for voluntary and involuntary movements, by modifying the content of conscious thought prior to moving. Trials began with the presentation of one of two supraliminal primes, which corresponded to the effect of a voluntary action participants subsequently made. The perceived interval between movement and effect was used as an implicit measure of sense of agency. Primes modulated perceived intervals for both voluntary and involuntary movements, but the modulation was greatest for involuntary movements. A second experiment showed that this modulation depended on prime-movement (temporal) contiguity. We propose that sense of agency is based on a combination of internal motoric signals and external sensory evidence about the source of actions and effects.
As the number and opportunities for acute care nurse practitioners (ACNPs) continue to increase, the successful integration of these providers into the health care setting becomes more of a challenge. This article outlines strategies for role development, implementation, and evaluation to optimize the performance of the neuroscience ACNP role. The concepts presented are applicable across all acute-care specialties that use ACNPs.
The Neurovascular Education and Training in Stroke Management and Acute Reperfusion Therapy (NET SMART) program for advanced practice nursing (APN) offers a first-of-its-kind, academic, postgraduate, fellowship program for APNs that is modeled after physician academic fellowship programs but supported by a flexible Internet-based platform. This article details the rationale, methods, and preliminary results of the NET SMART APN experience, which serves as a unique template for the development of academic postgraduate nursing fellowship programs across a variety of specialty practices.

The rise in life expectancy over the last century, together with higher maternal and paternal ages and have highlighted the issue of reduced fertility with advancing age. Aging of the male reproductive system is incited by multi-factorial changes at molecular, cellular and regulatory levels, and individual characteristics are highly variable, although strongly influenced by lifestyle and environmental factors. Damage accumulated with age leads to progressive deregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis and of local auto/paracrine interactions, thereby inducing changes in target organs such as the testis, penis and prostate. Elderly human males produce less testosterone, have fewer motile sperm and a higher incidence of erectile dysfunction and prostate disorders, all of which contribute to lower fertility. Cellular aging can manifest itself at several levels. Aging cells progressively accumulate &quot;waste&quot; products, resulting in a decreased functionally. Changes to mitochondria are among the most remarkable features observed in aging cells and several theories place mitochondria at the hub of cellular events related to aging, namely in terms of the accumulation of oxidative damage to cells and tissues, a process in which these organelles may play a prominent role, although alternative theories have also emerged. Furthermore, mitochondrial energy metabolism is also crucial for male reproductive function and mitochondria may therefore constitute a common link between aging and fertility loss.
Approximate number discrimination in adult human and nonhuman animals is governed by Weber's Law: The ratio between the values determines discriminability. Here, we review recent evidence from behavioral and neuroimaging studies that suggests that number sense in human infancy shares the same hallmark feature of Weber's Law and may rely on the same neural substrates as previously found in adults, children, and nonhuman animals. These findings support the notion of ontogenetic and phylogenetic continuity in number sense. New methods described here may help uncover how infants' early number sense supports the development of a mature number sense. Moreover, they may aid in understanding how children learn to map nonsymbolic number representations onto symbols for number by providing dependent measures that capture individual variability.
Mitochondrial diseases (MD) are disorders caused by impairment of the mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC). Phenotypes are polymorphous and may range from pure myopathy to multisystemic disorders. The genetic defect can be located on mitochondrial or nuclear DNA. The ETC is needed for oxidative phosphorylation (which provides the cell with the most efficient energetic outcome in terms of ATP production), and consists of five multimeric protein complexes located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. The ETC also requires cytochrome c and a small electron carrier, coenzyme Q10. One of the pathogenic mechanisms of ETC disorders is excessive accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress appear to have a strong impact also on the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. At present, diagnosis of MD requires a complex approach: measurement of serum lactate, exercise testing, electromyography, magnetic resonance spectroscopy, muscle histology and enzymology, and genetic analysis. Biomarkers are molecules associated with biological processes or regulatory mechanisms. A reliable biomarker for the screening or diagnosis of MD is still needed. In this paper we review the diagnostic approach to MD, from serum lactate to other blood and urinary markers, from muscular biopsy to imaging studies, and we highlight some potentially interesting perspectives in this field.
Rapid-onset psychotic rebound is uncommon on discontinuation of most antipsychotic drugs, as might be expected for antipsychotic drugs with (hypothetically) indirect actions at their final target receptors. Rapid-onset psychosis is more common on withdrawal of clozapine, which might be expected if its action is direct. Drugs other than clozapine (notably thioridazine) may have hitherto unrecognised similarities to clozapine (but without danger of agranulocytosis), and may be useful in treatment of refractory psychosis. Quetiapine fulfils only some criteria for a clozapine-like drug. Clinical response to neuroleptics varies widely at any given plasma level. Haase's &quot;neuroleptic threshold&quot; concept suggests that the dose producing the slightest motor side effects produces most or all of the therapeutic benefit, but analyses presented here suggest that antipsychotic actions are not subject to a sharp &quot;all-or-none&quot; threshold but increase over a small dose range. This concept could provide a method for quantitative determination of individualized optimal doses.
Many issues remain unresolved about antipsychotic drugs. Their therapeutic potency scales with affinity for dopamine D2 receptors, but there are indications that they act indirectly, with dopamine D1 receptors (and others) as possible ultimate targets. Classical neuroleptic drugs disinhibit striatal cholinergic interneurones and increase acetyl choline release. Their effects may then depend on stimulation of muscarinic receptors on principle striatal neurones (M4 receptors, with reduction of cAMP formation, for therapeutic effects; M1 receptors for motor side effects). Many psychotic patients do not benefit from neuroleptic drugs, or develop resistance to them during prolonged treatment, but respond well to clozapine. For patients who do respond, there is a wide (&gt;ten-fold) range in optimal doses. Refractoriness or low sensitivity to antipsychotic effects (and other pathologies) could then arise from low density of cholinergic interneurones. Clozapine probably owes its special actions to direct stimulation of M4 receptors, a mechanism available when indirect action is lost.

Changes in gene regulation have long been thought to underlie biological differences between humans and other primates. Recent advances have facilitated the study of human-specific sequence changes in regulatory DNAs in the context of human development. Comparative genomic analyses coupled with genome-wide in vivo developmental enhancer screens have identified thousands of known and likely regulatory elements in the genome. These have provided the substrate for statistical and experimental identification of regulatory sequences with human-specific developmental activities. On the basis of these early results, the outlines of an integrated strategy have emerged that combines gene expression atlases of human development, in vivo reverse genetic studies of regulatory DNAs, and maps of human-specific sequence change to reveal the genetic basis of unique human biology.
Spinal interneurons are organized into networks that control the activity and output of the motor system. This review outlines recent progress in defining the rules that govern the assembly and function of spinal motor networks, focusing on three main areas. We first examine how subtle variations in the wiring diagrams and organization of locomotor networks in different vertebrates permits animals to adapt their motor programs to the demands of their physical environment. We discuss how the membrane properties of spinal interneurons, and their synaptic interactions, underlie the modulation of motor circuits and encoded motor behaviors. We also describe recent molecular genetic approaches to map and manipulate the connectivity and interactions of spinal interneurons and to assess the impact of such perturbations on network function and motor behavior.

Recent research on the neurobiology of imitation has gone beyond the study of its 'core' mechanisms, focus of investigation of the past years.. The current trends can be grouped into four main categories: (1) non 'core' neural mechanisms that are also important for imitation; (2) mechanisms of control, in both imitative learning and inhibition of imitation; (3) the developmental trajectory of neural mechanisms of imitation and their relation with the development of social cognition; (4) neurobiological mechanisms of imitation in non-primates, in particular vocal learning in songbirds, and their relations with similar mechanisms of vocal learning in humans. The existing data suggest that both perceptual and motor aspects of imitation follow organizing principles that originally belonged to the motor system.
Neuroeconomics is an interdisciplinary field, crossing boundaries between Economics, Psychology, and Neuroscience. Its original program was to provide a test for a large number of competitive theories of decision making. It has in part realized this program, and we review the main findings here. But its results are also posing the need for a new theoretical unifying framework. We outline a possible line of future research.
The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is an excellent model organism for a systems-level understanding of neural circuits and behavior. Advances in the quantitative analyses of behavior and neuronal activity, and the development of new technologies to precisely control and monitor the workings of interconnected circuits, now allow investigations into the molecular, cellular, and systems-level strategies that transform sensory inputs into precise behavioral outcomes.
Birdsong is a culturally transmitted behavior that depends on a juvenile songbird's ability to imitate the song of an adult tutor. Neurobiological studies of birdsong can reveal how a complex form of imitative learning, which bears strong parallels to human speech learning, can be understood at the level of underlying circuit, cellular, and synaptic mechanisms. This review focuses on recent studies that illuminate the neurobiological mechanisms for singing and song learning.
Human morality provides the foundation for many of the pillars of society, informing political legislation and guiding legal decisions while also governing everyday social interactions. In the past decade, researchers in the field of cognitive neuroscience have made tremendous progress in the effort to understand the neural basis of human morality. The emerging insights from this research point toward a model in which automatic processing in parallel neural circuits, many of which are associated with social emotions, evaluate the actions and intentions of others. Through various mechanisms of competition, only a subset of these circuits ultimately causes a decision or an action. This activity is experienced consciously as a subjective moral sense of right or wrong, and an interpretive process offers post hoc explanations designed to link the social stimulus with the subjective moral response using whatever explicit information is available.
We often empathically share the states of others. The discovery of 'mirror neurons' suggested a neural mechanism for monkeys to share the actions of others. Here we expand this view by showing that mirror neurons for actions not only exist in the premotor cortex or in monkeys and that vicarious activity can also be measured for the emotions and sensations of others. Although we still need to empirically explore the function and development of these vicarious activations, we should stop thinking of vicarious brain activity as a peculiar property of the premotor cortex: instead it seems to be a very common phenomenon which leads social stimuli to recruit a wide range of seemingly private neural systems.
Neuroaesthetics is a relatively young field within cognitive neuroscience, concerned with the neural underpinnings of aesthetic experience of beauty, particularly in visual art. Neuroscientific investigations have approached this area using imaging and neurophysiological techniques, such as functional magnetic resonance (fMRI), magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG). The results produced so far are very heterogeneous. Nonetheless, an overall view of the findings suggests that the aesthetic experience of visual artworks is characterized by the activation of: sensorimotor areas; core emotional centres; and reward-related centres. In the present review, we discuss the functional relevance of these activations and propose that aesthetic experience is a multilevel process exceeding a purely visual analysis of artworks and relying upon visceromotor and somatomotor resonance in the beholder.



Sleep disturbances and dysregulation of circadian rhythms are core elements of bipolar disorder that might be involved in its pathogenesis. It has been proposed that patients with bipolar disorder have an abnormally shifted or arrhythmic circadian system and that the disturbance of circadian rhythms may be caused by an alteration in the circadian clock machinery. Chronotherapeutic strategies based on controlled exposures to environmental stimuli that act on biological rhythms have shown good efficacy in the treatment of illness episodes, thus confirming ex juvantibus the clinical relevance of internal timing in this illness.
Recent innovations in the treatment and prevention of depression that build on the foundation of cognitive-behavioral therapy represent promising directions for clinical practice and research. Specifically, behavioral activation and mindfulness-based cognitive therapy have been a recent focus of attention. Behavioral activation is a brief, structured approach to treating acute depression that seeks to alleviate depression by promoting an individual's contact with sources of reward through increasing activation, improving problem solving, and decreasing avoidance and other barriers to activation. Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy is a brief group intervention that seeks to prevent depressive relapse by promoting mindful attention, acceptance, and skillful action to help individuals interrupt habitual cognitive and affective patterns associated with risk of relapse. Each approach is supported by at least two large-scale, randomized clinical trials; however, many important questions remain. We examine current research on both approaches by addressing the robustness of findings, the extension to novel populations, and the processes by which clinical benefit is achieved.
In neural development, several Wnt genes are expressed in the vertebrate diencephalon, including the thalamus. However, roles of Wnt signaling in the thalamus during neurogenesis are not well understood. We examined Wnt/beta-catenin activity in embryonic mouse thalamus and found that a Wnt target gene Axin2 and reporter activity of BAT-gal transgenic mice show similar, differential patterns within the thalamic ventricular zone, where ventral and rostral regions had lower activity than other regions. Expression of Wnt ligands and signaling components also showed complex, differential patterns. Finally, based on partially reciprocal patterns of Wnt and Shh signals in the thalamic ventricular zone, we tested if Shh signal is sufficient or necessary for the differential Axin2 expression. Analysis of mice with enhanced or reduced Shh signal showed that Axin2 expression is similar to controls. These results suggest that differential Wnt signaling may play a role in patterning the thalamus independent of Shh signaling.
Physical interaction between the transmembrane proteins Delta and Notch allows only a subset of neural precursors to become neurons, as well as regulating other aspects of neural development. To examine the localization of Delta protein during neural development, we generated an antibody specific to zebrafish Delta A (Dla). Here, we describe for the first time the subcellular localization of Dla protein in distinct puncta at cell cortex and/or membrane, supporting the function of Dla in direct cell-cell communication. In situ RNA hybridization and immunohistochemistry revealed dynamic, coordinated expression patterns of dla mRNA and Dla protein in the developing and adult zebrafish nervous system. Dla expression is mostly excluded from differentiated neurons and is maintained in putative precursor cells at least until larval stages. In the adult brain, dla mRNA and Dla protein are expressed in proliferative zones normally associated with stem cells.
Although the synaptogenic program for cholinergic synapses of the neuromuscular junction is well known, little is known of the identity or dynamic expression patterns of proteins involved in non-neuromuscular nicotinic synapse development. We have previously demonstrated abnormal presynaptic terminal morphology following loss of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) alpha9 subunit expression in adult cochleae. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying these changes have remained obscure. To better understand synapse formation and the role of cholinergic activity in the synaptogenesis of the inner ear, we exploit the nAChR alpha9 subunit null mouse. In this mouse, functional acetylcholine (ACh) neurotransmission to the hair cells is completely silenced. Results demonstrate a premature, effusive innervation to the synaptic pole of the outer hair cells in alpha9 null mice coinciding with delayed expression of cell adhesion proteins during the period of effusive contact. Collapse of the ectopic innervation coincides with an age-related hyperexpression pattern in the null mice. In addition, we document changes in expression of presynaptic vesicle recycling/trafficking machinery in the alpha9 null mice that suggests a bidirectional information flow between the target of the neural innervation (the hair cells) and the presynaptic terminal that is modified by hair cell nAChR activity. Loss of nAChR activity may alter transcriptional activity, as CREB binding protein expression is decreased coincident with the increased expression of N-Cadherin in the adult alpha9 null mice. Finally, by using mice expressing the nondesensitizing alpha9 L9'T point mutant nAChR subunit, we show that increased nAChR activity drives synaptic hyperinnervation.
Although high circulating levels of glucocorticoids are associated with impaired cognitive performance in adults, less is known about this relationship in infancy. Furthermore, because studies have relied on acute cortisol measures in blood plasma or saliva, interpretation of the results may be difficult as acute measures may in part reflect emotional responses to testing procedures. In this study we examined whether hair cortisol, an integrated measure of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis functioning, predicted performance of nursery-reared (NR) infant rhesus monkeys (n = 32) on Piagetian object permanence tasks. Testing of NR infants began at 19.8 +/- 2.2 (mean +/- SE) days of age and continued for the next several months. Hair cortisol concentrations from the 32 NR monkeys were compared to those of 20 mother-peer-reared (MPR) infants. Hair was shaved at Day 14, allowed to regrow, and obtained again at month 6, thus representing integrated cortisol over a 5.5-month period of time. NR and MPR infants did not differ in month 6 hair cortisol values (t((50)) = 0.02, p = 0.98). Linear regression revealed that hair cortisol predicted object permanence performance in the NR infants. Infants with higher hair cortisol reached criterion at later ages on the well (p &lt; 0.01), screen (p &lt; 0.05), and A-not-B (p &lt; 0.05) tasks and required more test sessions to complete the well (p &lt; 0.01) and screen tasks (p &lt; 0.05). These data are the first to implicate hair cortisol as a reliable predictor of early cognitive performance in infant macaque monkeys.
The directed differentiation of forebrain neuronal types from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) has not been achieved. Here, we show that hESCs differentiate to telencephalic progenitors with a predominantly dorsal identity in a chemically defined medium without known morphogens. This is attributed to endogenous Wnt signaling, which upregulates the truncated form of GLI3, a repressor of sonic hedgehog (SHH). A high concentration of SHH, or the inhibition of Wnt by dickkopf 1 (DKK1) together with a low concentration of SHH, almost completely converts the primitive dorsal precursors to ventral progenitors, which is partially achieved through both downregulation of the truncated GLI3 and upregulation of full-length GLI3 expression. These dorsal and ventral telencephalic progenitors differentiate to functional glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons, respectively. Thus, although hESCs generate dorsal telencephalic cells, as opposed to ventral progenitors in other vertebrates, in the absence of exogenous morphogens, human cells use a similar molecular mechanism to control the dorsal versus ventral fate. The coordination of Wnt and SHH signaling through GLI3 represents a novel mechanism that regulates ventral-dorsal patterning in the development of forebrain neuronal subtypes.
Irritable bowel syndrome is a functional gastrointestinal disorder affecting up to 3-15% of the general population in western countries. It is characterised by unexplained abdominal pain, discomfort, and bloating in association with altered bowel habits. The pathophysiology of irritable bowel syndrome is multifactorial involving disturbances of the brain-gut axis. The pathophysiology provides the rationale for pharmacotherapy: abnormal gastrointestinal motor functions, visceral hypersensitivity, psychosocial factors, autonomic dysfunction, and mucosal immune activation. Understanding the mechanisms, and their mediators or modulators including neurotransmitters and receptors have led to several therapeutic approaches including agents acting on the serotonin receptor or serotonin transporter system, antidepressants, novel selective anticholinergics, alpha-adrenergic agonists, opioid agents, cholecystokinin-antagonists, neurokinin-antagonists, somatostatin receptor agonists, corticotropin releasing factor antagonists, chloride channel activators, guanylate cyclase-c agonists, melatonin, atypical benzodiazepines, antibiotics, immune modulators and probiotics. The mechanisms and current evidence regarding efficacy of these agents are reviewed.
How the processing of emotional expression is influenced by perceived gaze remains a debated issue. Discrepancies between previous results may stem from differences in the nature of stimuli and task characteristics. Here we used a highly controlled set of computer-generated animated faces combining dynamic emotional expressions with varying intensity, and gaze shifts either directed at or averted from the observer. We predicted that perceived self-relevance of fearful faces would be higher with averted gaze-signaling a nearby danger; whereas conversely, direct gaze would be more relevant for angry faces-signaling aggressiveness. This interaction pattern was observed behaviorally for emotion intensity ratings, and neurally for functional magnetic resonance imaging activation in amygdala, as well as fusiform and medial prefrontal cortices, but only for mild- and not high-intensity expressions. These results support an involvement of human amygdala in the appraisal of self-relevance and reveal a crucial role of expression intensity in emotion and gaze interactions.
Depressed patients with a familial history of depression are usually considered as more endogenous, with higher severity, therefore with a worst prognosis (regarding for example recurrence risk). The opposition between &lt; neurotic-stress linked depression &gt; and &lt; endogeneous-genetically related depression &gt; is being challenge in the present review. Indeed, differences in age at onset and selection bias are probably important confusing factors. The existence of an interaction between the involved vulnerability genes (G) and the triggering stressful events (E) was considered as providing meaningful insight for the respective parts of genetics and the environment. Although this approach is even more fragile regarding required sample sizes (larger) and the problem of false positive results (increased), the G*E approach is seducing as closer to reality, the onset of complex disorders being usually explained by those two risk factors.

Recent neurodevelopmental research has been focusing on the transition period of adolescence into adulthood. This growing interest was spurred by the long-standing realization of the high cost of this transition period in terms of morbidity and mortality, and the emergence of research tools that permit direct examination of brain function in humans. The cost of reaching adulthood is understood as resulting from the typical behavioral and environmental changes that accompany adolescence [4]. The present review describes how the current research helps formulate neurobiological models that can be used to guide future work. One example of such a model, the triadic neural systems model [8], will be examined in more detail. This review will proceed in three stages. First, we will show how neural development results from the confluence of maturational changes that are quantitatively and qualitatively heterogeneous across brain regions, neurochemical and molecular systems. This normative developmental heterogeneity is translated into typical adolescent behavioral patterns, including risk-taking, novelty-seeking, emotional intensity and lability, and peer-group social primacy [5, 9]. Second, based on the notion that motivated behavior can be operationally decomposed into the three core modules of approach, avoidance and control, any alteration in the balance of these three core entities can affect behavior in unique ways. This formulation will serve as the foundation of the neural systems model framework proposed in this review. Third, functional neuroimaging is being used to examine how neural systems underlie this balance within the neural systems model. We will provide a summary of the state of research in this area. Finally, we will show how this research is important for understanding not only normal development, but also the psychopathology. The role of genetic or environmental factors will not be addressed here, despite their critical roles in determining and modulating the balance among the nodes of the triadic model.
In present-day pharmacology and medicine, it is usually taken for granted that cells contain a host of highly specific receptors. These are defined as proteins on or within the cell that bind with specificity to particular drugs, chemical messenger substances or hormones and mediate their effects on the body. However, it is only relatively recently that the notion of drug-specific receptors has become widely accepted, with considerable doubts being expressed about their existence as late as the 1960s. When did the receptor concept emerge, how did it evolve and why did it take so long to become established?
Forebrain ventricular delivery of melanocortin receptor (MC3/4R) agonist increases energy expenditure and decreases food intake (FI). Because forebrain ventricular delivery provides ligand to various anatomically distributed MC3/4R-bearing nuclei, it is unclear which of the receptor subpopulations contributes to the feeding suppression and the sympathetic-thermogenic effects observed. The literature indicates that reexpression of MC4R in the paraventricular nucleus (PVH) affects the feeding but not the energetic phenotype of the MC4R knockout, suggesting that divergent MC4R populations mediate energy expenditure (hindbrain) and FI (hypothalamus) effects of stimulation. Not consistent with this view are data indicating that PVH sympathetic projection neurons express MC4Rs and that feeding effects are induced from hindbrain MC4R sites. Therefore, we hypothesize an opposing perspective: that stimulation of anatomically diverse MC3/4R-bearing nuclei triggers energetic as well as feeding effects. To test this hypothesis, ventricle subthreshold doses of MC3/4R agonist (5 and 10 pmol) were applied in separate experiments to six hindbrain and hypothalamic sites; core temperature (Tc), heart rate (HR), spontaneous activity (SPA), and FI were measured in behaving rats. Nucleus tractus solitarius and PVH stimulation increased Tc, HR, and SPA and decreased FI. Rostral ventrolateral medulla, parabrachial nucleus, and retrochiasmatic area stimulation increased Tc, HR, but not SPA, and decreased FI. The response profile differed to some extent for each nucleus tested, suggesting differential output circuitries for the measured parameters. Data are consistent with the view that energetic and feeding responses are not controlled by regionally divergent MC3/4Rs and can be elicited from multiple, anatomically distributed MC3/4R populations.
Insulin is a potent adipogenic hormone that triggers the induction of a series of transcription factors and specific proteins governing the differentiation of preadipocytes into mature adipocytes. Here we report that ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase (UCH)-L3, a deubiquitinating enzyme, promotes insulin signaling and adipogenesis. Uchl3(-/-) mice had less visceral white adipose tissue compared with wild-type mice. In vitro adipogenesis experiments revealed that mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and preadipocytes from Uchl3(-/-) mice had impaired ability to differentiate into mature adipocytes than those from wild-type mice. This difference was diminished by removing insulin from the medium. RT-PCR analysis showed that insulin-regulated expression of srebp1c, fas, glut4, and adiponectin is impaired in Uchl3(-/-) cells. The phosphorylation of insulin/IGF-I receptor, Akt, glycogen synthase kinase-3beta, and FoxO1 was decreased in Uchl3(-/-) MEFs treated with insulin. Moreover, ectopic expression of wild-type UCH-L3 restored the phosphorylation of insulin/IGF-I receptor and adipocyte differentiation in Uchl3(-/-) MEFs. In contrast, hydrolase activity-deficient UCH-L3 did not enhance insulin signaling and the expression of glut4, fabp4, and adiponectin, resulting in impaired formation of large lipid droplets. These results suggest that UCH-L3 promotes adipogenesis by enhancing insulin signaling in a hydrolase activity-dependent manner.
Patancheru, near Hyderabad, India, is a major production site for the global bulk drug market. Approximately 90 manufacturers send their wastewater to a common treatment plant in Patancheru. Extraordinary high levels of a wide range of pharmaceuticals have recently been demonstrated in the treated effluent. As little as 0.2% of this effluent can strongly reduce the growth rate of tadpoles, but the underlying mechanisms of toxicity are not known. To begin addressing how the effluent affects aquatic vertebrates, rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) were exposed to 0.2% effluent for 5 d. Several physiological endpoints, together with effects on global hepatic gene expression patterns, were analyzed. The exposed fish showed both an induction of hepatic cytochrome P450 1A (CYP1A) gene expression, as well as enzyme activity. Clinical blood chemistry analyses revealed an increase in plasma phosphate levels, which in humans indicates impaired kidney function. Several oxidative stress-related genes were induced in the livers; however, no significant changes in antioxidant enzyme activities or in the hepatic glutathione levels were found. Furthermore, estrogen-regulated genes were slightly up-regulated following exposure, and moderate levels of estriol were detected in the effluent. The present study identifies changes in gene expression triggered by exposure to a high dilution of the effluent, supporting the hypothesis that these fish are responding to chemical exposure. The pattern of regulated genes may contribute to the identification of mechanisms of sublethal toxicity, as well as illuminate possible causative agents.







Advantages of dried blood spot include low invasiveness, ease and low cost of sample collection, transport, and storage. We used tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to determine phenobarbital levels on dried blood spot specimens and compared this methodology to commercially available particle enhanced turbidimetric inhibition immunoassay (PETINIA) in plasma/serum samples. The calibration curve in matrix using D(5)-phenobarbital as internal standard was linear in the phenobarbital concentration range of 1-100 mg/L (correlation coefficient 0.9996). The coefficients of variation in blood spots ranged 2.29-6.71% and the accuracy ranged 96.54-103.87%. There were no significant differences between the concentrations measured using PETINA and LC-MS/MS (both had similar precision and accuracy) however, LC-MS/MS allows at least 1.5 times higher throughput of phenobarbital analysis and additionally offers ease of sample collection which is particularly important for newborns or small infants.
Divalproex sodium extended-release (divalproex-ER), administered once-daily, maintains plasma valproic acid (VPA) concentrations for 24h, whereas enteric-coated, delayed-release divalproex sodium (divalproex) requires multiple-daily doses to do the same. We hypothesize that a once-daily divalproex regimen should not be administered to epilepsy patients requiring high total daily doses, e.g., 35.6-56 mg/kg/day, due to the potential for high (&gt;125 mg/L) maximum VPA concentrations (C(max)). We examined the impact of once-daily dosing, divalproex vs. divalproex-ER, on steady-state plasma VPA concentration-time profiles at commonly used doses in monotherapy (uninduced) and polytherapy (hepatic enzyme-induced) virtual adult patients. Only the 1125 mg once-daily divalproex dose had mean C(max)&lt;100mg/L; &gt;or=2000 mg produced mean C(max)&gt;or=125 mg/L. Mean divalproex C(min) was approximately 50 mg/L at two of four doses tested, whereas mean ER C(min) was &gt;73 mg/L at all doses tested. Once-daily divalproex peak-trough fluctuation was 4.4-6.2-fold greater than once-daily divalproex-ER. We predict that excursions beyond the conventional recommended VPA plasma concentration range will commonly occur with high total mg daily doses (&gt;or=2000 mg) of enteric-coated divalproex, if dosed once-daily, potentially producing clinical toxicity. This divalproex formulation should not be dosed once-daily at high total mg daily doses due to this risk. Divalproex-ER is the appropriate formulation for administration on a once-daily basis, especially if large total mg/day doses are required for the control of seizure activity.
Here we studied the long-term effects of neonatal seizures on inhibitory synaptic transmission in somatosensory cortex. We found that recurrent flurothyl-induced seizures result in a marked reduction in amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) and increases of miniature IPSCs interevent intervals. These results indicate that decreasing the inhibitory synaptic strength following neonatal seizures in neocortical neurons is not due to a postsynaptic mechanism.
A relationship between peripheral visual field loss and vigabatrin (VGB) has been reported in several studies but with inconsistent results. We investigated the level of visual processing at which the impairment occurs: attentional or cognitive (recognition) deficit. A simple reaction time task was used as a baseline condition. A spatial attention task measured the benefit and cost for the detection of a target appearing at a cued or at an uncued location. A rapid categorization task assessed object recognition. Performance was tested at eccentricities varying from 30 degrees to 60 degrees on a panoramic screen covering 180 degrees. Participants were patients with epilepsy treated with VGB, patients treated with other drugs and healthy controls. In the VGB group 9 patients exhibited a mild visual field constriction. We observed a general slowing down of response times in participants treated by VGB, especially at 60 degrees eccentricity but their performance remained above chance at large eccentricity in the most complex categorization task. The slowing down of visual processing at large eccentricity for flashed stimuli suggests that VGB treated patients might be impaired at detecting moving objects in the periphery and this may have consequences in behavioural tasks like driving.

Introduction of more non-computer tasks has been suggested to increase exposure variation and thus reduce musculoskeletal complaints (MSC) in computer-intensive office work. This study investigated whether muscle activity did, indeed, differ between computer and non-computer activities. Whole-day logs of input device use in 30 office workers were used to identify computer and non-computer work, using a range of classification thresholds (non-computer thresholds (NCTs)). Exposure during these activities was assessed by bilateral electromyography recordings from the upper trapezius and lower arm. Contrasts in muscle activity between computer and non-computer work were distinct but small, even at the individualised, optimal NCT. Using an average group-based NCT resulted in less contrast, even in smaller subgroups defined by job function or MSC. Thus, computer activity logs should be used cautiously as proxies of biomechanical exposure. Conventional non-computer tasks may have a limited potential to increase variation in muscle activity during computer-intensive office work.
In this review, we present the main findings of the 6th Symposium for the Search for the Causes of Schizophrenia, which took place between 3 and 6 February 2009, in Sao Paulo, Brazil. In a few short years, the landscape of the causes of schizophrenia has changed dramatically. The flat and featureless epidemiological horizon has developed undulating contours, which promise new avenues for research, particularly if we are able to integrate such findings with tantalising new findings from genetics as novel methods for identifying genuine sites of genetic risk emerge. The Search highlighted and fostered the emerging acknowledgement that we will need to integrate knowledge across traditionally disparate disciplines in psychiatry in order to develop complex, testable hypotheses in the search for the causes of schizophrenia. Such challenges are beginning to be addressed. From epidemiology, gene-environment studies are becoming more sophisticated, while neuroscience is increasingly concerned about social organisation and how social factors impinge upon biological pathways to potentially lead to psychosis. Tantalising new insights from genome-wide association studies offer new clues about rare genetic mutations, which have large effect sizes for schizophrenia, including copy number variants and de novo mutations. It is only through forums such as the 6th Symposium for the Search for the Causes of Schizophrenia that the seeds of integrated collaborations across disciplines can be sown to address the complex polyfactorial basis of schizophrenia.
The impairment of the Trail Making Test (TMT) performance as a measure of executive function deficits has been found both in patients with schizophrenia and in their unaffected first-degree relatives, suggesting that it might be considered as a familial vulnerability marker, but its heritability estimates are not well known. This study investigated the genetic heritability of impairments in TMT performance using a sample of 80 schizophrenia patients, 145 unaffected first-degree relatives and 127 healthy controls from families with multiple members with schizophrenia. Consistent with previous reports in the literature, relatives performed in between healthy controls and schizophrenia patients. Based on these results, a variance component-analysis provided small, but significant additive heritability estimates for performance indices relating performance in TMT-version A to TMT-version B. These results showed that this significant but small evidence of heritability on the one hand suggests an association with genetic predisposition to schizophrenia, but that TMT performance is also associated with epigenetic or environmental factors.
A key feature of potassium channel function is the ability to switch between conducting and non-conducting states by undergoing conformational changes in response to cellular or extracellular signals. Such switching is facilitated by the mechanical coupling of gating domain movements to pore opening and closing. Two-pore domain potassium channels (K(2P)) conduct leak or background potassium-selective currents that are mostly time- and voltage-independent. These channels play a significant role in setting the cell resting membrane potential and, therefore modulate cell responsiveness and excitability. Thus, K(2P) channels are key players in numerous physiological processes and were recently shown to also be involved in human pathologies. It is well established that K(2P) channel conductance, open probability and cell surface expression are significantly modulated by various physical and chemical stimuli. However, in understanding how such signals are translated into conformational changes that open or close the channels gate, there remain more open questions than answers. A growing line of evidence suggests that the outer pore area assumes a critical role in gating K(2P) channels, in a manner reminiscent of C-type inactivation of voltage-gated potassium channels. In some K(2P) channels, this gating mechanism is facilitated in response to external pH levels. Recently, it was suggested that K(2P) channels also possess a lower activation gate that is positively coupled to the outer pore gate. The purpose of this review is to present an up-to-date summary of research describing the conformational changes and gating events that take place at the K(2P) channel ion-conducting pathway during the channel regulation.


The ability to detect the motion of objects is critical to survival, and understanding the cortical mechanisms involved in this process remains a key challenge in sensory neuroscience. A relatively new approach to this problem is to temporarily disrupt processing at specific cortical sites and measure the behavioural consequences. Several previous studies have shown that transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of human visual area V5/MT disrupts global motion perception, but reports vary widely in the timescale of this effect. To resolve this issue we employed psychophysical techniques to investigate how discrimination of translational, rotational and radial global motion is affected by TMS. Prior to applying TMS we established baseline coherence thresholds for global motion perception. Adopting each observer's coherence level at threshold we examined how TMS delivered to V5/MT modulated performance. Importantly, we measured the influence of single-pulse TMS over a broad temporal range to reveal the fine temporal structure of the disruption profile for global motion perception. Results show that the disruption profile consisted of two distinct epochs during which global direction judgments were reliably impaired, separated by an interval in which performance was unaffected. The bimodal nature of the distribution profiles is consistent with feedforward and feedback processing between visual areas mediating global motion processing. We present a novel quantitative model that characterizes the contribution of each process to visual motion perception.
Sensorimotor activity has been shown to play a key role in functional recovery after partial spinal cord injury (SCI). Most studies in rodents have focused on the rehabilitation of hindlimb locomotor functions after thoracic or lumbar SCI, whereas forelimb motor and somatosensory abilities after cervical SCI remain largely uninvestigated, despite the high incidence of such injuries in humans. Moreover, little is known about the neurophysiological substrates of training-induced recovery in supraspinal structures. This study was aimed at evaluating the effects of a training procedure combining both motor and sensory stimulation on behavioral performance and somatosensory cortical map remodeling after cervical (C4-C5) spinal hemisection in rats. This SCI severely impaired both sensory and motor capacities in the ipsilateral limbs. Without training, post-lesion motor capacities gradually improved, whereas forepaw tactile abilities remained impaired. Consistently, no stimulus-evoked responses were recorded within the forepaw representational zone in the primary somatosensory (S1) cortex at 2 months after the SCI. However, our data reveal that with training started from the 7th day post-lesion, a nearly complete recovery (characterized by an early and rapid improvement of motor functions) was associated with a gradual compensation of tactile deficits. Furthermore, the recovery of tactile abilities was correlated with the areal extent of reactivation of S1 cortex forepaw representations. Rehabilitative training promoted post-lesion adaptive plasticity, probably by enhancing endogenous activity within spared spinal and supraspinal circuits and pathways sustaining sensory and motor functions. This study highlights the beneficial effect of sensorimotor training in motor improvement and its critical influence on tactile recovery after SCI.
We examined the role of GlyT1, the high-affinity glycine transporter, in the mouse retina with an emphasis on the role of glycine as a coagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors. We pursued this objective by studying heterozygote mice deficient in the GlyT1 transporter (GlyT1(-/+)) and compared those results with wild-type (WT) littermate controls (GlyT1(+/+)). Capillary electrophoresis was used to separate and quantitatively measure glycine release from isolated retina preparations; pharmacologically blocking GlyT1 with N-[3-([1,1-biphenyl]-4-yloxy)-3-(4-fluorophenyl)propyl]-N-methylglycine in the WT retina generated a significantly larger accumulation of glycine into the bathing environment when compared with the GlyT1(-/+) retinas. The relative occupancy state of the NMDA receptor coagonist sites was tested using whole-cell recordings from ganglion cells while bath applying D-serine or D-serine + NMDA. The interpretation of these studies was simplified by blocking post-synaptic inhibition with picrotoxinin and strychnine. NMDA receptor coagonist sites were more saturated and less enhanced by D-serine in the GlyT1(-/+) mice compared with the WT controls. Immunoblots of NMDA receptor subunits (NR1, NR2A and NR2B) in WT and GlyT1(-/+) animals showed that the NR1 subunits were identical. These observations are discussed in view of contemporary issues about NMDA receptor coagonist function in the vertebrate retina and the role of glycine vs. D-serine as the endogenous coagonist.
Deletion of both alleles of the P/Q-type Ca(2+)-channel Ca(v)2.1(alpha(1A)) subunit gene in mouse leads to severe ataxia and early death. Using cerebellar slices obtained from 10 to 15 postnatal days mice and cultured for at least 3 weeks in vitro, we have analysed the synaptic alterations produced by genetically ablating the P/Q-type Ca(2+)-channels, and compared them with the effect of pharmacological inhibition of the P/Q- or N-type channels on wild-type littermate mice. Analysis of spontaneous synaptic currents recorded in Purkinje cells (PCs) indicated that the P/Q-type channels play a prominent role at the inhibitory synapses afferent onto the PCs, with the effect of deleting Ca(v)2.1(alpha(1A)) partially compensated. At the granule cell (GC) to PC synapses, both N- and P/Q-type Ca(2+)-channels were found playing a role in glutamate exocytosis, but with no significant phenotypic compensation of the Ca(v)2.1(alpha(1A)) deletion. We also found that the P/Q- but not N-type Ca(2+)-channel is indispensable at the autaptic contacts between PCs. Tuning of the GC activity implicates both synaptic and sustained extrasynaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release, only the former was greatly impaired in the absence of P/Q-type Ca(2+)-channels. Overall, our data demonstrate that both P/Q- and N-type Ca(2+)-channels play a role in glutamate release, while the P/Q-type is essential in GABA exocytosis in the cerebellum. Contrary to the other regions of the CNS, the effect of deleting the Ca(v)2.1(alpha(1A)) subunit is partially or not compensated at the inhibitory synapses. This may explain why cerebellar ataxia is observed at the mice lacking functional P/Q-type channels.
Synaptic inhibition mediated by GABA(A) receptors and glycine receptors (GlyRs) in the outer laminae of the spinal cord dorsal horn efficiently filters ascending nociceptive messages, controlling pathological pain symptoms. However, although many studies have utilized transgenic models to study spinal nociceptive processing, very little is known about the development of functional inhibitory synapses onto these interneurons in mice. Here we report that most interneurons in lamina II are placed under phasic control by both GABAergic and glycinergic synapses, a number of which exhibit dual GABA/glycine co-release. A developmental switch is also apparent: a subpopulation of lamina II interneurons controlled exclusively by either GABAergic or glycinergic synapses becomes detectable only after postnatal days 15 and 21, respectively. Using mice older than postnatal day 21, we also characterized the plastic changes in glycinergic transmission resulting from the inactivation of the GlyR alpha3 subunit gene, a key player in inflammatory pain pathways. This allowed us to demonstrate that synapses containing GlyR alpha3 contribute in large part to synaptic inhibition in lamina II. In Glra3 knockout mice, we found that synaptic currents at the remaining glycinergic synapses, containing GlyR alpha1, showed faster decay kinetics with unchanged amplitudes but increased frequency. These findings explain the absence of any basal nociceptive hypersensitivity in Glra3 knockout mice, as GlyR alpha1 is still available for mediating synaptic inhibition at lamina II synapses, but cannot be modulated by the prostaglandin-E-prostanoid type 2 (EP2) receptor-protein kinase A signalling cascade. Our results clearly demonstrate that presynaptic GABA/glycine release properties are influenced by the nature and complexity of postsynaptic inhibitory receptor subtypes.
Cueing relevant spatial locations in advance of a visual target results in modulated processing of that target as a consequence of anticipatory attentional deployment, the neural signatures of which remain to be fully elucidated. A set of electrophysiological processes has been established as candidate markers of the invocation and maintenance of attentional bias in humans. These include spatially-selective event-related potential (ERP) components over the lateral parietal (around 200-300 ms post-cue), frontal (300-500 ms) and ventral visual (&gt; 500 ms) cortex, as well as oscillatory amplitude changes in the alpha band (8-14 Hz). Here, we interrogated the roles played by these anticipatory processes in attentional orienting by testing for links with subsequent behavioral performance. We found that both target discriminability (d') and reaction times were significantly predicted on a trial-by-trial basis by lateralization of alpha-band amplitude in the 500 ms preceding the target, with improved speed and accuracy resulting from a greater relative decrease in alpha over the contralateral visual cortex. Reaction time was also predicted by a late posterior contralateral positivity in the broad-band ERP in the same time period, but this did not influence d'. In a further analysis we sought to identify the control signals involved in generating the anticipatory bias, by testing earlier broad-band ERP amplitude for covariation with alpha lateralization. We found that stronger alpha biasing was associated with a greater bilateral frontal positivity at approximately 390 ms but not with differential amplitude across hemispheres in any time period. Thus, during the establishment of an anticipatory spatial bias, while the expected target location is strongly encoded in lateralized activity in parietal and frontal areas, a distinct non-spatial control process seems to regulate the strength of the bias.
These guidelines summarize the current views of the European Association of Nuclear Medicine Neuroimaging Committee (ENC). The purpose of the guidelines is to assist nuclear medicine practitioners in making recommendations, performing, interpreting, and reporting the results of fluorine-18 fluoro-2-deoxyglucose ([(18)F]FDG) PET imaging of the brain. The aim is to help achieve a high standard of FDG imaging, which will increase the diagnostic impact of this technique in neurological and psychiatric practice. The present document replaces a former version of the guidelines that were published in 2002 [1] and includes an update in the light of advances in PET technology, the introduction of hybrid PET/CT systems and the broadening clinical indications for FDG brain imaging. These guidelines are intended to present information specifically adapted for European practice. The information provided should be taken in the context of local conditions and regulations.

Accumulating evidence suggests that alpha(1)-adrenoceptors may be involved in the mechanisms of action of some antipsychotic drugs. The present study was undertaken to examine the effects of quetiapine, an atypical antipsychotic drug with alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonism, on cognitive deficits in mice after repeated administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP). Subsequent subchronic (14 days) administration of quetiapine (1.0, 10, or 30 mg/kg, p.o.) attenuated PCP (10 mg/kg/day for 10 days)-induced cognitive deficits in mice, in a dose dependent manner. Furthermore, PCP (10 mg/kg)-induced cognitive deficits were also significantly ameliorated by subsequent subchronic (14 days) administration of the selective alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin (1.0 mg/kg/day, p.o.). Moreover, Western blot analysis revealed that levels of two subtypes (alpha(1A) and alpha(1B)) of alpha(1)-adrenoceptors were significantly lower in the brains of PCP-treated mice than in those of saline-treated mice. These findings suggest that repeated PCP administration could decrease the density of alpha(1)-adrenoceptors in mouse brain, and that subsequent subchronic administration of quetiapine might ameliorate PCP-induced cognitive deficits via alpha(1)-adrenoceptors. Therefore, it is likely that antagonism at alpha(1)-adrenoceptors is involved in the mechanism underlying quetiapine's psychopharmacological action.

The growing use of complementary and alternative medications (CAM) for cognitive enhancement in both healthy elderly and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other dementing disorders has led to rapidly growing literature with conflicting results. There are studies that suggest benefit from CAM in both the healthy elderly and dementing patients as well as studies that suggest no benefit for either group. Because of the lack of regulatory oversight (e.g., Food and Drug Administration [FDA], European Medicines Agency [EMeA]), there are currently no generally accepted guidelines to standardize the types of studies that are conducted. Due to the absence of guidelines that set standards for study design, outcomes, and analysis, it is difficult to compare studies with conflicting results. For example, Ginkgo biloba has been shown both to provide benefit and no benefit on cognition in both healthy elderly and patients with AD. Reconciling these divergent studies has been challenging because both sides often use divergent methodologies and designs and widely varying cognitive measures that may or may not be validated in the populations being studied. In this article, the authors suggest a roadmap for establishing guidelines for the evaluation of CAM in cognition. They then apply these guidelines to the conflicting literature on Ginkgo to determine whether they might help resolve the conflicting results.
The optic flow generated in the eyes during self-motion provides an important control signal for direction and speed of self-motion, and can be used to track the distance that has been traveled. The use of vision for these behavioral tasks can be studied in isolation in virtual reality setups, in which self-motion is merely simulated, and in which the visual motion can be controlled independently of other sensory cues. In such experiments it was found that the estimation of the travel distance of a simulated movement shows characteristic errors, sometimes overestimating and sometimes underestimating the true travel distance. These errors can be explained by a leaky path integration model. To test whether this model also holds for actual self-motion in the real world we studied walking distance perception in an open field with tasks similar to those previously used in virtual environments. We show that similar errors occur in the estimation of travel distance in the real world as in virtual environment, and that they are consistent with the leaky integration model.
The pigeon's visual system is an excellent model to investigate the ontogenetic and the neuronal foundations of cerebral asymmetries. Before hatching, lateralized visual stimulation induces structural asymmetries within the tectofugal pathway during a critical time window. Interhemispheric control mechanisms emerge presumably after hatching and stabilize these induced asymmetries. Once established, visual asymmetry in pigeons displays a left hemispheric dominance for complex learning and discrimination tasks and unravels how the interplay between bottom-up and top-down mechanisms generate a lateralized, hemispheric-specific visual analysis. The ascending visual (tectofugal) pathway displays cell size asymmetries and directs more bilateral visual information towards the left hemisphere. This bottom- up system is controlled by telencephalic top-down projections, which affect intra- and/or interhemispheric inhibitory systems in a presumably lateralized manner. Such a flexible organization allows the control of information transfer depending on the visual input and hence adapt the dominant processing mode to environmental requirements.
The dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) appears to be involved in impulsive behaviors, and particularly in behavioral inhibition. We sought to determine whether inhibition and impulsivity were related to genetic polymorphisms in the DRD2 gene (DRD2) in healthy volunteers (N = 93). Participants received placebo or d-amphetamine in random order. They performed the stop task, measuring behavioral inhibition, and rated their mood states on each session. They also completed the Zuckerman-Kuhlman Personality Questionnaire, including an Impulsivity subscale. We investigated the association between 12 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and haplotypes in DRD2 and stop task performance in the nondrug (i.e., placebo) session and on the personality measure of impulsivity. We secondarily evaluated the DRD2 SNPs in relation to response to d-amphetamine on stop task performance and mood ratings. Mood was not related to genotypes in either the drug free condition or in response to drug. However, 2 SNPs, rs4648317 and rs12364283, and a haplotype block consisting of those SNPs, were associated with better performance on the stop task in the drug free condition and lower scores on the Impulsivity subscale. We also found that rs12364283 was associated with effects of d-amphetamine on stop task performance: d-amphetamine decreased stop reaction time (RT) in the A/A group but increased stop RT in the combined A/G + G/G genotype. Of the SNPs we evaluated, rs12364283, which has been associated with DRD2 expression, was the most significantly associated with inhibition and impulsivity. The significant relationship between DRD2 genotype and both behavioral inhibition and impulsivity suggests a possible common genetic influence on behavioral and self-report measures of impulsivity.
Mild hypothermia lessens brain injury when initiated after the onset of global or focal ischemia. The present study sought to determine whether cooling to approximately 33 degrees C provides enduring benefit when initiated 1 h after permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO, via electrocautery) in adult rats and whether protection depends upon treatment duration and cooling technique. In the first experiment, systemic cooling was induced in non-anesthetized rats through a whole-body exposure technique that used fans and water mist. In comparison to normothermic controls, 12- and 48-h bouts of hypothermia significantly lessened functional impairment, such as skilled reaching ability, and lesion volume out to a 1-month survival. In the second experiment, brain-selective cooling was induced in awake rats via a water-cooled metal strip implanted underneath the temporalis muscle overlying the ischemic territory. Use of a 48-h cooling treatment significantly mitigated injury and behavioral impairment whereas a 12-h treatment did not. These findings show that while systemic and focal techniques are effective when initiated after the onset of pMCAO, they differ in efficacy depending upon the treatment duration. A direct and uncomplicated comparison between methods is problematic, however, due to unknown gradients in brain temperature and the use of two separate experiments. In summary, prolonged cooling, even when delayed after onset of pMCAO, provides enduring behavioral and histological protection sufficient to suggest that it will be clinically effective. Nonetheless, further pre-clinical work is needed to improve treatment protocols, such as identifying the optimal depth of cooling, and how these factors interact with cooling method.
Muscle degeneration in dystrophic muscle is exacerbated by the endogenous inflammatory response and increased oxidative stress. A key role is played by nuclear factor(NF)-kappaB. We showed that NF-kappaB inhibition through compounds with also antioxidant properties has beneficial effects in mdx mice, the murine model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), but these drugs are not available for clinical studies. We evaluated whether flavocoxid, a mixed flavonoid extract with anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and NF-kappaB inhibiting properties, has beneficial effects in mdx mice in comparison with methylprednisolone, the gold standard treatment for DMD patients. Five-week-old mdx mice were treated for 5 weeks with flavocoxid, methylprednisolone or vehicle. The evaluation of in vivo and ex vivo functional properties and morphological parameters was performed. Serum samples were assayed for oxidative stress markers, creatine-kinase (CK) and leukotriene B-4. Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), 5-lipoxygenase (5-LOX), tumor necrosis factor-alpha, p-38, JNK1 expression was evaluated in muscle by western blot analysis. NF-kappaB binding activity was investigated by electrophoresis mobility shift assay. The administration of flavocoxid: (1) ameliorated functional properties in vivo and ex vivo; (2) reduced CK; (3) reduced the expression of oxidative stress markers and of inflammatory mediators; (4) inhibited NF-kappaB and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) signal pathways; (5) reduced muscle necrosis and enhanced regeneration. Our results highlight the detrimental effects of oxidative stress and NF-kappaB, MAPKs and COX/5-LOX pathways in the dystrophic process and show that flavocoxid is more effective in mdx mice than methylprednisolone.
We have studied motor performance in a man with Parkinson's disease (PD) in whom thermolytic lesions of the left subthalamic and left globus pallidus nuclei interrupted the basal ganglia (BG)-thalamo-cortical motor circuit in the left hemisphere. This allowed us to study remaining motor capabilities in the absence of aberrant BG activity typical of PD. Movements of the left arm were slow and parkinsonian whereas movement speed and simple reaction times (RT) of the right (operated) arm were within the normal range with no obvious deficits in a range of daily life activities. Two main abnormalities were found with the right hand. (a) Implicit sequence learning in a probabilistic serial reaction time task was absent. (b) In a go/no-go task when the percent of no-go trials increased, the RT superiority with the right hand was lost. These deficits are best explained by a failure of the cortex, deprived of BG input, to facilitate responses in a probabilistic context. Our findings confirm the idea that it is better to stop BG activity than allowing faulty activity to disrupt the motor system but dispute earlier claims that interrupting BG output in PD goes without an apparent deficit. From a practical viewpoint, our observations indicate that the risk of persistent dyskinesias need not be viewed as a contraindication to subthalamotomy in PD patients since they can be eliminated if necessary by a subsequent pallidotomy without producing deficits that impair activities of daily life.
Macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) is a cytokine that regulates the survival, proliferation and maturation of microglial cells. Administration of M-CSF can promote neuronal survival in various models of central nervous system (CNS) injury. Here, in an attempt to induce a neuroprotective microglial cell phenotype and enhance motor neuron survival, mutant SOD1(G37R) transgenic mice were treated, weekly, with M-CSF starting at onset of disease. Unexpectedly, M-CSF accelerated disease progression in SOD1(G37R) mouse model of ALS. The shortened survival of M-CSF-treated animals was associated with diminished muscle innervation and enhanced adoption of a macrophage-like phenotype by microglial cells characterised by the upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha and IL-1 beta and of the phagocytic marker CD68.
Social interaction is neuroprotective following stroke, however, social housing introduces numerous social and sensory stimuli, and the individual contribution of these stimuli to stroke outcome is unknown. The current study was designed to investigate the role of physical contact in mediating the protective effect of social interaction in a rodent model of focal cerebral ischemia. Male mice were housed individually (socially isolated) or paired with an ovariectomized female in standard housing conditions, or in a cage separated by a grid partition that prevented physical contact. Implantable transmitters continuously recorded core body temperature and locomotor activity beginning 24 h before cerebral ischemia and continuing through 72 h of reperfusion. Among mice housed in standard cages, pair housing reduced infarct volume and led to a recovery of locomotor activity compared to social isolation. However, among mice that were pair housed in a partitioned cage that prevented social interaction throughout the experiment, infarct volume was comparable to that of socially isolated mice. Further, locomotor activity did not fully recover by 72 h among paired mice that were separated by a partition. Core body temperature did not differ by housing condition in mice undergoing stroke. Taken together, these data suggest that the physical contact component of social interaction is an important mediator of social influences on stroke outcome.

The 13th Congress of the European Federation of Neurological Sciences (EFNS) was held in Florence and was open to neurologists and healthcare professionals interested in neurological disorders. The congress offered teaching courses and main topics. This article summarizes the highlights of some sessions of the 13th Congress of EFNS congress that may have clinical utility.
Cellular processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) has been extensively studied, but its precise function remains elusive. The intracellular domain of APP has been proposed to regulate expression of several genes by mechanisms that are largely unknown. We report that APP regulates expression of the aquaporin 1 (AQP1) gene in mouse embryonic fibroblasts and in transgenic mice. AQP1 mRNA and protein were down-regulated in fibroblasts lacking APP or presenilin 2 in which AQP1 expression was restored by stable expression of full-length APP or presenilin 2 but not by APP deleted from its carboxy-terminal domain. The transcriptional activity of the AQP1 gene promoter and the stability of AQP1 mRNA were identical in fibroblasts expressing or not expressing APP. Control of AQP1 expression by APP was sensitive to trichostatin A, an histone deacetylase inhibitor, and histone deacetylase activity coimmunoprecipitated with APP. Altogether, these data show that a presenilin-2-dependent gamma-secretase activity releases the intracellular domain of APP involved in the epigenetic control of AQP1 expression. Since AQP1 is found in astrocytes surrounding senile plaques, this epigenetic control of AQP1 expression could have important implications in Alzheimer disease.
Obesity results from the dysregulation of energy balance throughout the entire body. Although the ubiquitin system participates in many cellular processes, its contribution to the balance of energy in the body remains poorly understood. Here, we show that ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase (UCH)-L3, one of the deubiquitinating enzymes, contributes to the regulation of metabolism. Uchl3(-/-) mice displayed a reduction of adipose tissue mass and were protected against high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity and insulin resistance. Uchl3(-/-) mice given both a normal chow and an HFD had an increased whole-body energy expenditure accounting for the reduction of adipose tissue mass. Activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) in skeletal muscle has been reported to increase fatty acid beta-oxidation, leading to the elevation of the whole-body energy expenditure. Consistently, increased activation of AMPK and fatty acid beta-oxidation was observed in skeletal muscle of Uchl3(-/-) mice. Mouse embryonic fibroblasts derived from Uchl3(-/-) mice also showed increased activation of AMPK, indicating that UCH-L3 is involved in a cell-autonomous down-regulation of AMPK. These results suggest a role for UCH-L3 in the regulation of AMPK activity and whole-body energy metabolism.
Efficiency, defined as the amount of work produced for a given amount of oxygen consumed, is a key determinant of endurance capacity, and can be altered by metabolic substrate supply, in that fatty acid oxidation is less efficient than glucose oxidation. It is unclear, however, whether consumption of a high-fat diet would be detrimental or beneficial for endurance capacity, due to purported glycogen-sparing properties. In addition, a high-fat diet over several months leads to cognitive impairment. Here, we tested the hypothesis that short-term ingestion of a high-fat diet (55% kcal from fat) would impair exercise capacity and cognitive function in rats, compared with a control chow diet (7.5% kcal from fat) via mitochondrial uncoupling and energy deprivation. We found that rats ran 35% less far on a treadmill and showed cognitive impairment in a maze test with 9 d of high-fat feeding, with respiratory uncoupling in skeletal muscle mitochondria, associated with increased uncoupling protein (UCP3) levels. Our results suggest that high-fat feeding, even over short periods of time, alters skeletal muscle UCP3 expression, affecting energy production and physical performance. Optimization of nutrition to maximize the efficiency of mitochondrial ATP production could improve energetics in athletes and patients with metabolic abnormalities.


The weakly inwardly rectifying K(+) channel Kir4.1 is found in many glial cells including astrocytes. However, questions remain regarding the relative contribution of Kir4.1 to the resting K(+) conductance of mature astrocytes in situ. We employed a bacterial artificial chromosome transgenic approach in mice to visualize Kir4.1 expression in vivo. These mice (Kir4.1-EGFP) express enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the transcriptional control of the Kir4.1 promoter. The brains of adult Kir4.1-EGFP transgenic mice showed co-expression of EGFP and Kir4.1 in astrocytes. In addition, weaker expression of EGFP was detected in NG2+ glial cells when compared with EGFP expression in GFAP+ glial cells. Whole-cell voltage clamp recordings of EGFP+ glial cells in the CA1 area of the adult mouse hippocampus indicated astrocytes displaying properties consistent with both the &quot;passive&quot; and &quot;complex&quot; subpopulations. EGFP+ cells with bright fluorescence had the linear current-voltage (I-V) relationships and extensive gap junctional coupling characteristic of passive astrocytes. However, EGFP+ glia with weaker fluorescence displayed properties associated with complex astrocytes including nonlinear I-V relationships and lack of intercellular gap junctional coupling. Pharmacological blockade of inward currents implied that Kir4.1 channels constitute the dominant resting K(+) conductance in both glial cell types and are more highly expressed in passive astrocytes. These results suggest differential expression of Kir4.1 in glia and that this channel likely underlies the resting K(+) conductance in passive and complex astrocytes.
Glypican-1 is a glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchored cell surface S-nitrosylated heparan sulfate proteoglycan that is processed by nitric oxide dependent degradation of its side chains. Cell surface-bound glypican-1 becomes internalized and recycles via endosomes, where the heparan sulphate chains undergo nitric oxide and copper dependent autocleavage at N-unsubstituted glucosamines, back to the Golgi. It is not known if the S-nitrosylation occurs during biosynthesis or recycling of the protein. Here we have generated a recombinant human glypican-1 lacking the glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchor. We find that this protein is directly secreted into the culture medium both as core protein and proteoglycan form and is not subjected to internalization and further modifications during recycling. By using SDS-PAGE, Western blotting and radiolabeling experiments we show that the glypican-1 can be S-nitrosylated. We have measured the level of S-nitrosylation in the glypican-1 core protein by biotin switch assay and find that the core protein can be S-nitrosylated in the presence of copper II ions and NO donor. Furthermore the glypican-1 proteoglycan produced in the presence of polyamine synthesis inhibitor, alpha-difluoromethylornithine, was endogenously S-nitrosylated and release of nitric oxide induced deaminative autocleavage of the HS side chains of glypican-1. We also show that the N-unsubstituted glucosamine residues are formed during biosynthesis of glypican-1 and that the content increased upon inhibition of polyamine synthesis. It cannot be excluded that endogenous glypican-1 can become further S-nitrosylated during recycling.
Functional studies have demonstrated multisensory responses in auditory cortex, even in the primary and early auditory association areas. The features of somatosensory and visual responses in auditory cortex suggest that they are involved in multiple processes including spatial, temporal and object-related perception. Tract tracing studies in monkeys have demonstrated several potential sources of somatosensory and visual inputs to auditory cortex. These include potential somatosensory inputs from the retroinsular (RI) and granular insula (Ig) cortical areas, and from the thalamic posterior (PO) nucleus. Potential sources of visual responses include peripheral field representations of areas V2 and prostriata, as well as the superior temporal polysensory area (STP) in the superior temporal sulcus, and the magnocellular medial geniculate thalamic nucleus (MGm). Besides these sources, there are several other thalamic, limbic and cortical association structures that have multisensory responses and may contribute cross-modal inputs to auditory cortex. These connections demonstrated by tract tracing provide a list of potential inputs, but in most cases their significance has not been confirmed by functional experiments. It is possible that the somatosensory and visual modulation of auditory cortex are each mediated by multiple extrinsic sources.
Most auditory events in nature are accompanied by non-auditory signals, such as a view of the speaker's face during face-to-face communication or the vibration of a string during a musical performance. While it is known that accompanying visual and somatosensory signals can benefit auditory perception, often by making the sound seem louder, the specific neural bases for sensory amplification are still debated. In this review, we want to deal with what we regard as confusion on two topics that are crucial to our understanding of multisensory integration mechanisms in auditory cortex: (1) Anatomical Underpinnings (e.g., what circuits underlie multisensory convergence), and (2) Temporal Dynamics (e.g., what time windows of integration are physiologically feasible). The combined evidence on multisensory structure and function in auditory cortex advances the emerging view of the relationship between perception and low level multisensory integration. In fact, it seems that the question is no longer whether low level, putatively unisensory cortex is accessible to multisensory influences, but how.
We use both vision and audition when localizing objects and events in our environment. However, these sensory systems receive spatial information in different coordinate systems: sounds are localized using inter-aural and spectral cues, yielding a head-centered representation of space, whereas the visual system uses an eye-centered representation of space, based on the site of activation on the retina. In addition, the visual system employs a place-coded, retinotopic map of space, whereas the auditory system's representational format is characterized by broad spatial tuning and a lack of topographical organization. A common view is that the brain needs to reconcile these differences in order to control behavior, such as orienting gaze to the location of a sound source. To accomplish this, it seems that either auditory spatial information must be transformed from a head-centered rate code to an eye-centered map to match the frame of reference used by the visual system, or vice versa. Here, we review a number of studies that have focused on the neural basis underlying such transformations in the primate auditory system. Although, these studies have found some evidence for such transformations, many differences in the way the auditory and visual system encode space exist throughout the auditory pathway. We will review these differences at the neural level, and will discuss them in relation to differences in the way auditory and visual information is used in guiding orienting movements.
In addition to visual information from the face of the speaker, a less natural, but nowadays extremely important visual component of speech is its representation in script. In this review, neuro-imaging studies are examined which were aimed to understand how speech and script are associated in the adult &quot;literate&quot; brain. The reviewed studies focused on the role of different stimulus and task factors and effective connectivity between different brain regions. The studies will be summarized in a neural mechanism for the integration of speech and script that can serve as a basis for future studies addressing (the failure of) literacy acquisition. In this proposed mechanism, speech sound processing in auditory cortex is modulated by co-presented visual letters, depending on the congruency of the letter-sound pairs. Other factors of influence are temporal correspondence, input quality and task instruction. We present results showing that the modulation of auditory cortex is most likely mediated by feedback from heteromodal areas in the superior temporal cortex, but direct influences from visual cortex are not excluded. The influence of script on speech sound processing occurs automatically and shows extended development during reading acquisition. This review concludes with suggestions to answer currently still open questions to get closer to understanding the neural basis of normal and impaired literacy.
Goal-directed behavior can be thought of as dynamic links between sensory stimuli and motor acts. Neural correlates of many of the intermediate events of both auditory and visual goal-directed behaviors are found in the posterior parietal cortex. Here, we review studies that have focused on how neurons in the lateral intraparietal area (area LIP) differentially process auditory and visual stimuli. Together, these studies suggest that area LIP contains a modality-dependent representation that is highly dependent on behavioral context.
The nervous system has evolved to transduce different types of environmental energy independently, for example light energy is transduced by the retina whereas sound energy is transduced by the cochlea. However, the neural processing of this energy is necessarily combined, resulting in a unified percept of a real-world object or event. These percepts can be modified in the laboratory, resulting in illusions that can be used to probe how multisensory integration occurs. This paper reviews studies that have utilized such illusory percepts in order to better understand the integration of auditory and visual signals in primates. Results from human psychophysical experiments where visual stimuli alter the perception of acoustic space (the ventriloquism effect) are discussed, as are experiments probing the underlying cortical mechanisms of this integration. Similar psychophysical experiments where auditory stimuli alter the perception of visual temporal processing are also described.
Primate vocal communication is a fundamentally multisensory behavior and this will be reflected in the different roles brain regions play in mediating it. Auditory cortex is illustrative, being influenced, I will argue, by the visual, somatosensory, proprioceptive and motor modalities during vocal communication. It is my intention that the data reviewed here suggest that investigating auditory cortex through the lens of a specific behavior may lead to a much clearer picture of its functions and dynamic organization. One possibility is that, beyond its tonotopic and cytoarchitectural organization, the auditory cortex may be organized according to ethologically-relevant actions. Such action-specific representations would be overlayed on top of traditional mapping schemes and would help mediate motor and multisensory processes related to a particular type of behavior.
Multisensory integration describes a process by which information from different sensory systems is combined to influence perception, decisions, and overt behavior. Despite a widespread appreciation of its utility in the adult, its developmental antecedents have received relatively little attention. Here we review what is known about the development of multisensory integration, with a focus on the circuitry and experiential antecedents of its development in the model system of the multisensory (i.e., deep) layers of the superior colliculus. Of particular interest here are two sets of experimental observations: (1) cortical influences appear essential for multisensory integration in the SC, and (2) postnatal experience guides its maturation. The current belief is that the experience normally gained during early life is instantiated in the cortico-SC projection, and that this is the primary route by which ecological pressures adapt SC multisensory integration to the particular environment in which it will be used.
We investigated the cortical efferents of the parahippocampal region by placing injections of the anterograde tracers, Phaseolus vulgaris-leuccoagglutinin, and biotinylated dextran amine, throughout the perirhinal (PER), postrhinal (POR), and entorhinal cortices of the rat brain. The resulting density of labeled fibers was evaluated in 25 subregions of the piriform, frontal, insular, temporal, cingulate, parietal, and occipital areas. The locations of labeled terminal fibers differed substantially depending on whether the location of the injection site was in PER area 35, PER area 36, POR, or the lateral or the medial entorhinal (LEA and MEA). The differences were greater for sensory regions. For example, the POR efferents preferentially target visual and spatial regions, whereas the PER efferents target all sensory modalities. The cortical efferents of each region largely reciprocate the cortical afferents, though the degree of reciprocity varied across originating and target regions. The laminar pattern of terminal fibers was consistent with the notion that the efferents are feedback projections. The density and amount of labeled fibers also differed substantially depending on the regional location of injection sites. PER area 36 and POR give rise to a greater number of heavy projections, followed by PER area 35. LEA also gives rise to widespread cortical efferents, arising mainly from a narrow band of cortex adjacent to the PER. In contrast, the remainder of the LEA and the MEA provides only weak efferents to cortical regions. Prior work has shown that nonspatial and spatial information is transmitted to the hippocampus via the PER-LEA and POR-MEA pathways, respectively. Our findings suggest that the return projections follow the same pathways, though perhaps with less segregration.
Cholinergic and GABAergic neurons in the medial septum/vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca (MS/vDB) projecting to the hippocampus, constitute the septohippocampal projection, which is important for hippocampal-dependent learning and memory. There is also evidence for an extrinsic as well as an intrinsic glutamatergic network within the MS/vDB. GABAergic and cholinergic septohippocampal neurons express the serotonergic 5-HT(1A) receptor and most likely also glutamatergic NMDA receptors. The aim of the present study was to examine whether septal 5-HT(1A) receptors are important for hippocampal-dependent long-term memory and whether these receptors interact with glutamatergic NMDA receptor transmission in a manner important for hippocampal-dependent spatial memory. Intraseptal infusion of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist (R)-8-OH-DPAT (1 or 4 microg/rat) did not affect spatial learning in the water maze task but impaired emotional memory in the passive avoidance task at the higher dose tested (4 microg/rat). While intraseptal administration of (R)-8-OH-DPAT (4 microg) combined with a subthreshold dose of the NMDA receptor antagonist D-AP5 (1 microg) only marginally affected spatial acquisition, it produced a profound impairment in spatial memory. In conclusion, septal 5-HT(1A) receptors appears to play a more prominent role in emotional than in spatial memory. Importantly, septal 5-HT(1A) and NMDA receptors appear to interact in a manner, which is particularly critical for the expression or retrieval of hippocampal-dependent long-term spatial memory. It is proposed that NMDA receptor hypofunction in the septal area may unmask a negative effect of 5-HT(1A) receptor activation on memory, which may be clinically relevant.
High-density electrical mapping of event-related potentials was used to investigate the neural processes that permit some elderly subjects to preserve high levels of executive functioning. Two possibilities pertain: (1) high-performance in elderly subjects is underpinned by similar processing mechanisms to those seen in young adults; that is, these individuals display minimal functional decay across the lifespan, or (2) preserved function relies on successfully recruiting and amplifying control processes to compensate for normal sensory-perceptual decline with age. Fifteen young and nineteen elderly participants, the latter split into groups of high and low performers, regularly alternated between a letter and a number categorization task, switching between tasks every third trial (AAA-BBB-AAA...). This allowed for interrogation of performance during switch, repeat, and preparatory pre-switch trials. Robust effects of age were observed in both frontal and parietal components of the task-switching network. Greatest differences originated over prefrontal regions, with elderly subjects generating amplified, earlier, and more differentiated patterns of activity. This prefrontal amplification was evident only in high-performing (HP) elderly, and was strongest on pre-switch trials when participants prepared for an upcoming task-switch. Analysis of the early transient and late sustained activity using topographic analyses and source localization collectively supported a unique and elaborated pattern of activity across frontal and parietal scalp in HP-elderly, wholly different to that seen in both young and low-performing elderly. On this basis, we propose that preserved executive function in HP-elderly is driven by large-scale recruitment and enhancement of prefrontal cortical mechanisms.
Functional studies in schizophrenia demonstrate prominent abnormalities within the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and also suggest the functional connectivity abnormalities in language network including left IFG and superior temporal gyrus during semantic processing. White matter connections between regions involved in the semantic network have also been indicated in schizophrenia. However, an association between functional and anatomical connectivity disruptions within the semantic network in schizophrenia has not been established. Functional (using levels of processing paradigm) as well as diffusion tensor imaging data from 10 controls and 10 chronic schizophrenics were acquired and analyzed. First, semantic encoding specific activation was estimated, showing decreased activation within the left IFG in schizophrenia. Second, functional time series were extracted from this area, and left IFG specific functional connectivity maps were produced for each subject. In an independent analysis, tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS) was used to compare fractional anisotropy (FA) values between groups, and to correlate these values with functional connectivity maps. Schizophrenia patients showed weaker functional connectivity within the language network that includes left IFG and left superior temporal sulcus/middle temporal gyrus. FA was reduced in several white matter regions including left inferior frontal and left internal capsule. Finally, left inferior frontal white matter FA was positively correlated with connectivity measures of the semantic network in schizophrenics, but not in controls. Our results indicate an association between anatomical and functional connectivity abnormalities within the semantic network in schizophrenia, suggesting further that the functional abnormalities observed in this disorder might be directly related to white matter disruptions.
Patients with advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) develop disabling axial symptoms, including gait disturbances, freezing and postural instability poorly responsive to levodopa replacement therapy. The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN) is involved in locomotion, control of posture, and behavioral states [i.e. wakefulness, rapid eye movement sleep]. Recent reports suggested that PPN modulation with deep brain stimulation (DBS) may be beneficial in the treatment of axial symptoms. However, the mechanisms underlying these effects are still unknown. We used [(15)O] H(2)O PET to investigate regional cerebral blood flow in three patients with advanced PD who underwent a new experimental surgical procedure with implantation of unilateral PPN-DBS. Patients were studied Off-medication with stimulator Off and On, both at rest and during a self-paced alternating motor task of the lower limbs. We used SPM2 for imaging data analysis, threshold P &lt; 0.05 corrected at the cluster level. Stimulation induced significant regional cerebral blood flow increment in subcortical regions such as the thalamus (P &lt; 0.006), cerebellum (P &lt; 0.001), and midbrain region (P &lt; 0.001) as well as different cortical areas involving medial sensorimotor cortex extending into caudal supplementary motor area (BA 4/6; P &lt; 0.001). PPN-DBS in advanced PD resulted in blood flow and presumably neuronal activity changes in subcortical and cortical areas involved in balance and motor control, including the mesencephalic locomotor region (e.g. PPN) and closely interconnected structures within the cerebello-(rubro)-thalamo-cortical circuit. Whether these findings are associated with the DBS-PPN clinical effect remains to be proven. However, they suggest that PPN modulation may induce functional changes in neural networks associated with the control of lower limb movements.
Resonance in thalamocortical networks is critically involved in sculpting oscillatory behavior in large ensembles of neocortical cells. Neocortical oscillations provide critical information about the integrity of thalamocortical circuits and functional connectivity of cortical networks, which seem to be significantly disrupted by the neuronal death and synapse loss characterizing Alzheimer's disease (AD). By applying a novel analysis methodology to overcome volume conduction effects between scalp electroencephalographic (EEG) measurements, we were able to estimate the temporal activation of EEG-alpha sources in the thalamus and parieto-occipital regions of the cortex. We found that synaptic flow underlying the lower alpha band (7.5-10 Hz) was abnormally facilitated in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) as compared to healthy elderly individuals, particularly from thalamus to cortex (approximately 38% higher). In addition, the thalamic generator of lower alpha oscillations was also abnormally activated in patients with MCI. Regarding the upper alpha subdivision (10.1-12.5 Hz), both controls and patients with MCI showed a bidirectional decrease of thalamocortical synaptic transmission, which was age-dependent only in the control group. Altogether, our results suggest that functional dynamics of thalamocortical networks differentiate individuals at high risk of developing AD from healthy elderly subjects, supporting the hypothesis that neurodegeneration mechanisms are active years before the patient is clinically diagnosed with dementia.
Nonclassical human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-G antigens in soluble form (sHLA-G) have recently been suggested to have a potential role as immunomodulatory factors in multiple sclerosis (MS), a chronic inflammatory demyelinating and neurodegenerative disease of the central nervous system of unknown etiology and supposed autoimmune origin. In MS patients, sHLA-G levels were elevated in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), intrathecally synthesized, predominantly represented by the HLA-G5 isoform and even more elevated in cases of inactive disease, as determined by magnetic resonance imaging. In MS, CSF sHLA-G concentrations were also related to the formation of an intrathecal anti-inflammatory microenvironment based on a positive correlation to CSF interleukin-10 titers and an inverse association to the levels of antiapoptotic sFas molecules in the CSF. Expression of HLA-G antigens was detected in microglia, macrophages, and endothelial cells within and around MS lesions and was enhanced in microglial cells by T-helper-1 proinflammatory cytokines. A novel subpopulation of naturally occurring CD4(+) and CD8(+) regulatory T cells expressing HLA-G1 and secreting HLA-G5 was identified in the CSF of MS patients. Taken together, these findings seem to indicate that sHLA-G antigens may be implicated in the termination of MS autoimmunity and associated with remission of the disease through their function as anti-inflammatory molecules. However, the mechanisms operating in the immunomodulatory circuit mediated by sHLA-G proteins remain to be clarified.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurological disorder characterized by motor neuron degeneration. Mutations in Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) are responsible for 20% of familial ALS cases via a toxic gain of function. In mutant SOD1 transgenic mice, mitochondria of spinal motor neurons develop abnormal morphology, bioenergetic defects and degeneration, which are presumably implicated in disease pathogenesis. SOD1 is mostly a cytosolic protein, but a substantial portion is associated with organelles, including mitochondria, where it localizes predominantly in the intermembrane space (IMS). However, whether mitochondrial mutant SOD1 contributes to disease pathogenesis remains to be elucidated. We have generated NSC34 motor neuronal cell lines expressing wild-type or mutant SOD1 containing a cleavable IMS targeting signal to directly investigate the pathogenic role of mutant SOD1 in mitochondria. We show that mitochondrially-targeted SOD1 localizes to the IMS, where it is enzymatically active. We prove that mutant IMS-targeted SOD1 causes neuronal toxicity under metabolic and oxidative stress conditions. Furthermore, we demonstrate for the first time neurite mitochondrial fragmentation and impaired mitochondrial dynamics in motor neurons expressing IMS mutant SOD1. These defects are associated with impaired maintenance of neuritic processes. Our findings demonstrate that mutant SOD1 localized in the IMS is sufficient to determine mitochondrial abnormalities and neuronal toxicity, and contributes to ALS pathogenesis.
Mutations in the human X-linked cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 (CDKL5) gene have been shown to cause severe neurodevelopmental disorders including infantile spasms, encephalopathy, West-syndrome and an early-onset variant of Rett syndrome. CDKL5 is a serine/threonine kinase whose involvement in Rett syndrome can be inferred by its ability to directly bind and mediate phosphorylation of MeCP2. However, it remains to be elucidated how CDKL5 exerts its function. Here, we report that CDKL5 localizes to specific nuclear foci referred to as nuclear speckles in both cell lines and tissues. These sub-nuclear structures are traditionally considered as storage/modification sites of pre-mRNA splicing factors. Interestingly, we provide evidence that CDKL5 regulates the dynamic behaviour of nuclear speckles. Indeed, CDKL5 overexpression leads to nuclear speckle disassembly, and this event is strictly dependent on its kinase activity. Conversely, its down-regulation affects nuclear speckle morphology leading to abnormally large and uneven speckles. Similar results were obtained for primary adult fibroblasts isolated from CDKL5-mutated patients. Altogether, these findings indicate that CDKL5 controls nuclear speckle morphology probably by regulating the phosphorylation state of splicing regulatory proteins. Nuclear speckles are dynamic sites that can continuously supply splicing factors to active transcription sites, where splicing occurs. Notably, we proved that CDKL5 influences alternative splicing, at least as proved in heterologous minigene assays. In conclusion, we provide evidence that CDKL5 is involved indirectly in pre-mRNA processing, by controlling splicing factor dynamics. These findings identify a biological process whose disregulation might affect neuronal maturation and activity in CDKL5-related disorders.
The &quot;Simon effect&quot; describes a pattern of reaction times (RTs) where responses to symbolic information are shorter when the information is presented on the same side of space as the desired response than when it is on the opposite side of space. For example, if right hand responses are required for green targets and left hand responses for red targets, RTs with the right hand are shorter when the green target appears on the right side than on the left side. It has been reported that Simon effects also appear when two individuals perform independent components of a Simon effect task. It has been suggested that such joint Simon effects occur because participants represent the action of their partner. It is unclear, however, if the joint Simon effect emerges because: (1) each partner represents the other's action; (2) each partner is using the other person or their response as an environmental reference; or (3) an intra-hemispheric processing advantage due to the lateralized cerebral organization of perceptual and motor systems. The present study distinguished between these possibilities by asking pairs of participants to perform in conditions in which they crossed their arms into the other person's space. Consistent with within-person Simon effects, joint Simon effects were observed in uncrossed- and crossed limb conditions. These results support a response co-representation explanation of joint Simon effects. It is suggested that the processes underlying the evoked representations have developed to allow two independent agents to form temporary synergies to facilitate efficient task completion.
The 39th Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience (SFN), held in Chicago, included topics covering new therapeutic developments in the field of neuroscience. This conference report highlights selected presentations on novel neuroprotective and antiparkinsonian agents, and compounds in development for the treatment of dementia, schizophrenia, depression, obesity and spinal muscular atrophy. Investigational drugs discussed include velusetrag and TD-8954 (both from Theravance Inc), SEP-228791 and SEP-226330 (both from Sepracor Inc), ADL-5510 (Adolor Corp), PF-217830 (Pfizer Inc), KB-099520 (Karo Bio AB), tesofensine (NeuroSearch A/S) and TRP6-01 (Theraptosis).
The 39th Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience (SFN), held in Chicago, included topics covering new therapeutic developments in the field of neuroscience. This conference report highlights selected presentations on nicotinic ACh receptor alpha7 agonists, cannabinoid CB2 receptor agonists, transient receptor potential channel antagonists, spinal mechanotransmission modulation, a COX-1 inhibitor, a NaV/CaV blocker, an opioid modulator and a novel triple reuptake inhibitor with potential antidepressant, anxiolytic and analgesic activity. Investigational drugs discussed include JN-711 (Novartis AG), NESS-070C5 and NESS-080C5 (both being developed by CeNeRx BioPharma Inc), RQ-00203078 (RaQualia Pharma Inc), HC-030031 (Cubist Pharmaceuticals Inc/Hydra Biosciences Inc), A-967079 (Abbott Laboratories), TRL-382 (Toray Industries Inc), NP-A (Neuromed Pharmaceuticals Inc) and RDC-5768 (Alkermes Inc).
The question of how perception arises from neuronal activity in the visual cortex is of fundamental importance to many issues in cognitive neuroscience. To address this question, we adopt a unique experimental paradigm in which bistable stimuli, namely structure from motion (SFM), are employed to dissociate the visual input from perception while monitoring cortical neural activity. In this paper, we analyze the dynamic responses of the multiunit activity, simultaneously collected from multiple channels in the middle temporal visual cortex of awake behaving macaque monkeys, for decoding the bistable percepts of SFM in a response-time (RT) perceptual discrimination task. Our goal is to understand how the perceptual discriminative information of neuronal population activity evolves and accumulates over time to mediate behaviors. Here, we used a discriminative classifier called the logistic regression and contrasted it with two generative classifiers, namely the quadratic discriminant analysis (QDA) and linear discriminant analysis (LDA), to achieve the spatiotemporal integration of neural activity and dynamically decode the perceptual reports on a single-trial basis. We found that the logistic regression outperforms both QDA and LDA in terms of decoding accuracy for both single-channel and multichannel decoding of bistable percepts. Subsequent analysis of the temporal profile of neural population decoding in relation to RT revealed that the amplitude and latency of the decoding accuracy are highly correlated with the RT, thus indicating that the monkeys respond faster when the decoding accuracy is higher and has shorter latency. These findings suggest that enhanced neuronal discrimination ability and shortened neuronal discrimination latency may impact monkeys' behaviors.
A novel model is presented to learn bimodally informative structures from audio-visual signals. The signal is represented as a sparse sum of audio-visual kernels. Each kernel is a bimodal function consisting of synchronous snippets of an audio waveform and a spatio-temporal visual basis function. To represent an audio-visual signal, the kernels can be positioned independently and arbitrarily in space and time. The proposed algorithm uses unsupervised learning to form dictionaries of bimodal kernels from audio-visual material. The basis functions that emerge during learning capture salient audio-visual data structures. In addition, it is demonstrated that the learned dictionary can be used to locate sources of sound in the movie frame. Specifically, in sequences containing two speakers, the algorithm can robustly localize a speaker even in the presence of severe acoustic and visual distracters.
This study assessed 9 kinematic characteristics of infants' reach and grasp to test the hypothesis that iron deficiency anemia (IDA) delays upper extremity motor development. Reach and grasp movements, recorded with a 3D-motion capture system, were compared in 9- to 10-month-old infants (4 IDA vs. 5 iron-sufficient [IS]). Based on normative motor development data available for 6 characteristics, the results indicated poorer upper extremity control in IDA infants: 2 characteristics showed statistically significant group differences despite small n, and the other 4 had strong indications for such results (effect sizes [Cohen's d]&gt;1.2). The remaining 3 measures, for which normative studies do not show developmental changes in this age period, showed significant or moderate-to-large effect differences. Poorer upper-extremity control in IDA infants in the short-term in this study and in the long-term despite iron therapy in other studies suggests that a motor intervention may be warranted when IDA is detected in infancy.
We have previously demonstrated that congenitally hypothyroid rat pups exhibit altered behavioral response to formalin pain induction during postnatal period. In the present study, using NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry and NOS immunostaining, we investigated the effect of congenital hypothyroidism on the NOS expression in spinal cord of intact neonates at postnatal days of 15 and 21. We also examined the effect of thyroid dysfunction on the NADPH-d/NOS expression in response to formalin nociception. Congenital hypothyroidism induced by propylthiouracil (PTU) treatment started from gestational day 16 and continued to postnatal day 15 or 21. Congenitally hypothyroid pups exhibited marked reduction in NADPH-d reactive cells (84% and 66% in P15 and P21, respectively; P&lt;0.001) and NOS-ir cells (52% and 91% in P15 and P21, respectively; P&lt;0.001) in superficial lumbar dorsal horn laminae (I-II) as compared to that of normal pups. Moreover, in congenitally hypothyroid pups the NADPH-d/NOS expression following hindpaw formalin injection did not change significantly. Our results demonstrate that congenital hypothyroidism affect developmental expression of NOS in spinal dorsal horn, which may in part explain the altered behavioral pain response as we previously reported in hypothyroid pups.
Premature birth is a growing and significant public health problem because of the large number of infants that survive with neurodevelopmental sequelae from brain injury. Recent advances in neuroimaging have shown that although some neuroanatomical structures are altered, others improve over time. This review outlines recent insights into brain structure and function in these preterm infants at school age and relevant animal models. These animal models have provided scientists with an opportunity to explore in depth the molecular and cellular mechanisms of injury as well as the potential of the brain for recovery. The endogenous potential that the brain has for neurogenesis and gliogenesis, and how environment contributes to recovery, are also outlined. These preclinical models will provide important insights into the genetic and epigenetic mechanisms responsible for variable degrees of injury and recovery, permitting the exploration of targeted therapies to facilitate recovery in the developing preterm brain.


Prior studies have demonstrated that differences in activation of the defensive motivational system - as indexed by cardiac responses to the CS+ during aversive conditioning - are related to differences in the acquisition of two-levels-of-learning: cognitive (contingency learning) and emotional (fear learning). Here we further explored these differences using an independent psychophysiological test to assess cardiac reactivity - Cardiac Defense Response (CDR) - prior to the aversive conditioning task. Participants were then classified as accelerators or decelerators based on the CDR second accelerative component. Both groups showed contingency learning, as indexed by greater skin conductance changes to CS+ than to CS- during acquisition and by consistent contingency awareness ratings after the conditioning task. However, only accelerators showed affective fear learning, as indexed by greater blinks to CS+ than to CS- during (acquisition) and after (extinction) aversive conditioning. These results extend evidence about differences in the two-levels-of-learning in aversive conditioning as a function of defensive reactivity, and suggest that the CDR second accelerative component could be a reliable predictor of fear learning.
Modern genomic approaches have facilitated great progress in our understanding of the molecular and genetic underpinnings of ecological and evolutionary processes. Analysis of gene expression through heterologous hybridization in particular has enabled genome-scale studies in many ecologically and evolutionarily interesting species. However, these studies have been hampered by the difficulty of comparing-on a common array platform-gene-expression profiles across species due to sequence divergence altering the dynamics of hybridization. All too often, comparisons of expression profiles across species were limited to contrasting lists of gene or even of just functional categories. Here we review these issues and propose a novel solution. Exploiting the diverse cichlid lineages of East Africa as our model-system, we then present results from an experimental case study that compares the neural gene-expression profiles of males and females of two species that differ in mating system. Using a single microarray platform that contains genes from one species, Astatotilapia burtoni, we conducted a total of 16 direct comparisons for neural gene-expression level between individual males and females from a pair of sister species, the polygynous Enantiopus melanogenys and the monogamous Xenotilapia flavipinnis. Next, we conducted a meta-analysis with previously published data from two different intra-specific expression studies to determine whether sex-specific neural gene expression is more closely associated with behavioral phenotype than it is with gonadal sex. Our results indicate that the gene expression profiles are species-specific to a large extent, as relatively few genes show conserved expression patterns associated with either sex. Finally, we describe how competitive genomic DNA hybridizations between the two focal species allow us to assess the degree to which divergence of sequences biases the results. We propose a masking technique that correlates interspecific expression ratios obtained with cDNA with hybridization ratios obtained with genomic DNA for the same set of species and determines threshold sequence divergence to reduce false positives. Our approach should be applicable to a wide range of interesting questions related to the evolution and ecology of gene expression.
The task of confirming a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS), one of the commonest neurological disorders affecting young adults, has altered significantly in the magnetic resonance imaging era. Conversely, key principles, most notably objective documentation of neurological dissemination in time and space, remain fundamental to the process. Clinical acumen and experience are equally as crucial as an ability to interpret relevant investigations. Recognising typical clinical patterns, addressing potential 'mimics', and stratifying prognosis of a clinically isolated syndrome are just some of the challenges inherent in diagnosing MS.

Users of a cochlear implant and contralateral hearing aid are sensitive to interaural level differences (ILDs). However, when using their clinical devices, most of these subjects cannot use ILD cues for localization in the horizontal plane. This is partly due to a lack of high-frequency residual hearing in the acoustically stimulated ear. Using acoustic simulations of a cochlear implant and hearing loss, it is shown that localization performance can be improved by up to 14 degrees rms error relative to 48 degrees rms error for broadband noise by artificially introducing ILD cues in the low frequencies. The algorithm that was used for ILD introduction is described.
In a non-linguistic analog of the &quot;cocktail-party&quot; scenario, informational and contextual factors were found to affect the recognition of everyday environmental sounds embedded in naturalistic auditory scenes. Short environmental sound targets were presented in a dichotic background scene composed of either a single stereo background scene or a composite background scene created by playing different background scenes to the different ears. The side of presentation, time of onset, and number of target sounds were varied across trials to increase the uncertainty for the participant. Half the sounds were contextually congruent with the background sound (i.e., consistent with the meaningful real-world sound environment represented in the auditory scene) and half were incongruent. The presence of a single competing background scene decreased identification accuracy, suggesting an informational masking effect. In tandem, there was a contextual pop-out effect, with contextually incongruent sounds identified more accurately. However, when targets were incongruent with the real-world context of the background scene, informational masking was reduced. Acoustic analyses suggested that this contextual pop-out effect was driven by a mixture of perceptual differences between the target and background, as well as by higher-level cognitive factors. These findings indicate that identification of environmental sounds in naturalistic backgrounds is an active process that requires integrating perceptual, attentional, and cognitive resources.
This letter reports a study designed to measure the benefits of voicing in the recognition of concurrent syllables. The target and distracter syllables were either voiced or whispered, producing four combinations of vocal contrast. Results show that listeners use voicing whenever it is present either to detect a target syllable or to reject a distracter. When the predictable effects of audibility were taken into account, limited evidence remained for the harmonic cancellation mechanism thought to make rejecting distracter syllables more effective than enhancing target syllables.




There have been relatively few discussions of systematic studies of language, including neuroscience studies, in the psychoanalytic literature. To address this dearth, a detailed review of research on embodied language in neuroscience and related disciplines is presented, after which their findings are considered in light of diverse views of language in psychoanalysis, specifically the models of the Boston Change Process Study Group, Wilma Bucci, Fonagy and Target, David Olds, and Hans Loewald. The juxtaposition of psychoanalytic models with the findings of research on embodied language shows that scientific studies can focus psychoanalytic understanding of verbal processes, and that integrations with neuroscience neither inherently threaten the traditional psychoanalytic focus on verbal meanings nor reduce the richness and complexity of psychoanalytic theory.
Eccentric muscle actions are associated with ultrastructural changes. The severity and types of change depend on the nature of the stimulation protocol, and on the method for assessing such changes, and can be regarded as a continuum from mild changes to pathological-like changes. Most studies describing more severe changes have been performed on animals and only a few in humans, some using electrical stimuli. Hence, a debate has emerged on whether voluntary actions are associated with the pathological-like end of the continuum. The aim of this study was to determine whether severe muscle damage, i.e., extensive ultrastructural changes, is confined to animal studies and studies on humans using electrical stimuli. Second, because there is no generally approved method to quantify the degree of muscle damage, we compared two published methods, analyzing the Z disks or sarcomeres, as well as novel analyses of pathological-like changes. A group of untrained subjects performed 70 voluntary maximal eccentric muscle actions using the elbow flexors. On the basis of large reductions in maximal force-generating capacity (on average, -62 +/- 3% immediately after exercise, and -35 +/- 6% 9 days later), five subjects were selected for further analysis. Biopsies were taken from m. biceps brachii in both the exercised and nonexercised arm. In exercised muscle, more disrupted (13 +/- 4 vs. 3 +/- 3%) and destroyed (15 +/- 6 vs. 0%) Z disks were found compared with nonexercised muscle. A significant proportion of exercised myofibers had focal (85 +/- 5 vs. 11 +/- 7%), moderate (65 +/- 7 vs. 11 +/- 6%), and extreme (38 +/- 9 vs. 0%) myofibrillar disruptions. Hypercontracted myofibrils, autophagic vacuoles, granular areas, central nuclei, and necrotic fiber segments were found to various degrees. The present study demonstrates that the more severe end of the continuum of ultrastructural changes occurs in humans after voluntary exercise when maximal eccentric muscle actions are involved.
The Bcl-2-associated athanogene, BAG, protein family through their BAG domain associates with the heat shock protein 70 (HSP-70) and modulates its chaperone activity. One member of this family, BAG3, appears to play an important role in protein homeostasis, as its expression promotes cell survival. Expression of BAG3 is enhanced by a variety of stress-inducing agents. Here we describe a role for BAG3 to modulate transcription of its own promoter through a positive feedback loop involving its 5'-UTR sequence. Activation of the BAG3 promoter is mediated by the BAG domain and is independent of BAG3 association with the UTR sequence. Autoactivation of the BAG3 gene is observed in several cultures of human glial cells including gliomas, but not in several other non-glial cell lines such as He La and others. Results from cell fractionation and immunocytochemistry showed BAG3 in the cytoplasm as well as the nuclei of glial cells. These observations suggest that BAG3 gene expression is controlled by its own product and that this may be critical for the biological activity of BAG3 in some cell types.
Ethanol induces neuronal cell injury and death by dysregulating several signaling events that are controlled, in part, by activation of MAPK/ERK1/2 and/or inactivation of its corresponding phosphatase, PP1. Recently, we have purified a novel protein of 38 kDa in size, p38SJ, from a callus culture of Hypericum perforatum, which belongs to an emerging DINGG family of proteins with phosphate binding activity. Here, we show that treatment of neuronal cells with p38SJ protects cells against injury induced by exposure to ethanol. Furthermore, pre-treatment of neuronal cells with p38SJ diminishes the level of the pro-apoptotic protein Bax and some events associated with apoptosis such as caspase 3 cleavage. In addition, by inducing stress, alcohol can elevate production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) that leads to a decrease in the activity of superoxide dismutase (SOD). Our results showed that p38SJ restores the activity of SOD in the ethanol treated neuronal cells. These observations provide a novel biological tool for developing new approaches for preventing neuronal cell death induced by ethanol and possibly treatment of neurological disorders associated with alcohol abuse.
Cell adhesion to the extracellular matrix (ECM) is mediated by the integrin family of transmembrane receptors. Integrins link ECM ligands to the cytoskeleton, providing strong attachment to enable cell-shape change and tissue integrity. This connection is made possible by an intracellular complex of proteins, which links to actin filaments and controls signalling cascades that regulate cytoskeletal rearrangements. We have identified stress-fibre-associated focal adhesions that change their composition during tissue morphogenesis. Early expression of alphaPS1betaPS integrin decreases the levels of the actin-nucleating factors Enabled, Diaphanous and profilin, as well as downregulating the amount of F-actin incorporated into the stress fibres. As follicle cells mature in their developmental pathway and become squamous, the integrin in the focal adhesions changes from alphaPS1betaPS to alphaPS2betaPS. During the switch, stress fibres increase their length and change orientation, first changing by 90 degrees and then reorienting back. The normal rapid reorientation requires new expression of alphaPS2betaPS, which also permits recruitment of the adaptor protein tensin. Unexpectedly, it is the extracellular portion of the alphaPS2 subunit that provides the specificity for intracellular recruitment of tensin. Molecular variation of the integrin complex is thus a key component of developmentally programmed morphogenesis.
In experimental models, growth factors (GFs) such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), Angiopoietin 1 (Ang-1), or granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) mediate brain recovery after intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). Our aim was to study the association between serum levels of GF and clinical outcome in patients with ICH. A total of 95 patients with primary ICH (male, 66.3%; mean age, 67.8+/-9.8 years) were prospectively included in the study within 12 h from symptoms onset. The main outcome variable was good functional outcome at 3 months (modified Rankin scale &lt; or =2). Median serum levels of GF at 72 h from stroke onset were significantly higher in patients with good outcome (n=39) compared with those with poor outcome (all P&lt;0.0001). Serum levels of VEGF &gt; or =330 pg/mL, G-CSF &gt; or =413 pg/mL, and Ang-1 &gt; or =35 ng/mL at 72 h were independently associated with good functional outcome (odds ratio (OR), 11.2; 95% confidence interval (CI): 2.9 to 43.0; OR, 19.6; 95% CI: 3.9 to 97.9; and OR, 14.7; 95% CI: 3.6 to 60.0, respectively), neurologic improvement (all P&lt;0.0001) and reduced residual cavity at 3 months (all P&lt;0.01). These results illustrate that high serum levels of GF are associated with good functional outcome and reduced lesion volume in ICH.
Ischemic and traumatic brain injuries often induce non-convulsive seizures (NCSs), which likely contribute to the worsening of neurological outcomes. Here, we evaluated the effect of glycyl-L-methylprolyl-L-glutamic acid (NNZ-2566) to lessen the severity of NCSs caused by permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAo). Continuous electroencephalographic recordings were performed in rats during pMCAo. Glycyl-L-methylprolyl-L-glutamic acid (3, 10, or 100 mg/kg bolus followed by an infusion of a fixed dose of 3 mg/kg per hour for 12 h) was delivered at 20 mins after pMCAo (before the first NCS event) or delayed until immediately after the first NCS event occurred. Control rats received pMCAo and saline treatment. The results revealed that 91% of the saline-treated animals had NCSs (23 episodes per rat and 1238 secs per rat) with an onset latency of 35 mins after injury. When NNZ-2566 was administered before the NCS events, it dose-dependently reduced the NCS incidence to 36%-80%, decreased NCS frequency to 5-16 episodes per rat, and shortened the total duration of NCS to 251-706 secs per rat. The two high doses significantly reduced the infarct volume by 28%-30%. Delayed treatment also attenuated NCS duration but had no effect on the infarct volume. Results indicate that NNZ-2566 possesses a unique therapeutic potential as a safe prophylactic agent that synergistically provides neuroprotection and reduces injury-induced seizures.
Advances in the field of drug discovery have brought an explosion in the quantity of data available to medicinal chemists and other project team members. New strategies and systems are needed to help these scientists to efficiently gather, organize, analyze, annotate, and share data about potential new drug molecules of interest to their project teams. Herein we describe a suite of integrated services and end-user applications that facilitate these activities throughout the medicinal chemistry design cycle. The Automated Data Presentation (ADP) and Virtual Compound Profiler (VCP) processes automate the gathering, organization, and storage of real and virtual molecules, respectively, and associated data. The Project-Focused Activity and Knowledge Tracker (PFAKT) provides a unified data analysis and collaboration environment, enhancing decision-making, improving team communication, and increasing efficiency.

Rufinamide is a novel antiepileptic agent recently approved in the United States for adjunctive treatment of seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome. To help inform clinical decision making, the authors analyzed safety and tolerability data from the entire pediatric population in the rufinamide epilepsy clinical development program. The analysis population comprised 212 rufinamide-treated (age range 3-16 years) and 197 placebo patients (age range 4-17 years) in the double-blind studies, and 391 patients receiving rufinamide in the double-blind and/or open-label extensions. The most common adverse effects observed in rufinamide-treated patients in the double-blind studies were somnolence, vomiting, and headache. Changes in laboratory values, vital signs, and weight were generally clinically insignificant. This pooled analysis of data from pediatric patients in clinical studies of rufinamide for the treatment of seizures, mainly as adjunctive therapy, suggests a favorable safety and tolerability profile in this patient population.
Tourette syndrome is often accompanied by other syndromes, like attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and obsessive-compulsive disorder, and its treatment is symptomatic. Because there are no European guidelines for pharmacological treatment in Tourette syndrome, we wanted to contribute to a better insight into the common practice in Scandinavia. Furthermore, we wanted to elaborate the influence of the presence of comorbidities and of the severity of tics on pharmacological treatment. We have examined the frequency, art, and reason for pharmacological treatment in a Danish clinical cohort of 314 children with Tourette syndrome. In total, 60.5% of the children once had received pharmacological treatment. Mostly, the treatment was started because of tics or ADHD. If ADHD or obsessive-compulsive disorder were present, more children received pharmacological treatment and more different agents were tried. The children who received pharmacological treatment had more severe tics than those without medication.
An enlarged cisterna magna can be identified during routine ultrasound screening in the second half of pregnancy. It is important to be able to give an accurate prognosis. We evaluated the developmental outcome of these children. A total of 29 fetuses with a large cisterna magna identified in utero were compared to 35 children with a normal fetal ultrasound. The children were evaluated by the Gesell Developmental Schedules and the Peabody Developmental Motor Scale. The study group showed a significantly worse performance in the Gesell test. However, the overall performance for both groups was within normal limits. Four children in the study group had a borderline developmental quotient. Both groups performed similarly in the Peabody test. Walking age was significantly delayed in the study group. Children with an enlarged cisterna magna may be at risk for mild developmental delay. In cases of nonisolated enlargement of the cisterna magna, the outcome may be guarded.


Ectopic cell cycle events (CCEs) mark vulnerable neuronal populations in human Alzheimer disease (AD) and are observed early in disease progression. In transgenic mouse models of AD, CCEs are found before the onset of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) deposition to form senile plaques, a hallmark of AD. Here, we have demonstrated that alterations in brain microglia occur coincidently with the appearance of CCEs in the R1.40 transgenic mouse model of AD. Furthermore, promotion of inflammation with LPS at young ages in R1.40 mice induced the early appearance of neuronal CCEs, whereas treatment with 2 different nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) blocked neuronal CCEs and alterations in brain microglia without altering amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and steady-state Abeta levels. In addition, NSAID treatment of older R1.40 animals prevented new neuronal CCEs, although it failed to reverse existing ones. Retrospective human epidemiological studies have identified long-term use of NSAIDs as protective against AD. Prospective clinical trials, however, have failed to demonstrate a similar benefit. Our use of CCEs as an outcome measure offers fresh insight into this discrepancy and provides important information for future clinical trials, as it suggests that NSAID use in human AD may need to be initiated as early as possible to prevent disease progression.
It has been postulated that cerebral venous outflow &quot;obstruction&quot; is a precipitating factor for many cases of idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH). We describe a 17-year-old woman with IIH, and &quot;venous obstruction&quot; repeatedly demonstrated on magnetic resonance venography (MRV) that within minutes resolved partially when the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pressure was reduced to 11 cmH(2)O and completely when the pressure was reduced to 8cmH(2)O. These findings further support the view that raised pressure is the cause of the &quot;obstruction&quot;, rather than the obstruction being the primary cause of the IIH. It also raises questions about how low the CSF pressure should be reduced at therapeutic lumbar puncture.
A 51-year-old woman with bone wax-induced osteohypertrophy presented with exophthalmos 9 years after a craniotomy for a right internal carotid bifurcation aneurysm. CT scans revealed thickening of the frontotemporal bone flap and surrounding bone, thickening of the upper and lateral orbital walls, and a limited intraorbital cavity. Intraoperative findings revealed residual bone wax under the bone flap, grayish-white discoloration of the flap, and degeneration of the temporal muscle. Pathological examination revealed granulation and osteogenesis due to a foreign body. To our knowledge, this is the first report of bone wax-induced hyperostosis leading to exophthalmos.
This report documents changes to axonal excitability in motor nerves in acute camphor toxicity. Although there were no changes to indicate an alteration in resting membrane potential, there was an exaggerated response to hyperpolarising currents in both threshold electrotonus and the current-threshold relationship. These findings suggest a transient decrease in the hyperpolarisation-activated conductance (I(H)). This report demonstrates that recently developed techniques for measuring axonal excitability are readily applied in the acute care setting and can document subclinical abnormalities that could be relevant to the underlying pathophysiology.

Depression in the elderly contributes to decreased quality of life and increased mortality from both suicide and medical illnesses, yet it remains underdiagnosed and undertreated in these patients. Physicians should be aware of the varying presentations of depression in older adults and differentiate late-life depression from other psychiatric diagnoses. Thorough medical and cognitive assessments are necessary to determine whether late-life depression is due to underlying medical causes and neurologic diagnoses such as Alzheimer's disease or dementia. Depression rating scales, cognitive screening instruments, and structural and functional neuroimaging studies may be implemented as the situation requires. Greater recognition and more aggressive treatment of depression in older patients are needed.
The aim of this study was to model in mice the association between metabolic syndrome and the administration of atypical antipsychotic (AAP). Two dosages (4 and 8 mg/kg per day) of olanzapine (OL) were infused in 36 female mice for 30 days by osmotic mini-pumps. This study was also designed to further extend the implications raised in other experiments by our model of AAP-induced metabolic dysregulation. Through the use of the osmotic mini-pumps, this model is aimed to circumvent the shorter (than in humans) half-life of AAPs in rodents and to chronically administer OL by a reliable and less disturbing method. Indirect calorimetry was used to evaluate metabolic rate (MR) and respiratory exchange ratio together with weight and caloric intake. Serum insulin, leptin, and glucose tolerance (oral glucose tolerance test) were assessed. Pancreatic beta cells insulin levels, periuterine and liver fat content were also analyzed. Olanzapine-infused mice exhibited a reduction of overall MR (kilojoule per hour) and resting MR and respiratory exchange ratio, with periuterine fat significantly enlarged. All metabolic alterations were detected at the highest dose, with major effects found on weight gain and hyperphagia. Impaired glucose metabolism, associated with hyperinsulinemia and hyperleptinemia were found. Insulin resistance was evidenced by the raise of HOMA-IR index. Increased insulin and lipid storage were detected at pancreatic and hepatic levels respectively. These findings illustrate the development of a cluster of risk factors (metabolic syndrome) and, for the first time, a decrease of energy expenditure (MR) due to chronic OL infusion.
Behavioral studies show that infants are capable of discriminating the number of objects or events in their environment, while also suggesting that number discrimination in infancy may be ratio-dependent. However, due to limitations of the dependent measures used with infant behavioral studies, the evidence for ratio dependence falls short of the vast psychophysical datasets that have established ratio dependence, and thus, adherence to Weber's Law in adults and nonhuman animals. We addressed this issue in two experiments that presented 7-month-old infants with familiar and novel numerosities while electroencephalogram measures of their brain activity were recorded. These data provide convergent evidence that the brains of 7-month-old infants detected numerical novelty. Alpha-band and theta-band oscillations both differed for novel and familiar numerical values. Most importantly, spectral power in the alpha band over midline and right posterior scalp sites was modulated by the ratio between the familiar and novel numerosities. Our findings provide neural evidence that numerical discrimination in infancy is ratio dependent and follows Weber's Law, thus indicating continuity of these cognitive processes over development. Results are also consistent with the idea that networks in the frontal and parietal cortices support ratio-dependent number discrimination in the first year of human life, consistent with what has been reported in neuroimaging studies in adults and older children.
When listening to modified speech, either naturally or artificially altered, the human perceptual system rapidly adapts to it. There is some debate about the nature of the mechanisms underlying this adaptation. Although some authors propose that listeners modify their prelexical representations, others assume changes at the lexical level. Recently, Larsson, Vera, Sebastian-Galles, and Deco [Lexical plasticity in early bilinguals does not alter phoneme categories: I. Neurodynamical modelling. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 20, 76-94, 2008] proposed a biologically plausible computational model to account for some existing data, one which successfully modeled how long-term exposure to a dialect triggers the creation of new lexical entries. One specific prediction of the model was that prelexical (phoneme) representations should not be affected by dialectal exposure (as long as the listener is exposed to both standard and dialectal pronunciations). Here we present a series of experiments testing the predictions of the model. Native listeners of Catalan, with extended exposure to Spanish-accented Catalan, were tested on different auditory lexical decision tasks and phoneme discrimination tasks. Behavioral and electrophysiological recordings were obtained. The results supported the predictions of our model. On the one hand, both error rates and N400 measurements indicated the existence of alternative lexical entries for dialectal varieties. On the other hand, no evidence of alterations at the phoneme level, either in the behavioral discrimination task or in the electrophysiological measurement (MMN), could be detected. The results of the present study are compared with those obtained in short-term laboratory exposures in an attempt to provide an integrative account.
Families with inherited visual impairment were identified and examined from January 2000 to December 2005 and given a clinical diagnosis. Known genes and loci were screened for mutations or linkage at Institute of Ophthalmology and Neurosciences, University of Leeds, in order to provide molecular confirmation. Inherited retinal disease was the most common cause of inherited visual impairment in 38 of 57 families (66.6%) with Leber's congenital amaurosis, rod-cone dystrophy and cone-rod dystrophy being the most common diagnoses in 22, 8 and 3 families respectively. Anterior segment dysgenesis was diagnosed in 8 families (14%). Mutations in known genes or linkage to known loci were identified in 23 of 57 families (40%). All families had molecular confirmation of autosomal recessive inheritance or a pedigree consistent with this mode of inheritance, with evidence of first-cousin marriage. Knowledge of carrier status and genetic counseling may allow families to make an informed decision regarding marriage, and thus begin to plan a way of reducing the incidence of inherited visual impairment.
The ferret is the premiere mammalian model of retinal and visual system development, but the spectrum and properties of its retinal ganglion cells are less well understood than in another member of the Carnivora, the domestic cat. Here, we have extensively surveyed the dendritic architecture of ferret ganglion cells and report that the classification scheme previously developed for cat ganglion cells can be applied with few modifications to the ferret retina. We confirm the presence of alpha and beta cells in ferret retina, which are very similar to those in cat retina. Both cell types exhibited an increase in dendritic field size with distance from the area centralis (eccentricity) and with distance from the visual streak. Both alpha and beta cell populations existed as two subtypes whose dendrites stratified mainly in sublamina a or b of the inner plexiform layer. Six additional morphological types of ganglion cells were identified: four monostratified cell types (delta, epsilon, zeta, and eta) and two bistratified types (theta and iota). These types closely resembled their counterparts in the cat in terms of form, relative field size, and stratification. Our data indicate that, among carnivore species, the retinal ganglion cells resemble one another closely and that the ferret is a useful model for studies of the ontogenetic differentiation of ganglion cell types.
We previously reported the existence of MOR1(C) mRNA and MOR1(C)-immunoreactivity (-ir) in rats. However, the sequence that we reported for rat MOR1(C) appears not to be present in the rat genome. We have therefore reexamined whether MOR1(C) mRNA or MOR1(C)-ir exist in rats. We used reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to attempt to amplify MOR1, MOR1(A), MOR1(B), the rat MOR1(C) sequence we previously reported, and MOR1(C1) and MOR1(C2) (which have recently been reported to exist in rats). In RNA extracted from rats, we were able to demonstrate PCR products representing MOR1, MOR1(A), and MOR1(B) splice variants. All three products were confirmed as related to MOR1 by Southern blot. However, we were unable to detect either the MOR1(C) product reported previously by us or the MOR1(C)-like products reported to exist in rats by others. In RNA extracted from mice we were able to detect MOR1, MOR1(A), MOR1(B), and MOR1(D)-like products. To test the specificity of our MOR1(C) antiserum, we examined MOR1(C)-ir in control and knockout mice. MOR1(C)-ir had a distribution in control mice similar to that previously reported in rats, including coexisting with vGLUT2. However, although MOR1-ir was absent in MOR1 knockout mice, the density and distribution of MOR1(C)-ir were unchanged, suggesting that the antiserum crossreacts with another molecule in tissue. We find no evidence for MOR1(C) mRNA in rats. Furthermore, we conclude that MOR1(C)-ir represents crossreactivity.
The ability to react to environmental change is crucial for the survival of an organism and an essential prerequisite is the capacity to detect and respond to aversive stimuli. The importance of having an inbuilt &quot;detect and protect&quot; system is illustrated by the fact that most animals have dedicated sensory afferents which respond to noxious stimuli called nociceptors. Should injury occur there is often sensitization, whereby increased nociceptor sensitivity and/or plasticity of nociceptor-related neural circuits acts as a protection mechanism for the afflicted body part. Studying nociception and nociceptors in different model organisms has demonstrated that there are similarities from invertebrates right through to humans. The development of technology to genetically manipulate organisms, especially mice, has led to an understanding of some of the key molecular players in nociceptor function. This review will focus on what is known about nociceptors throughout the Animalia kingdom and what similarities exist across phyla; especially at the molecular level of ion channels.
Randomly-connected networks of integrate-and-fire (IF) neurons are known to display asynchronous irregular (AI) activity states, which resemble the discharge activity recorded in the cerebral cortex of awake animals. However, it is not clear whether such activity states are specific to simple IF models, or if they also exist in networks where neurons are endowed with complex intrinsic properties similar to electrophysiological measurements. Here, we investigate the occurrence of AI states in networks of nonlinear IF neurons, such as the adaptive exponential IF (Brette-Gerstner-Izhikevich) model. This model can display intrinsic properties such as low-threshold spike (LTS), regular spiking (RS) or fast-spiking (FS). We successively investigate the oscillatory and AI dynamics of thalamic, cortical and thalamocortical networks using such models. AI states can be found in each case, sometimes with surprisingly small network size of the order of a few tens of neurons. We show that the presence of LTS neurons in cortex or in thalamus, explains the robust emergence of AI states for relatively small network sizes. Finally, we investigate the role of spike-frequency adaptation (SFA). In cortical networks with strong SFA in RS cells, the AI state is transient, but when SFA is reduced, AI states can be self-sustained for long times. In thalamocortical networks, AI states are found when the cortex is itself in an AI state, but with strong SFA, the thalamocortical network displays Up and Down state transitions, similar to intracellular recordings during slow-wave sleep or anesthesia. Self-sustained Up and Down states could also be generated by two-layer cortical networks with LTS cells. These models suggest that intrinsic properties such as adaptation and low-threshold bursting activity are crucial for the genesis and control of AI states in thalamocortical networks.
An integrative, systems approach to the modelling of brain energy metabolism is presented. Mechanisms such as glutamate cycling between neurons and astrocytes and glycogen storage in astrocytes have been implemented. A unique feature of the model is its calibration using in vivo data of brain glucose and lactate from freely moving rats under various stimuli. The model has been used to perform simulated perturbation experiments that show that glycogen breakdown in astrocytes is significantly activated during sensory (tail pinch) stimulation. This mechanism provides an additional input of energy substrate during high consumption phases. By way of validation, data from the perfusion of 50 microM propranolol in the rat brain was compared with the model outputs. Propranolol affects the glucose dynamics during stimulation, and this was accurately reproduced in the model by a reduction in the glycogen breakdown in astrocytes. The model's predictive capacity was verified by using data from a sensory stimulation (restraint) that was not used for model calibration. Finally, a sensitivity analysis was conducted on the model parameters, this showed that the control of energy metabolism and transport processes are critical in the metabolic behaviour of cerebral tissue.

By examining voice onset time (VOT) discrimination in 4- and 8-month-olds raised in a French-speaking environment, the current study addresses the question of the role played by linguistic experience in the reshaping of the initial perceptual abilities. Results showed that the language-general -30- and +30-ms VOT boundaries are better discriminated than the 0-ms boundary in 4-month-olds, whereas 8-month-olds better discriminate the 0-ms boundary. These data support explanations of speech development stressing the effects of both language-general boundaries and linguistic environment (attunement theory and coupling theory). Results also suggest that the acquisition of the adult voicing boundary (at 0 ms VOT in French vs. +30 ms VOT in English) is faster and more linear in French than in English. This latter aspect of the results might be related to differences in the consistency of VOT distributions of voiced and voiceless stops between languages.
The drift-diffusion model (DDM) implements an optimal decision procedure for stationary, 2-alternative forced-choice tasks. The height of a decision threshold applied to accumulating information on each trial determines a speed-accuracy tradeoff (SAT) for the DDM, thereby accounting for a ubiquitous feature of human performance in speeded response tasks. However, little is known about how participants settle on particular tradeoffs. One possibility is that they select SATs that maximize a subjective rate of reward earned for performance. For the DDM, there exist unique, reward-rate-maximizing values for its threshold and starting point parameters in free-response tasks that reward correct responses (R. Bogacz, E. Brown, J. Moehlis, P. Holmes, &amp; J. D. Cohen, 2006). These optimal values vary as a function of response-stimulus interval, prior stimulus probability, and relative reward magnitude for correct responses. We tested the resulting quantitative predictions regarding response time, accuracy, and response bias under these task manipulations and found that grouped data conformed well to the predictions of an optimally parameterized DDM.
We describe the case of a 40-year-old woman, affected by episodic cluster headache, who presented with a cluster headache triggered by exposure to high altitude. Her attacks were refractory to sumatriptan, very effective at sea level, but responded to oxygen. A pathophysiological mechanism is proposed.
The aim of this retrospective study was to determine the relevance of the symptom &quot;headache&quot; in kidney transplanted patients, since few studies have considered headache as a clinically significant complication in this condition. A total of 83 consecutive kidney transplant patients underwent to neurological examination and a detailed headache history was taken. The headache history considered the period before kidney disease, during renal failure, during dialysis treatment and after transplantation. Diagnosis was made according to International Headache Criteria (ICDH-II) (2004). Our results reveal an occurrence of headache after kidney transplantation in 44.5% of the patients, which is higher than rates reported for the general population and in the only specific comparable study on liver transplant patients. These data suggest the need for prospective studies to explore the causal mechanisms by which headache develops with frequency in kidney transplant patients, and in particular to determine the role of immunosuppressive therapy.
The putative protein C7orf24 is encoded by Homo sapiens chromosome 7 open reading frame 24. C7orf24 was first identified as a 21-kDa cytochrome c-releasing factor detected in the cytosolic fraction of human leukemia U937 cells after treatment with geranylgeraniol. C7orf24 protein was recently identified as a gamma-glutamyl cyclotransferase, an enzyme in the gamma-glutamyl cycle. However, the exact localization of C7orf24 mRNA in normal tissues remains unknown. The present study examined the distribution pattern of C7orf24 mRNA in rat tissues using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and in situ hybridization histochemistry. The RT-PCR experiments demonstrated that C7orf24 and a variant C7orf24 mRNA were expressed in various tissues. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed significantly high levels of both C7orf24 mRNAs in the liver and kidney, compared with other tissues examined. In situ hybridization histochemistry localized C7orf24 mRNA to hepatocytes in the liver and renal tubules in the kidney. The present results thus implicated an important role for C7orf24 in liver and kidney.

Neurological deficits in children, including cerebral palsy, are associated with prior infection during the perinatal period. Experimentally, we have shown that pre-exposure to the Gram-negative component LPS potentiates hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain injury in newborn animals. LPS effects are mediated by binding to TLR4, which requires recruitment of the MyD88 adaptor protein or Toll/IL-1R domain-containing adapter inducing IFN-beta for signal transduction. In this study, we investigated the role of MyD88 in neonatal brain injury. MyD88 knockout (MyD88 KO) and wild-type mice were subjected to left carotid artery ligation and 10% O(2) for 50 min on postnatal day 9. LPS or saline were administered i.p. at 14 h before HI. At 5 days after HI in wild-type mice, LPS in combination with HI caused a significant increase in gray and white matter tissue loss compared with the saline-HI group. By contrast, in the MyD88 KO mice there was no potentiation of brain injury with LPS-HI. MyD88 KO mice exhibited reduced NFkappaB activation and proinflammatory cytokine-chemokine expression in response to LPS. The number of microglia and caspase-3 activation was increased in the brain of MyD88 KO mice after LPS exposure. Collectively, these findings indicate that MyD88 plays an essential role in LPS-sensitized HI neonatal brain injury, which involves both inflammatory and caspase-dependent pathways.

In the present work, it was experimentally shown that a neuron in vitro was capable of responding in a manner similar to habituation, Pavlov's reflex and avoidance of the reinforcements. The locality of plastic property modifications and molecular morphology, as well as the connection between functional activity and cytoskeleton have been revealed. A hypothesis is formulated that the neuron is a molecular system which may exercise the control, forecast, recognition, and classification. The basic principles of the molecular mechanisms of the responses underlying integrative activity, learning and memory at the neuronal level are discussed.
Results about the spindle-like activity peculiarities and the dendro-dendritic gap-junctions numbers in the infragranular and supragranular layers (modules) of the rat somatic cortex columns are presented. During simultaneous recording of extracellular field potentials from the cortical columns, the following was revealed: (i) the spindle-like activity was more synchronized inside one cortical column than in different columns; (ii) in most of the experiments (9 out of 10) an amplitude of the spindle waves was two times more in the supragranular layers than in the infragranular layers. During electron microscopy investigation of the experimental objects used in the electrophysiological study, it was shown that the number of the gap-junctions was more in the supragranular columnar layers as compared with the infragranular layers (4.15% and 2.84% out of the total number of chemical synapses and gap-junctions identified in each module, respectively). The results obtained are discussed as possible structural base of the local electrotonic synchronization of the neuronal activity inside a cortical column.
Agonists of CC chemokine receptor CCR1 contribute to the pathogenesis of autoimmune and other inflammatory diseases, possibly via the regulation of the transcription factor NF-kappaB. CCR1 and CCR2b have been demonstrated to use PTX-insensitive Galpha(14) and Galpha(16) to stimulate PLCbeta in cotransfected cells, and Galpha(14) and Galpha(16) are capable of activating NF-kappaB. The coexpression of Galpha(14), Galpha(16), and CCR1 in human monocytic THP-1 cells suggests that CCR1 may use Galpha(14) or Galpha(16) to induce NF-kappaB activation. Here, we demonstrated that a CCR1 agonist, Lkn-1, stimulated NF-kappaB phosphorylation via PTX-insensitive G proteins in THP-1 cells. Lkn-1 also mediated IKK/NF-kappaB phosphorylations in HEK293 cells overexpressing CCR1 and Galpha(14/16). Using various kinase inhibitors, Raf-1, MEK1/2, PLCbeta, PKC, CaM, CaMKII, and c-Src were found to participate in Lkn-1-stimulated IKK/NF-kappaB phosphorylations in THP-1 and transfected HEK293 cells. Although c-Jun N-terminal kinase and p38 MAPK were activated by Lkn-1, they were not required in Lkn-1-induced IKK phosphorylation. The ability of CCR1 to signal through Galpha(14/16) thus provides a linkage for chemokines to regulate NF-kappaB-dependent responses.

Non-invasive genetic manipulation in primary neurons is important in many areas of neuroscience research. Although highly efficient transfections can be performed using viral methods those procedures come with many drawbacks concerning safety issues. Compared to viral methods, non-viral transfection methods have significantly lower transfection rate which limited its use in neuroscience research. This paper describes a novel microfluidic device that was used to investigate the effect of shear stress on transfection efficiency of lipoplex (DNA entangled with liposome) to primary neurons. The device can be used to simultaneously generate regions with multiple shear stress levels using a single device. This device is compatible with cells growing on a monolayer on a conventional tissue culture Petri dish. When exposed to shear stress, post-mitotic primary rat cortical neurons' transfection rate increased by up to 3-fold when compared to static conventional method. Similar effect was observed with mitotic neuronal cell line NIE-115 where upto 45% transfection efficiency was achieved with the aid of shear stress. Through this research, we demonstrated the efficiency of the reversibly binding microfluidic device in executing transfection experiments and corroborated the fact that shear stress is a new parameter to improve non-viral transfection to cells.
