
Purpose. The long-term efficacy of carotid artery stenting is debated. Predictors of stent restenosis are not fully investigated. Our aim was to assess the incidence of long term restenosis after CAS and to identify some predictors of restenosis. Methods. We retrospectively selected 189 treated patients and we obtained the survival Kaplan-Meier curves for overall survival, for freedom from stroke or death and from restenosis. To correlate clinical, radiological, and procedural variables to stent restenosis, an univariate analysis was performed while to determine independent predictors of restenosis, a multivariate analysis was applied. Results. At 1, 3, and 5 years, the cumulative overall survival rate was 98%, 94%, and 92% with a cumulative primary patency rate of 87%, 82.5%, and 82.5%. The percentage residual stenosis after CAS and multiple stents deployment were independent predictors of restenosis, while diabetes and tumors are suggestive but not significant predictors of restenosis. Conclusions. In our CAS experience, encouraging long-term results seem to derive from both neurological event free rate and restenosis incidence. Adequate recanalization of the treated vessel is important to limit the development of stent restenosis. Multiple stents deployment, and with less evidence, diabetes, or neoplasms has to be considered to facilitate restenosis.
We have observed extensive interindividual differences in DNA methylation of 8590 CpG sites of 6229 genes in 153 human adult cerebellum samples, enriched in CpG island &quot;shores&quot; and at further distances from CpG islands. To search for genetic factors that regulate this variation, we performed a genome-wide association study (GWAS) mapping of methylation quantitative trait loci (mQTLs) for the 8590 testable CpG sites. cis association refers to correlation of methylation with SNPs within 1 Mb of a CpG site. 736 CpG sites showed phenotype-wide significant cis association with 2878 SNPs (after permutation correction for all tested markers and methylation phenotypes). In trans analysis of methylation, which tests for distant regulation effects, associations of 12 CpG sites and 38 SNPs remained significant after phenotype-wide correction. To examine the functional effects of mQTLs, we analyzed 85 genes that were with genetically regulated methylation we observed and for which we had quality gene expression data. Ten genes showed SNP-methylation-expression three-way associations-the same SNP simultaneously showed significant association with both DNA methylation and gene expression, while DNA methylation was significantly correlated with gene expression. Thus, we demonstrated that DNA methylation is frequently a heritable continuous quantitatively variable trait in human brain. Unlike allele-specific methylation, genetic polymorphisms mark both cis- and trans-regulatory genetic sites at measurable distances from their CpG sites. Some of the genetically regulated DNA methylation is directly connected with genetically regulated gene expression variation.
Distal hereditary motor neuropathies comprise a clinically and genetically heterogeneous group of disorders. We recently mapped an X-linked form of this condition to chromosome Xq13.1-q21 in two large unrelated families. The region of genetic linkage included ATP7A, which encodes a copper-transporting P-type ATPase mutated in patients with Menkes disease, a severe infantile-onset neurodegenerative condition. We identified two unique ATP7A missense mutations (p.P1386S and p.T994I) in males with distal motor neuropathy in two families. These molecular alterations impact highly conserved amino acids in the carboxyl half of ATP7A and do not directly involve the copper transporter's known critical functional domains. Studies of p.P1386S revealed normal ATP7A mRNA and protein levels, a defect in ATP7A trafficking, and partial rescue of a S. cerevisiae copper transport knockout. Although ATP7A mutations are typically associated with severe Menkes disease or its milder allelic variant, occipital horn syndrome, we demonstrate here that certain missense mutations at this locus can cause a syndrome restricted to progressive distal motor neuropathy without overt signs of systemic copper deficiency. This previously unrecognized genotype-phenotype correlation suggests an important role of the ATP7A copper transporter in motor-neuron maintenance and function.
Reduction in or dysfunction of glutamate transporter 1 (GLT1) is linked to several neuronal disorders such as stroke, Alzheimer's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. However, the detailed mechanism underlying GLT1 regulation has not been fully elucidated. In the present study, we first demonstrated the effects of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling on GLT1 regulation. We prepared astrocytes cultured in astrocyte-defined medium (ADM), which contains several growth factors including epidermal growth factor (EGF) and insulin. The levels of phosphorylated Akt (Ser473) and mTOR (Ser2448) increased, and GLT1 levels were increased in ADM-cultured astrocytes. Treatment with a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor or an Akt inhibitor suppressed the phosphorylation of Akt (Ser473) and mTOR (Ser2448) as well as decreased ADM-induced GLT1 upregulation. Treatment with the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin decreased GLT1 protein and mRNA levels. In contrast, rapamycin did not affect Akt (Ser473) phosphorylation. Our results suggest that mTOR is a downstream target of the PI3K/Akt pathway regulating GLT1 expression.

Zinc is one of the most abundant transition metals in the brain, being present in a variety of synaptic processes. The mossy fiber terminals in area CA3 of the hippocampus contain large amounts of vesicular zinc and have an extremely high density of ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels. The activation of these channels by zinc leads to rapid hyperpolarization of these presynaptic terminals and inhibition of transmitter release. It has been previously shown that intense stimulation of the synapses between mossy fibers and CA3 pyramidal cells evokes a posttetanic depression of synaptic activity, accompanied by a decrease in presynaptic calcium and vesicular zinc signals. These results suggest a neuromodulatory role for zinc at these synapses, which could be mediated by inhibition of presynaptic voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) and/or activation of presynaptic KATP channels. In order to evaluate the contribution of the second mechanism we have applied multiple tetanic stimulations in the absence and presence of the KATP channel blocker tolbutamide. Under control conditions, it was observed that the delivery of six tetani caused a posttetanic depression of synaptic activity. In the presence of tolbutamide, the depression was smaller and had a shorter time course. A similar depression was also observed in the presynaptic zinc and calcium signals. These findings are in agreement with the hypothesis that the activation of KATP channels by tetanically released zinc leads to cell hyperpolarization and subsequent reduction of presynaptic calcium entry, followed by the inhibition of both zinc and glutamate release. Thus, these results suggest that the inhibition of mossy fiber synaptic transmission by intensely released zinc is partially mediated by the activation of KATP channels.
It is well known that spinal motoneurons below a spinal transection become supersensitive to a systemic administration of serotonin (5-HT) precursors, such as 5-hydroxytryptophan. This supersensitivity has been implicated in both the process of functional recovery following chronic lesions, and also in the development of symptoms such as hyperreflexia and spasticity. However, the mechanisms of this denervation supersensitivity are still largely unknown. In this study we have investigated the changes in 5-HT2A receptor immunoreactivity following chronic spinal transections at the level of the sacrocaudal spinal cord. The results show that in the spinalized rats the immunoreactivity of 5-HT2A receptors below the lesion is dramatically increased in the motoneuron soma and its proximal dendritic territory, most likely also in their distal dendritic territory, to a level 3-5-fold higher than that of sham-operated rats. We also found a small number of intraspinal 5-HT neurons and clusters of 5-HT fibers and their varicosities in the spinal cord caudal to the lesion, which may provide an intrinsic source of 5-HT to act upon the upregulated 5-HT2A receptors. These results indicate that the upregulation of 5-HT2A receptors at least partly underlies the 5-HT denervation supersensitivity of spinal motoneurons after a complete spinal transection.
Traditionally, it has been assumed that language is part of a distributed neural system largely lateralized to the left cerebral hemisphere. However, more recent studies have challenged the traditional hypothesis supporting a more interactive view of language processing. Instead of considering the language faculty as modular and independent from other cognitive functions, it is hypothesized that language makes use of other cognitive domains. This issue has also been specifically addressed in derivational morphology processing, a language task traditionally considered purely linguistic. Very recently, in a group of Italian non-aphasic right brain-damaged (RBD) subjects, a selective deficit in deriving nouns from verbs (e.g. osservare [to observe] --&gt; osservazione [observation]) was reported. It was attributed to damage to response selection and inhibition mechanisms required by the derivational task. The aim of the present study was to investigate this issue further. Twelve RBD subjects, six of whom were selectively impaired in deriving nouns from verbs, and six healthy controls were asked to perform a response selection task that required the activation of facilitatory and inhibitory components. Results showed that subjects with a derivational morphological deficit exhibited slower reaction times than the subjects in the other RBD group only when they had to inhibit the expected response to select the correct answer. Moreover, lesion analysis revealed the involvement of the right subcortical structures. The relationship between derivational morphology and response selection mechanisms in the right hemisphere is discussed within the view of inter-hemispheric cooperation between different cognitive domains in language tasks.
The mechanisms for de novo protein folding differ significantly between bacteria and eukaryotes, as evidenced by the often observed poor yields of native eukaryotic proteins upon recombinant production in bacterial systems. Polypeptide synthesis rates are faster in bacteria than in eukaryotes, but the effects of general variations in translation rates on protein folding efficiency have remained largely unexplored. By employing Escherichia coli cells with mutant ribosomes whose translation speed can be modulated, we show here that reducing polypeptide elongation rates leads to enhanced folding of diverse proteins of eukaryotic origin. These results suggest that in eukaryotes, protein folding necessitates slow translation rates. In contrast, folding in bacteria appears to be uncoupled from protein synthesis, explaining our findings that a generalized reduction in translation speed does not adversely impact the folding of the endogenous bacterial proteome. Utilization of this strategy has allowed the production of a native eukaryotic multidomain protein that has been previously unattainable in bacterial systems and may constitute a general alternative to the production of aggregation-prone recombinant proteins.
To sustain tumor growth, cancer cells must be able to adapt to fluctuations in energy availability. We have identified a single microRNA that controls glioma cell proliferation, migration, and responsiveness to glucose deprivation. Abundant glucose allows relatively high miR-451 expression, promoting cell growth. In low glucose, miR-451 levels decrease, slowing proliferation but enhancing migration and survival. This allows cells to survive metabolic stress and seek out favorable growth conditions. In glioblastoma patients, elevated miR-451 is associated with shorter survival. The effects of miR-451 are mediated by LKB1, which it represses through targeting its binding partner, CAB39 (MO25 alpha). Overexpression of miR-451 sensitized cells to glucose deprivation, suggesting that its downregulation is necessary for robust activation of LKB1 in response to metabolic stress. Thus, miR-451 is a regulator of the LKB1/AMPK pathway, and this may represent a fundamental mechanism that contributes to cellular adaptation in response to altered energy availability.
Progesterone can enhance cognitive performance among young and aged mice; however, the mechanisms underlying these effects of progesterone are not well-understood. Aged, mice which lack functional progestin receptors (PRKO), or wildtype mice were administered progesterone (10mg/kg, SC), or vehicle, and learning/memory was evaluated. Progesterone, compared to vehicle, produced a conditioned place preference in PRKO and wildtype mice. Progesterone improved performance of PRKO and wildtype mice in the object placement, water maze, contextual and cued fear conditioning tasks. PRKO, compared to wildtype, mice performed better in the inhibitory avoidance task, irrespective of progesterone. Thus, progesterone to aged mice enhances performance across a variety of tasks and this may not require actions at PRs.
Loss of neurons or neuronal functions over time has been hypothesized to contribute to the dysregulation of autonomic functions observed in aging. In this study, we evaluated the total number of the hypothalamic hypocretin (orexin) immunopositive neurons in 100, 400, 800 and 1000-day-old male and female C57Bl/6 mice that are commonly used in aging studies in vertebrates. Males had 15-20% more hypocretin immunopositive neurons (HIN) than females at all ages examined. Neuronal number for both sexes was stable in the first 400 days of life, but started declining between 400 and 800 days with rates of approximately 1 neuron/day. The rate of loss doubled in males between 800 and 1000 days of age. The total average number of HIN for males was 2251+/-139 at 100 days, 2235+/-112 at 400 days, 1914+/-81 at 800 days, and 1596+/-301 at 1000 days. The total average number of HIN for females was 1805+/-76 at 100 days, 1887+/-118 at 400 days, and 1521+/-181 at 800 days. Evaluation of the time-dependent decline in the number of hypocretin immunopositive neurons may help to explain the physiological changes in sleep or energy homeostasis regulation during aging.
That individual timing variability is correlated across some tasks but not others has instigated the notion of distinct timing processes, referred to as 'event' timing and 'emergent' timing for tasks with and without salient events, respectively. The delineation of the event-emergent framework owes much to the circle drawing task as it can be performed with or without such events, all other factors being equal. We investigated continuous and intermittent circle drawing from a principled perspective allowing for the classification of timing mechanisms based on mathematical theorems. We propose a one-dimensional dynamical model to portray the essential dynamics of circle drawing that exhibits either fixed point or oscillator dynamics, each associated with distinct timing mechanisms. Eight participants drew circles under three different instruction conditions (no specific instructions, to draw as a fast or as smoothly as possible) at seven frequencies ranging from 0.5Hz to 3.5Hz. We computed the angle between the circle drawing's horizontal and vertical component and reconstructed the corresponding vector fields prescribing the temporal evolution. Fixed point dynamics were present only in the 'fast' condition at low movement frequencies (i.e., in intermittent circle drawing representative of event timing). All other conditions were realized via oscillator dynamics representative of emergent timing. The transition between both dynamical mechanisms involved a saddle-node on invariant circle bifurcation, which was accompanied by increased trajectory variability, which is a key signature of phase transitions. These findings demonstrate the involvement of distinct timing mechanisms in different circle drawing tasks.
An understanding of sleep requires the identification of distinct cellular circuits that mediate the action of specific sleep:wake-regulating molecules, but such analysis has been very limited. We identify here a circuit that underlies the wake-promoting effects of octopamine in Drosophila. Using MARCM, we identified the ASM cells in the medial protocerebrum as the wake-promoting octopaminergic cells. We then blocked octopamine signaling in random areas of the fly brain and mapped the postsynaptic effect to insulin-secreting neurons of the pars intercerebralis (PI). These PI neurons show altered potassium channel function as well as an increase in cAMP in response to octopamine, and genetic manipulation of their electrical excitability alters sleep:wake behavior. Effects of octopamine on sleep:wake are mediated by the cAMP-dependent isoform of the OAMB receptor. These studies define the cellular and molecular basis of octopamine action and suggest that the PI is a sleep:wake-regulating neuroendocrine structure like the mammalian hypothalamus.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate various biological processes, but evidence for miRNAs that control the differentiation program of specific neural cell types has been elusive. To determine the role of miRNAs in the formation of myelinating oligodendrocytes, we selectively deleted a miRNA-processing enzyme, Dicer1, in oligodendrocyte lineage cells. Mice lacking Dicer1 display severe myelinating deficits despite an expansion of the oligodendrocyte progenitor pool. To search for miRNAs responsible for the induction of oligodendrocyte maturation, we identified miR-219 and miR-338 as oligodendrocyte-specific miRNAs in spinal cord. Overexpression of these miRNAs is sufficient to promote oligodendrocyte differentiation. Additionally, blockage of these miRNA activities in oligodendrocyte precursor culture and knockdown of miR-219 in zebrafish inhibit oligodendrocyte maturation. miR-219 and miR-338 function in part by directly repressing negative regulators of oligodendrocyte differentiation, including transcription factors Sox6 and Hes5. These findings illustrate that miRNAs are important regulators of oligodendrocyte differentiation, providing new targets for myelin repair.
Hippocampal place cells are active when the rat is at certain locations. The sequence of these active place cells is known to be rapidly replayed during sharp-wave-ripple events in the EEG. In this issue of Neuron, a study by Gupta et al. challenges previous notions that the replayed trajectories are solely a passive echo of past episodes. Rather, replay might also be an active process constructing a Tolmanian cognitive map of space, which makes flexible navigation possible.
Comparison of 3T blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) and cerebral blood volume (CBV) activation maps to histological sections enables the spatial discrimination of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signal changes into different vascular compartments. We use a standard gradient echo-echo planar imaging technique to measure BOLD signal changes in the somatosensory cortex in response to whisker stimulation. Corresponding changes in CBV were estimated following the infusion of a super-paramagnetic contrast agent. We imaged in a tangential imaging plane that covered the cortical surface. Images were associated with post mortem histological sections showing both the surface vasculature and cytochrome oxidase stained whisker barrel cortex. We found a significant BOLD signal change in the large draining veins which occurred in the absence of a corresponding CBV change. Results suggest that in the venous drainage system, ~3mm distant from the area of activity, there is a robust change in blood oxygen saturation with little or no volume change. CBV changes are localised over the somatosensory barrel cortex and overlying arterial supply, supporting the theory that CBV changes are greater in the arterial than in the venous vasculature. This work investigating BOLD signal and underlying hemodynamics provides more information on the vascular origins of these important neuroimaging signals.
Sleep spindles may be involved in synaptic plasticity. Learning-dependent increases in spindles have been observed in both humans and rats. In humans, the innate (i.e., baseline) number of spindles correlate with measures of academic potential such as Intelligence Quotient (IQ) tests. The present study investigated if spindles predict whether rats are able to learn to make avoidance responses in the two-way shuttle task. Baseline recordings were taken continuously for 24h prior to training on the two-way shuttle task for 50trials/day for two days followed by a 25 trial re-test on the third day. At re-test, rats were categorized into learners (n=16) or non-learners (n=21). Groups did not differ in baseline duration of rapid eye movement sleep, slow wave sleep, wake or spindle density. For combined groups, spindle density in the 21 to 24-hour period but not at any other period during baseline was negatively correlated with shuttle task performance at re-test. Conversely, the learning-related change in spindle density in the 21 to 24-hour period, but not at any other time after the first training session was positively correlated with shuttle task performance. Rats in the non-learning condition have a higher number of spindles at baseline, which is unaffected by training. On the other hand, learning rats have fewer spindles at baseline, but have a learning-related increase in spindles. Extreme spindle activity and high spindle density have been observed in humans with learning disabilities. Results suggest that while spindles may be involved in memory consolidation, in some cases, high levels of spindles prior to training may be maladaptive.
Acetaminophen, a popular analgesic and antipyretic, has been found to be effective against neuronal cell death in in vivo and in vitro models of neurological disorders. Acute neuronal death has been attributed to loss of mitochondrial permeability transition coupled with mitochondrial dysfunction. The potential impact of acetaminophen on acute injury from cerebral ischemia-reperfusion has not been studied. We investigated the effects of acetaminophen on cerebral ischemia-reperfusion-induced injury using a transient global forebrain ischemia model. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received 15mg/kg of acetaminophen intravenously during ischemia induced by hypovolemic hypotension and bilateral common carotid arterial occlusion, which was followed by reperfusion. Acetaminophen reduced tissue damage, degree of mitochondrial swelling, and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. Acetaminophen maintained mitochondrial cytochrome c content and reduced activation of caspase-9 and incidence of apoptosis. Our data show that acetaminophen reduces apoptosis via a mitochondrial-mediated mechanism in an in vivo model of cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. These findings suggest a novel role for acetaminophen as a potential stroke therapeutic.
Functional imaging can reveal detailed organizational structure in cerebral cortical areas, but neuronal response features and local neural interconnectivity can influence the resulting images, possibly limiting the inferences that can be drawn about neural function. Discerning the fundamental principles of organizational structure in the auditory cortex of multiple species has been somewhat challenging historically both with functional imaging and with electrophysiology. A possible limitation affecting any methodology using pooled neuronal measures may be the relative distribution of response selectivity throughout the population of auditory cortex neurons. One neuronal response type inherited from the cochlea, for example, exhibits a receptive field that increases in size (i.e., decreases in selectivity) at higher stimulus intensities. Even though these neurons appear to represent a minority of auditory cortex neurons, they are likely to contribute disproportionately to the activity detected in functional images, especially if intense sounds are used for stimulation. To evaluate the potential influence of neuronal subpopulations upon functional images of primary auditory cortex, a model array representing cortical neurons was probed with virtual imaging experiments under various assumptions about the local circuit organization. As expected, different neuronal subpopulations were activated preferentially under different stimulus conditions. In fact, stimulus protocols that can preferentially excite selective neurons, resulting in a relatively sparse activation map, have the potential to improve the effective resolution of functional auditory cortical images. These experimental results also make predictions about auditory cortex organization that can be tested with refined functional imaging experiments.
Urocortin 1 (Ucn 1) is an endogenous corticotropin releasing factor (CRF)-related peptide. Ucn 1 is most highly expressed in the perioculomotor urocortin containing neurons (pIIIu), previously known as the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (npEW). Various studies indicate that these cells are involved in stress adaptation and the regulation of ethanol (EtOH) intake. However, the developmental trajectory of these neurons remained unexamined. Expression of the cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), which co-localizes with Ucn 1 in the perioculomotor area (pIII) has been examined prenatally, but not postnatally. The goal of the current study was to characterize the ontogenetic profile of Ucn 1 and CART during postnatal development in C57BL/6J (B6) mice. B6 mice were bred, and brains were collected at postnatal days (PND) 1, 4, 8, 12, 16, 24 and 45. Brightfield immunohistochemical staining for Ucn 1 and CART showed that Ucn 1-immunoreactivity (ir) was absent at PND 1, while CART-ir was already apparent in pIIIu at birth, a finding indicating that although the pIIIu neurons have already migrated to their adult position, Ucn 1 expression is triggered in them at later postnatal stages. Ucn 1-ir gradually increased with age, approaching adult levels at PND 16. This developmental profile was confirmed by double-immunofluorescence, which showed that Ucn 1 was absent in CART-positive cells of pIII at PND 4 and that Ucn 1 and CART are strongly but not completely co-localized in pIII at PND 24. Quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis confirmed that Ucn 1 mRNA levels are significantly lower at PND 4 and PND 12 than in adult animals. The lack of brain Ucn 1 immunoreactivity at birth and the gradual postnatal increase in Ucn 1 in pIIIu suggests that this peptide plays a greater behavioral role in adulthood than during the early postnatal development of an organism.
The neuronal pathology caused by neonatal infection of rats with the PVC-211 murine leukemia virus (PVC-211 MuLV) and its underlying mechanisms are not well defined even though a loss of neurons and spongiform neurodegeneration has been reported to accompany the disease. Here we sought to identify sites of neurodegeneration using microglial reactivity as an indirect marker and to characterize microglial activation during disease progression. Using a panel of microglial antibodies including Iba1, OX-42, ED1, and anti-ferritin, we have studied the response of microglial cells to neonatal CNS infection with PVC-211 at post-infection survival times 7, 14, 21, and 28 days. We found that microglial activation occurred primarily in the spinal cord and brainstem where it gradually increased in intensity over the time course of this study. Other brain areas were relatively unremarkable in their microglial reaction to viral infection within this time frame. However, the presence of activated microglial cells was not correlated directly with the presence of viral glycoprotein (gp70), which was expressed in endothelial cells throughout the CNS. Although double-labeling of microglia with Iba1 and ED1 revealed numerous actively phagocytic microglia during disease progression, not all activated microglia were ED1-positive. In addition to the intense microglial activation, we found increased ferritin expression sporadically throughout the virus-infected brain. The ferritin-positive cells were mostly microglia that exhibited dystrophic changes and likely represented a degenerating subpopulation of microglial cells. Thus, activated microglia can co-exist with degenerating microglia in the same brain region. We attempted to localize degenerating neurons or neurites using Fluoro-Jade, anti-tau, and anti-alpha synuclein staining, but none of these procedures yielded results to indicate obvious neuronal pathology. We conclude that the visualization of microglial activation is a more sensitive measure of neuronal perturbations than direct detection of neuronal pathology which may be subtle and not produce overt degenerative changes.
Membrane damage during traumatic brain injury (TBI) alters the brain homeostasis of cholesterol and other lipids. Cholesterol 24S-hydroxylase (Cyp46) is a cholesterol metabolic enzyme that is increased after TBI. Here, we systematically examined the effects of the enzymatic product of Cyp46, 24S-hydroxycholesterol, on the cholesterol regulatory genes, SREBP-1 and 2, their posttranslational regulation, and their effects on gene transcription. 24S-hydroxycholesterol increased levels of SREBP-1 mRNA and full-length protein but did not change levels of cleaved SREBP-1, consistent with the role of 24-hydroxycholesterol as an LXR agonist. In contrast, 24S-hydroxycholesterol decreased levels of LXR-independent SREBP-2 mRNA, full-length protein, and SREBP-2 active cleavage product. We examined the downstream effects of changes to these lipid regulatory factors by studying cholesterol and fatty acid synthesis genes. In neuroblastoma cells, 24S-hydroxycholesterol decreased mRNA levels of the cholesterol synthesis genes HMG CoA reductase, squalene synthase, and FPP synthase but did not alter levels of the mRNA of fatty acid synthesis genes acetyl CoA carboxylase or fatty acid synthase. After TBI, as after 24S-hydroxycholesterol treatment in vitro, SREBP-1 mRNA levels were increased while SREBP-2 mRNA levels were decreased. Also similar to the in vitro results with 24S-hydroxycholesterol, HMG CoA reductase and squalene synthase mRNA levels were significantly decreased. Fatty acid synthase mRNA levels were not altered but acetyl CoA carboxylase mRNA levels were significantly decreased. Thus, changes to transcription of cholesterol synthesis genes after TBI were consistent with increases in Cyp46 activity, but changes to fatty acid synthesis genes must be regulated by other mechanisms.
Several lines of evidence suggest that acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChE) have their cognitive enhancing effects by stimulating cholinergic receptors within the medial septum. However, intraseptal administration of cholinergic enhancing drugs produce mixed results that appear to depend on both the integrity of the medial septum as well as task demands. Three experiments were conducted to determine the relationship between increased cholinergic activity within the medial septum and hippocampus and behavioral recovery in a model of diencephalic amnesia produced by pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency (PTD). In Experiment 1, systemic tacrine (0.0, 0.75, 1.5mg/kg) was administered to PTD and pair-fed (PF) rats prior to a spontaneous alternation task. Without tacrine, PF rats alternated at a higher rate than PTD rats. Both doses of tacrine increased alternation in PTD rats to within the range of PF rats. In Experiment 2, three doses of intraseptal tacrine (2.5, 5.0, 12.5microg) were administered to PTD and PF rats and changes in hippocampal acetylcholine efflux were assessed. Both the 5.0 and 12.5microg doses significantly increased hippocampal acetylcholine levels, but the change was greater in the PTD rats. In Experiment 3, despite the fact that both intraseptal doses of tacrine (5.0, 12.5microg) increased hippocampal acetylcholine levels, only 5.0microg significantly improved alternation scores in PTD rats. Thus, when there is basal forebrain cholinergic cell loss in conjunction with diencephalic pathology, the therapeutic range of AChE-I in the medial septum and the effective doses do not directly map onto changes in acetylcholine efflux in the hippocampus.
To investigate whether life-long disturbed serotonin neurotransmission may result in adaptive changes of dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems, effects of drugs on stress-induced hyperthermia were studied in serotonin transporter knockout rats. The noradrenalin transporter blocker atomoxetine was more effective in reducing stress-induced hyperthermia, induced by an injection, in serotonin transporter (SERT) knockout (SERT(-/-)) rats compared to SERT(+/+) rats. The dopamine transporter blocker GBR12909 increased the core body temperature in SERT(-/-) rats, and had no effect on the SERT(+/+) rats. Finally, the noradrenalin transporter together with dopamine transporter blocker bupropion was more effective in decreasing the stress of an injection in SERT(-/-) rats than in SERT(+/+) rats. These data suggest that the sensitivity of dopamine and noradrenalin receptors is changed in serotonin transporter knockout rats. The lack of the serotonin transporter in SERT(-/-) rats might reflect humans with a life-long disturbed serotonin system, making this rat a good model to study possible changes in dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems in psychiatric disorders.
Concomitant increase in activity within the mid-dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (MDLFC) and the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) is observed in most functional neuroimaging studies of working memory (Collette et al., 1999; Gerton et al., 2004; Sun et al., 2005; Postle et al., 2006; Champod and Petrides, 2007; Emery et al., 2008). Despite broad consensus on the importance of these two brain regions in working memory, their unique contribution, especially that of the PPC, remains a matter of heated debate (Paulesu et al., 1993; Smith and Jonides, 1998; Postle et al., 1999; Berryhill and Olson, 2008). The main objective of the present parametric event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study was to examine the hypothesis that the cortex in the intraparietal sulcus region in the PPC is involved in the manipulation (i.e., rearrangement) of verbal information in working memory and to dissociate the involvement of this brain region from that of the MDLFC in working memory processes. The results demonstrated a linear increase in activity within the MDLFC during the manipulation and monitoring of a linearly increasing number of words in working memory. In sharp contrast, there was a linear increase in activity within the PPC during the manipulation but not the monitoring of a linearly increasing number of words. This study provides the first parametric dissociation of activation in these two cortical regions indicating a crucial role of the PPC in the manipulation of information in working memory, with the MDLFC playing a major role in monitoring this information.
Childhood obesity is associated with increased risk of behavioral/psychological disorders including depression, anxiety, poor learning, and attention deficient disorder. As the majority of women of child-bearing age are overweight or obese and consume a diet high in dietary fat, it is critical to examine the consequences of maternal overnutrition on the development of brain circuitry that regulates offspring behavior. Using a nonhuman primate model of diet-induced obesity, we found that maternal high-fat diet (HFD) consumption caused perturbations in the central serotonergic system of fetal offspring. In addition, female infants from HFD-fed mothers exhibited increased anxiety in response to threatening novel objects. These findings have important clinical implications as they demonstrate that exposure to maternal HFD consumption during gestation, independent of obesity, increases the risk of developing behavioral disorders such as anxiety.
Unaccustomed strenuous exercise that includes lengthening contraction (LC) often causes delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS), a kind of muscular mechanical hyperalgesia. The substances that induce this phenomenon are largely unknown. Peculiarly, DOMS is not perceived during and shortly after exercise, but rather is first perceived after approximately 1 d. Using B(2) bradykinin receptor antagonist HOE 140, we show here that bradykinin released during exercise plays a pivotal role in triggering the process that leads to muscular mechanical hyperalgesia. HOE 140 completely suppressed the development of muscular mechanical hyperalgesia when injected before LC, but when injected 2 d after LC failed to reverse mechanical hyperalgesia that had already developed. B(1) antagonist was ineffective, regardless of the timing of its injection. Upregulation of nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA and protein occurred in exercised muscle over a comparable time course (12 h to 2 d after LC) for muscle mechanical hyperalgesia. Antibodies to NGF injected intramuscularly 2 d after exercise reversed muscle mechanical hyperalgesia. HOE 140 inhibited the upregulation of NGF. In contrast, shortening contraction or stretching induced neither mechanical hyperalgesia nor NGF upregulation. Bradykinin together with shortening contraction, but not bradykinin alone, reproduced lasting mechanical hyperalgesia. We also showed that rat NGF sensitized thin-fiber afferents to mechanical stimulation in the periphery after 10-20 min. Thus, NGF upregulation through activation of B(2) bradykinin receptors is essential (though not satisfactory) to mechanical hyperalgesia after exercise. The present observations explain why DOMS occurs with a delay, and why lengthening contraction but not shortening contraction induces DOMS.
Drug-induced malfunction of nucleus accumbens (NAc) neurons underlies a key pathophysiology of drug addiction. Drug-induced changes in intrinsic membrane excitability of NAc neurons are thought to be critical for producing behavioral alterations. Previous studies demonstrate that, after short-term (2 d) or long-term (21 d) withdrawal from noncontingent cocaine injection, the intrinsic membrane excitability of NAc shell (NAcSh) neurons is decreased, and decreased membrane excitability of NAcSh neurons increases the acute locomotor response to cocaine. However, animals exhibit distinct cellular and behavioral alterations at different stages of cocaine exposure, suggesting that the decreased membrane excitability of NAc neurons may not be a persistent change. Here, we demonstrate that the membrane excitability of NAcSh neurons is differentially regulated depending on whether cocaine is administered contingently or noncontingently. Specifically, the membrane excitability of NAcSh medium spiny neurons (MSNs) was decreased at 2 d after withdrawal from either 5 d intraperitoneal injections (15 mg/kg) or cocaine self-administration (SA). At 21 d of withdrawal, the membrane excitability of NAcSh MSNs, which remained low in intraperitoneally pretreated rats, returned to a normal level in SA-pretreated rats. Furthermore, after a reexposure to cocaine after long-term withdrawal, the membrane excitability of NAcSh MSNs instantly returned to a normal level in intraperitoneally pretreated rats. Conversely, in SA-pretreated rats, the reexposure elevated the membrane excitability of NAcSh MSMs beyond the normal level. These results suggest that the dynamic alterations in membrane excitability of NAcSh MSNs, together with the dynamic changes in synaptic input, contribute differentially to the behavioral consequences of contingent and noncontingent cocaine administration.
There is increasing evidence of the importance of synchronous activity within the corticospinal system for motor control. We compared oscillatory activity in the primary sensorimotor cortex [EEG of sensorimotor cortex (SMC-EEG)] and a motor neuronal pool [surface electromyogram of opponens pollicis (OP-EMG)], and their coherence in children (4-12 years of age), young adults (20-35 years of age), and elderly adults (&gt;55 years of age). The ratio between lower (2-13 Hz) and higher (14-32 Hz) frequencies in both SMC-EEG and OP-EMG decreased with age, correlating inversely with motor performance. There was evidence for larger, more distributed cortical networks in the children and elderly compared with young adults. Corticomuscular coherence (CMC) was present in all age groups and shifted between frontal and parietal cortical areas. In children, CMC was smaller and less stationary in amplitude and frequency than in adults. Young adults had single peaks of CMC clustered near the modal frequency (23 Hz); multiple peaks with a broad spread of frequencies occurred in children and the elderly; the further the frequency of the maximum peak CMC was from 23 Hz, the poorer the performance. CMC amplitude was inversely related to performance in young adults but was not modulated in relation to performance in children and the elderly. We propose that progressive fine-tuning of the frequency coding and stabilization of the dynamic properties within and between corticospinal networks occurs during adolescence, refining the capacity for efficient dynamic communication in adulthood. In old age, blurring of the tuning between networks and breakdown in their integration occurs and is likely to contribute to a decrement in motor control.
The ability of cortical neurons to accurately encode the temporal pattern of their inputs has important consequences for cortical function and perceptual acuity. Here we identify cellular mechanisms underlying the sensitivity of cortical neurons to the timing of sensory-evoked synaptic inputs. We find that temporally coincident inputs to layer 4 neurons in primary visual cortex evoke an increase in spike precision and supralinear spike summation. Underlying this nonlinear summation are changes in the evoked excitatory conductance and the associated membrane potential response, and a lengthening of the window between excitation and inhibition. Furthermore, fast-spiking inhibitory interneurons in layer 4 exhibit a shorter window of temporal sensitivity compared with excitatory neurons. In contrast to the enhanced response to synchronous inputs by layer 4 neurons, sensory input integration in downstream cortical layers is more linear and less sensitive to timing. Neurons in the input layer of cortex are thus uniquely optimized to detect and encode synchronous sensory-evoked inputs.
Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), a Ser/Thr protein kinase abundantly expressed in neurons, plays diverse functions in physiological and neurodegenerative conditions. Our recent study shows that upregulation of GSK-3 suppresses long-term potentiation and presynaptic release of glutamate; however, the underlying mechanism is elusive. Here, we show that activation of GSK-3beta retards the synaptic vesicle exocytosis in response to membrane depolarization. Using calcium imaging, whole-cell patch-clamp, as well as specific Ca(2+) channel inhibitors, we demonstrate that GSK-3beta phosphorylates the intracellular loop-connecting domains II and III (L(II-III)) of P/Q-type Ca(2+) channels, which leads to a decrease of intracellular Ca(2+) rise through the P/Q-type voltage-dependent calcium channel. To further illustrate the mechanisms of GSK-3beta's action, we show that activation of GSK-3beta interferes with the formation of the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein (SNAP) receptor (SNARE) complex through: (1) weakening the association of synaptobrevin with SNAP25 and syntaxin; (2) reducing the interactions among the phosphorylated L(II-III) and synaptotagmin, SNAP25, and syntaxin; and (3) inhibiting dissociation of synaptobrevin from synaptophysin I. These results indicate that GSK-3beta negatively regulates synaptic vesicle fusion events via interfering with Ca(2+)-dependent SNARE complex formation.
The mammalian CNS contains an abundant, widely distributed population of glial cells that serve as oligodendrocyte progenitors. It has been reported that these NG2-immunoreactive cells (NG2(+) cells) form synapses and generate action potentials, suggesting that neural-evoked excitation of these progenitors may regulate oligodendrogenesis. However, recent studies also suggest that NG2(+) cells are comprised of functionally distinct groups that differ in their ability to respond to neuronal activity, undergo differentiation, and experience injury following ischemia. To better define the physiological properties of NG2(+) cells, we used transgenic mice that allowed an unbiased sampling of this population and unambiguous identification of cells in discrete states of differentiation. Using acute brain slices prepared from developing and mature mice, we found that NG2(+) cells in diverse brain regions share a core set of physiological properties, including expression of voltage-gated Na(+) (NaV) channels and ionotropic glutamate receptors, and formation of synapses with glutamatergic neurons. Although small amplitude Na(+) spikes could be elicited in some NG2(+) cells during the first postnatal week, they were not capable of generating action potentials. Transition of these progenitors to the premyelinating stage was accompanied by the rapid removal of synaptic input, as well as downregulation of AMPA and NMDA receptors and NaV channels. Thus, prior reports of physiological heterogeneity among NG2(+) cells may reflect analysis of cells in later stages of maturation. These results suggest that NG2(+) cells are uniquely positioned within the oligodendrocyte lineage to monitor the firing patterns of surrounding neurons.
The recent development of cognitive neuroscience has invited inference about the neurosensory events underlying the experience of visual arts involving implied motion. We report functional magnetic resonance imaging study demonstrating activation of the human extrastriate motion-sensitive cortex by static images showing implied motion because of instability. We used static line-drawing cartoons of humans by Hokusai Katsushika (called 'Hokusai Manga'), an outstanding Japanese cartoonist as well as famous Ukiyoe artist. We found 'Hokusai Manga' with implied motion by depicting human bodies that are engaged in challenging tonic posture significantly activated the motion-sensitive visual cortex including MT+ in the human extrastriate cortex, while an illustration that does not imply motion, for either humans or objects, did not activate these areas under the same tasks. We conclude that motion-sensitive extrastriate cortex would be a critical region for perception of implied motion in instability.
Experiments were carried out in the retina of the tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum) to evaluate the importance of D-serine synthesis on light-evoked N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated components of ganglion cells and contributions to the proximal negative field potential. We blocked the synthesis of D-serine through brief exposures of the retina to phenazine ethosulfate and validated the changes in the tissue levels of D-serine using capillary electrophoresis methods to separate and measure the amino acid enantiomers. Ten minute exposures to phenazine ethosulfate decreased D-serine levels in the retina by about 50% and significantly reduced the NMDA receptor contribution to light responses of the inner retina. This is the first report of a linkage between D-serine synthesis and NMDA receptor activity in the vertebrate retina.
Degeneration of the noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus (LC) is a major component of Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), but the consequence of noradrenergic neuronal loss has different effects on the surviving neurons in the two disorders. Therefore, understanding the consequence of noradrenergic neuronal loss is important in determining the role of this neurotransmitter in these neurodegenerative disorders. The goal of the study was to determine if the neurotoxin N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP4) could be used as a model for either (or both) AD or PD. Rats were administered DSP4 and sacrificed 3 days 2 weeks and 3 months later. DSP4-treatment resulted in a rapid, though transient reduction in norepinephrine (NE) and NE transporter (NET) in many brain regions receiving variable innervation from the LC. Alpha(1)-adrenoreceptors binding site concentrations were unchanged in all brain regions at all three time points. However, an increase in alpha(2)-AR was observed in many different brain regions 2 weeks and 3 months after DSP4. These changes observed in forebrain regions occurred without a loss in LC noradrenergic neurons. Expression of synthesizing enzymes or NET did not change in amount of expression/neuron despite the reduction in NE tissue content and NET binding site concentrations at early time points, suggesting no compensatory response. In addition, DSP4 did not affect basal activity of LC at any time point in anesthetized animals, but 2 weeks after DSP4 there is a significant increase in irregular firing of noradrenergic neurons. These data indicate that DSP4 is not a selective LC noradrenergic neurotoxin, but does affect noradrenergic neuron terminals locally, as evident by the changes in transmitter and markers at terminal regions. However, since DSP4 did not result in a loss of noradrenergic neurons, it is not considered an adequate model for noradrenergic neuronal loss observed in AD and PD.
The mechanisms underlying diabetic encephalopathy, are largely unknown. Here, we examined whether docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and lutein could attenuate the oxidative changes of the diabetic cerebral cortex. The levels of malondialdehyde (MDA) were significantly increased and glutathione (GSH) and glutathione peroxidase activity (GPx) were decreased in diabetic rats. The number of 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) positive cells was increased. Treatment with insulin, lutein or DHA and the combination of each antioxidant with insulin, significantly restored all markers concentrations mentioned above, and the increase in 4-HNE inmunofluorescence. We combined 4-HNE immunofluorescence with NeuN (Neuronal Nuclei) staining. The latter demonstrated extensive overlap with the 4-HNE staining in the cortex from diabetic rats. Our findings demonstrate a clear participation of glucose-induced oxidative stress in the diabetic encephalopathy, and that the cells suffering oxidative stress are neurons. Lowering oxidative stress through the administration of different antioxidants may be beneficial for the central nervous tissue in diabetes.
Microglial activation has been implicated as one of the causative factors for neuroinflammation in various neurodegenerative diseases. The sphingolipid metabolic pathway plays an important role in inflammation, cell proliferation, survival, chemotaxis, and immunity in peripheral macrophages. In this study, we demonstrate that sphingosine kinase1 (SphK1), a key enzyme of the sphingolipid metabolic pathway, and its receptors are expressed in the mouse BV2 microglial cells and SphK1 alters the expression and production of proinflammatory cytokines and nitric oxide in microglia treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). LPS treatment increased the SphK1 mRNA and protein expression in microglia as revealed by the RT-PCR, Western blot and immunofluorescence. Suppression of SphK1 by its inhibitor, N, N Dimethylsphingosine (DMS), or siRNA resulted in decreased mRNA expression of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, and iNOS and release of TNF-alpha and nitric oxide (NO) in LPS-activated microglia. Moreover, addition of sphingosine 1 phosphate (S1P), a breakdown product of sphingolipid metabolism, increased the expression levels of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta and iNOS and production of TNF-alpha and NO in activated microglia. Hence to summarize, suppression of SphK1 in activated microglia inhibits the production of proinflammatory cytokines and NO and the addition of exogenous S1P to activated microglia enhances their inflammatory responses. Since the chronic proinflammatory cytokine production by microglia has been implicated in neuroinflammation, modulation of SphK1 and S1P in microglia could be looked upon as a future potential therapeutic method in the control of neuroinflammation in neurodegenerative diseases.
Response inhibition is a basic executive function which is dysfunctional in various basal ganglia diseases. The brain-derived-neurotrophic-factor (BDNF) plays an important pathophysiological role in these diseases. In the current study we examined the functional relevance of the BDNF val66met polymorphism for response inhibition processes in 57 healthy human subjects using event-related potentials (ERPs), i.e. the Nogo-N2 and Nogo-P3, which likely reflect different aspects of inhibition. Our results support the pre-motor inhibition theory of the Nogo-N2. We show that the BDNF val66met polymorphism selectively modulates the Nogo-N2. Response inhibition was better in the val/met-met/met group, since this group committed fewer false alarms, and their Nogo-N2 was larger, compared to the val/val group. This is the first study showing that met alleles of the BDNF val66met polymorphism confer an advantage for a specific cognitive function. We propose a neuronal model how this advantage gets manifest on a neuronal level.
Mice provide a highly valuable resource for investigating learning and memory processes; however, many of the established tasks for evaluating learning and memory were developed for rats. Behaviors of mice in these tasks appear to be driven by different motivational factors, and as a result, they often do not perform reliably on tasks involving rewards traditionally used for rats. Because of difficulties in measuring learning and memory in mice as well as the need to have a task that can reliably measure these behavioral processes, we have developed a mouse version of the Stone T-maze utilizing what appears to be the primary motivation of mice, escape to a safe location. Specifically, we have constructed a task that requires the mouse to wade through water to reach a dark and dry goal box. To escape this aversive environment, the Stone T-maze requires learning the correct sequence of 13 left and right turns to reach the goal box. Through a series of experiments examining a variety of protocols, it was found that mice will reliably perform this task. This task can be used to assess learning and memory without the potential performance confounds that can affect performance of mice in other tasks. We believe this task offers a valuable new tool for evaluating learning and memory in mice not previously available to researchers.
Adult neurogenesis occurs in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus, where primary neuronal progenitors that express glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) develop into granule neurons. Here, we used transgenic mice with mouse GFAP promoter-controlled enhanced green fluorescent protein (mGFAP-EGFP Tg mice) to examine how astrocyte-like progenitors differentiate into neuron-committed progenitors. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) analysis indicated that proliferating cells in the neurogenic SGZ transiently expressed EGFP and GFAP, and finally differentiated into cells positive for the neuronal marker, Hu (Hu+). Most proliferating EGFP+ cells showed expression of the stem cell marker, Sox2, and formed clusters of two to four cells containing GFAP+/EGFP+ and GFAP-/EGFP+ cells. No GFAP-/EGFP+ cells were detected in non-neurogenic regions, such as CA1 and CA3 of the pyramidal cell layer. Together with the assumption that exogeneous EGFP has a higher stability than that of endogenous GFAP in the degradation process, it is highly probable that the GFAP-/EGFP+ cells were daughter cells or immediate progeny derived from GFAP+/EGFP+ cells. The subpopulation of proliferating GFAP+/EGFP+ cells expressed proneural protein Mash1 and neuronal marker Hu, while the proliferating GFAP-/EGFP+ cells expressed additional immature neuronal markers, such as polysialic acid-neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) and doublecortin. Therefore, these results suggest that through a few cell divisions, GFAP+ progenitors give rise to neuronal progenitors via neuron-committed early intermediate progenitors that express both GFAP and Hu (and/or Mash1). The findings of the present study also indicated that mGFAP-EGFP Tg mice are useful animals for identifying the daughter cells or immediate progeny derived from GFAP+ neural progenitors.
The recent molecular cloning of membrane receptors for progesterone (mPRs) has tremendous implications for understanding the multiple actions of the hormone in the nervous system. The three isoforms which have been cloned from several species, mPRalpha, mPRbeta and mPRgamma, have seven-transmembrane domains, are G protein-coupled and may thus account for the rapid modulation of many intracellular signaling cascades by progesterone. However, in order to elucidate the precise functions of mPRs within the nervous system it is first necessary to determine their expression patterns and also to develop new pharmacological and molecular tools. The aim of the present study was to profile mPR expression in the mouse spinal cord, where progesterone has been shown to exert pleiotropic actions on neurons and glial cells, and where the hormone can also be locally synthesized. Our results show a wide distribution of mPRalpha, which is expressed in most neurons, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and also in a large proportion of NG2(+) progenitor cells. This mPR isoform is thus likely to play a major role in the neuroprotective and promyelinating effects of progesterone. On the contrary, mPRbeta showed a more restricted distribution, and was mainly present in ventral horn motoneurons and in neurites, consistent with an important role in neuronal transmission and plasticity. Interestingly, mPRbeta was not present in glial cells. These observations suggest that the two mPR isoforms mediate distinct and specific functions of progesterone in the spinal cord. A significant observation was their very stable expression, which was similar in both sexes and not influenced by the presence or absence of the classical progesterone receptors. Although mPRgamma mRNA could be detected in spinal cord tissue by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), in situ hybridization analysis did not allow us to verify and to map its presence, probably due to its relatively low expression. The present study is the first precise map of the regional and cellular distribution of mPR expression in the nervous system, a prior requirement for in vivo molecular and pharmacological strategies aimed to elucidate their precise functions. It thus represents a first important step towards a new understanding of progesterone actions in the nervous system within a precise neuroanatomical context.
Recent clinical studies have shown that the insular cortex (IC) is involved in temporal lobe epilepsy and suggested that the IC mediates spreading of epileptic activity from the temporal lobe, including the hippocampus and amygdala, to the frontal cortex. However, little is known about anatomical and physiological features of the IC in models of temporal lobe epilepsy. The present study evaluated the distribution pattern of GABAergic interneurons, especially parvalbumin (PV)- and somatostatin (SS)-immunopositive neurons, and excitatory propagation pattern in the IC of rats 4-7 days and 2 months after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (4-7 d and 2 m post-SE rats, respectively). The number of PV-immunopositive neuron profiles in the agranular IC (AI) significantly decreased by 24.6% and 41.5% in 7 d and 2 m post-SE rats, respectively. The dysgranular and granular IC (DI+GI) exhibited only 5.2% loss of PV-immunopositive neurons in 7 d post-SE rats, while 2 m post-SE rats showed 30.4% loss of PV-immunopositive neurons. There was no significant change of the SS-immunopositive neuron profile numbers in the AI and DI+GI of 7 d and 2 m post-SE rats. The regions with decreased numbers of PV-immunopositive neuron profiles overlapped with those where many degenerating cells were detected by Fluoro-Jade B staining. The area of excitatory propagation responding to electrical stimulation of the caudal AI was expanded in 4-7 d post-SE rats, and excitation frequently propagated to the frontal cortex including the motor cortex. Optical signals in the AI of 4-7 d post-SE rats were larger in amplitude than those of controls. In contrast to the AI, the DI of 4-7 d post-SE rats showed similar excitatory propagation pattern and amplitude to that of controls. These results suggest that the region-specific loss of PV-immunopositive neurons occurred in the AI 4-7 d after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus, which may play an important role in facilitating excitatory propagation in the IC.
Axon degeneration is an early event in many neurodegenerative disorders. In some, the mechanism is related to injury-induced Wallerian degeneration, a proactive death program that can be strongly delayed by the neuroprotective slow Wallerian degeneration protein (Wld(S)) protein. Thus, it is important to understand the Wallerian degeneration mechanism and how Wld(S) blocks it. Wld(S) location is influenced by binding to valosin-containing protein (VCP), an essential protein for many cellular processes including membrane fusion and endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation. In mice, the N-terminal 16 amino acids (N16), which mediate VCP binding, are essential for Wld(S) to protect axons, a role which another VCP binding sequence can substitute. In Drosophila, the Wld(S) phenotype is weakened by a similar N-terminal truncation and by knocking down the VCP homologue ter94. Neither null nor floxed VCP mice are viable so it is difficult to confirm the requirement for VCP binding in mammals in vivo. However, the hypothesis can be tested further by introducing a Wld(S) missense mutation, altering its affinity for VCP but minimizing the risk of disturbing other aspects of its structure or function. We introduced the R10A mutation, which weakens VCP binding in vitro, and expressed it in transgenic mice. R10AWld(S) fails to co-immunoprecipitate VCP from mouse brain, and only occasionally and faintly accumulates in nuclear foci for which VCP binding is necessary but not sufficient. Surprisingly however, axon protection remains robust and indistinguishable from that in spontaneous Wld(S) mice. We suggest that either N16 has an additional, VCP-independent function in mammals, or that the phenotype requires only weak VCP binding which may be driven forwards in vivo by the high VCP concentration.
Long-term implications of the exposure to traumatizing experiences during childhood or adolescence, such as sexual abuse, or cancer, have been documented, namely the subjects' response to an acute stress in adulthood. Several indicators of the stress response have been considered (e.g. cortisol, heart rate). Oxytocin (OT) response to an acute stress of individuals exposed to trauma has not been documented. Eighty subjects (n=26 women who had experienced episodes of child abuse, n=25 men and women healthy survivors of cancer in childhood or adolescence, and 29 controls) have been submitted to a laboratory session involving an experimental stress challenge, the Trier social stress test. Overall, there was a clear OT response to the psychosocial challenge. Subjects having experienced a childhood/adolescence life-threatening illness had higher mean levels of OT than both abused and control subjects. There was a moderate negative relationship between OT and salivary cortisol. It is suggested that an acute stress stimulates OT secretion, and that the exposure to enduring life-threatening experiences in childhood/adolescence has long-lasting consequences regarding the stress system and connected functions, namely the activation of OT secretion. Better knowledge of such long-term implications is important so that to prevent dysregulations of the stress responses, which have been shown to be associated to the individual's mental health.
Hypoxia-ischemia is a significant cause of brain damage in the human newborn and can result in long-term neurodevelopmental disability. The loss of oxygen and glucose supply to the developing brain leads to excitotoxic neuronal cell damage and death; such over-excitation of nerve cells can also manifest as seizures. The newborn brain is highly susceptible to seizures although it is unclear what role they have in hypoxic-ischemic (H/I) injury. The aim of this study was to determine an association between seizures and severity of brain injury in a piglet model of perinatal H/I and, whether injury severity was related to type of seizure, i.e. sub-clinical (electrographic seizures only) or clinical (electrographic seizures+physical signs). Hypoxia (4% O(2)) was induced in anaesthetised newborn piglets for 30 min with a final 10 min period of hypotension; animals were recovered and survived to 72 h. Animals were monitored daily for seizures both visually and with electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings. Brain injury was assessed with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), (1)H-MR spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS), EEG and by histology (haematoxylin and eosin). EEG seizures were observed in 75% of all H/I animals, 46% displayed clinical seizures and 29% sub-clinical seizures. Seizure animals showed significantly lower background amplitude EEG across all post-insult days. Presence of seizures was associated with lower cortical apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) scores and changes in (1)H-MRS metabolite ratios at both 24 and 72 h post-insult. On post-mortem examination animals with seizures showed the greatest degree of neuropathological injury compared to animals without seizures. Furthermore, clinical seizure animals had significantly greater histological injury compared with sub-clinical seizure animals; this difference was not apparent on MRI or (1)H-MRS measures. In conclusion we report that both sub-clinical and clinical seizures are associated with increased severity of H/I injury in a term model of neonatal H/I.
The present study investigated the involvement of 5-HT(1A) receptors in the inhibitory effect of single administration of cocaine (COC, 15 mg/kg i.p.) on the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in slices of rat dentate gyrus (DG), prepared 30 min and 2 days after COC administration. These effects of COC were blocked by an antagonist of 5-HT(1A) receptors, WAY 100635 (0.4 mg/kg i.p.), which had been administered 20 min before COC. The detrimental effect of COC on LTP in slices prepared 30 min after COC administration could be prevented by blocking glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) using mifepristone (RU 38486, 10 mg/kg s.c. given 1 h before COC), similar as in slices obtained 2 days after COC as reported previously [Makowiak et al. (2008) Eur J Neurosci 27:2928-2937]. After a single administration of an agonist of 5-HT(1A) receptors, 8-OH-DPAT, (0.5 mg/kg i.p.), the level of LTP in slices prepared 2 days later was significantly decreased resembling the effect of COC. This effect of 8-OH-DPAT was antagonized by WAY 100635 (0.4 mg/kg i.p.), administered 20 min before 8-OH-DPAT and by RU 38486, given 1 h before 8-OH-DPAT. COC-induced inhibition of LTP could be blocked by the inhibitor of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1/2 (MEK1/2), SL 327 (50 mg/kg i.p.), administered 1 h before COC, but not by the inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase), LY 294002 (80 mg/kg i.p.). COC-induced reduction in the number of polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM)-positive neurons in rat dentate gyrus could also be prevented by WAY 100635, given 20 min before COC. These data indicate that the indirect 5-HT(1A) receptor activation by a single COC administration and subsequent stimulation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK 1/2) signaling pathway result in a decrease of the potential for long-term increase in synaptic efficacy in rat DG lasting at least two but less than 7 days, most likely via activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis.
The cerebellum of mammals is an essential component of the neural circuitry underlying classical conditioning of eyeblink and other discrete responses. Although the neuroanatomical organization of the cerebellum is notably well conserved in vertebrates, little is actually known about the cerebellar learning functions in nonmammal vertebrate groups. In this work we studied whether the cerebellum of teleost fish plays a critical role in the classical conditioning of a motor response. In Experiment 1, we classically conditioned goldfish in a procedure analogous to the eyeblink conditioning paradigm commonly used in mammals. Goldfish were able to learn to express an eyeblink-like conditioned response to a predictive light (conditioned stimulus) that was paired with a mild electric shock (unconditioned stimulus). The application of unpaired and extinction control procedures demonstrated that also in teleosts the learning of this motor response depends on associative rules. In Experiment 2 we studied whether classical conditioning of this response is critically dependent on the cerebellum and independent of telencephalic structures as occurs in mammals. Cerebellum lesion prevented the acquisition of the eyeblink-like conditioned response whereas telencephalon ablation did not impair the learning of this response. No deficit was observed following lesions in the performance of the unconditioned response or in the percentage of spontaneous responses. These results suggest that cerebellum ablation in goldfish affects a critical component of the circuitry necessary for the acquisition of the conditioned response but does not interfere with the ability of the animal to perform the response itself. The striking similarity in the role of cerebellum in classical conditioning of a motor response between teleost fish and mammals suggests that this learning function of the cerebellum could be a primitive feature of the vertebrate brain that has been conserved through evolution.
In inflamed tissues, extracellular pH decreases and acidosis is an important source of pain. Histamine is released from mast cells under inflammatory conditions and evokes the pain sensation in vivo, but the cellular mechanism of histamine-induced pain has not been well understood. In the present study, we examined the effects of histamine on [Ca(2+)](i) and membrane potential responses to acid in isolated mouse dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. In capsaicin-sensitive DRG neurons from wild-type mice, acid (&gt;pH 5.0) evoked [Ca(2+)](i) increases, but not in DRG neurons from transient receptor potential V1 (TRPV1) (-/-) mice. Regardless of isolectin GS-IB4 (IB4)-staining, histamine potentiated [Ca(2+)](i) responses to acid (&gt;or=pH 6.0) that were mediated by TRPV1 activation. Histamine increased membrane depolarization induced by acid and evoked spike discharges. RT-PCR indicated the expression of all four histamine receptors (H1R, H2R, H3R, H4R) in mouse DRG. The potentiating effect of histamine was mimicked by an H1R agonist, but not H2R-H4R agonists and was inhibited only by an H1R antagonist. Histamine failed to potentiate the [Ca(2+)](i) response to acid in the presence of inhibitors for phospholipase C (PLC) and protein kinase C (PKC). A lipoxygenase inhibitor and protein kinase A inhibitor did not affect the potentiating effects of histamine. Carrageenan and complete Freund's adjuvant produced inflammatory hyperalgesia, but these inflammatory conditions did not change the potentiating effects of histamine in DRG neurons. The present results suggest that histamine sensitizes acid-induced responses through TRPV1 activation via H1R coupled with PLC/PKC pathways, the action of which may be involved in the generation of inflammatory pain.
Peripheral nerve injury causes a variety of alterations in pain-related gene expression in primary afferent, which underlie the neuronal plasticity in neuropathic pain. One of the characteristic alterations is a long-lasting downregulation of voltage-gated potassium (K(v)) channel, including K(v)4.3, in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG). The present study showed that nerve injury reduces the messenger RNA (mRNA) expression level of K(v)4.3 gene, which contains a conserved neuron-restrictive silencer element (NRSE), a binding site for neuron-restrictive silencer factor (NRSF). Moreover, we found that injury causes an increase in direct NRSF binding to K(v)4.3-NRSE in the DRG, using chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay. ChIP assay further revealed that acetylation of histone H4, but not H3, at K(v)4.3-NRSE is markedly reduced at day 7 post-injury. Finally, the injury-induced K(v)4.3 downregulation was significantly blocked by antisense-knockdown of NRSF. Taken together, these data suggest that nerve injury causes an epigenetic silencing of K(v)4.3 gene mediated through transcriptional suppressor NRSF in the DRG.
Rodents exhibit aversive behavior toward a diet that lacks at least one of the essential amino acids. We sought to determine whether the particular form of anorexia caused by such diets could be ameliorated by the administration of orexigenic peptides while simultaneously analyzing the neural mechanisms underlying anorexia. Rats were fed a valine-deficient diet, which induced severe anorexia (reducing food consumption by 80%). The severe anorexia was associated with a significant decrease in the cerebrospinal fluid valine concentration and hyper-ghrelinemia. Between 6 and 12 days after initiation of the valine-deficient diet, we injected rats twice daily with valine and/or an orexigenic peptide (ghrelin, neuropeptide Y, or agouti-related protein) either i.p. or i.c.v.. We then measured dietary intake. An i.c.v. valine injection allowed earlier food intake compared with an i.p valine injection and increased the density of c-Fos-positive ependymal cells lining the third ventricle. Whereas an i.c.v. injection of ghrelin or neuropeptide Y increased consumption of the valine-deficient diet, i.p injection of ghrelin or i.c.v. injection of agouti-related protein did not. Following i.c.v. administration of either valine or ghrelin, we did not observe complete recovery of consumption of the valine-deficient diet. This may be due to the ineffectiveness of peripheral ghrelin and central agouti-related protein and/or to conditioned aversion to the valine-deficient diet. Since ghrelin is known to be involved in food anticipatory activities, whether the hyper-ghrelinemia observed in valine-deficient rats play role in foraging behavior other than food intake is the future study to be investigated.
Rats receiving a complete spinal cord transection (ST) at a neonatal stage spontaneously can recover significant stepping ability, whereas minimal recovery is attained in rats transected as adults. In addition, neonatally spinal cord transected rats trained to step more readily improve their locomotor ability. We hypothesized that recovery of stepping in rats receiving a complete spinal cord transection at postnatal day 5 (P5) is attributable to changes in the lumbosacral neural circuitry and not to regeneration of axons across the lesion. As expected, stepping performance measured by several kinematics parameters was significantly better in ST (at P5) trained (treadmill stepping for 8 weeks) than age-matched non-trained spinal rats. Anterograde tracing with biotinylated dextran amine showed an absence of labeling of corticospinal or rubrospinal tract axons below the transection. Retrograde tracing with Fast Blue from the spinal cord below the transection showed no labeled neurons in the somatosensory motor cortex of the hindlimb area, red nucleus, spinal vestibular nucleus, and medullary reticular nucleus. Retrograde labeling transsynaptically via injection of pseudorabies virus (Bartha) into the soleus and tibialis anterior muscles showed no labeling in the same brain nuclei. Furthermore, re-transection of the spinal cord at or rostral to the original transection did not affect stepping ability. Combined, these results clearly indicate that there was no regeneration across the lesion after a complete spinal cord transection in neonatal rats and suggest that this is an important model to understand the higher level of locomotor recovery in rats attributable to lumbosacral mechanisms after receiving a complete ST at a neonatal compared to an adult stage.
The NG2 proteoglycan has been shown to promote proliferation and motility in a variety of cell types. The presence of NG2 on oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) suggests that the proteoglycan may be a factor in expansion of the OPC pool to fill the entire CNS prior to OPC differentiation to form myelinating oligodendrocytes. Comparisons of postnatal cerebellar myelination in wild type and NG2 null mice reveal reduced numbers of OPCs in developing white matter of the NG2 null mouse. Quantification of BrdU incorporation shows that reduced proliferation is a key reason for this OPC shortage, with the peak of OPC proliferation delayed by 4-5 days in the absence of NG2. As a result of the subnormal pool of OPCs, there is also a delay in production of mature oligodendrocytes and myelinating processes in the NG2 null cerebellum. NG2 may promote OPC proliferation via enhancement of growth factor signaling or mediation of OPC interaction with unmyelinated axons.
A conditioning lesion improves regeneration of central and peripheral axons of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons after a subsequent injury by enhancing intrinsic growth capacity. This enhanced growth state is also observed in cultured DRG neurons, which support a more sparsely and rapidly elongating mode of growth after a prior conditioning lesion in vivo. Here we examined differences in the capacity or requirements of specific types of sensory neurons for regenerative growth, which has important consequences for development of strategies to improve recovery after injury. We showed that after partial or complete injury of the sciatic nerve in mice, an elongating mode of growth in vitro was activated only in DRG neurons that did not express calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) or bind Bandeiraea simplicifolia I-isolectin B4 (IB4). We also directly examined the response of conditioned sensory neurons to nerve growth factor (NGF), which does not enhance growth in injured peripheral nerves in vivo. We showed that after partial injury, NGF stimulated a highly branched and linearly restricted rather than elongating mode of growth. After complete injury, the function of NGF was impaired, which immunohistochemical studies of DRG indicated was at least partly due to downregulation of the NGF receptor, tropomyosin-related kinase A (TrkA). These results suggest that, regardless of the type of conditioning lesion, each type of DRG neuron has a distinct intrinsic capacity or requirement for the activation of rapidly elongating growth, which does not appear to be influenced by NGF.
The contribution of endogenous nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) to neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism has been evaluated in haloperidol-treated mice. Pharmacological blockade of N/OFQ receptors (NOP) via systemic administration of 1-[(3R,4R)-1-cyclooctylmethyl-3-hydroxymethyl-4-piperidyl]-3-ethyl-1,3-dihydro-2H benzimidazol-2-one (J-113397, 0.01-10 mg/kg i.p.) or central injection of [Nphe(1),Arg(14),Lys(15)]N/OFQ-NH(2) (UFP-101, 10 nmol i.c.v.) attenuated (0.8 mg/kg) haloperidol-induced motor deficits as evaluated by a battery of behavioral tests providing complementary information on motor parameters: the bar, drag and rotarod tests. A combined neurochemical and behavioral approach was then used to investigate whether the substantia nigra reticulata could be involved in antiakinetic actions of J-113397. Microdialysis combined to the bar test revealed that haloperidol (0.3 and 0.8 mg/kg i.p.) caused a dose-dependent and prolonged elevation of immobility time (i.e. akinesia) which was associated with an increase in nigral glutamate and a reduction in GABA release. Conversely, J-113397 (1 mg/kg) alone reduced glutamate and elevated nigral GABA release, and when challenged against haloperidol, counteracted its behavioral and neurochemical effects. Microdialysis coupled to behavioral testing also demonstrated that NOP receptor knockout mice were resistant to haloperidol (0.3 mg/kg) compared to wild-type mice, lack of response being associated with a reversal of glutamate release facilitation into inhibition and no change in nigral GABA release. This study provides pharmacological and genetic evidence that endogenous N/OFQ contributes to haloperidol-induced akinesia and changes of amino acid transmission in mice. Moreover, it confirms the view that NOP receptor antagonists are capable of reversing akinesia across species and genotypes and may prove effective in relieving neuroleptic-induced parkinsonism.
Multiple subtypes of protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes are implicated in various neurological disorders including alcohol insensitivity, a trait strongly associated with alcoholism in humans, but molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the PKC activities remain poorly understood. Here we show that functional knockdown of conventional, novel or atypical PKC in the fly nervous system each resulted in alcohol insensitivity. Neuroanatomical mapping of conventional Ca(2+)-sensitive PKC53E activity uncovers a previously uncharacterized role of Drosophila serotonin neurons in alcohol sensitivity. The deficiency of PKC53E but not novel Ca(2+)-independent PKC98E appears to reduce synaptic serotonin levels, since acute inhibition of serotonin reuptake by citalopram and Prozac reversed alcohol insensitivity in flies expressing PKC53E double-stranded RNA in serotonin neurons. Together, findings from this and our previous studies indicate that PKC53E and PKC98E differentially regulate fly alcohol sensitivity through independent modulation of conserved serotonin and neuropeptide Y-like systems.
Valproic acid (VPA) is widely used clinically, as an anticonvulsant and mood stabilizer but is, however, also known to block cell proliferation through its ability to inhibit histone deacetylase enzymes. There have been a number of reports of cognitive impairments in patients taking VPA. In this investigation we examined the relationship between cognition and changes in cell proliferation within the hippocampus, a brain region where continued formation of new neurons is associated with learning and memory. Treatment of rats by i.p. injection of VPA, reduced cell proliferation in the sub granular zone of the dentate gyrus within the hippocampus. This was linked to a significant impairment in their ability to perform a hippocampus-dependent spatial memory test (novel object location). In addition, drug treatment caused a significant reduction in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and Notch 1 but not doublecortin levels within the hippocampus. These results support the idea that VPA may cause cognitive impairment and provide a possible mechanism for this by reducing neurogenesis within the hippocampus.
Sodium channel alpha subunit genes expressed in the human brain, SCN1A, SCN2A, SCN3A and SCN8A, are subject to alternative splicing of coding exons 5N and 5A. In this study we examined expression of alpha subunit mRNA and exon 5 splicing in the developing mouse brain. Expression levels of Scn1a, Scn2a and Scn8a mRNAs increase postnatally, whereas Scn3a mRNA expression levels decrease. Scn1a mRNA contains only exon 5A, due to the absence of exon 5N in the mouse Scn1a gene. At birth, Scn2a is the only sodium channel alpha subunit mRNA that contains higher or equal amounts of the 5N isoform compared to the 5A isoform in most brain regions. In contrast, the predominant isoform of Scn3a and Scn8a mRNAs in the newborn mouse brain is 5A. 5N/5A ratios for each of the three mRNAs vary across brain regions, with cortex &gt;or= hippocampus&gt;thalamus&gt;cerebellum. In all brain regions and for all three alpha subunits, 5N/5A ratios gradually decrease with age, levelling at a value between 0.1 and 0.2. These findings suggest potential involvement of common factors in the alternative splicing of exon 5 for all three transcripts, and that expression of these factors varies between brain regions and changes during development. Differences in the strength of exon 5N and/or exon 5A splice sites in Scn2a pre-mRNA as compared to Scn1a and Scn8a may underlie the observed differences in 5N/5A ratios in the three alpha subunit mRNAs.
Glutamate AMPA receptors are critical for sensory transmission at the spinal cord dorsal horn (DH). Plasma membrane AMPA receptor endocytosis that can be induced by insulin may underlie long term modulation of synaptic transmission. Insulin receptors (IRs) are known to be expressed on spinal cord DH neurons, but their possible role in sensory transmission has not been studied. In this work the effect of insulin application on fast excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) mediated by AMPA receptors evoked in DH neurons was evaluated. Acute spinal cord slices from 6 to 10 day old mice were used to record EPSCs evoked in visually identified superficial DH neurons by dorsal root primary afferent stimulation. AMPA EPSCs could be evoked in all of the tested neurons. In 75% of the neurons the size of the AMPA EPSCs was reduced to 62.1% and to 68.9% of the control values when 0.5 or 10 microM insulin was applied. There was no significant change in the size of the AMPA EPSCs in the remaining 25% of DH neurons. The membrane permeable protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor, lavendustin A (10 microM), prevented the insulin induced AMPA EPSC depression. Our results suggest a possible role of the insulin pathway in modulation of sensory and nociceptive synaptic transmission in the spinal cord.
We have shown that auditory cortex projects to cholinergic cells in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPT) and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDT). PPT and LDT are the sources of cholinergic projections to the inferior colliculus, but it is not known if the cortical inputs contact the cholinergic cells that project to the inferior colliculus. We injected FluoroRuby into auditory cortex in pigmented guinea pigs to label cortical projections to PPT and LDT. In the same animals, we injected Fast Blue into the left or right inferior colliculus to label PPT and LDT cells that project to the inferior colliculus. We processed the brain to identify cholinergic cells with an antibody to choline acetyltransferase, which was visualized with a green fluorescent marker distinguishable from both FluoroRuby and Fast Blue. We then examined the PPT and LDT to determine whether boutons of FluoroRuby-labeled cortical axons were in close contact with cells that were double-labeled with the retrograde tracer and the immunolabel. Apparent contacts were observed ipsilateral and, less often, contralateral to the injected cortex. On both sides, the contacts were more numerous in PPT than in LDT. The results indicate that auditory cortex projects directly to brainstem cholinergic cells that innervate the ipsilateral or contralateral inferior colliculus. This suggests that cortical projections could elicit cholinergic effects on both sides of the auditory midbrain.
Since caloric restriction (CR) can modify multiple pathways central to the ischemic cascade and enhance neuroplasticity mechanisms, we hypothesized that CR should exert protective effects following brain ischemia. Previous studies have suggested benefit when CR was administered prior to ischemia. We investigated whether prolonged CR beginning after global ischemia would result in lasting protection as assessed by performance in the open field, as a measure of functional outcome, and hippocampal CA1 neuronal counts. Adult, male Mongolian gerbils were subjected to 5 min bilateral carotid artery occlusion (ISCH) or sham surgery (SHAM) with tympanic temperature maintained at 36.5+/-0.2 degrees C during the intra-ischemic period. After screening out gerbils with incomplete ischemia, each of the two surgical groups were randomly assigned to control diet (CON) or 30% CR for the duration of the study (60 d). Gerbils were tested in the open field on d3, 7, 10, 30 and 60. ISCH-CON animals showed a significantly higher level of activity in the open field (impaired habituation) compared to SHAM-CON gerbils on all test days (P&lt;0.001). Open field activity was significantly lower in the ISCH-CR group than in ISCH-CON gerbils only on d7 (P=0.024). Open field activity of the SHAM-CR gerbils showed a trend to increase relative to that of SHAM-CON gerbils during the last 30 d of the study (P=0.055 on d60), raising the question of suitability of the open field test for long-term studies of CR and ischemia. Brain sections obtained at d60 were stained with hematoxylin and eosin. Hippocampal CA1 neuron counts were significantly reduced by ischemia (P&lt;0.001), and there was no sparing effect of CR. Our findings suggest that prolonged 30% CR administered beginning after global ischemia cannot diminish brain injury or enhance long-term recovery.
Angiogenesis and blood-brain-barrier (BBB) damage have been proposed to contribute to epileptogenesis and/or ictogenesis in experimental and human epilepsy. We tested a hypothesis that after brain injury angiogenesis occurs in the most damaged hippocampal areas with the highest need of tissue repair, and associates with formation of epileptogenic neuronal networks. We induced status epilepticus (SE) with pilocarpine in adult rats, and investigated endothelial cell proliferation (BrdU and rat endothelial cell antigen-1 (RECA-1) double-labeling), vessel length (unbiased stereology), thrombocyte aggregation (thrombocyte immunostaining), neurodegeneration (Nissl staining), neurogenesis (doublecortin (DCX) immunohistochemistry), and mossy fiber sprouting (Timm staining) in the hippocampus at different time points post-SE. As functional measures we determined BBB leakage (quantified immunoglobulin G (IgG) immunostaining), and hippocampal blood volume (CBV) and flow (CBF) in vivo (magnetic resonance imaging, MRI). The total length of hippocampal blood vessels was decreased by 17% at 2 d after status epilepticus (SE) induced by pilocarpine in adult rats (P&lt;0.05 as compared to controls) which was not accompanied by alterations in hippocampal blood volume (BV) and flow (BF). Number of proliferating endothelial cells peaked at 4 d post-SE and correlated with an increase in vessel length (r=0.900, P&lt;0.05). Vessels length had recovered to control level or even higher at 2 wk post-SE, angiogenesis being most prominent in the CA3 (128% as compared to that in controls, P&lt;0.05), and was associated with increased BV (178% as compared to that in controls, P&lt;0.05). Enlargement of vessel diameter in the hippocampal fissure was associated with thrombocyte aggregation in distal capillaries. BBB was most leaky during the first 4 d post-SE and increased IgG extravasation was observed for 60 d. Our data show that magnitude of endothelial cell proliferation is not associated with severity of acute post-SE neurodegeneration or formation of abnormal neuronal network. This encourages identification of molecular targets that initiate and maintain specific aspects of tissue reorganization, including preservation and proliferation of endothelial cells to reduce the risk of epileptogenesis and enhance recovery after brain injury.
The intercalated cell masses of the amygdala consist of cell clusters located between the basolateral complex of the amygdala and its surrounding structures including the central nucleus of the amygdala and the external capsule. Although recent studies have revealed that the intercalated cell masses may play an important role in emotional learning and memory, there are only a few reports on its molecular characterization. We examined the expression patterns of transcription factors in the intercalated cell masses in late embryonic stage and postnatal rats, and non-human primates. Dlx5, Foxp2, Pbx3 and Meis2 were expressed in all subdivisions of the intercalated cell masses, while Ebf1, Nkx2.1 and Foxp1 were not. In contrast, Pax6 was only expressed in a small population of the main intercalated islands, but not in the medial or lateral cell clusters. In addition, few Pax6-positive neurons co-expressed Foxp2. Thus the intercalated cell masses do not contain a homogeneous population of neurons, in terms of their molecular constituents. Given that Foxp2, Pbx3 and Meis2 are preferentially expressed in distinct cell populations in the developing striatum, and that the intercalated cell masses of the amygdala appear to be a ventrocaudal expansion of the striatum, the intercalated neurons may share a common origin with some types of neurons located in the dorsal striatum.
Physiological and anatomical investigations are commonly combined in experimental models. When studying the lower urinary tract (LUT), it is often of interest to perform both urodynamic studies and retrogradely labeled neurons innervating the peripheral target organs. However, it is not known whether the use of anatomical tracers for the labeling of, e.g. spinal cord neurons may interfere with the interpretation of the physiological studies on micturition reflexes. We performed cystometry and external urethral sphincter (EUS) electromyography (EMG) under urethane anesthesia in adult female rats at 5-7 days after injection of a 5% fluorogold (FG) solution or vehicle into the major pelvic ganglia (MPG) or the EUS. FG and vehicle injections into the MPG and EUS resulted in decreased voiding efficiency. MPG injections increased the duration of both bladder contractions and the inter-contractile intervals. EUS injections decreased EUS EMG bursting activity during voiding as well as increased both the duration of bladder contractions and the maximum intravesical pressure. In addition, the bladder weight and size were increased after either MPG or EUS injections in both the FG and vehicle groups. We conclude that the injection of anatomical tracers into the MPG and EUS may compromise the interpretation of subsequent urodynamic studies and suggest investigators to consider experimental designs, which allow for physiological assessments to precede the administration of anatomical tracers into the LUT.
A polyclonal antibody (C4), raised against the head domain of chicken myosin Va, reacted strongly towards a 65 kDa polypeptide (p65) on Western blots of extracts from squid optic lobes but did not recognize the heavy chain of squid myosin V. This peptide was not recognized by other myosin Va antibodies, nor by an antibody specific for squid myosin V. In an attempt to identify it, p65 was purified from optic lobes of Loligo plei by cationic exchange and reverse phase chromatography. Several peptide sequences were obtained by mass spectroscopy from p65 cut from sodium dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) gels. BLAST analysis and partial matching with expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from a Loligo pealei data bank indicated that p65 contains consensus signatures for the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A/B family of RNA-binding proteins. Centrifugation of post mitochondrial extracts from optic lobes on sucrose gradients after treatment with RNase gave biochemical evidence that p65 associates with cytoplasmic RNP complexes in an RNA-dependent manner. Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence studies using the C4 antibody showed partial co-labeling with an antibody against squid synaptotagmin in bands within the outer plexiform layer of the optic lobes and at the presynaptic zone of the stellate ganglion. Also, punctate labeling by the C4 antibody was observed within isolated optic lobe synaptosomes. The data indicate that p65 is a novel RNA-binding protein located to the presynaptic terminal within squid neurons and may have a role in synaptic localization of RNA and its translation or processing.
The neurosteroid allopregnanolone (ALLO) is a progesterone metabolite that is one of a family of neuroactive steroids (NAS) that are potent positive allosteric modulators of gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) receptors. These GABAergic NAS are produced peripherally (in the adrenals and gonads) and centrally in the brain. Peripherally produced NAS modulate some effects of ethanol intoxication (e.g., anxiolytic, antidepressant, and anticonvulsant effects) in rodents. We have found that NAS also may be involved in the rebound neural hyperexcitability following a high ethanol dose. Removal of the adrenals and gonads (ADX/GDX) increased withdrawal severity following 4 g/kg ethanol, as measured by handling-induced convulsions (HICs) in male and female DBA/2J mice. NAS are produced through the metabolism of progesterone (PROG), deoxycorticosterone (DOC), or testosterone, which can be blocked with the administration of finasteride (FIN), a 5alpha-reductase enzyme inhibitor. The current investigation was undertaken to clarify the step(s) in the biosynthetic NAS pathway that were sufficient to restore the acute ethanol withdrawal profile in ADX/GDX mice to that seen in intact animals. Male and female DBA/2J mice underwent ADX/GDX or SHAM surgery. After recovery, separate groups of animals were administered PROG, DOC, PROG+FIN, DOC+FIN, FIN, ALLO, ganaxalone (a synthetic ALLO derivative), corticosterone, or vehicle. Animals were then administered a 4 g/kg ethanol dose and allowed to undergo withdrawal. HICs were measured for 12 h and again at 24 h. The results indicate that replacement with PROG and DOC restored the withdrawal profile in ADX/GDX animals to SHAM levels, and that this effect was blocked with co-administration of FIN. Administration of FIN alone increased the withdrawal profile in both SHAM and ADX/GDX males. These findings indicate that the increase in acute withdrawal severity after ADX/GDX may be due to the loss of GABAergic NAS, providing insight into the contribution of endogenous GABAergic NAS to ethanol withdrawal severity.
The hippocampus is an area important for learning and memory and exhibits prominent and behaviourally relevant theta (4-12 Hz) and gamma (30-100 Hz) frequency oscillations in vivo. Hippocampal slices produce similar types of oscillatory activity in response to bath-application of neurotransmitter receptor agonists. The medial septum diagonal band area (MS/DB) provides both a cholinergic and GABAergic projection to the hippocampus, and although it plays a major role in the generation and maintenance of the hippocampal theta rhythm in vivo, there is evidence for intrinsic theta generation mechanisms in the hippocampus, especially in area CA3. The aim of this study was to examine the role of the nicotinic receptor (nAChR) in the induction of oscillatory field activity in the in vitro preparation of the rat hippocampus. Bath-application of a low concentration of nicotine (1 muM) to transversely-cut hippocampal slices produced persistent theta-frequency oscillations in area CA3 of the hippocampus. These oscillations were reduced by both GABA(A) receptor antagonists and ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists, indicating the involvement of local GABAergic and glutamatergic neurons in the production of the rhythmic theta activity. The nicotine-induced theta activity was inhibited by non-selective nAChR antagonists and partially by an alpha7* nAChR antagonist. The induction of theta frequency oscillations in CA3 by nicotine was mimicked alpha7* nAChR agonists but not by non-alpha7* nAChR agonists. In conclusion, theta activity in the hippocampus may be promoted by tonic stimulation of alpha7* nAChRs, possibly via selective stimulation of theta-preferring interneurons in the hippocampus that express post-synaptic alpha7* nAChRs.
N-acyl ethanolamines (NAEs) are endogenous lipids that are synthesized in response to tissue injury, including ischemia and stroke, suggesting they may exhibit neuroprotective properties. We hypothesized that NAE 16:0 (palmitoylethanolamine) is neuroprotective against ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats, a widely employed model of stroke, and that neuroprotection is mediated through an intracellular mechanism independent of known NAE receptors. Administration of NAE 16:0 from 30 min before to 2 h after stroke significantly reduced cortical and subcortical infarct volume, and correlated with an improvement of the neurological phenotype, as assessed by the neurological deficit score. We here show that NAE 16:0-mediated neuroprotection was independent of cannabinoid (CB1) and vanilloid (VR1) receptor activation, known NAE receptors on the plasma membrane, as determined by inclusion of specific inhibitors. The inclusion of an NAE uptake inhibitor (AM404), however, completely reversed NAE 16:0-mediated neuroprotection, suggesting that NAE 16:0s effects are through an intracellular mechanism. NAE 16:0 produced a significant reduction in the number of cells undergoing apoptosis and reversed ischemia-induced upregulation of several proteins, including inducible nitric oxide synthase and transcription factor NFkappaB. Our findings suggest that NAE 16:0-mediated neuroprotection is due to the reduction of neuronal apoptosis and inflammation in the brain.
Evidence of normalized auditory P50 suppression with acute nicotine in schizophrenia has supported the contention that elevated smoking rates in this disorder may be an attempt to correct a nicotinic receptor pathophysiology that may underly impaired sensory gating in these patients. There is very little information regarding the neurochemical or genetic pathways through which nicotine regulates P50 amplitude and its suppression in human studies. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled design with 24 non-smokers, this study examined the influence of TaqIA dopamine D2 receptor gene polymorphisms on P50 and its inhibition during nicotine gum (6 mg) administration. Within a paired click (S(1)-S(2)) paradigm, placebo treated A1(+) and A1(-) allele groups differed with respect to P50 amplitude and gating. While nicotine (relative to placebo) attenuated S(1) P50 amplitude in A1(+) allele carriers, in the A1(-) carriers it increased S(2) P50 amplitude and increased P50 gating as indexed by an augmented gating difference wave (GDW). These findings suggest that nicotine exerts mixed gating properties in healthy nicotine naive volunteers and that dopamine functions to alter both P50 and its gating as well as their response to acute nicotine agonist treatment.

Comparisons between chimpanzees and humans have led to the hypothesis that only humans voluntarily share their own food with others. However, it is hard to draw conclusions because the food-sharing preferences of our more tolerant relative, the bonobo (Pan paniscus), have never been studied experimentally. We gave unrelated bonobos the choice of either monopolizing food or actively sharing: we found that bonobos preferred to release a recipient from an adjacent room and feed together instead of eating all the food alone. Thus, food sharing in bonobos does not depend on kinship or harassment and suggests our own species' propensity for voluntary food sharing is not unique among the apes.

The International Symposium &quot;Peripheral Nerve Repair and Regeneration and 2nd Club Brunelli Meeting&quot; was held on December 4-5, 2009 in Turin, Italy (Organizers: Bruno Battiston, Stefano Geuna, Isabelle Perroteau, Pierluigi Tos). Interest in the study of peripheral nerve regeneration is very much alive because complete recovery of nerve function almost never occurs after nerve reconstruction and, often, the clinical outcome is rather poor. Therefore, there is a need for defining innovative strategies for improving the success of recovery after nerve lesion and repair and this meeting was intended to discuss, from a multidisciplinary point of view, some of today's most important issues in this scientific field, arising from both basic and clinical neurosciences.

Long-term memories are thought to be maintained by persistent changes in the strength of synaptic connections among neurons, but how such changes can persist for days to years has been one of the fundamental enigmas of neuroscience. Recently, however, one mechanism that is dependent on the persistent increased activity of an enzyme has been shown to be necessary for the persistence of long-term memory. The transient inhibition of the brain-specific, constitutively active protein kinase C isoform PKMzeta erases memories that are even months old. This finding raises a number of issues; chief among them is the question, how can PKMzeta maintain memories for months when its half-life is probably much shorter? New data suggest how the high abundance of PKMzeta can be maintained over long periods of time. The synthesis of PKMzeta is inhibited by Pin1 (protein interacting with NIMA 1), a peptidyl-prolyl isomerase that represses dendritic translation. Signals mediated by the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, which induces long-term potentiation (LTP) and memory formation, inhibit Pin1, enabling PKMzeta synthesis. PKMzeta, once translated, in turn inhibits Pin1, permitting persistent PKMzeta synthesis. In this way, PKMzeta may be up-regulated to the appropriate amounts for maintaining LTP and perpetuating our mental representations of the past.
In the present study we used electrophysiological techniques in an in vitro preparation of the rat dentate gyrus to examine the effect of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor activation on the intrinsic excitability of hilar neurons. We found that bath application of muscarine caused a direct depolarization in approximately 80% of mossy cells tested, and also produced a clear afterdepolarization (ADP) in nearly 100% of trials. The ADP observed in hilar mossy cells is produced by the opening of a Na(+) permeant and yet largely TTX insensitive ion channel. It requires an increase in postsynaptic calcium for activation, and is blocked by flufenamic acid, an antagonist of a previously identified calcium activated non-selective cation channel (I(CAN)). Further, we demonstrate that induction of an ADP in current clamp causes release of cannabinoids, and subsequent depression of GABAergic transmission that is comparable to that produced in the same cells by a more conventional 5s depolarization in voltage clamp. By contrast, other types of hilar neurons were less strongly depolarized by bath application of muscarinic agonists, and uniformly lacked a similar muscarinic ADP. Overall, the data presented here extend our understanding of the specific mechanisms through which muscarinic agonists are likely to modulate neuronal excitability in the hilar network, and further reveal a mechanism that could plausibly promote endocannabinoid mediated signaling in vivo.
To gain insight into ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) function and its potential role in AD pathology, we analyzed the expression of the cholesterol transporter ABCA1 in postmortem hippocampus from persons at different stages of dementia and AD associated neuropathology relative to cognitively intact normal donors by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and Western blot. In this study clinical dementia rating (CDR) scores were used as a measure of dementia severity, whereas, Braak neuropathological staging and neuritic plaque density were used as an index of the neuropathological progression of AD. Correlation analysis showed that ABCA1 mRNA expression was significantly elevated at the earliest recognizable stage of dementia compared to persons with intact cognition. ABCA1 mRNA was also positively correlated with Braak neuropathological stages and neuritic plaque density counts. Additionally, ABCA1 mRNA levels showed robust correlation with dementia severity even after controlling for the confounding contribution of accompanying neuropathological parameters to ABCA1 mRNA expression. Western blot analyses showed that the differential expression observed at the transcriptional level is also reflected at the protein level. Thus, our study provides transcriptional and translational evidence that the expression of ABCA1, a key modulator of cholesterol transport across the plasma membrane, is dysregulated in the AD brain and that this dysregulation is associated with increasing severity of AD, whether measured functionally as dementia severity or neuropathologically as increased neuritic plaque and neurofibrillary tangle density.
Since the 1990s, the genetics of Alzheimer disease (AD) has been an active area of research. The identification of deterministic mutations in the APP, PSEN1, and PSEN2 genes responsible for early-onset autosomal dominant familial forms of AD led to a better understanding of the pathophysiology of this disease. In the past decade, the plethora of candidate genes and regions emerging from genetic linkage and smaller-scale association studies yielded intriguing 'hits' that have often proven difficult to replicate consistently. In the last two years, 11 published genome-wide association studies (GWASs) in AD confirmed the universally accepted role of APOE as a genetic risk factor for late-onset AD as well as generating additional candidate genes that require confirmation. It is unclear whether GWASs, though a promising novel approach in the genetics of complex diseases, can help explain most of the underlying genetic risk for AD. This review provides a brief summary of the genetic studies in AD preceding the GWAS era, with the main focus on the findings from recent GWASs. Potential approaches that could provide further insight into the genetics of AD in the post-GWAS era are also discussed.
Different lines of evidence indicate that methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) functional gene polymorphisms, causative in aberrant folate-homocysteine metabolism, are associated with increased vulnerability to several heritable developmental disorders. Opposing views are expressed considering the possible association between MTHFR and susceptibility for schizophrenia. In order to evaluate if age of onset could explain some of this discrepancy we investigated the relationship between two functional MTHFR gene polymorphisms and age at onset in this disorder. Scandinavian patients (n = 820) diagnosed with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, and schizophreniform disorder were investigated. Two functional MTHFR single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs; rs1801131 and rs1801133) were genotyped and the effect of MTHFR polymorphisms on the age of onset was examined with survival analysis. In an attempt to replicate the findings from the Scandinavian sample, the association between rs1801133 and age at onset was also analyzed in Chinese high-risk families, with two or more affected siblings (n = 243). Among the Scandinavian patients the functional MTHFR SNP rs1801133 (C677T) significantly affected age at onset of schizophrenia in a dose-dependent manner (P = 0.0015), with lower age of onset with increasing numbers of the mutant T-allele. There was no evidence of rs1801131 (A1298C) affecting age of onset in schizophrenia. Within the Chinese high-risk families carriers of the MTHFR 677T allele showed earlier age at onset than siblings being homozygous for the wild-type allele (P = 0.008). The MTHFR C677T polymorphism may play a role as a modifying factor for age of onset in schizophrenia.
The influence of body mass index (BMI) on susceptibility to anorexia nervosa (AN) is not clear. Recently published genome-wide association (GWA) studies of the general population identified several variants influencing BMI. We genotyped these variants in an AN sample to test for association and to investigate a combined effect of BMI-increasing alleles (as determined in the original GWA studies) on the risk of developing the disease. Individual single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were tested for association with AN in a sample of 267 AN patients and 1,636 population controls. A logistic regression for the combined effect of BMI-increasing alleles included 225 cases and 1,351 controls. We found no significant association between individual SNPs and AN. The analysis of a combined effect of BMI-increasing alleles showed absence of association with the investigated condition. The percentages of BMI-increasing alleles were equal between cases and controls. This study found no evidence that genetic variants regulating BMI in the general population are significantly associated with susceptibility to AN.
A common P86L variant in CALHM1 was recently identified to increase susceptibility to Alzheimer disease (AD) in individuals of European-descent. To determine whether or not this association is also valid in a different ethnic population, we directly sequenced three nearby SNPs including P86L in more than 2,500 Japanese AD case-control samples. We found no association between CALHM1 P86L polymorphism and AD risk in Japanese individuals. We also found a small number of non-synonymous minor variants in both control and case populations, some of which are predicted to affect protein function, but are unlikely to increase this risk of AD in this population. We also determined that the P86L allele frequency is lower in non-Caucasian populations than in Caucasians. Our findings suggest that the CALHM1 P86L common variant may not influence AD risk in Japanese.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamin; 5-HT) alternations has since long been suspected in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Tryptophan hydroxylase (tryptophan 5-monooxygenase; TPH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of 5-HT, and sequence variation in intron 6 of the TPH1 gene has been associated with schizophrenia. The minor allele (A) of this polymorphism (A218C) is also more frequent in patients who have attempted suicide and individuals who died by suicide, than in healthy control individuals. In an attempt to replicate previous findings, five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped in 837 Scandinavian schizophrenia patients and 1,473 controls. Three SNPs spanning intron 6 and 7, including the A218C and A779C polymorphisms, were associated with schizophrenia susceptibility (P = 0.019). However there were no differences in allele frequencies of these loci between affected individuals having attempted suicide at least once and patients with no history of suicide attempts (P = 0.84). A systematic literature review and meta-analysis support the A218C polymorphism as a susceptibility locus for schizophrenia (odds ratio 1.17, 95% confidence interval 1.07-1.29). Association studies on suicide attempts are however conflicting (heterogeneity index I(2) = 0.54) and do not support the A218C/A779C polymorphisms being a susceptibility locus for suicidal behavior among individuals diagnosed with a psychiatric disorder (OR = 0.96 [0.80-1.16]). We conclude that the TPH1 A218/A779 locus increases the susceptibility of schizophrenia in Caucasian and Asian populations. In addition, the data at hand suggest that the locus contributes to the liability of psychiatric disorders characterized by elevated suicidal rates, rather than affecting suicidal behavior of individuals suffering from a psychiatric disorder.
In birds, a lateralised visual input during early development importantly modulates morphological and functional asymmetries of vision. We tested the hypothesis that human handedness similarly results from a combination of inborn and experience-driven factors by analysing sidedness in children suffering from congenital muscular torticollis. These children display a permanently tilted asymmetric head posture to the left or to the right in combination with a contralateral rotation of face and chin, which could lead to an increased visual experience of the hand contralateral to the head-tilt. Relative to controls, torticollis-children had a higher probability of right- or left-handedness when having a head-tilt to the opposite side. No statistical significant relation between head position and direction of functional asymmetries was found for footedness and eye-preference, although the means show a non-significant trend in the same direction as was observed for handedness. Thus, an increased visual control of the hand during early childhood seems to modulate handedness and possibly other lateral preferences to a lesser extent. These findings not only show that human handedness is affected by early lateralised visual experience but also speak in favour of a combined gene-environment model for its development.
Expression levels of neuropeptide Y (NPY) are changed in schizophrenia patients. However, the direction of changes to NPY expression and the mechanisms behind NPY's impact on the development of the illness is not understood in detail. Here we investigated whether alterations in Y2 activity may be involved in the development of schizophrenia-related behaviours. We examined NPY Y2 receptor deficient male mice in behavioural domains relevant for the illness: locomotion, learning and memory, social interaction and sensorimotor gating (baseline and after acute challenge with psychotropic drugs) and the most relevant tasks were also completed in female Y2 mutants. Our investigations confirmed a hyper-locomotive phenotype for Y2 deficient male mice and no alterations in working and reference memory performance. Mutant males exhibited an increase in social interaction and moderately improved sensorimotor gating. The psychotropic drugs dexamphetamine and MK-801 affected prepulse inhibition similarly, whereas MK-801 appeared to be a slightly more potent stimulant for the acoustic startle response (ASR). Female Y2 deficient mice showed wild type-like performances in social interaction, working memory and prepulse inhibition. However, Y2 mutant females exhibited a moderately increased ASR compared to control mice. Taken together, lack of Y2 signalling in mice not only leads to altered locomotion but also changes social behaviours and affects sensorimotor gating. Thus, Y2 depletion influences a range of behaviours, which are potentially relevant for schizophrenia-related research.
Recent neuroethological work suggests that drug-sensitive reward in Crayfish represents a useful new model system for the study of drug dependence. Monoamine re-uptake mechanisms, which are conserved across vertebrate and invertebrate taxa, offer sites of action for testing drug-induced behavioral sensitization. The present study explored drug-associated behavioral sensitization in Crayfish by concurrently mapping measures of locomotion and rewarding properties of morphine. Behavioral effects of mammalian drugs of abuse are thought to depend on the patterns of drug regimens, and are similar across vertebrates. In this study, we determined whether behavioral sensitization induced by single and repeated morphine treatments extend to invertebrates. The first set of experiments indicated that intra-circulatory infusions of single or repeated doses of morphine (2.5 microg/g, 5.0 microg/g and 10.0 microg/g) result in persistent and comparable locomotory sensitization even 5 days following the infusion. In the second experiment, we explored the short and long-term rewarding effects of a single or repeated morphine drug regimen using the conditioned place preference (CPP) experiment. Morphine-induced CPP also persisted for a drug free period of 5 days, indicating that this amount of time was not sufficient to disrupt the established CPP between morphine and context-dependent cues in Crayfish. Results from our study indicate that a single dose of morphine was sufficient to induce long-term behavioral sensitization in Crayfish, and that such effect is comparable to the effect of repeated morphine regimes. Behavioral sensitization studies in Crayfish thus contribute an evolutionary, comparative context to our understanding of the natural variation of reward as an important life-sustaining process.
In this issue of Cell Stem Cell,Martnez-Cerdeo and colleagues (2010) transplant interneuron precursors from the MGE into the striatum of a rat model of Parkinson's disease and observe a 5% increase in the endogenous GABAergic interneuron population resulting in behavioral benefits in both lesioned and wild-type animals.
Alzheimer disease is characterized by extracellular beta-amyloid (Abeta) plaques and intracellular inclusions containing neurofibrillary tangles of phospho-Tau and intraneuronal Abeta associated with neuronal cell death. We generated a novel gene transfer animal model using lentiviral Abeta(1-42) that resulted in intracellular but not extracellular Abeta accumulations in the targeted rat primary motor cortex. Expression of intracellular Abeta(1-42) led to pathological changes seen in human Alzheimer disease brains, including cell death, inflammatory signs, activation of two Tau kinases, and Tau hyperphosphorylation. Promoting clearance of lentiviral Abeta(1-42) reversed these effects, demonstrating that intraneuronal Abeta(1-42) is a toxic peptide that lies upstream of Tau modification. These studies reveal the role of intracellular Abeta(1-42) in a novel gene transfer animal model, which is a useful tool to study intraneuronal Abeta(1-42)-induced pathology in the absence of extracellular plaques. Targeted delivery of Abeta will allow speedy delineation of pathological mechanisms associated with specific neurodegenerative lesions.
Vesicular neurotransmitter transporters must localize to synaptic vesicles (SVs) to allow regulated neurotransmitter release at the synapse. However, the signals required to localize vesicular proteins to SVs in vivo remain unclear. To address this question we have tested the effects of mutating proposed trafficking domains in Drosophila orthologs of the vesicular monoamine and glutamate transporters, DVMAT-A and DVGLUT. We show that a tyrosine-based motif (YXXY) is important both for DVMAT-A internalization from the cell surface in vitro, and localization to SVs in vivo. In contrast, DVGLUT deletion mutants that lack a putative C-terminal trafficking domain show more modest defects in both internalization in vitro and trafficking to SVs in vivo. Our data show for the first time that mutation of a specific trafficking motif can disrupt localization to SVs in vivo and suggest possible differences in the sorting of VMATs versus VGLUTs to SVs at the synapse.


The morphologies of individual bones are crucial for their functions within the skeleton, and vary markedly during evolution. Recent studies have begun to reveal the detailed molecular genetic pathways that underlie skeletal morphogenesis. On the other hand, understanding of the process of morphogenesis itself has not kept pace with the molecular work. We examined, through an extended period of development in zebrafish, how a prominent craniofacial bone, the opercle (Op), attains its adult morphology. Using high-resolution confocal imaging of the vitally stained Op in live larvae, we show that the bone initially appears as a simple linear spicule, or spur, with a characteristic position and orientation, and lined by osteoblasts that we visualize by transgenic labeling. The Op then undergoes a stereotyped sequence of shape transitions, most notably during the larval period occurring through three weeks postfertilization. New shapes arise, and the bone grows in size, as a consequence of anisotropic addition of new mineralized bone matrix along specific regions of the pre-existing bone surfaces. We find that two modes of matrix addition, spurs and veils, are primarily associated with change in shape, whereas a third mode, incremental banding, largely accounts for growth in size. Furthermore, morphometric analyses show that shape development and growth follow different trajectories, suggesting separate control of bone shape and size. New osteoblast arrangements are associated with new patterns of matrix outgrowth, and we propose that fine developmental regulation of osteoblast position is a critical determinant of the spatiotemporal pattern of morphogenesis.

The concept that astrocytes release neuroactive molecules (gliotransmitters) to affect synaptic transmission has been a paradigm shift in neuroscience research over the past decade. This concept suggests that astrocytes, together with pre- and postsynaptic neuronal elements, make up a functional synapse. Astrocyte release of gliotransmitters (for example, glutamate and adenosine triphosphate) is generally accepted to be a Ca2+-dependent process. We used two mouse lines to either selectively increase or obliterate astrocytic Gq G protein-coupled receptor Ca2+ signaling to further test the hypothesis that astrocytes release gliotransmitters in a Ca2+-dependent manner to affect synaptic transmission. Neither increasing nor obliterating astrocytic Ca2+ fluxes affects spontaneous and evoked excitatory synaptic transmission or synaptic plasticity. Our findings suggest that, at least in the hippocampus, the mechanisms of gliotransmission need to be reconsidered.



It is essential to elucidate the relationship between blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signals and neuronal activity for the interpretation of the functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) signals; this relationship has been quantitatively investigated by animal studies measuring evoked potentials as indices of neuronal activity. Although most human fMRI studies employ the event-related task design, in which the stimulus duration is short, few studies have investigated the relationship between BOLD signals and evoked potentials at short stimulus durations. The present study investigated this relationship in the somatosensory cortex of anesthetized rats by using electrical forepaw stimulation at a short duration of 4 s and comprehensively analyzed it at different frequencies (1-10 Hz) and currents (0.5-2.0 mA). Somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) responses were measured at the scalp using silver ball electrodes. The sum of the peak-to-peak amplitude (SigmaSEP) and average SEP (avg. SEP) responses were calculated. BOLD signals were obtained using a spin-echo echo-planar imaging sequence at 7 T. The relationship between the avg. SEP and BOLD signals varied with frequency, whereas that between SigmaSEP and BOLD signals showed a significant correlation at varying frequencies and currents. In particular, the relationship between SigmaSEP and SigmaBOLD, which is the sum of the BOLD signals obtained at each time point reflecting the area under the BOLD response curves, mostly converged, irrespective of the frequency. Our results suggest that SigmaBOLD obtained using a spin-echo sequence reflects the neural activity as quantified by SigmaSEP, which was determined at different frequencies and currents.
AD pathology is often seen in cortical biopsies of NPH patients. It remains unclear whether these findings are coincidental or causally related. In an aged animal model of NPH, we quantify Abeta and pTau accumulation and describe its temporal and spatial distribution. One-year-old male Sprague-Dawley rats had hydrocephalus induced by cisternal kaolin injection. Immunohistochemistry (IMHC) for AbetaPP, Abeta40, Abeta42 and pTau (epitope pT231) and ELISA for Abeta40, Abeta42 and pT231 were performed on controls and after 2, 6 and 10 weeks of hydrocephalus. Rats had double-label fluorescence IMHC for localization of Abeta42 and pT231. IMHC showed no change in neuronal AbetaPP expression following hydrocephalus. Abeta42 appeared earliest in CSF clearance pathways, p&lt;0.05, and also showed significant rises in perivascular spaces and in cortical parenchyma. Mean ELISA values for Abeta40 and Abeta42 increased three- to four-fold in hydrocephalic rats at 6 and 10 weeks. Abeta40 increased between 2 and 6 weeks (p=0.0001), and remained stable at 10 (p=0.0002); whereas Abeta42 was elevated at 2 weeks (p&lt;0.04) and remained at 6 (p=0.015). PTau at 6 and 10 weeks showed AD-like increased neuronal somatic staining and loss of dendritic staining. ELISA demonstrated increased pT231 in hydrocephalic rats at 10 weeks (p&lt;0.0002). Double-label fluorescence for Abeta42 and pT231 revealed intraneuronal co-localization. Hydrocephalus in the elderly rat, therefore, can induce both Abeta and pTau accumulation. As distinct from brain injury models, no increase in AbetaPP expression was demonstrated. Rather, altered CSF dynamics appears to impair Abeta clearance in this NPH model.
In male hamsters mating behavior is dependent on chemosensory input from the main olfactory and vomeronasal systems, whose central pathways contain cell bodies and fibers of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons. In sexually naive males, vomeronasal organ removal (VNX), but not main olfactory lesions, impairs mating behavior. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.)-GnRH restores mating in sexually naive VNX males and enhances medial amygdala (Me) immediate-early gene activation by chemosensory stimulation. In sexually experienced males, VNX does not impair mating and i.c.v.-GnRH suppresses Me activation. Thus, the main olfactory system is sufficient for mating in experienced-VNX males, but not in naive-VNX males. We investigated the possibility that GnRH enhances main olfactory input to the amygdala in naive-VNX males using i.c.v.-GnRH and pharmacological stimulation (bicuculline/D,L-homocysteic acid mixture) of the main olfactory bulb (MOB). In sexually naive intact males there was a robust increase of Fos protein expression in the anteroventral medial amygdala (MeAv) with MOB stimulation, but no effect of GnRH. There was no effect of stimulation or GnRH in posterodorsal medial amygdala (MePd). In naive-VNX animals, GnRH increased Fos in MeAv and MePv. Only combined MOB stimulation and i.c.v.-GnRH produced a significant increase in Fos in the dorsal (reproduction-related) portion of MeP (MePd). When the animals were sexually experienced before VNX, a condition in which GnRH does not enhance mating, i.c.v.-GnRH combined with MOB stimulation suppressed Fos expression in MePd. This suggests a more selective effect of GnRH on olfactory input in MePd than elsewhere in medial amygdala of VNX males.
Patients suffering from dementia of Alzheimer's type express less serotonin 4 receptors (5-HTR(4)), but whether an absence of these receptors modifies learning and memory is unexplored. In the spatial version of the Morris water maze, we show that 5-HTR(4) knock-out (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice performed similarly for spatial learning, short- and long-term retention. Since 5-HTR(4) control mnesic abilities, we tested whether cholinergic system had circumvented the absence of 5-HTR(4). Inactivating muscarinic receptor with scopolamine, at an ineffective dose (0.8 mg/kg) to alter memory in WT mice, decreased long-term but not short-term memory of 5-HTR(4) KO mice. Other changes included decreases in the activity of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the required enzyme for acetylcholine synthesis, in the septum and the dorsal hippocampus in 5-HTR(4) KO under baseline conditions. Training- and scopolamine-induced increase and decrease, respectively in ChAT activity in the septum in WT mice were not detected in the 5-HTR(4) KO animals. Findings suggest that adaptive changes in cholinergic systems may circumvent the absence of 5-HTR(4) to maintain long-term memory under baseline conditions. In contrast, despite adaptive mechanisms, the absence of 5-HTR(4) aggravates scopolamine-induced memory impairments. The mechanisms whereby 5-HTR(4) mediate a tonic influence on ChAT activity and muscarinic receptors remain to be determined.
Channelrhodopsins are light-gated ion channels that mediate vision in phototactic green algae like Chlamydomonas. In neurosciences, channelrhodopsins are widely used to light-trigger action potentials in transfected cells. All known channelrhodopsins preferentially conduct H(+). Previous studies have indicated the existence of an early and a late conducting state within the channelrhodopsin photocycle. Here, we show that for channelrhodopsin-2 expressed in Xenopus oocytes and HEK cells, the two open states have different ion selectivities that cause changes in the channelrhodopsin-2 reversal voltage during a light pulse. An enzyme kinetic algorithm was applied to convert the reversal voltages in various ionic conditions to conductance ratios for H(+) and divalent cations (Ca(2+) and/or Mg(2+)), as compared to monovalent cations (Na(+) and/or K(+)). Compared to monovalent cation conductance, the H(+) conductance, alpha, is approximately 3 x 10(6) and the divalent cation conductance, beta, is approximately 0.01 in the early conducting state. In the stationary mixture of the early and late states, alpha is larger and beta smaller, both by a factor of approximately 2. The results suggest that the ionic basis of light perception in Chlamydomonas is relatively nonspecific in the beginning of a light pulse but becomes more selective for protons during longer light exposures.
One-second-long increases in prefrontal cholinergic activity (&quot;transients&quot;) were demonstrated previously to be necessary for the incorporation of cues into ongoing cognitive processes (&quot;cue detection&quot;). Nicotine and, more robustly, selective agonists at alpha4beta2* nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) enhance cue detection and attentional performance by augmenting prefrontal cholinergic activity. The present experiments determined the role of beta2-containing and alpha7 nAChRs in the generation of prefrontal cholinergic and glutamatergic transients in vivo. Transients were evoked by nicotine, the alpha4beta2* nAChR agonist ABT-089 [2-methyl-3-(2-(S)-pyrrolindinylmethoxy) pyridine dihydrochloride], or the alpha7 nAChR agonist A-582941 [2-methyl-5-(6-phenyl-pyridazin-3-yl)-octahydro-pyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrrole]. Transients were recorded in mice lacking beta2 or alpha7 nAChRs and in rats after removal of thalamic glutamatergic or midbrain dopaminergic inputs to prefrontal cortex. The main results indicate that stimulation of alpha4beta2* nAChRs evokes glutamate release and that the presence of thalamic afferents is necessary for the generation of cholinergic transients. ABT-089-evoked transients were completely abolished in mice lacking beta2* nAChRs. The amplitude, but not the decay rate, of nicotine-evoked transients was reduced by beta2* knock-out. Conversely, in mice lacking the alpha7 nAChR, the decay rate, but not the amplitude, of nicotine-evoked cholinergic and glutamatergic transients was attenuated. Substantiating the role of alpha7 nAChR in controlling the duration of release events, stimulation of alpha7 nAChR produced cholinergic transients that lasted 10- to 15-fold longer than those evoked by nicotine. alpha7 nAChR-evoked cholinergic transients are mediated in part by dopaminergic activity. Prefrontal alpha4beta2* nAChRs play a key role in evoking and facilitating the transient glutamatergic-cholinergic interactions that are necessary for cue detection and attentional performance.
Actin-rich dendritic spines are the locus of excitatory synaptic transmission and plastic events such as long-term potentiation (LTP). Morphological plasticity of spines accompanies activity-dependent changes in synaptic strength. Several Rho GTPase family members are implicated in regulating neuronal and, in particular, spine structure via actin and the actin-binding protein cofilin. However, despite expression in hippocampus and cortex, its ability to modulate actin-regulatory proteins, and its induction during aging, RhoB has been relatively neglected. We previously demonstrated that LTP is associated with specific RhoB activation. Here, we further examined its role in synaptic function using mice with genetic deletion of the RhoB GTPase (RhoB(-/-) mice). Normal basal synaptic transmission accompanied reduced paired-pulse facilitation and post-tetanic potentiation in the hippocampus of RhoB(-/-) mice. Early phase LTP was significantly reduced in RhoB(-/-) animals, whereas the later phase was unaffected. In wild-type mice (RhoB(+/+)), Western blot analysis of potentiated hippocampus showed significant increases in phosphorylated cofilin relative to nonpotentiated slices, which were dramatically impaired in RhoB(-/-) slices. There was also a deficit in phosphorylated Lim kinase levels in the hippocampus from RhoB(-/-) mice. Morphological analysis suggested that lack of RhoB resulted in increased dendritic branching and decreased spine number. Furthermore, an increase in the proportion of stubby relative to thin spines was observed. Moreover, spines demonstrated increased length along with increased head and neck widths. These data implicate RhoB in cofilin regulation and dendritic and spine morphology, highlighting its importance in synaptic plasticity at a structural and functional level.
The intrastriatal microcircuit is a predominantly inhibitory GABAergic network comprised of a majority of projection neurons [medium spiny neurons (MSNs)] and a minority of interneurons. The connectivity within this microcircuit is divided into two main categories: lateral connectivity between MSNs, and inhibition mediated by interneurons, in particular fast spiking (FS) cells. To understand the operation of striatum, it is essential to have a good description of the dynamic properties of these respective pathways and how they affect different types of striatal projection neurons. We recorded from neuronal pairs, triplets, and quadruplets in slices of rat and mouse striatum and analyzed the dynamics of synaptic transmission between MSNs and FS cells. Retrograde fluorescent labeling and transgenic EGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein) mice were used to distinguish between MSNs of the direct (striatonigral) and indirect (striatopallidal) pathways. Presynaptic neurons were stimulated with trains of action potentials, and activity-dependent depression and facilitation of synaptic efficacy was recorded from postsynaptic neurons. We found that FS cells provide a strong and homogeneously depressing inhibition of both striatonigral and striatopallidal MSN types. Moreover, individual FS cells are connected to MSNs of both types. In contrast, both MSN types receive sparse and variable, depressing and facilitating synaptic transmission from nearby MSNs. The connection probability was higher for pairs with presynaptic striatopallidal MSNs; however, the variability in synaptic dynamics did not depend on the types of interconnected MSNs. The differences between the two inhibitory pathways were clear in both species and at different developmental stages. Our findings show that the two intrastriatal inhibitory pathways have fundamentally different dynamic properties that are, however, similarly applied to both direct and indirect striatal projections.
In rod photoreceptors, deactivation of the light-activated G-protein-coupled receptor rhodopsin (R*) is initiated by phosphorylation and completed through subsequent binding of visual arrestin (Arr1). The in vivo kinetics of these individual interactions have proven difficult to determine with precision since R* lifetime is much shorter than the lifetimes of downstream G-protein and effector molecules. Here, we have used a transgenic mouse line with accelerated downstream deactivation kinetics to reveal the contribution of Arr1 binding to the overall time course of rhodopsin deactivation. Photoresponses revealed that the lifetime of R* is significantly increased in rods that express half of the normal amount of Arr1, in a manner consistent with a twofold decrease in the rate of Arr1 binding across a wide range of flash strengths. A basic model of photoresponse deactivation consistent with established photoreceptor biochemistry shows that R* phosphorylation and Arr1 binding occur with a time constant of approximately 40 ms in wild-type mouse rods, much faster than previous estimates.
Output from the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus (VMN) is anorexigenic and is supported by the excitatory actions of leptin. The VMN is also highly sensitive to the orexigenic actions of Neuropeptide Y (NPY). We report that NPY robustly inhibits VMN neurons by hyperpolarizing them and decreasing their ability to fire action potentials. This action was mediated by Y(1) receptors coupled to the activation of GIRKs (G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium channels). Approximately 80% of VMN neurons expressing leptin receptors were sensitive to the actions of NPY, whereas 75% of NPY-sensitive neurons in VMN also responded to glucose by being uniformly inhibited by elevations in glucose. Interestingly, only approximately 36% of NPY-sensitive, leptin receptor b-expressing neurons were also glucosensitive. We suggest that NPY inhibits VMN neurons that are excited by leptin, thereby arresting the anorexigenic tone exerted by VMN neurons. The results further suggest a dynamic interplay between anorexigenic and orexigenic neuromodulators within the VMN to directly affect energy balance.
Working memory is the limited capacity storage system involved in the maintenance and manipulation of information over short periods of time. Individual capacity of working memory is associated with the integrity of white matter in the frontoparietal regions. It is unknown to what extent the integrity of white matter underlying the working memory system is plastic. Using voxel-based analysis (VBA) of fractional anisotropy (FA) measures of fiber tracts, we investigated the effect of working memory training on structural connectivity in an interventional study. The amount of working memory training correlated with increased FA in the white matter regions adjacent to the intraparietal sulcus and the anterior part of the body of the corpus callosum after training. These results showed training-induced plasticity in regions that are thought to be critical in working memory. As changes in myelination lead to FA changes in diffusion tensor imaging, a possible mechanism for the observed FA change is increased myelination after training. Observed structural changes may underlie previously reported improvement of working memory capacity, improvement of other cognitive functions, and altered functional activity following working memory training.
The role of spike rate versus timing codes in visual target selection is unclear. We simultaneously recorded activity from multiple frontal eye field neurons and asked whether they interacted to select targets from distractors during visual search. When both neurons in a pair selected the target and had overlapping receptive fields (RFs), they cooperated more than when one or neither neuron in the pair selected the target, measured by positive spike timing correlations using joint peristimulus time histogram analysis. The amount of cooperation depended on the location of the search target: it was higher when the target was inside both neurons' RFs than when it was inside one RF but not the other, or outside both RFs. Elevated spike timing coincidences occurred at the time of attentional selection of the target as measured by average modulation of discharge rates. We observed competition among neurons with spatially non-overlapping RFs, measured by negative spike timing correlations. Thus, we provide evidence for dynamic and task-dependent cooperation and competition among frontal eye field neurons during visual target selection.
The inflammatory response is thought to contribute to secondary damage after spinal cord injury (SCI). Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) play an important role in the onset and resolution of inflammation. Arachidonic acid (AA), an omega-6 PUFA, contributes to the initiation of inflammatory responses, whereas docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), an omega-3 PUFA, has antiinflammatory effects. Therefore, decreasing AA and increasing DHA levels after SCI might be expected to attenuate inflammation after SCI and promote tissue protection and functional recovery. We show here that daily oral administration of fenretinide after spinal cord contusion injury led to a significant decrease in AA and an increase in DHA levels in plasma and injured spinal cord tissue. This was accompanied by a significant reduction in tissue damage and improvement in locomotor recovery. Fenretinide also reduced the expression of proinflammatory genes and the levels of oxidative stress markers after SCI. In addition, in vitro studies demonstrated that fenretinide reduced TNF-alpha (tumor necrosis factor-alpha) expression by reactive microglia. These results demonstrate that fenretinide treatment after SCI can reduce inflammation and tissue damage in the spinal cord and improve locomotor recovery. These beneficial effects may be mediated via the ability of fenretinide to modulate PUFA homeostasis. Since fenretinide is currently in clinical trials for the treatment of cancers, this drug might be a good candidate for the treatment of acute SCI in humans.

Nicotinic agonists have been shown to enhance performance in cognitive tasks based on attention and memory. The aim of this study was to use a test of olfactory working memory; the odour span task (OST) in rodents, to investigate the effects of subtype-specific nicotinic agonists on working memory in normal rats. Rats were trained in a non-matching to sample (NMTS) rule and then the full OST, which involved identifying a novel odour from an increasing number of presented odours. Male hooded Lister rats were treated with nicotine, selective nicotinic agonists or vehicle (saline). In order to validate the task, muscarinic and nicotinic receptor antagonists were also examined. Nicotine at both 0.05 and 0.1mg/kg significantly increased mean span length in the OST. The selective alpha 4 beta 2 nicotinic receptor agonist metanicotine (0.1mg/kg s.c.) and the selective alpha 7 nicotinic receptor agonist (R)-N-(1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl)(5-(2-pyridyl)thiophene-2-carboxamide) (compound A, 10mg/kg i.p.) also improved performance. In contrast, mecamylamine and scopolamine significantly decreased mean span length. These findings suggest a role for the activation of both alpha 4 beta 2 and alpha 7 subtypes of neuronal nicotinic receptor in mediating enhancements of olfactory working memory capacity in normal, non-compromised rats. These nicotinic receptor subtypes may therefore prove to be useful targets for the development of novel treatments for neuropsychiatric disorders that involve cognitive dysfunction.
Spontaneous Frequency Bursts (SFBs) are a newly discovered form of long-distance neural coordination. They have several distinctive properties, including near-simultaneity of occurrence (+/-25-50 ms) across distant brain regions and high within- and across-site coherence in multiple low and high frequency bands, presumably requiring high axonal, dendritic and vascular integrity. We examined whether SFBs occurred in young and young-adult C57BK6 mice with properties similar to those seen in rats. We found that across the entorhinal and piriform cortices, SFBs occur robustly in young and young-adult mice under light anesthesia, and that their rate of occurrence dropped sharply as anesthetic levels increased, as in rats. Moreover, murine SFBs showed high cross-site coherence in multiple frequency bands, including those that require exquisite action potential timing to be maintained across long distances. We discuss our findings in light of SFBs potential as a pre-clinical biomarker for diseases affecting action potential firing and local field potential coherence, especially in high frequency ranges (20-30 Hz and beyond).

Since cats are predators of rats and mice, interest in the consequences of exposure to cat-associated odors has increased in the last decade, particularly regarding the development of putative animal models of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Although in the literature there are some comments on the variability of the effects depending on the individual cat used, there are no reports on this subject. In the present study, we demonstrated, using male Sprague-Dawley rats and cloths impregnated with fur/skin odors from three different cats (one ovariectomized female and two intact males), that the unconditioned endocrine (release of corticosterone) and behavioral (inhibition of activity and avoidance of the cloth area) responses to the presence of the cat odors were statistically significant and similar among the three cats. The conditioned behavioral response to a clean cloth, studied 7 days after the initial exposure to odors, was also evident with the three cats, with minor differences among them. In contrast, only the fur odor from one of the male cats clearly increased anxiety-like behavior in the elevated plus-maze 6 days later. These data indicate that: (i) evaluation of unconditioned and conditioned responses to cat odors does not appear to strongly predict long-lasting increases in anxiety-like behavior; and, therefore, both types of responses are partially dissociated; and (ii) differences among cats mainly affected the induction of long-lasting changes in anxiety-like behavior. The ultimate reasons for these differences are not known, but their characterization is critical for a proper understanding of putative PTSD models.
The influence of temperature on taste cues and the ability to discriminate and learn about different temperatures of foods are important factors regulating ingestion. The goal of this research was to demonstrate that thermal orosensory input can serve as a salient stimulus to guide ingestive behavior in the rat, and also that it interacts with gustatory input during choice and conditioned aversion experiments. A novel apparatus with Peltier refrigerators was used to control the temperature of solutions in 10-min, 2-bottle tests. It was determined that naive rats preferred cold water (10 degrees C) to warm water (40 degrees ). When cold water was paired with a toxic LiCl injection, rats avoided cold water and drank warm water, thus demonstrating that cold water could serve as the conditioned stimulus in a conditioned temperature aversion. Rats conditioned against cold water could discriminate 10 degrees C water from 16 degrees C water, but not from 13 degrees C water, thus showing an ability to discriminate orosensory thermal cues to within 3-6 degrees C. Rats also generalized conditioned aversions from cold water to cold saccharin and cold sucrose solutions. However, if rats were conditioned against a compound taste and thermal stimulus (10 degrees C, 0.125% saccharin), the rats could distinguish and avoid each component individually, i.e., by avoiding cold water or warm saccharin. Finally, daily 2-bottle extinction tests were used to assess the strength of aversions conditioned against a taste cue (0.25 M sucrose), a thermal cue (10 degrees C water), or the combination. Aversions to taste or temperature alone persisted for 7-14 days of extinction testing, but the combined taste-temperature aversion was stronger and did not extinguish after 20 days of extinction testing. These results demonstrate that temperature can serve as a salient cue in conditioned aversions that affect ingestion independent of taste cues or by potentiating taste cues.








Remarkable progress has occurred over the last two decades in stroke interventions. Many have been developed on the basis of their efficacy in other disorders. This &quot;inheritance&quot; approach should continue, but two areas where completely novel therapeutic targets might emerge are the stimulation of neuroplasticity and unraveling the genetic code of stroke heterogeneity (Table 2). For the former, the next steps are to identify small-molecule, nontoxic compounds that most effectively enhance plasticity in animal models, and then subject them to clinical trial in humans. For the latter, more and larger-scale cooperative GWASs in carefully phenotyped stroke populations are required to better understand the polygenic nature of cerebrovascular disease. Then, the physiological relevance of genetic abnormalities can be determined in in vitro and in vivo systems before candidate compounds are developed.
A systematic functional analysis across much of the conventional Anopheles gambiae odorant receptor (AgOR) repertoire was carried out in Xenopus oocytes using two-electrode, voltage-clamp electrophysiology. The resulting data indicate that each AgOR manifests a distinct odor-response profile and tuning breadth. The large diversity of tuning responses ranges from AgORs that are responsive to a single or small number of odorants (specialists) to more broadly tuned receptors (generalists). Several AgORs were identified that respond robustly to a range of human volatiles that may play a critical role in anopheline host selection. AgOR responses were analyzed further by constructing a multidimensional odor space representing the relationships between odorants and AgOR responses. Within this space, the distance between odorants is related to both chemical class and concentration and may correlate with olfactory discrimination. This study provides a comprehensive overview of olfactory coding mechanisms of An. gambiae that ultimately may aid in fostering the design and development of olfactory-based strategies for reducing the transmission of malaria and other mosquito-borne diseases.
Social adaptation requires specific cognitive and emotional competences. Individuals with high-functioning autism or with Asperger syndrome cannot understand or engage in social situations despite preserved intellectual abilities. Recently, it has been suggested that oxytocin, a hormone known to promote mother-infant bonds, may be implicated in the social deficit of autism. We investigated the behavioral effects of oxytocin in 13 subjects with autism. In a simulated ball game where participants interacted with fictitious partners, we found that after oxytocin inhalation, patients exhibited stronger interactions with the most socially cooperative partner and reported enhanced feelings of trust and preference. Also, during free viewing of pictures of faces, oxytocin selectively increased patients' gazing time on the socially informative region of the face, namely the eyes. Thus, under oxytocin, patients respond more strongly to others and exhibit more appropriate social behavior and affect, suggesting a therapeutic potential of oxytocin through its action on a core dimension of autism.
Transcription factor-DNA interactions are life sustaining and therefore the subject of intensive research. In spite of vast effort, quantitative in vivo studies of the molecular mechanisms underlying these fundamental interactions remain challenging. In the preceding paper, we designed synthetic Sex combs reduced (Scr) peptides and validated genetically their function as transcriptional regulators. Here we present a controllable system for quantitative studies of protein-DNA interactions in live cells that enables us to &quot;titrate&quot; the concentration of the synthetic Scr peptides in a single cell. Using methods with single-molecule sensitivity, advanced fluorescence imaging and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS), we were able to study the kinetics of Scr-DNA interactions in live salivary gland cells, where Scr is normally expressed during development. We discerned freely moving Scr molecules, characterized the specific and nonspecific Scr peptide-DNA interactions, and estimated their corresponding dissociation constants (K(d)) in vivo. Our results suggest that the synthetic Scr transcription factors find their specific target sites primarily by multiple association/dissociation events, the rapidity of which is largely owed to electrostatic interactions. Based on these new findings, we formulate a model mechanism and emulate the kinetics of Scr homeodomain-DNA interactions in live cells using numerical simulations.
Dopamine neurotransmission controls motor and perseverative behavior, is mediated by protein phosphorylation, and may be perturbed in disorders of attention and hyperactivity. To assess the role of casein kinase I (CK1) in the regulation of dopamine signaling, we generated a genetically modified mouse line that overexpresses CK1delta (CK1delta OE) specifically in the forebrain. Overexpression was confirmed both at the mRNA and at the protein levels. Under basal conditions, CK1delta OE mice exhibited horizontal and vertical hyperactivity, reduced anxiety, and nesting behavior deficiencies. The CK1delta OE mice also presented paradoxical responses to dopamine receptor stimulation, showing hypoactivity following injection of d-amphetamine or methylphenidate, indicating that CK1 activity has a profound effect on dopamine signaling in vivo. Interestingly, CK1delta overexpression led to significantly reduced D1R and D2R dopamine receptor levels. All together, under basal conditions and in response to drug stimulation, the behavioral phenotype of CK1delta OE mice is reminiscent of the symptoms and drug responses observed in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and therefore the CK1delta OE mice appear to be a model for this disorder.
The hereditary hearing-vision loss disease, Usher syndrome I (USH1), is caused by defects in several proteins that can interact with each other in vitro. Defects in USH1 proteins are thought to be responsible for the developmental and functional impairments of sensory cells in the retina and inner ear. Harmonin/USH1C and Sans/USH1G are two of the USH1 proteins that interact with each other. Harmonin also binds to other USH1 proteins such as cadherin 23 (CDH23) and protocadherin 15 (PCDH15). However, the molecular basis governing the harmonin and Sans interaction is largely unknown. Here, we report an unexpected assembly mode between harmonin and Sans. We demonstrate that the N-terminal domain and the first PDZ domain of harmonin are tethered by a small-domain C-terminal to PDZ1 to form a structural and functional supramodule responsible for binding to Sans. We discover that the SAM domain of Sans, specifically, binds to the PDZ domain of harmonin, revealing previously unknown interaction modes for both PDZ and SAM domains. We further show that the synergistic PDZ1/SAM and PDZ1/carboxyl PDZ binding-motif interactions, between harmonin and Sans, lock the two scaffold proteins into a highly stable complex. Mutations in harmonin and Sans found in USH1 patients are shown to destabilize the complex formation of the two proteins.
We present the first case of primary benign fibrous meningioma restricted to the sacrum with no sign of recurrence after a long follow-up duration. This occurred in a 36-year-old man who initially presented with a 3-month history of right-sided sciatica. The tumour was successfully resected after three surgical procedures due to its high vascularity and technical difficulties. Sacroiliac joint stability was not disrupted, and he is still doing well clinically at 8 years follow-up.




Studies of gastrointestinal physiology in humans and intact animals are usually conducted after overnight fast. We compared the effects of orexin-A, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), melatonin, serotonin, uroguanylin, ghrelin and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) on duodenal bicarbonate secretion in fed and overnight fasted animals. This review is a summary of our findings. Secretagogues were administered by intra-arterial infusion or luminally (PGE(2)). Enterocyte intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) signalling was studied by fluorescence imaging. Total RNA was extracted, reverse transcripted to cDNA and expression of orexin receptors measured by quantitative real-time PCR. Orexin-A stimulates the duodenal secretion in continuously fed animals but not in food-deprived animals. Similarly, short-term fasting causes a 100-fold decrease in the amount of the muscarinic agonist bethanechol required for stimulation of secretion. In contrast, fasting does not affect secretory responses to intra-arterial VIP, melatonin, serotonin, uroguanylin and ghrelin, or that to luminal PGE(2). Orexin-A induces [Ca(2+)](i) signalling in enterocytes from fed rats but no significant [Ca(2+)](i) responses occur in enterocytes from fasted animals. In addition, overnight fasting decreases the expression of mucosal orexin receptors. Short-term food deprivation thus decreases duodenal expression of orexin receptors and abolishes the secretory response to orexin-A as well as orexin-A-induced [Ca(2+)](i) signalling. Fasting, furthermore, decreases mucosal sensitivity to bethanechol. The absence of declines in secretory responses to other secretagogues tested strongly suggests that short-term fasting does not affect the secretory capacity of the duodenal mucosa in general. Studies of intestinal secretion require particular evaluation with respect to feeding status.
One hypocretin/orexin (hcrt) gene has been identified in several fish species. The first pufferfish gene was identified in 2002 and the zebrafish gene was cloned in 2004. Its structure is very similar to that of mammals, and it encodes for two active peptides with C-termini similar to those of mammals. The gene is expressed in the brain in only one hypothalamic nucleus, which sends projections to the telencephalon, diencephalon, mesencephalon and rhombencephalon. The terminal fibres are found in close contact with many aminergic cell groups, including those of raphe serotonergic, locus coeruleus noradrenergic, several dopaminergic cell groups and the sole histaminergic hypothalamic cluster. One receptor corresponding to mammalian hcrt 2 receptor has been identified in fish. Overexpression of hcrt in zebrafish has been reported to consolidate wakefulness and inhibit rest. On the other hand, fish lacking the hcrt receptor show short and fragmented sleep instead of sleepiness and cataplexy. Food deprivation increases hcrt mRNA expression in zebrafish brain, and intracerebroventricular hcrt peptides stimulate food consumption and feeding behaviour in goldfish. Hcrt peptides thus have important roles in fish physiology. Many genetic and functional methods available render fish, especially zebrafish, a suitable organism to study new aspects of hcrt physiology in vertebrates.


In 1998, two groups independently identified the hypocretins, also known as orexins, as two hypothalamic peptides derived from the same precursor expressed in a few thousand neurones restricted to the perifornical area. A decade later, an amazing set of discoveries has demonstrated a key role for this neurotransmitter system in arousal and beyond. Here I review some of the experiments that led to these discoveries and the implications in the neurobiology of the hypothalamus and our understanding of brain arousal.








We examined gender differences in age of onset, clinical course, and heritability of alcohol dependence in 2,524 adults participating in the University of California San Francisco (UCSF) family study of alcoholism. Men were significantly more likely than women to have initiated regular drinking during adolescence. Onset of regular drinking was not found to be heritable but was found to be significantly associated with a shorter time to onset of alcohol dependence. A high degree of similarity in the sequence of alcohol-related life events was found between men and women, however, men experienced alcohol dependence symptoms at a younger age and women had a more rapid clinical course. Women were found to have a higher heritability estimate for alcohol dependence (h(2)= .46) than men (h(2)= .32). These findings suggest that environmental factors influencing the initiation of regular drinking rather than genetic factors associated with dependence may in part underlie some of the gender differences seen in the prevalence of alcohol dependence in this population. (Am J Addict 2010;00:1-10).

There is considerable interest in the mechanisms maintaining early reproduction in the most socioeconomically disadvantaged groups in developed countries. Previous research has suggested that differential exposure to early-life factors such as low birthweight and lack of paternal involvement during childhood may be relevant. Here, we used longitudinal data on the female cohort members from the UK National Child Development Study (n = 3,014-4,482 depending upon variables analyzed) to investigate predictors of early reproduction. Our main outcome measures were having a child by age 20, and stating at age 16 an intended age of reproduction of 20 years or lower. Low paternal involvement during childhood was associated with increased likelihood of early reproduction (O.R. 1.79-2.25) and increased likelihood of early intended reproduction (O.R. 1.38-2.50). Low birthweight for gestational age also increased the odds of early reproduction (O.R. for each additional s.d. 0.88) and early intended reproduction (O.R. for each additional s.d. 0.81). Intended early reproduction strongly predicted actual early reproduction (O.R. 5.39, 95% CI 3.71-7.83). The results suggest that early-life factors such as low birthweight for gestational age, and low paternal involvement during childhood, may affect women's reproductive development, leading to earlier target and achieved ages for reproduction. Differential exposure to these factors may be part of the reason that early fertility persists in socioeconomically disadvantaged groups. We discuss our results with respect to the kinds of interventions likely to affect the rate of teen pregnancy.


Minocycline ameliorates deficits in models of acute and chronic neurological diseases, but many publications do not replicate these results. We tested the hypothesis that a key factor in achieving neurological benefits is the exposure of neural cells to local high concentrations of minocycline. This hypothesis was evaluated by using human neurons in culture and in a mouse model of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). In culture, neurons were very vulnerable to blood-induced toxicity, with 60% lost within 24 hours in an environment of 5% blood in culture medium. Minocycline reduced blood-induced neurotoxicity in a concentration-dependent manner. In vivo, the introduction of blood into the striatum of mice to simulate ICH resulted in a massive lesion by 24 hours. When minocycline was mixed with the blood used to inflict ICH, the resulting extent of neuropathology was significantly less than that achieved with intraperitoneal administration of medication. The combination of intracerebral and intraperitoneal minocycline improved neuroprotection compared with either alone. We then delayed minocycline treatment and injected it into the hematoma 1 hour after ICH. We found greater alleviation of brain damage and neuronal death with increasing concentrations of minocycline injected locally, which was reflected in limited behavioral and histological recovery. We conclude that the prospect of neuroprotection with minocycline is improved by high concentrations of minocycline delivered locally into the central nervous system with supplementation from systemic administration.
Recently, we identified, for the first time, two-pore channels (TPCs, TPCN for gene name) as a novel family of nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP)-gated, endolysosome-targeted calcium release channels. Significantly, three subtypes of TPCs have been characterized, TPC1-3, with each being targeted to discrete acidic calcium stores, namely lysosomes (TPC2) and endosomes (TPC1 and TPC3). That TPCs act as NAADP-gated calcium release channels is clear, given that NAADP binds to high- and low-affinity sites associated with TPC2 and thereby induces calcium release and homologous desensitization, as observed in the case of endogenous NAADP receptors. Moreover, NAADP-evoked calcium signals via TPC2 are ablated by short hairpin RNA knockdown of TPC2 and by depletion of acidic calcium stores with bafilomycin. Importantly, however, NAADP-evoked calcium signals were biphasic in nature, with an initial phase of calcium release from lysosomes via TPC2, being subsequently amplified by calcium-induced calcium release (CICR) from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). In marked contrast, calcium release via endosome-targeted TPC1 induced only spatially restricted calcium signals that were not amplified by CICR from the ER. These findings provide new insights into the mechanisms that cells may utilize to &quot;filter&quot; calcium signals via junctional complexes to determine whether a given signal remains local or is converted into a propagating global signal. Essentially, endosomes and lysosomes represent vesicular calcium stores, quite unlike the ER network, and TPCs do not themselves support CICR or, therefore, propagating regenerative calcium waves. Thus &quot;quantal&quot; vesicular calcium release via TPCs must subsequently recruit inositol 1,4,5-trisphoshpate receptors and/or ryanodine receptors on the ER by CICR to evoke a propagating calcium wave. This may call for a revision of current views on the mechanisms of intracellular calcium signaling. The purpose of this review is, therefore, to provide an appropriate framework for future studies in this area.
Anterior pituitary cells express cation-conducting P2X receptor channels (P2XRs), but their molecular identity, electrophysiological properties, cell-specific expression pattern, and physiological roles have been only partially characterized. In this study, we show by quantitative RT-PCR that mRNA transcripts for the P2X(4) subunit are the most abundant in rat anterior pituitary tissue and confirm the P2X(4)R protein expression by Western blot analysis. Single-cell patch-clamp recordings show that extracellular ATP induced an inward depolarizing current in a majority of thyrotropin-releasing hormone-responsive pituitary cells, which resembled the current profile generated by recombinant P2X(4)R. The channels were activated and desensitized in a dose-dependent manner and deactivated rapidly. Activation of these channels led to stimulation of electrical activity and promotion of voltage-gated and voltage-insensitive Ca(2+) influx. In the presence of ivermectin, a specific allosteric modulator of P2X(4)Rs, there was an approximately fourfold increase in the maximum amplitude of the ATP-induced inward current, accompanied by an increase in the sensitivity of receptors for ATP, slowed deactivation of receptors, and enhanced ATP-induced prolactin release. These results indicate that thyrotropin-releasing hormone-responsive cells, including lactotrophs, express homomeric and/or heteromeric P2X(4)Rs, which facilitate Ca(2+) influx and hormone secretion.
NGF has been suggested to play a role in urinary bladder dysfunction by mediating inflammation, as well as morphological and functional changes, in sensory and sympathetic neurons innervating the urinary bladder. To further explore the role of NGF in bladder sensory function, we generated a transgenic mouse model of chronic NGF overexpression in the bladder using the urothelium-specific uroplakin II (UPII) promoter. NGF mRNA and protein were expressed at higher levels in the bladders of NGF-overexpressing (NGF-OE) transgenic mice compared with wild-type littermate controls from postnatal day 7 through 12-16 wk of age. Overexpression of NGF led to urinary bladder enlargement characterized by marked nerve fiber hyperplasia in the submucosa and detrusor smooth muscle and elevated numbers of tissue mast cells. There was a marked increase in the density of CGRP- and substance P-positive C-fiber sensory afferents, neurofilament 200-positive myelinated sensory afferents, and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive sympathetic nerve fibers in the suburothelial nerve plexus. CGRP-positive ganglia were also present in the urinary bladders of transgenic mice. Transgenic mice had reduced urinary bladder capacity and an increase in the number and amplitude of nonvoiding bladder contractions under baseline conditions in conscious open-voiding cystometry. These changes in urinary bladder function were further associated with an increased referred somatic pelvic hypersensitivity. Thus, chronic urothelial NGF overexpression in transgenic mice leads to neuronal proliferation, focal increases in urinary bladder mast cells, increased urinary bladder reflex activity, and pelvic hypersensitivity. NGF-overexpressing mice may, therefore, provide a useful transgenic model for exploring the role of NGF in urinary bladder dysfunction.
Human primary and clonal synovial cells were incubated with glutamate receptor agonists to assess their modulating influence on glutamate receptors N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) NR1 and NR2 and inflammatory cytokines to determine potential for paracrine or autocrine (neurocrine) upregulation of glutamate receptors, as has been shown for bone and chondrocytes. Clonal SW982 synoviocytes constitutively express vimentin, smooth muscle actin (SMA), and NMDA NR1 and NR2. Coincubation (6 h) with glutamate agonists NMDA (5 microM), and the NMDA NR1 glycine site activator (+/-)1-aminocyclopentane-cis-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (5 muM), significantly increases cellular mRNA and protein levels of glutamate receptors, as well as increasing vimentin, SMA, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and RANTES (regulated on activation, normal T-cell expressed and secreted), assessed qualitatively and quantitatively with nucleotide amplification, image analysis of immunocytochemical staining, fluorescein-activated cell sorting, Western blotting, and immunoassays. Human primary synovial cells harvested from patients with arthritic conditions also constitutively expressed NMDA NR1 with increases after agonist treatment. Glutamate receptor agonist-induced increases were blocked by the noncompetitive glutamate antagonist MK-801 (8 microg/ml) and NR1 blocking antibody. Coincubation with glutamate agonists and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, a protein kinase C activator, significantly enhanced mean levels of TNF-alpha and RANTES in SW982 cell supernatants compared with incubation with either agent alone. Increases were diminished with protein kinase inhibitor and NR1 blocking antibody. The functional activation of glutamate receptors on human synoviocytes establishes a neurogenic cell signaling link between neurotransmitter glutamate released from nerve terminals and target cells in the joint capsule. The influence of glutamate on subsequent release of cellular proinflammatory mediators in non-neural tissue for activation of downstream immune events supports a peripheral neuroimmune link in arthritis.
Transgenic Xenopus laevis are commonly used to study gene expression in photoreceptors, but only red rods and red cones are known to exist in the pre-metamorphic stages commonly used in transgenic studies. Using RT-PCR, this study shows that violet cones develop in early pre-metamorphic stages (Stage 35) with the red rods and red cones. Green rod development began in Stage 53 with the onset of metamorphosis.
Clinical studies have expanded the therapeutic olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) transplantation to different human Central Nervous System (CNS) diseases. In fact, the OEC transplantation in clinic is a mixture of olfactory bulb cells; they even have not demonstrated that they have such a subpopulation yet. However, as a source of OECs transplantation, the development and identification of human fetal OECs are still need more understanding, because some surgery try to restoration CNS injury with a more purity of OEC cultures generated by a number of different procedures. In this article, twelve human fetal olfactory bulb (OB) samples were obtained from six fetuses in 20 weeks of gestation, it was studied by immunofluorescence on histological sections and cultured cells with multiple antibodies under confocal microscopy. The P75NTR positive OB-OECs (olfactory ensheathing cell from the olfactory bulb) were present in both outer olfactory nerve layers and glomerular layer. The percentage of OB cells in culture, about 22.31 was P75NTR positive, 45.77 was S100beta, and 31.92 was GFAP. P75NTR and GFAP were coexpressed with S100beta, respectively; however, P75NTR was not coexpressed with GFAP in human fetal OECs. It is suggested that the localization and development of human OECs in OB are different to those in rodent, and the P75NTR immunohistological staining is still necessary to identify and characterize human fetal OECs in culture before transplantation.

The amygdala has received intense recent attention from neuroscientists investigating its function at the molecular, cellular, systems, cognitive, and clinical level. It clearly contributes to processing emotionally and socially relevant information, yet a unifying description and computational account have been lacking. The difficulty of tying together the various studies stems in part from the sheer diversity of approaches and species studied, in part from the amygdala's inherent heterogeneity in terms of its component nuclei, and in part because different investigators have simply been interested in different topics. Yet, a synthesis now seems close at hand in combining new results from social neuroscience with data from neuroeconomics and reward learning. The amygdala processes a psychological stimulus dimension related to saliency or relevance; mechanisms have been identified to link it to processing unpredictability; and insights from reward learning have situated it within a network of structures that include the prefrontal cortex and the ventral striatum in processing the current value of stimuli. These aspects help to clarify the amygdala's contributions to recognizing emotion from faces, to social behavior toward conspecifics, and to reward learning and instrumental behavior.
Narcolepsy with cataplexy is a sleep-wake disorder caused by a loss of hypothalamic hypocretins. Here we assessed the time course of amygdala activation during aversive conditioning in unmedicated patients with narcolepsy. Unlike healthy matched control subjects, narcolepsy patients had no enhancement of amygdala response to conditioned stimuli and no increase in functional coupling between the amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex. These findings suggest that human narcolepsy is accompanied by abnormal emotional learning, and that, in line with animal data, the hypocretin system and the amygdala are involved in this process.

This work aimed at establishing the memory alteration test (M@T), which is a memory screening test, capable for discriminating between subjects with subjective memory complaints (SMC) (without objective memory impairment) and patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (A-MCI) and with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD). The discriminative validity was assessed in a sample of 37 subjects with SMC, 50 patients with A-MCI according to the Petersen-criteria, and 66 patients with mild AD (global deterioration scale: 4 stage) according to the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. M@T mean scores were significantly different among groups: 39.7 + or - 5.1 (+ or - S.D.) in the SMC group, 31.5 + or - 3.9 in the A-MCI group, and 21.8 + or - 4.9 in mild AD. A cut-off score of 37 points had a sensitivity of 96% and a specificity of 70% to differentiate A-MCI from SMC (ABC = 0.88). A cut-off score of 33 points had a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 86% to differentiate mild AD from SMC sample (AUC = 0.99). We conclude that the M@T provides efficient and valid discrimination between SMC subjects and A-MCI, and between SMC subjects and mild AD.



This letter to the editors aims to discuss the findings presented by Kulhara et al. (2009) in the article &quot;Is the course and outcome of schizophrenia better in the 'developing' world?&quot;. My conclusion is that this phenomenon relates to both protective and non-protective features of the developing countries.
Alcohol dependence is a chronic relapsing disorder similar to other major psychiatry disorders. Alcoholism is considered to be stressful to the family members. This study attempted to examine the behaviors family members report more distressful in frequency and also in their severities. Family members, mostly spouses of fifty males with alcohol dependence were interviewed for the behaviors which they considered distressful. Scale for Assessment of Family Distress (SAFD) for alcoholism was used to assess the frequency and severity of the distressing behaviors. Family members of all the patients (100%) reported behaviors like excessive spending and disturbance of peace at home as distressful. With regard to severity, in addition to the above two behaviors, does not working and earning, not taking responsibility, and being physically and verbally abusive were also considered as very distressful. Sexually embarrassing behaviors, legal problems or road traffic accidents were not commonly reported as distressful.
The cause and pathophysiology of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are unknown, but compelling evidence suggests an involvement of genetic factors. While dopamine is believed to play a major role in ADHD, the role for norepinephrine and serotonin systems has also been indicated. Mutant mice are valuable tools to dissect the contribution of specific neurotransmitter systems to brain dysfunction and particularly useful to decode complex multi-transmitter interaction that is critical to the pathophysiology of ADHD. Genetically altered mice provided also an opportunity to test experimentally the role of novel candidate genes for this disorder identified in genetic clinical studies. While it is clear that no rodent model would be able to recapitulate fully the complex nature of ADHD, certain endophenotypes could be reasonably well mimicked in these models. Multiple studies have reported associations between polymorphisms in dopamine transporter (DAT) gene and ADHD. Although the functional consequences of these associations are still unclear, it is believed that alterations in DAT-mediated processes might contribute to the pathogenesis of ADHD. Mice lacking the dopamine transporter have elevated dopaminergic tone and represent a genetic animal model in which certain endophenotypes of ADHD can be recapitulated. These mutants as well as other mouse models of DAT dysfunction provided an opportunity to investigate the neuronal circuitry and molecular mechanisms involved in the inhibitory action of psychostimulants on hyperactivity. Several additional knockout and transgenic mouse models have been proposed to model ADHD. Strengths and limitations of currently available genetic mouse models of ADHD are discussed.

In many animal taxa, prior contest experience affects future performance such that winning increases the chances of winning in the future (winner effect) and losing increases the chances of losing in the future (loser effect). It is, however, not clear whether this pattern typically arises from experience effects on actual or perceived fighting ability (or both). In this study, we looked at winner and loser effects in the jumping spider Phidippus clarus. We assigned winning or losing experience to spiders and tested them against opponents of similar fighting ability in subsequent contests at 1-, 2-, 5-, and 24-h intervals. We examined the strength of winner and loser effects, how long effects persist, as well as how experience affected perceived and actual fighting ability. Our results demonstrate that winner and loser effects are of approximately the same magnitude, although loser effects last longer than winner effects. Our results also demonstrate that previous experience alters actual fighting ability because both the assessment and escalation periods were affected by experience. We suggest that the retention time of experience effects depends on expected encounter rates as well as other behavioral and ecological factors. In systems with short breeding seasons and/or rapidly fluctuating populations, context-dependent retention of experience effects may allow males to track their status relative to the fluctuating fighting ability of local competitors without paying the costs necessary to recall or assess individual competitors.
In the past 10 years or so, with the sequencing of the human genome and rapid advances in the development of high throughput techniques, the field of behavior genetics has increasingly moved toward the detection of actual genes and environmental factors. However, the field is still in the relatively early stages of understanding some of the basic facts about the complex genetic underpinnings of brain structure and function and their relationship to behavior. The 15 articles in this special issue were selected to represent the diversity of methodologies applied to the complexity of pathways linking genes, brain, and behavior. While providing strong evidence for the role of genes in individual differences in brain structure and function, these papers also demonstrate that environmental experiences alter neurobiological pathways, and that genetic factors may further moderate the impact of environmental experience. Most importantly, the breadth of studies proves that in order to be able to trace the pathways between genes, brain, and behavior, we need experts in genetics, neuroscience, psychology, and psychiatry.
We tested whether telomere length is altered in the brains of patients diagnosed with major depression (MD), bipolar disorder (BD) and schizophrenia (SZ) by measuring mean telomere length (mTL) with real-time PCR. The samples are cerebellar gray matter from 46 SZ, 46 BP, and 15 MD patients, and 48 healthy controls. We found no difference in mTL between SZ and controls, BD and controls, MD and controls, or all cases and controls; no correlation between mTL and age was observed, either. This suggests that brain gray matter is unlikely to be related to the telomere length shortening reported in blood of psychiatric patients. White matter deserves further investigation as it has been reported to have a different mTL dynamic from gray matter. Since mTL has been reported to be a heritable quantitative trait, we also carried out genome-wide mapping of genetic factors for mTL, treating mTL as a quantitative trait. No association survived correction of multiple testing for the number of SNPs studied. The previously reported rs2630578 (BICD1) association was not replicated. This suggests that telomere length of cerebellar gray matter is determined by multiple loci with &quot;weak effects.&quot;
Some BALB/c substrains exhibit different levels of aggression. We compared aggression levels between male BALB/cJ and BALB/cByJ substrains using the resident intruder paradigm. These substrains were also assessed in other tests of emotionality and information processing including the open field, forced swim, fear conditioning, and prepulse inhibition tests. We also evaluated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) previously reported between these BALB/c substrains. Finally, we compared BALB/cJ and BALB/cByJ mice for genomic deletions or duplications, collectively termed copy number variants (CNVs), to identify candidate genes that might underlie the observed behavioral differences. BALB/cJ mice showed substantially higher aggression levels than BALB/cByJ mice; however, only minor differences in other behaviors were observed. None of the previously reported SNPs were verified. Eleven CNV regions were identified between the two BALB/c substrains. Our findings identify a robust difference in aggressive behavior between BALB/cJ and BALB/cByJ substrains, which could be the result of the identified CNVs.
Given that social influences are among the strongest predictors of adolescents' drug use, this study examined the effect of social interaction on morphine-induced hyperlocomotion in both adolescent and adult mice. Three experimental groups of adolescent and adult male mice were examined (i) morphine-treated mice (twice daily, 10-40 mg/kg, subcutaneous), (ii) saline-injected mice housed together with the morphine-treated mice ('saline cage-mates'), and (iii) saline-injected mice housed physically and visually separated from the morphine-treated mice ('saline alone'). After the treatment period, mice were tested individually for their locomotor response to 10 mg/kg morphine (subcutaneous). Adolescent saline cage-mates, though administered morphine for the very first time, exhibited an enhanced hyperlocomotion response similar to the locomotor sensitization response exhibited by the morphine-treated mice. This was not observed in adults. In adults, there were no significant differences in morphine-induced hyperlocomotion between saline alone and saline cage-mates. As expected, morphine-treated adults and adolescents both exhibited locomotor sensitization. These results show a vulnerability to social influences in adolescent mice, which does not exist in adult mice.
Different groups of rats received different amounts of training to lever press for a food reinforcer before an aversion was conditioned to the food. This devaluation of the reinforcer reduced responding in both subsequent extinction and reinforced tests of responding to a degree that was independent of the amount of instrumental training. Moreover, interpolating context extinction between aversion conditioning and the extinction test reduced the magnitude of the devaluation effect, thereby indicating that Pavlovian contextual conditioning may play a role in the instrumental devaluation effect.
Non-reinforced preexposure to two stimuli often enhances discrimination between them. Analyses of this perceptual learning phenomenon have mainly focused on the role played by the distinctive stimulus features; this study examined the contribution of the non-distinctive common elements. A standard appetitive Pavlovian procedure was used. Rats received two different schedules of exposure--alternated or blocked--to two compound auditory stimuli, AX and BX. In Experiment 1 a generalization test to BX that followed conditioning to AX showed that animals responded less, and hence discriminated better, following alternated exposure, thus extending the generality of this perceptual learning effect to standard appetitive Pavlovian procedures. The degree to which the common element X was mediating this effect was explored in the next three experiments. Experiment 2 assessed the effectiveness of X following conditioning to AX. Experiment 3 explored X's effectiveness throughout extensive conditioning to X. Experiment 4 tested the ability of X to overshadow a novel stimulus Y. The results were consistent with the suggestion that alternated preexposure can reduce the relative effectiveness of the common element.
This article reviews antisocial personality disorder, psychopathy, and violence and develops a three factor model of personality traits. Then a discussion of related personality disorders precedes the development of a categorical two factor model of impulsive versus remorseless violence. A paradigm of proactive, medical, and school based early intervention and prevention is advocated as a useful addition to the reactive detention of criminal justice. Integration of psychological tests, neuroimaging, and genomic data in early childhood and school based intervention strategies to prevent the development of conduct disorder and attenuate criminal propensity inform this approach.
The theoretical basis of reactive oxygen species and their impact on health issues are relatively easy to understand by biomedical students. The detection of reactive oxygen species requires expensive equipment, the procedures are time consuming and costly, and the results are hard to interpret. Moreover, cause-and-effect relationships in the living system are not so evident. In this report, we adapted a two-step procedure to detect anion superoxide radicals and hydrogen peroxide generation in lymphocytes exposed to paraquat by using nitroblue tetrazolium salt and dihydrorhodamine, respectively. Also, a two-step assay was performed to evaluate lymphocyte viability and nuclei morphologic changes on paraquat exposure for 1 and 24 hours incubation time by using trypan blue exclusion assay and acridine orange/ethidium bromide staining technique, respectively. Vitamin E was used as antioxidant to inhibit the deleterious effects of paraquat on cells. Students learned how to (i) design and perform experiments in the laboratory, (ii) read critical scientific literature, and (iii) discuss and contrast relevant information about reactive oxygen species as causative agents of cell death phenomenon.

At variance with most oncogenic protein kinases whose malignancy is generally due to genetic alterations conferring constitutive activity, CK2 is a highly pleiotropic Ser/Thr protein kinase naturally endowed with constitutive activity and lacking gain-of-function mutants. Nonetheless CK2 is abnormally elevated in a wide variety of tumors and there is strong evidence that it operates as a cancer driver by creating a cellular environment favorable to neoplasia: notably, CK2 plays a global role as an anti-apoptotic and pro-survival agent, it enhances the multi-drug resistance (MDR) phenotype, it assists the chaperone machinery which protects the &quot;onco-kinome&quot; and it promotes neo-angiogenesis. Based on this scenario we propose that the implication of CK2 in neoplasia is an example of &quot;non oncogene addiction&quot;, i.e. over reliance of the perturbed cellular signaling network on high CK2 level for its own maintenance. Consistent with this, an ample spectrum of diverse types of cancer cells have been already shown to rely on high CK2 level for their survival, as judged from their response to specific CK2 inhibitors and silencing of endogenous CK2 catalytic subunits. Remarkably, among these are cells whose cancer phenotype arises from the genetic alteration of onco-kinases (e.g. Abl and Alk) different from CK2 and insensitive to the CK2 inhibitors used in those experiments. Based on these premises, CK2 could represent a &quot;multi-purpose&quot; target for the treatment of different kinds of tumors.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) a progressive neurodegenerative disorder of later life, is characterized by brain deposition of amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) plaques, accumulation of intracellular neurofibrillatory tangles, synaptic loss and neuronal cell death. There is significant evidence that oxidative stress is a critical event in the pathogenesis of AD. In the present study Abeta formation was induced in NT2N neurons, one of the most appropriate cell line models in AD. Our results indicate that oxidative stress resulting from the treatment of H(2)O(2)/FeSO(4) and/or 4-hydroxy-2-noenal (HNE) can be inhibited in the presence of tBHQ, a known inducer of nuclear factor-erythroid 2 related factor 2 (Nrf2) in NT2N neurons and can therefore be used to elucidate the relationship between oxidative stress, Abeta formation and Nrf2. The role of Nrf2 was confirmed using retinoic acid as an inhibitor of Nrf2. It provides the first documentation that tBHQ not only protects the neurons against cell death but also decreases amyloid beta formation. Moreover, the results indicate that oxidative stress fosters Abeta formation in NT2N neurons, creating a vicious neurodegenerative loop.

Controlling everyday behaviour relies on the ability to configure appropriate task sets and guide attention towards information relevant to the current context and goals. Here, we ask whether these two aspects of cognitive control have different neural bases. Electrical brain activity was recorded while sixteen adults performed two discrimination tasks. The tasks were performed on either a visual input (letter on the screen) or self-generated information (letter generated internally by continuing the alphabetical sequence). In different blocks, volunteers either switched between (i) the two tasks, (ii) the two sources of information, or (iii) tasks and source of information. Event-related potentials differed significantly between switch and no-switch trials from an early point in time, encompassing at least three distinct effects. Crucially, although these effects showed quantitative differences across switch types, no qualitative differences were observed. Thus, at least under the current circumstances, switching between different tasks and between perceptually derived or self-generated sources of information rely on similar neural correlates until at least 900 ms after the onset of a switch event.
Nanostructured materials provide a new dimension of interaction with biological systems that takes place on a sub-cellular level with a high degree of specificity. In the field of neuroscience the nanoscale corresponds to the size of synapses; the specific connections between brain cells. In this context, diamond-based materials have attracted much attention due to their extreme mechanical and electrical properties and their chemical inertness. Here the suitability of nanodiamond (ND) monolayers to act as a platform for neuronal growth is investigated. Neurons cultured on various ND-coated substrates perform remarkably well, and similar to those grown on standard protein-coated materials with respect to their initial cell attachment, sustained neurite outgrowth, cell-autonomous neuronal excitability and functionality of the resulting electrical networks. ND layering provides an excellent growth substrate on various materials for functional neuronal networks and bypasses the necessity of protein coating, which promises great potential for chronic medical implants.
The injury of the CA1 region of the adult rat hippocampus causes cognitive impairment. In this study, animal models were established by mechanically injuring the CA1 region of the adult rat hippocampus, and into the injured area were implanted chitosan carriers loaded either with or without NT-3. Immunohistochemical and nerve tracer methods were adopted to observe the role of the above-mentioned carriers in repairing the injured brain and to observe the scar formation after the injury, and Morris water maze (MWM) tests were performed to evaluate the recovery degree of the cognitive function. The results showed that NT-3-chitosan carriers stimulated regeneration of a large amount of NF-positive nerve fiber and neuron-like cells into the injured area. The newly regenerated NF-positive nerve fibers in the injured area rebuilt a neural circuit with the contralateral CA1 region via corpus callosum. Comparison of the lesion control rats and the treated rats indicates that the chitosan carriers loaded either with or without NT-3 may significantly improve the cognitive function after the hippocampus injury.
Starting from non-peptidic sst(1)-selective somatostatin receptor antagonists, first compounds with mixed sst(1)/sst(3) affinity were identified by directed structural modifications. Systematic optimization of these initial leads afforded novel, enantiomerically pure, highly potent and sst(3)-subtype selective somatostatin antagonists based on a (4S,4aS,8aR)-decahydroisoquinoline-4-carboxylic acid core moiety. These compounds can efficiently be synthesized and show promising PK properties in rodents.
We synthesized carbamate-modified (-)-N(1)-phenethylnorphysostigmine derivatives 3a-u and evaluated their anti-cholinesterase activities. In vitro evaluation showed that cyclohexylmethylcarbamate derivative 3u potently and selectively inhibits butyrylcholinesterase.
We synthesized a series of N(1)-substituted norcymserine derivatives 7a-p and evaluated their anti-cholinesterase activities. In vitro evaluation showed that the pyridinylethyl derivatives 7m-o and the piperidinylethyl derivative 7p improved the anti-butyrylcholinesterase activity by approximately threefold compared to N(1)-phenethylnorcymserine (PEC, 2). A quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) study indicated that logS might be a key feature of the improved compounds.

The antidepressant agomelatine combines a novel mechanism of action with certain advantages over currently available antidepressants, in terms of restoration of sleep, absence of treatment-emergent sexual dysfunction, and fewer discontinuation symptoms. What is its potential role in clinical practice?



Patients with Parkinson's disease experience motor and perceptual timing difficulties, which are ameliorated by dopaminergic medication. We investigated the neural correlates of motor timing in Parkinson's disease, including the effects of dopaminergic medication on patterns of brain activation. Eight patients with Parkinson's disease and eight healthy controls were scanned with H(15)(2)O positron emission tomography while engaged in three tasks: synchronization (right index finger tapping in synchrony with a tone presented at 1 Hz), continuation (tapping at 1 Hz in the absence of a tone), and a control simple reaction time task. During the first 6 scans, the patients were assessed after overnight withdrawal of medication. Scans 7-12 were completed with the patients in the 'ON' state, after injections of apomorphine, a dopamine receptor agonist. For the healthy controls, relative to the control reaction time task, motor timing (synchronization + continuation) was associated with significantly greater activation in left medial prefrontal cortex (Brodmann area 10, 32), right hippocampus, bilateral angular gyrus (Brodmann area 39), left posterior cingulate (Brodmann area 31) and left nucleus accumbens/caudate. This pattern of brain activation during motor timing was not observed for patients, who showed significantly greater activation in bilateral cerebellum, right thalamus and left midbrain/substantia nigra compared to the control participants. Relative to the externally-paced synchronization task, the internally controlled continuation task was associated with greater activation in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (Brodmann area 46/9) in both the control and Parkinson's disease groups. Analysis of medication-related effects indicated that cortical activation was significantly more predominant during motor timing when the patients were 'ON' medication, whereas pallidal and cerebellar activations were evident 'OFF' medication. Effective connectivity analysis established that activity in the left caudate nucleus was associated with increased activity in the right lentiform nucleus and cerebellum 'OFF' medication, and with increased activity in the prefrontal cortex 'ON' medication. These results suggest that in Parkinson's disease, in the 'OFF' medication state, excessive inhibitory pallidal outflow is associated with a lack of adequate frontal activation and reliance on the cerebellum for motor timing. In contrast, our results establish for the first time that administration of dopaminergic medication increases striatal-frontal connectivity between the caudate nucleus and prefrontal cortex during motor timing.


Neurophysiological studies have provided evidence of primary motor cortex hyperexcitability in primary dystonia, but several functional imaging studies suggest otherwise. To address this issue, we measured sensorimotor activation at both the regional and network levels in carriers of the DYT1 dystonia mutation and in control subjects. We used (15)Oxygen-labelled water and positron emission tomography to scan nine manifesting DYT1 carriers, 10 non-manifesting DYT1 carriers and 12 age-matched controls while they performed a kinematically controlled motor task; they were also scanned in a non-motor audio-visual control condition. Within- and between-group contrasts were analysed with statistical parametric mapping. For network analysis, we first identified a normal motor-related activation pattern in a set of 39 motor and audio-visual scans acquired in an independent cohort of 18 healthy volunteer subjects. The expression of this pattern was prospectively quantified in the motor and control scans acquired in each of the gene carriers and controls. Network values for the three groups were compared with ANOVA and post hoc contrasts. Voxel-wise comparison of DYT1 carriers and controls revealed abnormally increased motor activation responses in the former group (P &lt; 0.05, corrected; statistical parametric mapping), localized to the sensorimotor cortex, dorsal premotor cortex, supplementary motor area and the inferior parietal cortex. Network analysis of the normative derivation cohort revealed a significant normal motor-related activation pattern topography (P &lt; 0.0001) characterized by covarying neural activity in the sensorimotor cortex, dorsal premotor cortex, supplementary motor area and cerebellum. In the study cohort, normal motor-related activation pattern expression measured during movement was abnormally elevated in the manifesting gene carriers (P &lt; 0.001) but not in their non-manifesting counterparts. In contrast, in the non-motor control condition, abnormal increases in network activity were present in both groups of gene carriers (P &lt; 0.001). In this condition, normal motor-related activation pattern expression in non-manifesting carriers was greater than in controls, but lower than in affected carriers. In the latter group, measures of normal motor-related activation pattern expression in the audio-visual condition correlated with independent dystonia clinical ratings (r = 0.70, P = 0.04). These findings confirm that overexcitability of the sensorimotor system is a robust feature of dystonia. The presence of elevated normal motor-related activation pattern expression in the non-motor condition suggests that abnormal integration of audio-visual input with sensorimotor network activity is an important trait feature of this disorder. Lastly, quantification of normal motor-related activation pattern expression in individual cases may have utility as an objective descriptor of therapeutic response in trials of new treatments for dystonia and related disorders.
Limb-shaking is a specific clinical feature of transient ischaemic attacks that has been associated with a high-grade stenosis or occlusion of the internal carotid artery. The aim of this study was to describe the clinical characteristics of limb-shaking in patients with internal carotid artery occlusion and to investigate whether patients with limb-shaking have a worse haemodynamic state of the brain than patients with internal carotid artery occlusion without limb-shaking. We included 34 patients (mean age 62 + or - 7 years, 82% male) with limb-shaking associated with internal carotid artery occlusion and 68 sex- and age-matched controls with cerebral transient ischaemic attack or minor disabling ischaemic stroke associated with internal carotid artery occlusion, but without limb-shaking. We investigated clinical characteristics, collateral pathways on contrast angiograms and carbon dioxide-reactivity measured by transcranial Doppler. The results showed that limb-shaking usually lasted less than 5 min and was often accompanied by paresis of the involved limb. Compared with controls, patients with limb-shaking more frequently had symptoms precipitated by rising or exercise (odds ratio 14.2, 95% confidence interval 4.2-47.9), more frequently had recurrent ischaemic deficits after documented internal carotid artery occlusion (but before inclusion in the study) (odds ratio 8.2, 95% confidence interval 2.3-29.3), more often had leptomeningeal collaterals (odds ratio 6.8, 95% confidence interval 2.0-22.7), and tended to have a lower carbon dioxide-reactivity (mean 5% + or - 16 versus 12% + or - 17; odds ratio 0.97 per 1% increase in carbon dioxide-reactivity, 95% confidence interval 0.94-1.00). In conclusion, limb-shaking transient ischaemic attacks in patients with internal carotid artery occlusion can be recognized by their short duration, are often accompanied by paresis and precipitated by rising or exercise and are indicative of an impaired haemodynamic state of the brain.
Mutations of mitochondrial DNA are associated with a wide spectrum of disorders, primarily affecting the central nervous system and muscle function. The specific consequences of mitochondrial DNA mutations for neuronal pathophysiology are not understood. In order to explore the impact of mitochondrial mutations on neuronal biochemistry and physiology, we have used fluorescence imaging techniques to examine changes in mitochondrial function in neurons differentiated from mouse embryonic stem-cell cybrids containing mitochondrial DNA polymorphic variants or mutations. Surprisingly, in neurons carrying a severe mutation in respiratory complex I (&lt;10% residual complex I activity) the mitochondrial membrane potential was significantly increased, but collapsed in response to oligomycin, suggesting that the mitochondrial membrane potential was maintained by the F(1)F(o) ATPase operating in 'reverse' mode. In cells with a mutation in complex IV causing approximately 40% residual complex IV activity, the mitochondrial membrane potential was not significantly different from controls. The rate of generation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species, measured using hydroethidium and signals from the mitochondrially targeted hydroethidine, was increased in neurons with both the complex I and complex IV mutations. Glutathione was depleted, suggesting significant oxidative stress in neurons with a complex I deficiency, but not in those with a complex IV defect. In the neurons with complex I deficiency but not the complex IV defect, neuronal death was increased and was attenuated by reactive oxygen species scavengers. Thus, in neurons with a severe mutation of complex I, the maintenance of a high potential by F(1)F(o) ATPase activity combined with an impaired respiratory chain causes oxidative stress which promotes cell death.
Astrocytes are prominent participants in the response of the central nervous system to injury, including neuroinflammatory insults. Rodent astrocytes in vitro have been shown to express voltage-gated sodium channels in a dynamic manner, with a switch in expression of tetrodotoxin-sensitive to tetrodotoxin-resistant channels in reactive astrocytes. However, the expression of sodium channels in human astrocytes has not been studied, and it is not known whether there are changes in the expression of sodium channels in reactive astrocytes of the human central nervous system. Here, we demonstrate a focal and robust upregulation of sodium channel Nav1.5 in reactive astrocytes at the borders of, and within, active and chronic multiple sclerosis lesions. Nav1.5 was only detectable at very low levels in astrocytes within multiple sclerosis macroscopically normal-appearing white matter or in normal control brain. Nav1.1, Nav1.2, Nav1.3 and Nav1.6 showed little or no expression in astrocytes within normal control tissue and limited upregulation in active multiple sclerosis lesions. Nav1.5 was also expressed at high levels in astrocytes in tissue surrounding new and old cerebrovascular accidents and brain tumours. These results demonstrate the expression of Nav1.5 in human astrocytes and show that Nav1.5 expression is dynamic in these cells. Our observations suggest that the upregulated expression of Nav1.5 in astrocytes may provide a compensatory mechanism, which supports sodium/potassium pump-dependent ionic homoeostasis in areas of central nervous system injury.
Learning to associate auditory information of speech sounds with visual information of letters is a first and critical step for becoming a skilled reader in alphabetic languages. Nevertheless, it remains largely unknown which brain areas subserve the learning and automation of such associations. Here, we employ functional magnetic resonance imaging to study letter-speech sound integration in children with and without developmental dyslexia. The results demonstrate that dyslexic children show reduced neural integration of letters and speech sounds in the planum temporale/Heschl sulcus and the superior temporal sulcus. While cortical responses to speech sounds in fluent readers were modulated by letter-speech sound congruency with strong suppression effects for incongruent letters, no such modulation was observed in the dyslexic readers. Whole-brain analyses of unisensory visual and auditory group differences additionally revealed reduced unisensory responses to letters in the fusiform gyrus in dyslexic children, as well as reduced activity for processing speech sounds in the anterior superior temporal gyrus, planum temporale/Heschl sulcus and superior temporal sulcus. Importantly, the neural integration of letters and speech sounds in the planum temporale/Heschl sulcus and the neural response to letters in the fusiform gyrus explained almost 40% of the variance in individual reading performance. These findings indicate that an interrelated network of visual, auditory and heteromodal brain areas contributes to the skilled use of letter-speech sound associations necessary for learning to read. By extending similar findings in adults, the data furthermore argue against the notion that reduced neural integration of letters and speech sounds in dyslexia reflect the consequence of a lifetime of reading struggle. Instead, they support the view that letter-speech sound integration is an emergent property of learning to read that develops inadequately in dyslexic readers, presumably as a result of a deviant interactive specialization of neural systems for processing auditory and visual linguistic inputs.
Pro-inflammatory cytokines promote behavioral and neurochemical variations similar to those evident following stressor exposure, and have been implicated in promoting depressive illness. Indeed, immunotherapeutic application of the cytokine, interferon-alpha, promoted depressive illness in cancer and hepatitis C patients. We assessed the possibility that another interferon cytokine family member, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), might contribute to the behavioral and biochemical alterations provoked by a chronic stressor regimen that has been used to model neuropsychiatric pathology in rodents. As predicted, IFN-gamma-deficient mice displayed basal differences in behavior (e.g., reduced open field exploration) and altered neurochemical activity (e.g., increased noradrenergic and serotonergic activity within the central amygdala), relative to their wild-type counterparts. Moreover, stressor-induced elevations of corticosterone and the pro-inflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, were attenuated in IFN-gamma-deficient mice. Similarly, the IFN-gamma null mice were refractory to the chronic stressor-induced alterations of dopamine metabolism (within the prefrontal cortex, paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and central amygdala) evident in wild-type mice. Yet, the chronic stressor provoked signs of anxiety (e.g., reduced open field exploration) and depression-like behavior (e.g., increased forced swim immobility, reduced consumption of a palatable solution) among both wild-type and IFN-gamma knockout mice alike, suggesting a dissociation of behavioral functioning from the stressor-induced alterations of immunological, hormonal and dopaminergic activity. Together, these data suggest a complex neurobehavioral phenotype, wherein IFN-gamma deletion engenders a state of heightened basal emotionality coupled with increased monoaminergic activity in the amygdala. At the same time, however, IFN-gamma deficiency appears to blunt some of the neurochemical, corticoid and cytokine alterations ordinarily associated with chronic stressor exposure.
Episodic memory deficit is the hallmark of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). There is, however, an overlap in performance among patients with aMCI and elderly controls (EC). The memory deficit in aMCI therefore needs to be better characterized. Studies have shown that associative memory is selectively impaired in aMCI, and recent work suggested that aMCI may be hypersensitive to semantic proactive interference (PI). It is not known whether this increased PI is related to associative or semantic impairment. EC (n=44) and patients with aMCI (n=30) performed two tasks presenting a gradually increasing PI effect across four lists. One task used semantic cueing, the other phonological cueing. We controlled for associative memory by introducing it as a covariate and by matching our subjects for it. Patients with aMCI had a greater PI effect than EC matched for associative memory, regardless of the type of cueing. The increased PI effect in patients with aMCI is independent of their associative and semantic impairment.
An effective connectivity study was carried out on 16 young, healthy subjects performing an alertness task. The objective of this study was to develop and to evaluate a putative network model of alertness by adapting structural equation modeling to fMRI data. This study was designed to evaluate the directed interactivity of an attentional network during intrinsic and phasic alerting tasks. On the basis of theoretical hypotheses, clinical observations, behavioral data and neuroimaging studies, it was hypothesized that neural circuits in the right hemisphere including the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), anterior cingulate cortex, inferior parietal cortex and the thalamus were involved. The results of this study support the existence of a common network of activated areas with significant path coefficient differences between intrinsic and phasic alertness. Functional interactivity was significantly reinforced during the phasic alertness task and appeared to preferentially involve activity in the DLPFC region, whereas the path coefficients of the model were well-balanced during intrinsic alertness. This study highlights the predominant role of the DLPFC region in maintenance of a state of alertness and in temporal preparation during an alertness task.
The cognitive process of imaging an object turning around is called mental rotation. Many studies have been put forward analyzing mental rotation by means of event-related potentials (ERPs). Event-related potentials (ERPs) were measured during mental rotation of characters in a sample (N=82) with a sufficient size to obtain even small effects. A bilateral ERP amplitude modulation as a function of angular displacement was observed at parietal leads without any lateralization. Sex had no effect on mental rotation of characters, neither with respect to performance nor with respect to brain potentials. When the sample was split into groups of high- and low-performers, however, the results indicated (a) in line with the idea of neural efficiency substantially larger amplitudes for low-performers; (b) that the smaller amplitudes of the high-performers involved larger parietal networks; and (c) a left-parietal disengagement of neural activity for high-performers but a right-parietal disengagement for low-performers. The latter finding became evident through an analysis of internal consistencies of ERP amplitudes across conditions and performance levels, showing that internal consistencies were reduced at all three leads in the high-performance group for the biggest rotation angle, relative the other conditions and the low-performing group.
The present work investigated the effects of caffeine (0mg, 100mg, 200mg, 400mg) on a flanker task designed to test Posner's three visual attention network functions: alerting, orienting, and executive control [Posner, M. I. (2004). Cognitive neuroscience of attention. New York, NY: Guilford Press]. In a placebo-controlled, double-blind study using a repeated-measures design, we found that the effects of caffeine on visual attention vary as a function of dose and the attention network under examination. Caffeine improved alerting and executive control function in a dose-response manner, asymptoting at 200mg; this effect is congruent with caffeine's adenosine-mediated effects on dopamine-rich areas of brain, and the involvement of these areas in alerting and the executive control of visual attention. Higher doses of caffeine also led to a marginally less efficient allocation of visual attention towards cued regions during task performance (i.e., orienting). Taken together, results of this study demonstrate that caffeine has differential effects on visual attention networks as a function of dose, and such effects have implications for hypothesized interactions of caffeine, adenosine and dopamine in brain areas mediating visual attention.
Neuroscience has greatly improved our understanding of the brain basis of abstract lexical and semantic processes. The neuronal devices underlying words and concepts are distributed neuronal assemblies reaching into sensory and motor systems of the cortex and, at the cognitive level, information binding in such widely dispersed circuits is mirrored by the sensorimotor grounding of form and meaning of symbols. Recent years have seen the emergence of evidence for similar brain embodiment of syntax. Neurophysiological studies have accumulated support for the linguistic notion of abstract combinatorial rules manifest as functionally discrete neuronal assemblies. Concepts immanent to the theory of abstract automata could be grounded in observations from modern neuroscience, so that it became possible to model abstract pushdown storage - which is critical for building linguistic tree structure representations - as ordered dynamics of memory circuits in the brain. At the same time, neurocomputational research showed how sequence detectors already known from animal brains can be neuronally linked so that they merge into larger functionally discrete units, thereby underpinning abstract rule representations that syntactically bind lexicosemantic classes of morphemes and words into larger meaningful constituents. Specific predictions of brain-based grammar models could be confirmed by neurophysiological and brain imaging experiments using MEG, EEG and fMRI. Neuroscience and neurocomputational research offering perspectives on understanding abstract linguistic mechanisms in terms of neuronal circuits and their interactions therefore point programmatic new ways to future theory-guided experimental investigation of the brain basis of grammar.
This article addresses issues in embodied sentence processing from a &quot;cognitive neural systems&quot; approach that combines analysis of the behavior in question, analysis of the known neurophysiological bases of this behavior, and the synthesis of a neuro-computational model of embodied sentence processing that can be applied to and tested in the context of human-robot cooperative interaction. We propose a Hybrid Comprehension Model that links compact propositional representations of sentences and discourse with their temporal unfolding in situated simulations, under the control of grammar. The starting point is a model of grammatical construction processing which specifies the neural mechanisms by which language is a structured inventory of mappings from sentence to meaning. This model is then &quot;embodied&quot; in a perceptual-motor system (robot) which allows it access to sentence-perceptual representation pairs, and interaction with the world providing the basis for language acquisition. We then introduce a &quot;simulation&quot; capability, such that the robot has an internal representation of its interaction with the world. The control of this simulator and the associated representations present a number of interesting &quot;neuro-technical&quot; issues. First, the &quot;simulator&quot; has been liberated from real-time. It can run without being connected to current sensory motor experience. Second, &quot;simulations&quot; appear to be represented at different levels of detail. Our paper provides a framework for beginning to address the questions: how does language and its grammar control these aspects of simulation, what are the neurophysiological bases, and how can this be demonstrated in an artificial yet embodied cognitive system.
A central topic in cognitive neuroscience concerns the representation of concepts and the specific neural mechanisms that mediate conceptual knowledge. Recently proposed modal theories assert that concepts are grounded on the integration of multimodal, distributed representations. The aim of the present work is to complement the available neuropsychological and neuroimaging evidence suggesting partially segregated anatomo-functional correlates for concrete vs. abstract concepts, by directly testing the semantic domain-specific patterns of functional integration between language and modal semantic brain regions. We report evidence from a functional magnetic resonance imaging study, in which healthy participants listened to sentences with either an action-related (actions involving physical entities) or an abstract (no physical entities involved) content. We measured functional integration using dynamic causal modeling, and found that the left superior temporal gyrus was more strongly connected: (1) for action-related vs. abstract sentences, with the left-hemispheric action representation system, including sensorimotor areas; (2) for abstract vs. action-related sentences, with left infero-ventral frontal, temporal, and retrosplenial cingulate areas. A selective directionality effect was observed, with causal modulatory effects exerted by perisylvian language regions on peripheral modal areas, and not vice versa. The observed condition-specific modulatory effects are consistent with embodied and situated language processing theories, and indicate that linguistic areas promote a semantic content-specific reactivation of modal simulations by top-down mechanisms.
Transneuronal transport of neurotropic viruses is a useful tool for morphological analysis of the organization of multisynaptic neuronal pathways. Rabies virus is known to label neurons transsynaptically in a retrograde direction. Here, we examined the input systems of the primary motor cortex with respect to the somatotopic arrangement. Rabies virus was injected into the hindlimb, proximal forelimb, distal forelimb, and orofacial regions of the primary motor cortex in macaques, and the distribution patterns of neuronal labeling were analyzed in the prefrontal cortex, basal ganglia, and cerebellum. Four days after the injections, third-order neuron labeling was observed in various regions of the prefrontal cortex. After the viral injection into the proximal forelimb (shoulder, elbow) region, neuronal labeling was noted primarily in the dorsal region of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex; on the other hand, after the viral injection into the distal forelimb (wrist, digits) region, neuronal labeling was preferentially distributed in the ventral region, with the highest density in the ventrolateral convexity. In the case of the orofacial injection, prefrontal neuron labeling was predominant not only in the ventrolateral convexity but also in the orbitofrontal cortex. However, the hindlimb injection resulted in relatively sparse neuron labeling as predominantly involving the neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex. With the 4-day postinjection period, neuronal labeling was noted in the striatum retrogradely via the motor cortico-basal ganglia loop. Two distinct sets of striatal neurons were labeled: one in the dorsal putamen and the other in the ventral striatum (ventromedial putamen and nucleus accumbens). The dorsal striatal labeling was somatotopically arranged, indicating that the hindlimb, orofacial, or forelimb region was located in the dorsal, ventral, or intermediate zone of the putamen, respectively. The distribution pattern of the ventral striatal labeling was essentially the same regardless of body part representation. Likewise, Purkinje cells of the cerebellar cortex were also labeled in a somatotopic fashion. Neuronal labeling from the forelimb representation was observed mainly in lobules III-VI and crus I. The proximal forelimb labeling was both rostral and lateral to the distal forelimb labeling. Yet, the hindlimb labeling was located both rostral and lateral to the proximal forelimb labeling.

Despite accumulating evidence of a central role for oligomeric amyloid beta (Abeta) in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD), there is scant information on the relationship between the levels and distribution of oligomeric Abeta and those of other neurodegenerative abnormalities in AD. In the present study, we have found oligomeric Abeta to be associated with both diffuse and neuritic plaques (mostly co-localized with Abeta(1-42)) and with cerebrovascular deposits of Abeta in paraffin sections of formalin-fixed human brain tissue. The amount of oligomeric Abeta that was labeled in the sections correlated with total Abeta plaque load, but not phospho-tau load, cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) severity or APOE genotype. Although soluble, oligomeric and insoluble Abeta levels were all significantly increased in AD brain homogenates, case-to-case variation and overlap between AD and controls were considerable. Over the age-range studied (43-98 years), the levels of soluble Abeta, oligomeric Abeta(42), oligomeric Abeta(40) and insoluble Abeta did not vary significantly with age. Oligomeric Abeta(1-42) and insoluble Abeta levels were significantly higher in women. Overall, the level of insoluble Abeta, but neither oligomeric nor soluble Abeta, was associated with Braak stage, CAA severity and APOEepsilon4 frequency, raising questions as to the role of soluble and oligomeric Abeta in the progression of AD.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder consisting of progressive loss of motor neurons. TDP-43 has been identified as a component of ubiquitin-immunoreactive inclusions of motor neurons in ALS. We focused on the diffuse cytoplasmic TDP-43 immunoreactivity in ALS neurons, and quantitatively assessed it in comparison with skein/round TDP-43 and ubiquitin immunostaining in motor neurons of 30 sporadic ALS cases. The percentage of spinal motor neurons with cytoplasmic TDP-43 immunoreactivity was higher than that of ubiquitin-immunoreactive ones. The percentage of TDP-43-positive motor neurons was independent of neuron counts in anterior horns, while the percentage of ubiquitinated neurons was inversely correlated. Aiming to define the cytosolic localization of TDP-43, the immunoblot analysis of spinal cord and frontal cortex showed that full-length TDP-43, the 45 kDa form and ubiquitinated TDP-43 are found in the soluble inclusion-free fraction. The present data suggest that delocalization, accumulation and ubiquitination of TDP-43 in the cytoplasm of motor neurons are early dysfunctions in the cascade of the events leading to motor neuron degeneration in ALS, preceding the formation of insoluble inclusion bodies. Being cytoplasmic accumulation an ongoing event during the course of the illness, a therapeutic approach to this incurable disease can be envisaged.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has become the dominant means of measuring behavior-related neural activity in the human brain. Yet the relation between the blood oxygen-level dependent (BOLD) signal and underlying neural activity remains an open and actively researched question. A widely accepted model, established for sensory neo-cortex, suggests that the BOLD signal reflects peri-synaptic activity in the form of the local field potential rather than the spiking rate of individual neurons. Several recent experimental results, however, suggest situations in which BOLD, spiking, and the local field potential dissociate. Two different models are discussed, based on the literature reviewed to account for this dissociation, a circuitry-based and vascular-based explanation. Both models are found to account for existing data under some testing situations and in certain brain regions. Because both the vascular and local circuitry-based explanations challenge the BOLD-LFP coupling model, these models provide guidance in predicting when BOLD can be expected to reflect neural processing and when the underlying relation with BOLD may be more complex than a direct correspondence.
We review research on athletes' brains based on data obtained using non-invasive neurophysiological and neuroimaging methods; these data pertain to cognitive processing of visual, auditory, and somatosensory (tactile) stimulation as well as to motor processing, including preparation, execution, and imagery. It has been generally accepted that athletes are faster, stronger, able to jump higher, more accurate, more efficient, more consistent, and more automatic in their sports performances than non-athletes. These claims have been substantiated by neuroscientific evidence of the mechanisms underlying the plastic adaptive changes in the neuronal circuits of the brains of athletes. Reinforced neural networks and plastic changes are induced by the acquisition and execution of compound motor skills during extensive daily physical training that requires quick stimulus discrimination, decision making, and specific attention. In addition, it is likely that the manner of neuronal modulation differs among sports. We also discuss several problems that should be addressed in future studies.
Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a complex multi-factorial disease with high heritability. The psychological AN symptoms are poorly connected with specific molecular mechanisms. Here we review the molecular basis of AN with the focus on human genetic association studies; we put these in the experimental biological context with emphasis on molecular systems controlling food intake and body weight in a direct or indirect manner. We systematically searched for human genetic studies related to AN and grouped data into main categories/systems reflecting their major known roles: (1) Systems related to mental disorders (serotonin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), norepinephrine (NE), glutamate (NMDA) receptor and SK3 channel, KCCN3). (2) Hunger regulatory systems (leptin, AGRP, MSH, melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R), NPY, ghrelin, cholecystokinin (CCK). (3) Feeding motivation- and reward-related systems (opioids, OPRD1, cannabinoids (anandamide (AEA), THC, CBR1), dopamine, DRD2, DRD3, DRD4, catecholamine-O-methyl transferase (COMT). (4) Systems regulating energy metabolism (uncoupling proteins 2 and 3 (UCP2 and UCP3). (5) Neuroendocrine systems with emphasis on sex hormones (estrogen receptor-beta (ESR2). (6) The immune system and inflammatory response (tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha)). Overall, we found that in total 175 association studies have been performed on AN cohorts on 128 different polymorphisms related to 43 genes. We review the strongest associations, identify some genes that have an important role in regulating BMI whose possible relationship to AN has not been investigated and discuss the potential targets for pharmacological interventions.
Hippocampal atrophy and neuron loss are commonly found in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms and the fate in the AD hippocampus of subpopulations of interneurons that express the calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin (PV) and calretinin (CR) has not yet been properly assessed. Using quantitative stereologic methods, we analyzed the regional pattern of age-related loss of PV- and CR-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the hippocampus of mice that carry M233T/L235P knocked-in mutations in presenilin-1 (PS1) and overexpress a mutated human beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP), namely, the APP(SL)/PS1 KI mice, as well as in APP(SL) mice and PS1 KI mice. We found a loss of PV-ir neurons (40-50%) in the CA1-2, and a loss of CR-ir neurons (37-52%) in the dentate gyrus and hilus of APP(SL)/PS1 KI mice. Interestingly, comparable PV- and CR-ir neuron losses were observed in the dentate gyrus of postmortem brain specimens obtained from patients with AD. The loss of these interneurons in AD may have substantial functional repercussions on local inhibitory processes in the hippocampus.
Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) are composed of insoluble, hyperphosphorylated aggregates of the microtubule-associated protein tau and are present in various neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). To investigate how tau affects neuronal function during NFT formation and subsequent neurodegeneration, we examined the morphology, spine density, spine type, and spine volume of layer III pyramidal neurons from the prefrontal cortex of mice expressing wild-type human tau (htau) over time. There were no significant alterations in apical dendritic arbor length in 3-, 6-, and 12-month-old htau mice; however, 12-month-old mice exhibited more complex arborization patterns. In addition, we observed a shift in spine morphology with fewer mushroom and more thin spines in both apical and basal dendrites as a function of htau accumulation. Interestingly, there was an overall decrease in volume of spines from 3 to 12 months. However, the volume of mushroom spines decreased from 3 to 6 months and increased from 6 to 12 months. This increase in complexity and branching in 12-month-old mice and the increase of volume of mushroom spines may represent compensatory mechanisms in the remaining intact neurons. As such, the accumulation of phosphorylated tau over time may contribute to the cognitive decline observed in AD by affecting neuronal structure and synaptic properties. Such alterations in dendrites and spines may result in the deterioration of neuronal function observed in AD, and provide a morphologic substrate for the relationship between synaptic integrity and cognitive decline.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of senile dementia. Aggregation of the amyloid-beta42 peptide (Abeta42) and tau proteins are pathological hallmarks in AD brains. Accumulating evidence suggests that Abeta42 plays a central role in the pathogenesis of AD, and tau acts downstream of Abeta42 as a modulator of the disease progression. Tau pathology is also observed in frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) and other related diseases, so called tauopathies. Although most cases are sporadic, genes associated with familial AD and FTDP-17 have been identified, which led to the development of transgenic animal models. Drosophila has been a powerful genetic model system used in many fields of biology, and recently emerges as a model for human neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, we will summarize key features of transgenic Drosophila models of AD and tauopathies and a number of insights into disease mechanisms as well as therapeutic implications gained from these models.
Little is known about how human amnesia affects the activation of cortical networks during memory processing. In this study, we recorded high-density evoked potentials in 12 healthy control subjects and 11 amnesic patients with various types of brain damage affecting the medial temporal lobes, diencephalic structures, or both. Subjects performed a continuous recognition task composed of meaningful designs. Using whole-scalp spatiotemporal mapping techniques, we found that, during the first 200 ms following picture presentation, map configuration of amnesics and controls were indistinguishable. Beyond this period, processing significantly differed. Between 200 and 350 ms, amnesic patients expressed different topographical maps than controls in response to new and repeated pictures. From 350 to 550 ms, healthy subjects showed modulation of the same maps in response to new and repeated items. In amnesics, by contrast, presentation of repeated items induced different maps, indicating distinct cortical processing of new and old information. The study indicates that cortical mechanisms underlying memory formation and re-activation in amnesia fundamentally differ from normal memory processing.




Altered phosphatidylcholine (PC) metabolism in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) could provide choline-based imaging approaches as powerful tools to improve diagnosis and identify new therapeutic targets. The increase in the major choline-containing metabolite phosphocholine (PCho) in EOC compared with normal and nontumoral immortalized counterparts (EONT) may derive from (a) enhanced choline transport and choline kinase (ChoK)-mediated phosphorylation, (b) increased PC-specific phospholipase C (PC-plc) activity, and (c) increased intracellular choline production by PC deacylation plus glycerophosphocholine-phosphodiesterase (GPC-pd) or by phospholipase D (pld)-mediated PC catabolism followed by choline phosphorylation. Biochemical, protein, and mRNA expression analyses showed that the most relevant changes in EOC cells were (a) 12-fold to 25-fold ChoK activation, consistent with higher protein content and increased ChoKalpha (but not ChoKbeta) mRNA expression levels; and (b) 5-fold to 17-fold PC-plc activation, consistent with higher, previously reported, protein expression. PC-plc inhibition by tricyclodecan-9-yl-potassium xanthate (D609) in OVCAR3 and SKOV3 cancer cells induced a 30% to 40% reduction of PCho content and blocked cell proliferation. More limited and variable sources of PCho could derive, in some EOC cells, from 2-fold to 4-fold activation of pld or GPC-pd. Phospholipase A2 activity and isoform expression levels were lower or unchanged in EOC compared with EONT cells. Increased ChoKalpha mRNA, as well as ChoK and PC-plc protein expression, were also detected in surgical specimens isolated from patients with EOC. Overall, we showed that the elevated PCho pool detected in EOC cells primarily resulted from upregulation/activation of ChoK and PC-plc involved in PC biosynthesis and degradation, respectively.
Denervation of neurons, e.g. upon traumatic injury or neuronal degeneration, induces transneuronal degenerative events, such as spine loss, dendritic pruning, and even cell loss. We studied one possible mechanism proposed to trigger such events, i.e. excess glutamate release from severed axons conveyed transsynaptically via postsynaptic calcium influx. Using 2-photon microscopical calcium imaging in organotypic entorhino-hippocampal co-cultures, we show that acute transection of the perforant path elicits two independent effects on calcium homeostasis in the dentate gyrus: a brief, short-latency elevation of postsynaptic calcium levels in denervated granule cells, which can be blocked by preincubation with tetrodotoxin, and a long-latency astroglial calcium wave, not blocked by tetrodotoxin and propagating slowly through the hippocampus. While neuronal calcium elevations upon axonal transection placed remote from the target area were similar to those elicited by brief trains of electrical stimulation of the perforant path, large-scale calcium signals were observed upon lesions placed close to or within the dendritic field of granule cells. Concordantly, induction of c-fos in denervated neurons coincided spatially with cell populations showing prolonged calcium elevations upon concomitant dendritic damage. Since denervation of dentate granule cells by remote transection of the perforant path induces transsynaptic dendritic reorganization in the utilized organotypic cultures, a generalized breakdown of the cellular calcium homeostasis is unlikely to underlie these transneuronal changes.
The insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor (IGF-IR) and the human polyomavirus JCV protein, T-antigen cooperate in the transformation of neuronal precursors in the cerebellum, which may be a contributing factor in the development of brain tumors. Because it is not clear why T-antigen requires IGF-IR for transformation, we investigated this process in neural progenitors from IGF-IR knockout embryos (ko-IGF-IR) and from their wild-type nontransgenic littermates (wt-IGF-IR). In contrast to wt-IGF-IR, the brain and dorsal root ganglia of ko-IGF-IR embryos showed low levels of the antiapoptotic protein Survivin, accompanied by elevated numbers of apoptotic neurons and an earlier differentiation phenotype. In wt-IGF-IR neural progenitors in vitro, induction of T-antigen expression tripled the expression of Survivin and accelerated cell proliferation. In ko-IGF-IR progenitors induction of T-antigen failed to increase Survivin, resulting in massive apoptosis. Importantly, ectopic expression of Survivin protected ko-IGF-IR progenitor cells from apoptosis and siRNA inhibition of Survivin activated apoptosis in wt-IGF-IR progenitors expressing T-antigen. Our results indicate that reactivation of the antiapoptotic Survivin may be a critical step in JCV T-antigen-induced transformation, which in neural progenitors requires IGF-IR.
Embryonic stem (ES) cells are genetically normal, pluripotent cells, capable of self-renewal and multi-lineage differentiation. Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) is a growth factor that can maintain the pluripotency of mouse ES cells in culture. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are nuclear receptor transcription factors that regulate growth and differentiation of many cell types. We have shown earlier that 15-Deoxy-(12,14)-Prostaglandin J2 (15d-PGJ2), a natural ligand for PPARgamma, inhibits LIF-induced proliferation of mouse ES cells in culture. In this study we demonstrate that the PPARgamma antagonist Bisphenol A diglycidyl ether (BADGE) and 2-Chloro-5-nitro-N-(4-pyridyl)benzamide (T0070907) reverse the inhibition of ES cell proliferation by PPARgamma agonists. Stable transfection of ES cells with a dominant negative PPARgamma1 mutant also reduced the inhibition of proliferation by PPARgamma agonists. While 15d-PGJ2 and ciglitazone-induced growth-arrest in ES cells by blocking LIF signaling, PPARgamma antagonists and dominant negative PPARgamma1 mutant reversed proliferation by restoring LIF-induced Tyk2-Stat3 signaling. These results suggest that PPARgamma regulates LIF-induced growth and self-renewal of mouse ES cells through Tyk2-Stat3 pathway.
Chondroitin sulfate is popular in the field of neuroscience, because the treatment of nervous tissues with chondroitinase ABC, which degrades chondroitin sulfate up to unsaturated disaccharides, causes severe changes in various aspects of neural development and functions. Chondroitinase ABC treatments of developing nervous tissue impair the growth and differentiation of neural progenitor cells, and cause various pathfinding errors of axons. After injury to the adult central nervous system, axon regeneration fails at scar regions expressing large amounts of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans. However, after chondroitinase ABC treatment, many axons regenerate and traverse the damaged areas. Furthermore, it was revealed that chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans are involved in neural plasticity. These observations indicated that chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans as major components of the extracellular matrix and cell surface play pivotal roles in the development, regeneration, and plasticity of neuronal networks. Chondroitin sulfate shows highly diverse structural variation, and recent studies indicated that this glycosaminoglycan binds with various growth factors, chemokines and axon guidance molecules in a structure-dependent manner and regulates their activities. Notably, oversulfated structures such as D (GlcA(2-O-sulfate)beta 1-3GalNAc(6-O-sulfate)) and E (GlcAbeta1-3GalNAc(4,6-O-disulfate)) units constitute the binding sites for many proteins, and play important roles in regulation of the growth of neural progenitors, neurite extension, and neuronal migration. The synthesis of these structures is strictly regulated by the chondroitin sulfate synthase family and many sulfotransferases, which should be useful therapeutic targets in neurological disorders.
The relationship between cognition and a functional polymorphism in the catechol-O-methlytransferase (COMT) gene, val108/158met, is one of debate in the literature. Furthermore, based on the dopaminergic differences associated with the COMT val108/158met genotype, neural differences during cognition may be present, regardless of genotypic differences in cognitive performance. To investigate these issues the current study aimed to 1) examine the effects of COMT genotype using a large sample of healthy individuals (n = 496-1218) and multiple cognitive measures, and using a subset of the sample (n = 22), 2) examine whether COMT genotype effects medial temporal lobe (MTL) and frontal activity during successful relational memory processing, and 3) investigate group differences in functional connectivity associated with successful relational memory processing. Results revealed no significant group difference in cognitive performance between COMT genotypes in any of the 19 cognitive measures. However, in the subset sample, COMT val homozygotes exhibited significantly decreased MTL and increased prefrontal activity during both successful relational encoding and retrieval, and reduced connectivity between these regions compared with met homozygotes. Taken together, the results suggest that although the COMT val108/158met genotype has no effect on cognitive behavioral measures in healthy individuals, it is associated with differences in neural process underlying cognitive output.
In somatosensory cortex (S1) tactile stimulation activates specific regions. The borders between representations of different body parts constrain the spread of excitation and inhibition: connections that cross from one representation to another (cross-border, CB) are weaker than those remaining within the representation (noncross border, NCB). Thus, physiological properties of CB and NCB synapses onto layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons were compared using whole-cell recordings in layer 2/3 neurons close to the border between the forepaw and lower jaw representations. Electrical stimulation of CB and NCB connections was used to activate synaptic potentials. Properties of excitatory (EPSPs) and inhibitory (IPSPs) postsynaptic potentials (PSP) were determined using 3 methods: 1) minimal stimulation to elicit single-fiber responses; 2) stimulation in the presence of extracellular Sr(2+) to elicit asynchronous quantal responses; 3) short trains of stimulation at various frequencies to examine postsynaptic potential (PSP) dynamics. Both minimal and asynchronous quantal EPSPs were smaller when evoked by CB than NCB stimulation. However, the dynamics of EPSP and IPSP trains were not different between CB and NCB stimulation. These data suggest that individual excitatory synapses from connections that cross a border (CB) have smaller amplitudes than those that come from within a representation (NCB), and suggest a postsynaptic locus for the difference.
The left parietal lobe has been proposed as a major language area. However, parietal cortical function is more usually considered in terms of the control of actions, contributing both to attention and cross-modal integration of external and reafferent sensory cues. We used positron emission tomography to study normal subjects while they overtly generated narratives, both spoken and written. The purpose was to identify the parietal contribution to the modality-specific sensorimotor control of communication, separate from amodal linguistic and memory processes involved in generating a narrative. The majority of left and right parietal activity was associated with the execution of writing under visual and somatosensory control irrespective of whether the output was a narrative or repetitive reproduction of a single grapheme. In contrast, action-related parietal activity during speech production was confined to primary somatosensory cortex. The only parietal area with a pattern of activity compatible with an amodal central role in communication was the ventral part of the left angular gyrus (AG). The results of this study indicate that the cognitive processing of language within the parietal lobe is confined to the AG and that the major contribution of parietal cortex to communication is in the sensorimotor control of writing.

How does the cerebellum participate in neocortical rhythms? Neocortical signals destined for the cerebellum are integrated in the pontine nuclei (PN) with cerebellar output signals via a direct, reciprocal feedback loop with the cerebellar nuclei (CN). The present study investigated the fate of two spontaneously occurring rhythms in rat neocortex under ketamine anesthesia-slow wave activity at around 1 Hz and gamma oscillations-within this pontonuclear feedback loop. Coordinated oscillatory neuronal activity was studied using simultaneous multineuron recordings in primary motor cortex (M1), PN, and lateral CN. It was revealed that slow burst firing-known in neocortex as &quot;up and down states&quot;-is readily conveyed within the pontonuclear feedback loop and thus engages the entire cerebropontocerebellothalamic loop. In contrast, gamma band synchronous oscillations reached only the PN under the present experimental conditions. Surprisingly, many CN single units were actually found to oscillate in the gamma range, but they completely failed to synchronize with other units in either CN or PN. These results show firstly that slow concerted activity can readily engage the entire cerebrocerebellar loop. Secondly, they raise the possibility that fast gamma oscillations may be incompatible with cerebellar processing and get blocked out. Future studies in behaving animals are needed to answer the question whether signals coded in gamma band frequency are converted to another carrier code using the feedback control exerted by the pontonuclear loop.
Neurons of the cerebellar nuclei generate the non-vestibular output of the cerebellum. Like other neurons, they integrate excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs and filter them through their intrinsic properties to produce patterns of action potential output. The synaptic and intrinsic features of cerebellar nuclear cells are unusual in several respects, however: these neurons receive an overwhelming amount of basal and driven inhibition from Purkinje neurons, but are also spontaneously active, producing action potentials even without excitation. Moreover, not only is spiking by nuclear cells sensitive to the amount of inhibition, but the strength of inhibition is also sensitive to the amount of spiking, through multiple forms of long-term plasticity. Here, we review the properties of synaptic excitation and inhibition, their short-term plasticity, and their influence on action potential firing of cerebellar nuclear neurons, as well as the interactions among excitation, inhibition, and spiking that produce long-term changes in synaptic strength. The data provide evidence that electrical and synaptic signaling in the cerebellar circuit is both plastic and resilient: the strength of IPSPs and EPSPs readily changes as the activity of cerebellar nuclear cells is modified. Notably, however, many of the identified forms of plasticity have an apparently homeostatic effect, responding to perturbations of input by restoring cerebellar output toward pre-perturbation values. Such forms of self-regulation appear consistent with the role of cerebellar output in coordinating movements. In contrast, other forms of plasticity in nuclear cells, including a long-term potentiation of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and excitation-driven increases in intrinsic excitability, are non-homeostatic, and instead appear suited to bring the circuit to a new set point. Interestingly, the combinations of inhibitory and excitatory stimuli that potentiate EPSCs resemble patterns of activity predicted to occur during eyelid conditioning, suggesting that this form long-term potentiation, perhaps amplified by intrinsic plasticity, may represent a cellular mechanism that is engaged during cerebellar learning.

We consider recent reports on small-world topologies of interaction networks derived from the dynamics of spatially extended systems that are investigated in diverse scientific fields such as neurosciences, geophysics, or meteorology. With numerical simulations that mimic typical experimental situations, we have identified an important constraint when characterizing such networks: indications of a small-world topology can be expected solely due to the spatial sampling of the system along with the commonly used time series analysis based approaches to network characterization.
Calcium-activated chloride channels (CaCCs) are involved in many physiological processes, including sensory signal transduction, but only little is known to date about their structure and function. We performed a proteome analysis of the olfactory epithelium (OE) membrane proteome and identified so far uncharacterized membrane proteins as candidate channels. One of the most abundant membrane proteins in olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) was Tmem16b, a member of a recently identified family of CaCCs. In addition to former studies performed on Tmem16b, we show here that Tmem16b expression is highly specific for the OE, in contrast to the closely related Tmem16a, which shows a broad expression pattern in secretory epithelial cells. Native Tmem16b is localized in the cilia of the OSNs, which is in agreement with previous electrophysiological recordings.

Although there has been extensive research on children's moral knowledge about lying and truth-telling and their actual lie- or truth-telling behaviors, research to examine the relation between these two is extremely rare. This study examined one hundred and twenty 7-, 9-, and 11-year-olds' moral understanding of lies and their actual lying behaviors in a politeness situation. Results revealed that as age increased, children increasingly evaluated others' lying in politeness situations less negatively and were more inclined to tell lies in such situations themselves. Contrary to previous findings, children's sociomoral knowledge about lying was significantly related to their actual behaviors, particularly when children's rationales underlying their moral judgments were consistent with their motives for actual lie- or truth-telling in the politeness situation.









Parkinson's disease is the second most common age-related neurodegenerative disorder, typified by the progressive loss of substantia nigra pars compacta dopamine neurons and the consequent decrease in the neurotransmitter dopamine. Patients exhibit a range of clinical symptoms, with the most common affecting motor function and including resting tremor, rigidity, akinesia, bradykinesia and postural instability. Current pharmacological interventions are palliative and largely aimed at increasing dopamine levels through increased production and/or inhibition of metabolism of this key neurotransmitter. The gold standard for treatment of both familial and sporadic Parkinson's disease is the peripheral administration of the dopamine precursor, levodopa. However, many patients gradually develop levodopa-induced dyskinesias and motor fluctuations. In addition, dopamine enhancement therapies are most useful when a portion of the nigrostriatal pathway is intact. Consequently, as the number of substantia nigra dopamine neurons and striatal projections decrease, these treatments become less efficacious. Current translational research is focused on the development of novel disease-modifying therapies, including those utilizing gene therapeutic approaches. Herein we present an overview of current gene therapy clinical trials for Parkinson's disease. Employing either recombinant adeno-associated virus type 2 (rAAV2) or lentivirus vectors, these clinical trials are focused on three overarching approaches: augmentation of dopamine levels via increased neurotransmitter production; modulation of the neuronal phenotype; and neuroprotection. The first two therapies discussed in this article focus on increasing dopamine production via direct delivery of genes involved in neurotransmitter synthesis (amino acid decarboxylase, tyrosine hydroxylase and GTP [guanosine triphosphate] cyclohydrolase 1). In an attempt to bypass the degenerating nigrostriatal pathway, a third clinical trial utilizes rAAV2 to deliver glutamic acid decarboxylase to the subthalamic nucleus, converting a subset of excitatory neurons to GABA-producing cells. In contrast, the final clinical trial is aimed at protecting the degenerating nigrostriatum by striatal delivery of rAAV2 harbouring the neuroprotective gene, neurturin. Based on preclinical studies, this gene therapeutic approach is posited to slow disease progression by enhancing neuronal survival. In addition, we discuss the outcome of each clinical trial and discuss the potential rationale for the marginal yet incremental clinical advancements that have thus far been realized for Parkinson's disease gene therapy.
Alcoholism and other alcohol use disorders are major public health problems, and the success rates of non-pharmacological treatment of these disorders such as psychotherapy, cognitive-behavioral therapy, group therapy, or residential treatment programs,remain only modest at best. High rates of recidivism (relapse) in alcoholics attempting to remain abstinent are prevalent worldwide. In recent years abundant evidence has accumulated demonstrating that alcoholism is a complex and multifaceted disease of the brain caused by numerous genetic, neurobiological, developmental, environmental, and socioeconomic factors that are still not yet fully understood.There is thus a great need to improve the success rates of all forms of treatment of alcoholism not only in preventing relapse, but curbing active alcohol consumption and craving. The development of improved pharmacotherapies that could be used as adjuncts to the aforementioned non-pharmacological treatment approaches is one avenue of great interest to the scientific community and the general public. Currently there are only three medications approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in the treatment of alcohol abuse and alcoholism--disulfiram, naltrexone, and acamprosate. Yet medication compliance issues and the modest efficacy of these compounds leave substantial room for improvement. This special issue is devoted to reviewing the current status of these FDA approved medications in the treatment of alcoholism. In addition, preclinical and clinical evidence suggesting that other classes of medications might also be of potential use are reviewed, including anticonvulsants, GABAB receptor agonists, cholinergic receptor partial agonists, corticotropin-releasing factor and cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonists, nociceptin receptor ligands, and the novel antipsychotic aripiprazole.
Nociceptin (known also as orphanin FQ) is the most recently discovered member of the endogenous opioid peptide family, albeit nearly 15 years ago. Nociceptin renders or influences many behavioral, psychological and neurobiological processes, including memory, anxiety, stress and reward. Since its discovery, results of a steady stream of studies have suggested that endogenous nociceptin might be involved in responses to addictive drugs, and that targeting the nociceptin system may be beneficial in treating addictions. The current review summarizes and critically appraises those studies, particularly those that point to an application in treating alcoholism. Overall, most, studies suggest that the endogenous nociceptin system has a physiological role in mediating or regulating behavioral responses to alcohol, and that activating nociceptin receptors suppresses ongoing alcohol consumption or reinstatement of responding for alcohol. These findings encourage the development of therapies targeted at the nociceptin system for the treatment of alcoholism in humans, though a minor number of studies showing continuous activation of the nociceptin receptor can produce increased, rather than reduced, alcohol consumption emphasize the necessity of further investigation.
The present paper summarizes the results of a number of pharmacological studies implicating the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor in the neural circuitry regulating different alcohol-related behaviors in rodents. Specifically, cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonists--including the prototype, rimonabant--have been reported to suppress: (a) acquisition and maintenance of alcohol drinking behavior under the 2-bottle &quot;alcohol vs water&quot; choice regimen; (b) the increase in alcohol intake occurring after a period of alcohol abstinence (an experimental model of alcohol relapse); (c) alcohol's reinforcing and motivational properties measured in rats trained to perform a specific task (e.g., lever-pressing) to access alcohol; (d) reinstatement of extinguished alcohol-seeking behavior triggered in rats by a nicotine challenge or presentation of cues previously associated to alcohol availability (another model of alcohol relapse). Additional data indicate that the opioid receptor antagonists, naloxone and naltrexone, synergistically potentiate the suppressing effect of rimonabant on alcohol intake and alcohol's motivational properties in rats. Conversely, the two clinical studies conducted to date (one in alcohol-dependent individuals and one in nontreatment-seeking heavy alcohol drinkers) yielded less conclusive results. Unfortunately, the recent discontinuation--due to the occurrence of some psychiatric adverse effects--of all trials with cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonists apparently hinders further investigations on the potential of rimonabant in the treatment of alcohol dependence.

We propose a framework to understand increases in vulnerability for depression after recurrent episodes that links attention processes and schema activation to negative mood states, by integrating cognitive and neurobiological findings. Depression is characterized by a mood-congruent attentional bias at later stages of information processing. The basic idea of our framework is that decreased activity in prefrontal areas, mediated by the serotonin metabolism which the HPA axis controls, is associated with an impaired attenuation of subcortical regions, resulting in prolonged activation of the amygdala in response to stressors in the environment. Reduced prefrontal control in interaction with depressogenic schemas leads to impaired ability to exert attentional inhibitory control over negative elaborative processes such as rumination, leading in turn to sustained negative affect. These elaborative processes are triggered by the activation of negative schemas after confrontation with stressors. In our framework, attentional impairments are postulated as a crucial process in explaining the increasing vulnerability after depressive episodes, linking cognitive and biological vulnerability factors. We review the empirical data on the biological factors associated with the attentional impairments and detail how they are associated with rumination and mood regulation. The aim of our framework is to stimulate translational research.
Translational research refers to the application of basic science to address clinical problems and acquire knowledge that can be used to guide and refine clinical practice. This special issue of Cognitive, Affective, &amp; Behavioral Neuroscience seeks to explore and integrate some of the most promising findings offered by recent cognitive and affective neuroscience studies in hopes of filling the gap between basic and applied research, thereby heightening our understanding of vulnerability for depression. The studies presented in this special issue focus specifically on attentional processes. We solicited contributions from leading researchers involved in basic cognitive and neuroscience research investigating processes underlying depression-related disturbances in emotion processing. In this introductory article, we present an integrative overview to demonstrate how these specific contributions might be valuable for translational research.

During nonconscious perception of facial affect, healthy adults commonly activate a right-lateralized pathway comprising the superior colliculus, pulvinar, and amygdala. Whether this system is fully developed prior to adulthood is unknown. Twenty-three healthy adolescents underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while viewing fearful, angry, and happy faces, backward masked by neutral faces. Left amygdala activation differed among the three affects, showing reductions to masked anger and increases to masked fear and happy faces. During masked fear, left amygdala activation correlated positively with extrastriate cortex and temporal poles and negatively with precuneus and middle cingulate gyrus. Responses of the left amygdala to masked anger correlated positively with right parahippocampal gyrus and negatively with dorsal anterior cingulate. Amygdala responses to masked happy faces were uncorrelated with other brain regions. Contrary to the right-lateralized pathway seen in adults, adolescents show evidence of a predominantly left-lateralized extrastriate pathway during masked presentations of facial affect.
We assume that the vascular apparatus of the lower limb did not evolutionary adapt to leg mass and volume. The lower limb is greater in length and volume that the upper limb, and therefore the arteries should have a bigger diameter and cross-sectional area. During pathoanatomic autopsies at the Department of Pathology of University Hospital Center Osijek we have taken segments of 1 cm of length from the subclavian, femoral, radial and tibial artery. Our sample contained segments from 51 bodies, 24 female and 27 male. We have measured leg and arm length and circumference. From these data the idealized limbs volume was calculated by geometric approximations to a cone fragment. The relation between idealized leg and arm volume and arterial cross-sectional area were calculated. For statistical analysis, Student's t-test was used. At the Department of Radiology of the University Hospital Center Osijek we measured the diameter of subclavian and femoral artery in systole and diastole in 41 patients (21 female and 20 male) by Color Doppler ultrasound, and the circumference and length of upper and lower limb was measured. There is a slightly difference between the diameter and cross-sectional area of subclavian and femoral artery. Leg length was for 48.5% bigger than arm length and the difference in volume between upper and lower limb is significantly different. The foot has four to five times greater volume than the arm, and is vascularised by an arterial tree of similar diameter. This fact proves our hypothesis that the blood supply to the lower limbs compared to the mass of tissue is smaller.
The combination of polyethylenimine (PEI), as a plasmid DNA pre-condensing agent, and cationic lipids has been reported to result in a synergistic effect on transfection. Recently, we have explored this effect by associating low-molecular weight PEIs with transferrin-associated lipoplexes using different cationic liposome formulations. The resulting lipopolyplexes that have shown to be the most efficient in mediating transfection were those prepared from cationic liposomes composed of DOTAP:Chol (associated or not with transferrin) and from a pH-sensitive liposome formulation (DOTAP:Chol:DOPE:CHEMS). In the present work, the physicochemical properties of these lipopolyplexes were studied aiming at establishing a correlation with their transfection efficiency. For this purpose, the lipopolyplexes were characterized in terms of their morphology by performing ultrastructural studies using cryo-TEM microscopy, investigating inner DNA structure using circular dichroism and characterizing particle size by photon correlation spectroscopy. A correlation between efficiency of transfection and more compact inner DNA structure and smaller particle sizes (around 250nm) was found. In addition, the visualization of liposomes and lipopolyplexes at the ultrastructural level revealed that the particles presenting enhanced transfection efficiencies are associated with higher electron density. Recently, PEI-based lipopolyplexes were reported to gain entry into the cell through the caveolae-mediated pathway. Based on the present finding that DOTAP:Chol liposomes exhibit the ability to form hexagonal structures when prepared at high concentrations, we propose that the lipopolyplexes containing DOTAP:Chol take advantage of such capacity to escape from the endocytotic vesicles, which will contribute to the observed high transfection efficiencies.
GABA(A) receptors mediate the majority of fast synaptic inhibition in the mammalian brain. Mechanisms that regulate GABA(A) function are thus of critical importance in modulating overall synaptic inhibition. Phosphorylation of GABA(A) receptor subunits is one such mechanism that leads to the dynamic modulation of GABA(A) receptor function. In particular, phosphorylation of tyrosine residues 365 and 367 (Y365, Y367) within the gamma2 subunit of GABA(A) receptors has been shown in previous in vitro studies to negatively regulate clathrin-dependent endocytosis of GABA(A) receptors and to enhance the efficacy of synaptic inhibition. With the aim of investigating the impact of this phosphorylation-dependent modulation of GABA(A) receptors on animal behavior, we recently developed a knock-in mouse in which these critical tyrosine residues within the gamma2 subunit have been mutated to phenylalanines (Y365/7F). These animals exhibited enhanced GABA(A) receptor accumulation at postsynaptic inhibitory synaptic specializations on pyramidal neurons within the hippocampus, primarily due to aberrant trafficking within the endocytic pathway. We found that this enhanced inhibition correlated with a specific deficit in spatial memory in these mice, without modifying a number of other behavioral paradigms. Here, we summarize our recently reported observations and further discuss their possible implications.
We identified a new duplicated Dab1 gene (drDab1b) spanning around 25kb of genomic DNA in zebrafish. Located in zebrafish chromosome 2, it is composed of 11 encoding exons and shows high sequence similarity to other Dab1 genes, including drDab1a, a zebrafish Dab1 gene previously characterised. drDab1b encodes by alternative splicing at least five different isoforms. Both drDab1a and drDab1b show differential gene expression levels in distinct adult tissues and during development. drDab1b is expressed in peripheral tissues (gills, heart, intestine, muscle), the immune system (blood, liver) and the central nervous system (CNS), whereas drDab1a is only expressed in gills, muscle and the CNS, suggesting a division of functions for two Dab1 genes in zebrafish adult tissues. RT-PCR analysis also reveals that both drDab1 genes show distinct developmental-specific expression patterns throughout development. drDab1b expression was higher than that of drDab1a, suggesting a major role of drDab1b in comparison with drDab1a during development and in different adult tissues. In addition, new putative Dab1 (a and/or b) from different teleost species were identified in silico and predicted protein products are compared with the previously characterised Dab1, demonstrating that the Dab1b group is more ancestral than their paralogue, the Dab1a group.

Childhood abuse and neglect are known to affect psychological states through behavioral, emotional, and cognitive pathways. They increase the risk of having psychiatric diseases in adulthood and have been considered risk factors for suicidal behavior in all diagnostic categories. Early, prolonged, and severe trauma is also known to increase impulsivity, diminishing the capacity of the brain to inhibit negative actions and to control and modulate emotions. Many neurobiological studies hold that childhood maltreatment may lead to a persistent failure of the inhibitory processes ruled mainly by the frontal cortex over a fear-motivated hyperresponsive limbic system. Multiple neurotransmitters and hormones are involved in the stress response, but, to our knowledge, the two major biological consequences of the chronic exposure to trauma are the hypofunction of the serotonergic system and changes in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function. Some of these findings overlap with the neurobiological features of impulsivity and of suicidal behavior. Impulsivity has also been said to be both a consequence of trauma and a risk factor for the development of a pathological response to trauma. Thus, we suggest that impulsivity could be one of the links between childhood trauma and suicidal behavior. Prevention of childhood abuse could significantly reduce suicidal behavior in adolescents and adults, in part, through a decrease in the frequency of impulsive behaviors in the future.
Voluntary actions and their distal effects are intimately related in conscious awareness. When an expected effect follows a voluntary action, the experience of the interval between these events is compressed in time, a phenomenon known as 'intentional binding' (IB). Current accounts of IB suggest that it serves to reinforce associations between our goals and our intention to attain these goals via action, and that IB only occurs for self-generated (i.e., intentional) actions. We used a novel approach to study IB in the context of shared intentions and actions. Pairs of participants judged the time of occurrence of actions and events attributed either to oneself or to another agent. We found that IB and subjective agency are not mutually predictive when an action can be attributed to only one of two 'co-intending' agents. Our results pose a complication for the prevailing view that IB and subjective agency reflect a common mechanism.
Artificial stimulation of the peripheral vestibular system has been shown to improve ownership of body parts in neurological patients, suggesting vestibular contributions to bodily self-consciousness. Here, we investigated whether galvanic vestibular stimulation (GVS) interferes with the mechanisms underlying ownership, touch, and the localization of one's own hand in healthy participants by using the &quot;rubber hand illusion&quot; paradigm. Our results show that left anodal GVS increases illusory ownership of the fake hand and illusory location of touch. We propose that these changes are due to vestibular interference with spatial and/or temporal mechanisms of visual-tactile integration leading to an enhancement of visual capture. As only left anodal GVS lead to such changes, and based on neurological data on body part ownership, we suggest that this vestibular interference is mediated by the right temporo-parietal junction and the posterior insula.

We explored whether children's suggestion-induced omission errors are caused by memory erasure. Seventy-five children were instructed to remove three pieces of clothing from a puppet. Next, they were confronted with evidence falsely suggesting that one of the items had not been removed. During two subsequent interviews separated by one week, children had to report which pieces of clothing they had removed. Children who during both interviews failed to report that they had removed the pertinent item (i.e., omission error; n=24) completed a choice reaction time task. In this task, they were presented with different clothing items. For each item, children had to indicate whether or not they had removed it. Significantly more errors were made for those removed items that children failed to report than for those they had not removed. This indicates that children's suggestion-based omission errors are not due to erasure of memories.
It has been proposed that performance in the think - no think (TNT) task represents a laboratory analogue of the voluntary form of memory repression. The central prediction of this repression hypothesis is that performance in the TNT task will be influenced by emotional characteristics of the material to be remembered. This prediction was tested in two experiments by asking participants to learn paired associates in which the first item was either emotionally positive (e.g. joy) or emotionally negative (e.g. hatred). The second word was always emotionally neutral (e.g. socks). Consistent with the repression hypothesis, significant memory suppression was observed in both experiments following 'no think' instructions for memories associated with emotionally negative material. No suppression was observed for memories associated with emotionally positive information. Implications of these findings for the relationship between performance in the TNT task and the controversial notion of memory repression are considered.


Vidian neurectomy yields dramatic relief of nasal hypersecretion in patients with allergic rhinitis. Clinical studies conducted on vidian neurectomized nasal mucosa have shown that nasal hypersecretion observed after challenging the nasal mucosa with antigen is caused by reflexively induced activation of the parasympathetic center secondary to stimulation of the sensory nerve terminals in the nasal mucosa by histamine. On the contrary, nasal mucosal swelling is caused mostly by the direct effects of chemical mediators on the nasal vasculature, although vascular reflex mediated by the noncholinergic parasympathetic nerve may be partially involved in the onset of nasal mucosal swelling after antigen challenge. Considering the long-term side effects of inhibition of lacrimation and possible partial recurrence of hyperreactive nasal symptoms observed after vidian neurectomy, less invasive endoscopic posterior nasal neurectomy is considered the treatment of choice for patients with allergic rhinitis who require surgical intervention.
Hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy) has been recognized as a risk factor for developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, its underlying molecular mechanisms are still elusive. Here we show that HHcy induces an elevation of amyloid beta (Abeta) levels and deposition, as well as behavioral impairments, in a mouse model of AD-like amyloidosis, the Tg2576 mice. This elevation is not associated with significant change of the steady state levels of the Abeta precursor protein (APP), beta- or alpha-secretase pathways, nor with the Abeta catabolic pathways. By contrast, HHcy significantly reduces glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) Ser21/9 phosphorylation, but not total GSK3 protein levels. Similar results are obtained in brains homogenates from a genetic mouse model of HHcy. In vitro studies show that homocysteine increases Abeta formation, reduces phosphorylated GSK3 levels, without changes in total APP and its metabolism, and these effects are prevented by selective GSK3 inhibition. Overall, these data support a potential link between GSK3 and the pro-amyloidotic effect of HHcy in vivo and in vitro.
The hippocampus is critical for learning and memory and heavily affected in dementia. The presence of stem cells in this structure has led to an increased interest in the phenomenon of adult neurogenesis and its role in hippocampal functioning. Not surprising, investigators of Alzheimer's disease have also evaluated adult neurogenesis due to its responsiveness to hippocampal damage. Although causal relationships have not been established, many factors known to impact neurogenesis in the hippocampus, are implicated in the pathogenesis of AD. Also, adult neurogenesis has been proposed to reflect a &quot;neurogenic reserve&quot; that may determine vulnerability to hippocampal dysfunction and neurodegeneration. Since neurogenesis is modifiable, stimulation of this process, or the potential use of stem cells, recruited endogenously or implanted by transplantation, has been speculated as a possible treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. As the structural and molecular mechanisms governing adult neurogenesis are important for evaluating therapeutic strategies, we will here review collective literature findings and speculate about the future of this field with a focus on findings from Alzheimer's mouse models. Continued research in this area and use of these models is critical for evaluating if neurogenesis based therapeutic strategies will indeed have the potential to aid those with degenerative conditions.
Viral infections of the pediatric central nervous system (CNS) encompass a broad spectrum of both perinatally and postnatally acquired diseases with potentially devastating effects on the developing brain. In children, viral infections have been associated with chronic encephalopathy, encephalitis, demyelinating disease, tumors, and epilepsy. Older diagnostic techniques of biopsy, viral culture, electron microscopy, gel-based polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and viral titer quantification are being replaced with more rapid, sensitive, and specific real-time and microarray-based PCR technologies. Advances in neuroimaging technologies have provided for earlier recognition of CNS injury without elucidation of specific viral etiology. Although the mainstay therapy of many pediatric neurovirologic diseases, aside from HIV, includes intravenous acyclovir, much work is being done to develop novel antiviral immunotherapies aimed at both treating and preventing pediatric CNS viral disease.
Brain hemorrhage is the most fatal form of stroke and has the highest morbidity of any stroke subtype. Intraventricular extension of hemorrhage (IVH) is a particularly poor prognostic sign, with expected mortality between 50% and 80%. IVH is a significant and independent contributor to morbidity and mortality, yet therapy directed at ameliorating intraventricular clot has been limited. Conventional therapy centers on managing hypertension and intracranial pressure while correcting coagulopathy and avoiding complications such as rebleeding and hydrocephalus. Surgical therapy alone has not changed the natural history of the disease significantly. However, fibrinolysis in combination with extraventricular drainage shows promise as a technique to reduce intraventricular clot volume and to manage the concomitant complications of IVH.




The lumbar spinal cord of rats contains the sexually dimorphic, steroid-sensitive spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB). Androgens are necessary for the development of the SNB neuromuscular system, and in adulthood, continue to influence the morphology and function of the motoneurons and their target musculature. However, estrogens are also involved in the development of the SNB system, and are capable of maintaining function in adulthood. In this experiment, we assessed the ability of testosterone metabolites, estrogens and nonaromatizable androgens, to maintain neuromuscular morphology in adulthood. Motoneuron and muscle morphology was assessed in adult normal males, sham-castrated males, castrated males treated with testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, estradiol, or left untreated, and gonadally intact males treated with the 5alpha-reductase inhibitor finasteride or the aromatase inhibitor fadrozole. After 6 weeks of treatment, SNB motoneurons were retrogradely labeled with cholera toxin-HRP and reconstructed in three dimensions. Castration resulted in reductions in SNB target muscle size, soma size, and dendritic morphology. Testosterone treatment after castration maintained SNB soma size, dendritic morphology, and elevated target muscle size; dihydrotestosterone treatment also maintained SNB dendritic length, but was less effective than testosterone in maintaining both SNB soma size and target muscle weight. Treatment of intact males with finasteride or fadrozole did not alter the morphology of SNB motoneurons or their target muscles. In contrast, estradiol treatment was completely ineffective in preventing castration-induced atrophy of the SNB neuromuscular system. Together, these results suggest that the maintenance of adult motoneuron or muscle morphology is strictly mediated by androgens.
Word segmentation, detecting word boundaries in continuous speech, is a fundamental aspect of language learning that can occur solely by the computation of statistical and speech cues. Fifty-four children underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while listening to three streams of concatenated syllables that contained either high statistical regularities, high statistical regularities and speech cues, or no easily detectable cues. Significant signal increases over time in temporal cortices suggest that children utilized the cues to implicitly segment the speech streams. This was confirmed by the findings of a second fMRI run, in which children displayed reliably greater activity in the left inferior frontal gyrus when listening to 'words' that had occurred more frequently in the streams of speech they had just heard. Finally, comparisons between activity observed in these children and that in previously studied adults indicate significant developmental changes in the neural substrate of speech parsing.
The development of theory of mind use was investigated by giving a computerized task to 177 female participants divided into five age groups: Child I (7.3-9.7 years); Child II (9.8-11.4); Adolescent I (11.5-13.9); Adolescent II (14.0-17.7); Adults (19.1-27.5). Participants viewed a set of shelves containing objects, which they were instructed to move by a 'director' who could see some but not all of the objects. Correct interpretation of critical instructions required participants to use the director's perspective and only move objects that the director could see. In a control condition, participants were asked to ignore objects in slots with a grey background. Accuracy improved similarly in both conditions between Child I and Adolescent II. However, while performance of the Adolescent II and Adult groups did not differ in the control condition, the Adolescent II group made more errors than the adults in the experimental condition. These results suggest that theory of mind use improves between late adolescence and adulthood. Thus, while theory of mind tasks are passed by age 4, these data indicate that the interaction between theory of mind and executive functions continues to develop in late adolescence.
When enumerating small sets of elements nonverbally, human infants often show a set-size limitation whereby they are unable to represent sets larger than three elements. This finding has been interpreted as evidence that infants spontaneously represent small numbers with an object-file system instead of an analog magnitude system (Feigenson, Dehaene &amp; Spelke, 2004). In contrast, non-human animals and adult humans have been shown to rely on analog magnitudes for representing both small and large numbers (Brannon &amp; Terrace, 1998; Cantlon &amp; Brannon, 2007; Cordes, Gelman, Gallistel &amp; Whalen, 2001). Here we demonstrate that, like adults and non-human animals, children as young as 3 years of age spontaneously employ analog magnitude representations to enumerate both small and large sets. Moreover, we show that children spontaneously attend to numerical value in lieu of cumulative surface area. These findings provide evidence of young children's greater sensitivity to number relative to other quantities and demonstrate continuity in the process they spontaneously recruit to judge small and large values.
Since Broca's studies on language processing, cortical functional specialization has been considered to be integral to efficient neural processing. A fundamental question in cognitive neuroscience concerns the type of learning that is required for functional specialization to develop. To address this issue with respect to the development of neural specialization for letters, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to compare brain activation patterns in pre-school children before and after different letter-learning conditions: a sensori-motor group practised printing letters during the learning phase, while the control group practised visual recognition. Results demonstrated an overall left-hemisphere bias for processing letters in these pre-literate participants, but, more interestingly, showed enhanced blood oxygen-level-dependent activation in the visual association cortex during letter perception only after sensori-motor (printing) learning. It is concluded that sensori-motor experience augments processing in the visual system of pre-school children. The change of activation in these neural circuits provides important evidence that 'learning-by-doing' can lay the foundation for, and potentially strengthen, the neural systems used for visual letter recognition.
Gas2-like proteins harbour putative binding sites for both the actin and the microtubule cytoskeleton and could thus mediate crosstalk between these cytoskeletal systems. Family members are highly conserved in all metazoans but their in vivo role is not clear. The sole Drosophila Gas2-like gene, CG3973 (pigs), was recently identified as a transcriptional target of Notch signalling and might therefore link cell fate decisions through Notch activation directly to morphogenetic changes. We have generated a null mutant in CG3973 (pigs): pigs(1) mutants are semi-viable but adult flies are flightless, showing indirect flight muscle degeneration, and females are sterile, showing disrupted oogenesis and severe defects in follicle cell differentiation, similar to phenotypes seen when levels of Notch/Delta signalling are perturbed in these tissues. Loss of Pigs leads to an increase in Notch signalling activity in several tissues. These results indicate that Gas2-like proteins are essential for development and suggest that Pigs acts downstream of Notch as a morphogenetic read-out, and also as part of a regulatory feedback loop to relay back information about the morphogenetic state of cells to restrict Notch activation to appropriate levels in certain target tissues.

Developing effective therapies for serious neurological insults remains a major challenge for biomedical research. Despite intense efforts, the ability to promote functional recovery after contusion injuries, ischemic insults, or the onset of neurodegenerative diseases in the brain and spinal cord remains very limited even while the need for such therapies is increasing with an aging population. Recent studies suggest that cellular therapies utilizing mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) may provide a functional benefit in a wide range of neurological insults. MSCs derived from a variety of tissue sources have been therapeutically evaluated in animal models of stroke, spinal cord injury, and multiple sclerosis. In each situation, treatment with MSCs results in substantial functional benefit and these pre-clinical studies have led to the initiation of a number of clinical trials worldwide in neural repair.
Given improvements in viral vector design, production and efficiency of transduction in the central nervous system (CNS), as well as increased knowledge of neuropathological mechanisms in neurological disorders, success in treating a CNS disorder with gene transfer seems inevitable. Several different vector systems have been studied extensively and the adeno-associated viral vector system has been utilized in most early stage clinical trials in neurological disorders. Other vector systems, such as lentivirus, adenovirus, and herpes simplex virus are also viable vector platforms that should fill significant clinical niches based on their specific characteristics. In addition to the choice of the appropriate vector, the proper choice of transgene for the appropriate strategy to treat a neurological disorder is also critical. The example of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor ligands to treat Parkinson's disease is used to illustrate the importance of the interface between interpretation of pre-clinical data and consideration of the natural history of the disorder. This interface dictates the proper design of clinical trials that are capable of testing whether the treatment is actually successful.
The weight of evidence suggests that legal pressure to enter treatment facilitates retention. However, the extent to which such mandates (a) influence actual levels of substance use, or (b) also facilitate retention among pregnant women, is unclear. Associations between external pressure-defined as self-reported pressure to attend treatment under threat of incarceration, loss of child custody, and/or loss of subsidized housing--and the key outcomes of retention and substance use were therefore examined in a sample of 200 pregnant women receiving community-based substance abuse treatment. The role of external pressure was examined in a series of Cox and GEE regressions, which suggested that external pressure as measured at baseline was associated with decreased risk of dropout (Hazard Ratio=.47, p=.001) and fewer drug-positive urine tests throughout treatment and 12-week follow-up (OR=.48, p=.03). These differences did not appear to be the result of baseline differences between coerced and non-coerced participants in education, legal history, the presence or absence of a substance use disorder, employment, or motivation. The present findings extend the larger literature on external pressure by demonstrating effects on drug use as well as on retention, and among pregnant women.
While poppy seed and poppy tea dependence has been described, it is unusual to see such patients actively seek treatment in India. We report the case of an 82-year-old client with dependent use of poppy for 55 years. She was brought for treatment as access to poppy became difficult following legal restrictions. She was successfully maintained on buprenorphine maintainence.
Selective antagonism of centrally localized histamine H(3) receptors has been shown to enhance the release of a wide spectrum of important neurotransmitters including acetylcholine, gamma-aminobutyric acid, dopamine and noradrenalin, among others, which play fundamental roles in cognitive processes, in an output-dependent manner. The cognitive-enhancing effects of H(3) receptor antagonists across multiple cognitive domains in a wide number of preclinical cognition models also endow confidence in this therapeutic strategy for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and the cognitive deficits often expressed in schizophrenia. Recent positive clinical reports are beginning to reinforce this optimism.
This study explored intellectual profile of children attending a clinic for obesity and to what extent their characteristics predicted full scale IQ. Totally, 60 patients aged 8-16 years were recruited consecutively from the National Childhood Obesity Centre at Karolinska University Hospital in Sweden. These patients were tested using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC). Of these 60 patients, 51 (85%) parents gave informed consent for their children's results to be included in this study (mean age 12.94, standard deviation, SD 2.42). The children's mean full scale IQ was 85.39. Parental education was strongly associated with child IQ. After adjustment for parental education, female gender and a higher level of obesity were associated with lower IQ. Obese children are at increased risk of having below average IQ and strategies to tackle associated problems should be developed in paediatric obesity clinics.

We report about a complex case of pica in comorbidity with multiple sclerosis and binge eating disorder. Pica is classified among the feeding and eating disorders of infancy and early childhood, but there is a debate in the literature about the psychopathology and classification of this behavior. Some authors emphasize the similarities with the obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders, whereas others propose an interpretation of pica as an addiction or as an impulsive behavior. The clinical case that we describe provides a picture of impulsive and compulsive features that are very difficult to disentangle. It is noteworthy that hypercalcemia is reported to have a protective/therapeutic effect against multiple sclerosis and seems to increase the plasmatic levels of beta-endorphins. The nature, diagnostic classification, and functions of pica are a topic worthy of future investigation.
Triatomine insects (Hemiptera: Reduviidae), commonly known as kissing bugs, are a potential health problem in the southwestern United States as possible vectors of Trypanosoma cruzi, the causative agent of Chagas disease. Although this disease has been traditionally restricted to Latin America, a small number of vector-transmitted autochthonous US cases have been reported. Because triatomine bugs and infected mammalian reservoirs are plentiful in southern Arizona, we collected triatomines inside or around human houses in Tucson and analyzed the insects using molecular techniques to determine whether they were infected with T. cruzi. We found that 41.5% of collected bugs (n = 164) were infected with T. cruzi, and that 63% of the collection sites (n = 22) yielded &gt;or=1 infected specimens. Although many factors may contribute to the lack of reported cases in Arizona, these results indicate that the risk for infection in this region may be higher than previously thought.
The purpose of this pictorial essay is to illustrate the computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging manifestations of hypoperfusion and hypoxic brain injury in adults, a clinical scenario not uncommon in the emergency room setting. The imaging findings can be subtle or marked depending on the type of injury and the time elapsed from injury to imaging. Accurate recognition of the imaging findings in hypoperfusion and hypoxic injury in adults is important for accurate therapy and family-patient counseling.


Brain IGF-I receptors are required for maintenance of estrous cycles in young adult female rats. Circulating and hypothalamic IGF-I levels decrease with aging, suggesting a role for IGF-I in the onset of reproductive senescence. Therefore, the present study investigated potential mechanisms of action of brain IGF-I receptors in the regulation of LH surges in young adult and middle-aged rats. We continuously infused IGF-I, the selective IGF-I receptor antagonist JB-1, or vehicle into the third ventricle of ovariectomized young adult and middle-aged female rats primed with estradiol and progesterone. Pharmacological blockade of IGF-I receptors attenuated and delayed the LH surge in young adult rats, reminiscent of the LH surge pattern that heralds the onset of reproductive senescence in middle-aged female rats. Infusion of IGF-I alone had no effect on the LH surge but reversed JB-1 attenuation of the surge in young females. In middle-aged rats, infusion of low doses of IGF-I partially restored LH surge amplitude, and infusion of JB-1 completely obliterated the surge. Intraventricular infusion of IGF-I or JB-1 did not modify pituitary sensitivity to exogenous GnRH or GnRH peptide content in the anterior or mediobasal hypothalamus in either young or middle-aged rats. These findings support the hypothesis that brain IGF-I receptor signaling is necessary for GnRH neuron activation under estrogen-positive feedback conditions and that decreased brain IGF-I signaling in middle-aged females contributes, in part, to LH surge dysfunction by disrupting estradiol-sensitive processes that affect GnRH neuron activation and/or GnRH release.
We determined whether transient exposure to estradiol during middle age in ovariectomized rats would exert lasting effects on cognition and the brain beyond the period of exposure. Two experiments were conducted. Rats 10-11 months of age were ovariectomized and received vehicle control treatment throughout the experiment, continuous estradiol treatment throughout the experiment, or 40 d of transient exposure to estradiol that ended 3 d before behavioral training. In the first experiment, rats were trained on a radial-maze working memory task and killed 2 months after the termination of transient exposure to estradiol. The hippocampus was immunostained for choline acetyltransferase and estrogen receptors alpha (ER alpha) and beta (ER beta) by Western blotting. In a second experiment to determine the durability of treatment effects, rats were behaviorally tested every other month until brains were collected for Western blotting 8 months after the termination of transient exposure to estradiol. Maze testing included delay trials and scopolamine trials, in which dose-effect curves for the muscarinic receptor antagonist were determined. Transient exposure to estradiol enhanced working memory and attenuated amnestic effects of scopolamine as effectively as continuous estradiol exposure. Enhancements persisted for up to 7 months. Transient exposure to estradiol increased hippocampal levels of ER alpha and choline acetyltransferase 2 months and ER alpha 8 months after termination of the exposure. Neither estradiol treatment altered estrogen receptor beta levels. Results demonstrate that short-term treatment with estradiol during middle age enhances working memory well beyond the duration of treatment and suggest ER alpha as a potential mechanism for this effect.

Ictal behavior coupled with SPECT findings during 28 seizures in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) with unilateral hippocampal sclerosis (13 left; 15 right) was displayed as flowcharts from right-sided (RTLE) plus left-sided (LTLE) seizures. Ictal SPECT was classified blind to neuroethology. Behaviors were categorized as ipsilateral to the epileptogenic zone (IL), contralateral to the epileptogenic zone (CL), or bilateral. SPECT intensity and region were categorized as IL or CL to the epileptogenic zone. All patients developed automatisms and had hyperperfusion in their temporal lobes. Patients' verbal responses to questions had statistical interactions in RTLE but not in LTLE sum. Most CL dystonic posturing was correlated to IL basal ganglia hyperperfusion. Basal ganglia activation occurred in seizures without dystonic posturing and CL manual automatisms, and lack of IL dystonic posturing and the presence of CL cerebellar hemispheric hyperperfusion were also observed. Coupling of neuroethology and SPECT findings reliably evaluates ictal behavior and functionality of associated brain areas.
Intra-operative electrocorticography (ECoG) is useful in epilepsy surgery to delineate margins of epileptogenic zone, guide resection and evaluate completeness of resection in surgically remediable intractable epilepsies. The study evaluated 157 cases (2000-2008). The preoperative evaluation also included ictal SPECT (122) and PET in 32 cases. All were lesional cases, 51% (81) of patients had &gt;1 seizure/day and another 1/3rd (51) had &gt;1/week. Pre and post resection ECoG was performed in all cases. A total of 372 recordings were performed in 157 cases. Second post-operative recordings (42) and third post-operative recordings (16) were also performed. Site of recordings included lateral temporal (61), frontal (39), parietal (37), hippocampal (16) and occipital (4). 129/157 cases (82%) showing improvement on ECoG, 30/42 cases showed improvement in 2nd post resection, 8/16 showed improvement in the 3rd post-operative ECoG. 116/157 (73%) patients had good outcome (Engel I and II) at follow up (12-94 months, mean 18.2 months). Of these, 104 patients (80%) showed improvement on post-operative ECoG. 12 had good outcome despite no improvement on ECoG. The improvement in ECoG correlated significantly with clinical improvement [Sensitivity: 100% (95% CI; 96-100%); specificity: 68.3% (95% CI; 51.8-81.4%); positive predictive value: 89.9% (95% CI, 83.1-94.3%); negative predictive value: 100% (95% CI, 85-100%)]. The level of agreement was 91.72% (kappa: 0.76). Concluding, pre and post resection ECoG correlated with its grade of severity and clinical outcome.
High-frequency electrographic activity (HFA) has a frequency of 80-600Hz. It can be observed interictally in epileptic foci and also at the onset of epileptic seizures. There are several hypotheses about how HFA is generated, and it has been suggested that the underlying mechanisms may play an important role in epileptogenesis and ictogenesis. The high specificity of HFA for epileptic foci is now used during presurgical evaluation to help localize epileptic focus. In this article we review the current state of knowledge regarding this phenomenon and challenges for the future studies focusing on HFA.

Several studies have demonstrated that structural brain change is detectable in the hippocampus in both patients, with schizophrenia and major depression. Only few studies, however, compared both clinical disease entities directly and no larger study has tried to take different disease stages into account. The objectives of this study are to investigate whether hippocampal volumes are reduced in patients with schizophrenia and those with major depression with the same duration of illness compared to healthy controls and to assess further changes at different disease stages. A total of 319 inpatients and healthy controls were enrolled and investigated with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Hippocampal volumes were measured using the segmentation software BRAINS. Bilateral hippocampal volume reductions were detected in both schizophrenic and depressed patients compared to healthy control (HC) subjects. Although younger, schizophrenic (SZ) patients showed in their MRI scans significant bilaterally reduced hippocampal volumes compared to patients with major depression. Although the hippocampal reductions were similar at the onset of symptomatic manifestation of both diseases, there was a further significant reduction of the left hippocampus in the recurrently ill SZ subgroup. The data suggest rather dynamic structural brain alterations in schizophrenia compared to major depression. Here, the presented application of the comparative neuroscience approach, by the use of large neuroimaging MRI databases, seems highly valuable. In the field of psychiatry, with its still controversial operationalized descriptive diagnostic entities, the cross-nosological approach provides a helpful tool to better elucidate the still unknown brain pathologies and their underlying molecular mechanisms beyond a single nosological entity.
Behavioural and neuropsychological vulnerability have been associated with an increased risk of psychosis. We investigated whether certain clusters of premorbid behavioural and personality-related signs and symptoms were predictors of nonaffective and/or affective psychosis and schizophrenia, respectively, in a 50-year follow-up of an unselected general community population. Total population cohorts from the same catchment area in 1947 (n = 2,503) and 1957 (n = 3,215) that had been rated for behavioural items and enduring symptoms were followed up to 1997 regarding first-incidence of DSM-IV nonaffective and/or affective psychosis. Attrition was 1-6%. The influence of the background factors, aggregated in dichotomous variables (predictors), on time to occurrence of nonaffective and/or affective psychosis was assessed by means of Cox regression models. In multivariate models the predictors nervous-tense, blunt-deteriorated, paranoid-schizotypal and tired-distracted were significantly associated with subsequent nonaffective and/or affective psychosis. In simple models, down-semidepressed, sensitive-frail and easily hurt were significantly associated with development of psychosis. When schizophrenia was analysed separately nervous-tense remained significant in the multivariate model, although blunt-deteriorated, paranoid-schizotypal and tired-distracted did not; and abnormal-antisocial reached significance. To conclude, we found some evidence for anxiety-proneness, affective/cognitive blunting, poor concentration, personality cluster-A like traits and interpersonal sensitivity to be associated with general psychosis vulnerability.




Nerve transfer procedures involving the repair of a distal denervated nerve element with that of a foreign proximal nerve have become increasingly popular for clinical nerve repair as a surgical alternative to autologous nerve grafting. However, the functional outcomes and the central plasticity for these procedures remain poorly defined, particularly for a clinically relevant rodent model of hindlimb nerve transfer. We therefore evaluated the effect of selective tibial branch nerve transfer on behavioural recovery in animals following acute transection of the deep peroneal nerve. The results indicate that not only can hindlimb nerve transfers be successfully accomplished in a rat model but that these animals display a return of skilled locomotor function on a par with animals that underwent direct deep peroneal nerve repair (the current gold standard). At 2 months, ground reaction force analysis demonstrated that partial restoration of braking forces occurred in the nerve transfer group, whereas the direct repair group had fully restored these forces to similar to baseline levels. Ankle kinematic analysis revealed that only animals in the direct repair group significantly recovered flexion during the step cycle, indicating a recovery of surgically induced foot drop. Terminal electrophysiological and myological assessments demonstrated similar levels of reinnervation, whereas retrograde labelling studies confirmed that the peroneal nerve-innervated muscles were innervated by neurons from the tibial nerve pool in the nerve transfer group. Our results demonstrate a task-dependent recovery process, where skilled locomotor recovery is similar between nerve transfer and direct repair animals, whereas flat surface locomotion is significantly better in direct repair animals.

Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have been used to treat melancholic depression, which has been associated with elevated hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis activity, whereas patients suffering from atypical depression, which is often associated with decreased HPA axis activity, show preferential responsiveness to monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs). We previously reported drug-specific effects of the TCA imipramine and the MAOI phenelzine on HPA axis-relevant endpoints in mice that may explain differential antidepressant responses in melancholic vs. atypical depression. However, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are reported to be effective in both melancholic and atypical depression. We therefore hypothesized that SSRIs would share HPA axis-related effects with either TCAs or MAOIs. To test this hypothesis, we measured HPA axis-relevant gene expression in male C57BL/6 mice treated for 5 weeks with 10 mg/kg/day fluoxetine. To control for potential fluoxetine-induced changes in glucocorticoid secretion, mice were adrenalectomized and given fixed levels of glucocorticoids. Fluoxetine decreased glucocorticoid receptor (GR) gene expression in the prefrontal cortex, amygdala, locus coeruleus and dorsal raph nucleus, and increased locus coeruleus tyrosine hydroxylase and dorsal raph nucleus tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH2) gene expression. These results resembled those that we previously reported for MAOI treatment, but included decreases in GR and increases in TPH2 gene expression in the dorsal raph nucleus that were induced by TCAs but not MAOIs. Correlating with inhibitory effects on central amygdala GR gene expression, fluoxetine also decreased amygdala corticotropin-releasing hormone gene expression, an effect not previously observed with MAOIs or TCAs. These actions may be relevant to the efficacy of SSRIs in treating a range of depression and anxiety disorders.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) in the mouse results in the rapid appearance of scattered clusters of cells expressing the chemokine Cxcl10 in cortical and subcortical areas. To extend the observation of this unique pattern, we used neuropathological mouse models using quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, gene array analysis, in-situ hybridization and flow cytometry. As for TBI, cell clusters of 150-200 mum expressing Cxcl10 characterize the cerebral cortex of mice carrying a transgene encoding the Swedish mutation of amyloid precursor protein, a model of amyloid Alzheimer pathology. The same pattern was found in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in mice modelling multiple sclerosis. In contrast, mice carrying a SOD1(G93A) mutant mimicking amyotrophic lateral sclerosis pathology lacked such cell clusters in the cerebral cortex, whereas clusters appeared in the brainstem and spinal cord. Mice homozygous for a null mutation of the Cxcl10 gene did not show detectable levels of Cxcl10 transcript after TBI, confirming the quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and in-situ hybridization signals. Moreover, unbiased microarray expression analysis showed that Cxcl10 was among 112 transcripts in the neocortex upregulated at least threefold in both TBI and ageing TgSwe mice, many of them involved in inflammation. The identity of the Cxcl10(+) cells remains unclear but flow cytometry showed increased numbers of activated microglia/macrophages as well as myeloid dendritic cells in the TBI and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis models. It is concluded that the Cxcl10(+) cells appear in the inflamed central nervous system and may represent a novel population of cells that it may be possible to target pharmacologically in a broad range of neurodegenerative conditions.
Presynaptic Ca(2+) influx pathways, cytoplasmic Ca(2+) buffering proteins and Ca(2+) extrusion processes undergo considerable change during the first postnatal month in rodent neurons. These changes may be critical in establishing short-term plasticity at maturing presynaptic terminals where neurotransmitter release is directly dependent on the dynamics of cytoplasmic residual Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](res)). In particular, the robust paired-pulse facilitation characteristic of adult neurons is almost entirely lacking in newborns. To examine developmental changes in processes controlling [Ca(2+)](res), we measured the timecourse of [Ca(2+)](res) decay in presynaptic terminals of Schaffer collateral to CA1 synapses in acute hippocampal slices following single and paired orthodromic stimuli in the stratum radiatum. Developmental changes were observed in both the rise time and slow exponential decay components of the response to single stimuli such that this decay was larger and faster in the adult. Furthermore, we observed a greater caffeine-sensitive basal Ca(2+) store, which was differentially affected when active uptake into the endoplasmic reticulum was blocked, in the presynaptic fields of the Schaffer collateral to CA1 terminals of P6 and younger mice when compared to adults. These transitions in [Ca(2+)](res) dynamics occurred gradually over the first weeks of postnatal life and correlated with changes in short-term plasticity.
In this study, we demonstrate that d-serine interacts with N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) coagonist sites of retinal ganglion cells of the tiger salamander retina by showing that exogenous d-serine overcomes the competitive antagonism of 7-chlorokynurenic acid for this site. Additionally, we show that exogenous d-serine was more than 30 times as effective at potentiating NMDAR currents compared with glycine. We thus examined the importance of glycine transport through the application of selective antagonists of the GlyT1 (NFPS) and GlyT2 (ALX-5670) transport systems, while simultaneously evaluating the degree of occupancy of the NMDAR coagonist binding sites. Analysis was carried out with electrophysiological recordings from the inner retina, including whole-cell recordings from retinal ganglion cells and extracellular recordings of the proximal negative field potential. Blocking the GlyT2 transport system had no effect on the light-evoked NMDAR currents or on the sensitivity of these currents to exogenous d-serine. In contrast, when the GlyT1 system was blocked, the coagonist sites of NMDARs showed full occupancy. These findings clearly establish the importance of the GlyT1 transporter as an essential component for maintaining the coagonist sites of NMDARs in a non-saturated state. The normal, unsaturated state of the NMDAR coagonist binding sites allows modulation of the NMDAR currents, by release of either d-serine or glycine. These results are discussed in light of contemporary findings which favor d-serine over glycine as the major coagonist of the NMDARs found in ganglion cells of the tiger salamander retina.
Midbrain dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, pars compacta and ventral tegmental area are critically important in many physiological functions. These neurons exhibit firing patterns that include tonic slow pacemaking, irregular firing and bursting, and the amount of dopamine that is present in the synaptic cleft is much increased during bursting. The mechanisms responsible for the switch between these spiking patterns remain unclear. Using both in-vivo recordings combined with microiontophoretic or intraperitoneal drug applications and in-vitro experiments, we have found that M-type channels, which are present in midbrain dopaminergic cells, modulate the firing during bursting without affecting the background low-frequency pacemaker firing. Thus, a selective blocker of these channels, 10,10-bis(4-pyridinylmethyl)-9(10H)-anthracenone dihydrochloride, specifically potentiated burst firing. Computer modeling of the dopamine neuron confirmed the possibility of a differential influence of M-type channels on excitability during various firing patterns. Therefore, these channels may provide a novel target for the treatment of dopamine-related diseases, including Parkinson's disease and drug addiction. Moreover, our results demonstrate that the influence of M-type channels on the excitability of these slow pacemaker neurons is conditional upon their firing pattern.
Although the involvement of the medial prefrontal cortex projection to the nucleus accumbens in the reinstatement of cocaine seeking has been well studied, it is not known if this projection plays a similar role in the reinstatement of cue- and methamphetamine-induced drug seeking in animals extinguished from methamphetamine self-administration. Accordingly, following extinction from long-access methamphetamine self-administration, rats were bilaterally microinjected with either a combination of the GABA agonists baclofen/muscimol or vehicle (artificial cerebrospinal fluid) into the infralimbic or prelimbic subcompartments of the medial prefrontal cortex or into the shell or core subcompartments of the nucleus accumbens. Similar to cocaine seeking, inactivation of either the prelimbic cortex or accumbens core eliminated cue- and methamphetamine-induced reinstatement, and inactivation of neither the infralimbic cortex nor shell subcompartments inhibited methamphetamine-induced drug seeking. However, in contrast to previous reports with cocaine, cue-induced reinstatement of methamphetamine seeking was inhibited by inactivation of the infralimbic cortex. In conclusion, although a primary role in reinstated drug seeking by the prelimbic and the accumbens core is similar between cocaine and methamphetamine, the recruitment of the infralimbic cortex by conditioned cues differs between these two psychostimulant drugs.
Epilepsy associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is characterized by early onset and intractable seizures in the majority of children. There is a solid evidence of clinical efficacy of vigabatrin in interrupting infantile spasms associated with TSC. Due to an early diagnosis we were able to start vigabatrin at the very early onset of seizures in 10 children, who subsequently underwent a long-term neurodevelopmental follow-up. At the final evaluation, a seizure free status was achieved in 50% of patients; 30% of individuals had a normal or borderline mental development, with no patients developing severe mental retardation and/or autism. Early control of seizures has a crucial role in preventing subsequent epileptic encephalopathy, and in reducing the cognitive/behavioural consequences of seizures, but does not guarantee for a normal mental outcome in children with TSC.

Chronic muscle pain of the neck, shoulder and low back is quite common and often related to a stressed condition. In this study we tried to make a model of long-lasting muscle mechanical hyperalgesia based on one type of stress, repeated cold stress (RCS) (Kita T, Hata T, Yoneda R, Okage T. Stress state caused by alternation of rhythm in environmental temperature, and the functional disorders in mice and rats. Folia Pharmacol Jpn 1975;71:195-210). We first validated a method of measuring the muscle mechanical nociceptive threshold through skin, with surface anesthesia of the skin covering the muscle. We found that a pressure test using a Randall-Selitto analgesiometer equipped with a larger probe (varphi 2.6 mm) can measure the deep mechanical withdrawal threshold even under the presence of cutaneous punctuate hyperalgesia. RCS was performed by changing the temperature from 22 degrees C to either 4 degrees C (RCS at 4 degrees C) or -3 degrees C (RCS at -3 degrees C) every 30 min, and then maintained at 4 degrees C/-3 degrees C from 17:30 to 10:00 the next day. RCS at 4 degrees C for 5 days induced bilateral deep mechanical hyperalgesia lasting 2-3 weeks without cutaneous punctuate hyperalgesia. Deep mechanical hyperalgesia observed after RCS at -3 degrees C lasted longer ( approximately 6 weeks) and was severer than RCS at 4 degrees C. Bilateral cutaneous punctuate hyperalgesia was also observed with RCS at -3 degrees C. Intramuscular injection of lidocaine confirmed that the muscle was hyperalgesic. RCS might serve as a useful model for study of the mechanism of chronic muscle pain and its treatment.
While human infants can display distinctive behavioural and physiological spinal cord and brainstem responses to noxious stimulation, it is not known whether cortical neurons are specifically activated by noxious stimuli in newborns. Here, using a novel approach to time-lock an EEG recording to a clinically required heel lance, we show the presence of a distinct nociceptive-specific potential in newborn infants (35-39 weeks postmenstrual age). The potential can be observed in single trials in the central electrodes (Cz and CPz) and using principal component analysis is characterised by a positivity that occurs at approximately 560 ms post-stimulus (N420-P560; P, positive; N, negative). The magnitude of the nociceptive-specific potential is not dependent on sleep state, whereas an earlier potential (N150-P260-N430), which is sleep-state dependent, is evoked by both noxious and non-noxious stimulation. These results provide the first direct evidence of specific noxious-evoked neural activity in the infant brain and suggest that newborn infants are capable of the sensory-discriminative aspects of pain experience.
Cannabis is one of the most used drugs of abuse. It affects the brain reward system in animals, and has proven rewarding and addictive potential in humans. We used functional MRI to measure brain activity during reward anticipation in a monetary reward task. Long-term cannabis users were compared to healthy controls. An additional control group consisting of nicotine users was included. Cannabis users showed attenuated brain activity during reward anticipation in the nucleus accumbens compared to non-smoking controls, but not compared to smoking controls. Cannabis users showed decreased reward anticipation activity in the caudate nucleus, compared to both non-smoking and smoking controls. These data suggest that nicotine may be responsible for attenuated reward anticipation activity in the accumbens, but that differences in the caudate are associated with the use of cannabis. Our findings imply that chronic cannabis use as well as nicotine, may cause an altered brain response to rewarding stimuli.
Performance of attention-demanding tasks is worse if two tasks are carried out simultaneously than if each of the tasks is performed alone. Our aim was to determine whether these 'dual task costs' can be attributed to mechanisms on a supra-trial level such as switching of limited resources between trials or concurrent breakdown of supervisory functions, or to mechanisms effective within each trial such as demands of response selection. Twenty healthy volunteers performed verbal random number generation (RNG) and random movement generation (RMG) at three different rates. For each rate, both tasks were examined once in a single task condition and once in a dual task condition. Results showed that performance (quality of randomness) in each random generation task (RNG/RMG) was reduced at faster rates and impaired by concurrent performance of a secondary random generation task. In the dual task condition, transient increase or decrease of bias in one random generation task during any short interval was not associated with concurrent increase or decrease of bias in the other task. In conclusion, the fact that during dual task performance transient bias in one task was not associated with concurrent improvement of performance in the other task indicates that alternation of supervisory control or attentional resources from one to the other task does not mediate the observed dual task costs. Resources of the central executive are not re-allocated or 'switched' from one to the other task. Dual task costs may result from mechanisms effective within each trial such as the demands of response selection.
The aim of this study was to investigate the involvement of the parietal cortex during motor imagery (MI). In experiment one, participants imagined a sequence of upper limb movements during FMRI scanning. Statistical parametric mapping revealed a network of activation consistent with previous MI research, including activation in right and left inferior and superior parietal cortex. In experiment two, participants imagined a sequence of upper limb movements while real or sham single-pulse TMS was delivered over the scalp area corresponding to each individual's left or right superior parietal cortex. At the end of each trial, participants moved their upper limbs to the position that would result from executing the sequence of movements. TMS degraded accuracy of MI compared to sham stimulation, and both accuracy and confidence decreased with real and sham stimulation later in the MI sequence. The effects of TMS were similar when delivered to either hemisphere. The results of this study provide evidence of the crucial role of SPL in MI, and may have implications for rehabilitation from brain injury.
There are numerous reports in the literature of lateralised structural cerebral abnormalities and alterations of the corpus callosum in the major psychoses. In the light of these findings the purpose of this study was to directly compare hemispheric differences and callosal interhemispheric transmission (IT) in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. To do that we tested schizophrenic (SCZ), bipolar disorder (BD) patients and controls in a simple manual reaction time (RT) task with lateralised visual stimuli (Poffenberger paradigm) which enables one to test both laterality effects and IT time. We found an overall slowing of responses with the right hand in schizophrenics but not in bipolar patients, who, like controls, showed no hand differences. This selective slowing down of the right hand is likely to be related to abnormalities of intrahemispheric cortico-cortical connections in the left hemisphere. In contrast, IT time was similar in SCZ and BD patients and did not differ with respect to controls. Two are the novel findings of the present study: first both SZC and BD share a normal IT of visuomotor information despite the presence of callosal abnormalities. Second, an impairment of intrahemispheric left hemispheric processing is present only in SCZ patients. This represents a potentially important clue to a further understanding of the pathogenetic differences between the two major psychoses.
The influence of sleep on motor skill consolidation has been a research topic of increasing interest. In this study, we distinguished general skill learning from sequence-specific learning in a probabilistic implicit sequence learning task (alternating serial reaction time) in young and old adults before and after a 12-h offline interval which did or did not contain sleep (p.m.-a.m. and a.m.-p.m. groups, respectively). The results showed that general skill learning, as assessed via overall reaction time, improved offline in both the young and older groups, with the young group improving more than the old. However, the improvement was not sleep-dependent, in that there was no difference between the a.m.-p.m. and p.m.-a.m. groups. We did not find sequence-specific offline improvement in either age group for the a.m.-either p.m. or p.m.-a.m. groups, suggesting that consolidation of this kind of implicit motor sequence learning may not be influenced by sleep.
A number of studies have shown that while perceptual judgment is deceived by pictorial illusions, grasping and other kinds of motor behaviour are not. This is in keeping with the existence of two different cortical systems: a ventral stream subserving vision-for-perception and a dorsal stream subserving vision-for-action. The former is sensitive to illusions, the latter is not. Given this dissociation of functions, one wonders whether simple visuomotor reaction time (RT) follows the ventral or the dorsal rule in perceiving illusory figures. Answering this question might contribute to a better understanding of the different functions of the two systems. We carried out two experiments, one with the Ponzo and the other with the Ebbinghaus-Titchener illusion and found that RT is sensitive to both illusions with faster responses to stimuli appearing illusorily bigger than the others. These results show that motor action is subserved by the ventral system when that action directly reports the presence or onset of a target rather than when that action requires a spatial adjustment that reflects the physical features of the target.
Neurodegenerative diseases, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are progressive and devastating disorders of the nervous system without cure. Although a number of distinct, but not mutually exclusive, mechanisms can affect disease pathogenesis, neuroinflammation stands in common. Neuroinflammatory responses occur as a consequence of oxidative and excitotoxic neuronal damage, mitochondrial dysfunction, and protein aggregation. Thus, it is believed drugs that modulate inflammation may combat disease progression. Such strategies include those commented on in the report by Arie Neymotin et al. demonstrating lenalidomide's anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective responses in the G93A mutant superoxide dismutase-1 mouse model of ALS (Neymotin et al., 2009). While anti-inflammatory interventions may be required, they may not be sufficient to positively affect clinical outcomes. The targeting of combinations of pathogenic events including clearance of disaggregated proteins together with neuroprotective and immune modulatory strategies may all be required to facilitate positive therapeutic outcomes. This may include the targeting of both innate and adaptive neurotoxic immune responses. This commentary is designed to summarize the promises and perils in achieving immunoregulation for brain homeostatic responses and inevitable therapeutic gain. Promising new ways to optimize immunization schemes and measure their clinical efficacy are discussed with a particular focus on ALS.
PET studies in parkin-linked parkinsonism have generally been performed to assess striatal dopaminergic dysfunction and very little is known about the involvement of other monoaminergic structures in these patients. Measurements of (18)F-dopa uptake into serotonergic and noradrenergic structures provide an indication of the functional integrity of these nerve terminals. We used (18)F-dopa PET to assess changes in brain monoaminergic function associated with parkin mutations. Twelve patients with parkin-linked parkinsonism and 12 asymptomatic parkin heterozygotes were included in the study. Eleven healthy controls, 12 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD), and four patients with PINK1 mutations were also investigated for comparison. parkin patients and IPD patients were matched for striatal dopaminergic dysfunction, as measured by (18)F-dopa uptake. Compared to controls, parkin patients showed significant (18)F-dopa reductions in the caudate, putamen, ventral striatum, locus coeruleus, midbrain raphe, and pallidum. The same structures showed reduced uptake in IPD patients, who additionally had significant reductions in hypothalamus, ventral anterior thalamus, and pineal gland. Direct comparison of parkin with IPD patients showed that hypothalamus was targeted in IPD and midbrain raphe in parkin disease. Patients with PINK1 mutation and several parkin heterozygotes also showed monoaminergic dysfunction. These findings suggest that parkin patients and IPD patients with similar striatal dysfunction have different patterns of monoaminergic involvement, with more widespread dysfunction in IPD.
The vanilloid receptor TRPV(1) is a key nociceptive molecule located in primary afferent nociceptive neurons in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) for initiating neurogenic inflammation and pain. Our recent study demonstrates that up-regulation of TRPV(1) receptors by intradermal injection of capsaicin is modulated by activation of the protein kinase C (PKC) cascade. Neurogenic inflammation and pain resulting from capsaicin injection are sympathetically dependent, responding to norepinephrine, adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and/or neuropeptide Y released from sympathetic efferents. In a rat model of acute neurogenic inflammatory pain produced by capsaicin injection, we used immunofluorescence and Western blots combined with pharmacology and surgical sympathectomies to analyze whether the capsaicin-evoked up-regulation of TRPV(1) in DRG neurons is affected by sympathetic outflow by way of activating the PKC cascade. Sympathetic denervation reduced significantly the capsaicin-evoked expressions of TRPV(1), calcitonin gene-related peptide and/or phosphorylated PKC and their co-expression. These reductions could be restored by exogenous pretreatment with an analog of ATP, alpha,beta-methylene ATP. Inhibition of PKC with chelerythrine chloride prevented the ATP effect. Consistent results were obtained from experiments in which capsaicin-evoked changes in cutaneous inflammation (vasodilation and edema) were examined after sympathetic denervation, and the effects of the above pharmacological manipulations were evaluated. Our findings suggest that the capsaicin-evoked up-regulation of TRPV(1) receptors in DRG neurons is modulated sympathetically by the action of ATP released from sympathetic efferents to activate the PKC cascade. Thus, this study proposes a potential new mechanism of sympathetic modulation of neurogenic inflammation.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an established treatment for advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). The procedure entails intracranial implantation of an electrode in a specific brain structure followed by chronic stimulation. Although the beneficial effects of DBS on motor symptoms in PD are well known, it is often accompanied by cognitive impairments, the origin of which is not fully understood. To explore the possible contribution of the surgical procedure itself, we studied the effect of electrode implantation in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) on regional neuroinflammation and memory function in rats implanted bilaterally with stainless steel electrodes. Age-matched sham and intact rats were used as controls. Brains were removed 1 or 8 weeks post-implantation and processed for in vitro autoradiography with [(3)H]PK11195, an established marker of microglial activation. Memory function was assessed by the novel object recognition test (ORT) before surgery and 2 and 8 weeks after surgery. Electrode implantation produced region-dependent changes in ligand binding density in the implanted brains at 1 as well as 8 weeks post-implantation. Cortical regions showed more intense and widespread neuroinflammation than striatal or thalamic structures. Furthermore, implanted animals showed deficits in ORT performance 2 and 8 weeks post-implantation. Thus, electrode implantation resulted in a widespread and persistent neuroinflammation and sustained memory impairment. These results suggest that the insertion and continued presence of electrodes in the brain, even without stimulation, may lead to inflammation-mediated cognitive deficits in susceptible individuals, as observed in patients treated with DBS.
Rett syndrome is a human neurodevelopmental disorder presenting almost exclusively in female infants; it is the second most common cause of mental retardation in girls, after Down's syndrome. The identification in 1999 that mutation of the methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) gene on the X chromosome causes Rett syndrome has led to a rapid increase in understanding of the neurobiological basis of the disorder. However, much about the functional role of MeCP2, and the cellular phenotype of both patients with Rett syndrome and mutant Mecp2 mouse models, remains unclear. Building on prior work in which we demonstrated that cortical layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons (primarily interhemispheric &quot;callosal projection neurons&quot; (CPN)) have reduced dendritic complexity and smaller somata in Mecp2-null mice, here we investigate whether Mecp2 loss-of-function affects neuronal maturation cell-autonomously and/or non-cell-autonomously by creating physical chimeras. We transplanted Mecp2-null or wild-type (wt) E17-18 cortical neuroblasts and immature neurons from mice constitutively expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) into wt P2-3 mouse cortices to generate chimeric cortices. Mecp2-null layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons in both Mecp2-null and wt neonatal cortices exhibit equivalent reduction in dendritic complexity, and are smaller than transplanted wt neurons, independent of recipient environment. These results indicate that the phenotype of Mecp2-null pyramidal neurons results largely from cell-autonomous mechanisms, with additional non-cell-autonomous effects. Dysregulation of MeCP2 target genes in individual neuronal populations such as CPN is likely centrally involved in Rett syndrome pathogenesis. Our results indicating MeCP2 function in the centrally affected projection neuron population of CPN themselves provide a foundation and motivation for identification of transcriptionally regulated MeCP2 target genes in developing CPN.

This review focuses on recent developments in the treatment of inflammatory neuropathies arising from immune dysregulation, rather than from infectious causes. The dysimmune inflammatory neuropathies are diseases of the peripheral nerves that have varying etiologies and may respond to immunomodulatory therapies. They are characterized by inflammatory changes in the nerve with associated destruction of myelin and axons. The underlying immune mechanisms are better understood in some of these conditions than others. Correct diagnosis and treatment is important to prevent clinical progression. Randomized controlled trials of some treatments in the more common inflammatory neuropathies have clarified their effectiveness; however, there are still groups of patients who are resistant to currently available treatments and for whom little effective treatment is available. Newer, targeted biologics and larger controlled trials of existing and novel therapies in these conditions offer promise of improved morbidity and mortality in this group of diseases.
Contraceptive management in women with epilepsy is critical owing to the potential maternal and fetal risks if contraception or seizure management fails. This article briefly describes the pharmacokinetic interactions between antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and hormonal contraceptives and the rational strategies that may overcome these risks. Hormonal contraception, including the use of oral contraceptives (OCs), is widely used in many women with epilepsy - there is no strong evidence of seizures worsening with their use. AEDs are the mainstay for seizure control in women with epilepsy. However, there are many factors to consider in the choice of AED therapy and hormonal contraception, since some AEDs can reduce the efficacy of OCs owing to pharmacokinetic interactions. Estrogens and progestogens are metabolized by cytochrome P450 3A4. AEDs, such as phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, felbamate, topiramate, oxcarbazepine and primidone, induce cytochrome P450 3A4, leading to enhanced metabolism of either or both the estrogenic and progestogenic component of OCs, thereby reducing their efficacy in preventing pregnancy. OCs can also decrease the concentrations of AEDs such as lamotrigine and, thereby, increase the risk of seizures. Increased awareness of AED interactions may help optimize seizure therapy in women with epilepsy.
Ekaterini Tiligada (Chair of Action) introduced the first meeting from the European Science Foundation (ESF) Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST) Action BM0806. This EU-funded Action will create a network of European pharmaceutical, clinical and academic experts to foster a multidisciplinary approach to histamine H(4) receptor (H(4)R) research, and to enhance basic understanding and the therapeutic potential of this exciting new drug target. Subobjectives are the evaluation and elucidation of critical issues pertaining to H(4)R function, pharmacological profile and therapeutic implementation of its ligands, promotion of the deployment of new instrumentation and reliable experimental models, and the development of a forum for free exchange of new concepts and the training of young European scientists. The Action includes scientists with competences ranging from chemical synthesis to clinical pharmacology. More than 20 teams constitute four interdisciplinary working groups: methodological approaches, basic research on physiological and pathophysiological importance, structure-activity and preclinical investigations on properties of new selective ligands, and therapeutic potential of H(4)R and new compounds. This Action is open to both industrial and academic international partners (please contact PL Chazot, Vice-Chair of Action, for further details).
The aging process in humans is associated with a decrease in immune function (immunosenescence) and an increase in comorbid disorders. When combined with environmental factors this can lead to an increased risk and severity of infectious diseases. Diseases in older adults (&gt;/=70 years) tend to be more severe and have a greater impact on health outcomes such as morbidity, disability, quality of life and mortality. However, some of the more common infections such as influenza and pneumococcal infection are vaccine preventable, but the uptake of such preventive strategies in adults has been poor. In this review some of the key clinical findings supporting the benefits of adult immunization are highlighted. Vaccination of the adult population needs to be a key component of a healthy aging strategy, since there is already convincing evidence that this approach can have an important impact on morbidity, mortality and quality of life.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder characterized by death of motor neurons leading to muscle wasting, paralysis, and death, usually within 2-3 years of symptom onset. The causes of ALS are not completely understood, and the neurodegenerative processes involved in disease progression are diverse and complex. There is substantial evidence implicating oxidative stress as a central mechanism by which motor neuron death occurs, including elevated markers of oxidative damage in ALS patient spinal cord and cerebrospinal fluid and mutations in the antioxidant enzyme superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) causing approximately 20% of familial ALS cases. However, the precise mechanism(s) by which mutant SOD1 leads to motor neuron degeneration has not been defined with certainty, and the ultimate trigger for increased oxidative stress in non-SOD1 cases remains unclear. Although some antioxidants have shown potential beneficial effects in animal models, human clinical trials of antioxidant therapies have so far been disappointing. Here, the evidence implicating oxidative stress in ALS pathogenesis is reviewed, along with how oxidative damage triggers or exacerbates other neurodegenerative processes, and we review the trials of a variety of antioxidants as potential therapies for ALS.
Expression level, control, and intercoordination of 66 selected heart rhythm determinant (HRD) genes were compared in atria and ventricles of four male and four female adult mice. We found that genes encoding various adrenergic receptors, ankyrins, ion channels and transporters, connexins, cadherins, plakophilins, and other components of the intercalated discs form a complex network that is chamber dependent and differs between the two sexes. In addition, most HRD genes in atria had higher expression in males than in females, while in ventricles, expression levels were mostly higher in females than in males. Moreover, significant chamber differences were observed between the sexes, with higher expression in atria than ventricles for males and higher expression in ventricles than atria for females. We have ranked the selected genes according to their prominence (new concept) within the HRD gene web defined as extent of expression coordination with the other web genes and stability of expression. Interestingly, the prominence hierarchy was substantially different between the two sexes. Taken together, these findings indicate that the organizational principles of the heart rhythm transcriptome are sex dependent, with the newly introduced prominence analysis allowing identification of genes that are pivotal for the sexual dichotomy.
Footswitches, instrumented insoles, and forceplates are commonly used for detecting footfall instants during treadmill walking. This study aimed to explore the feasibility of using an optoelectronic light curtain for detecting initial foot contact (FC) and toe-off (TO) instants during treadmill walking. A commercial light curtain comprised of an array of parallel infrared light beams was installed 5 mm above the treadmill belt. Ten subjects walked on the treadmill at 0.5, 1.0 and 1.4 m/s and their gait was captured using seven optoelectronic cameras. Footswitches were secured over the heel and big toe of the right foot and the corresponding areas of the shoe. Footfall instants from the light curtain, markers, and foot footswitches were compared with the shoe footswitches serving as a criterion. The respective time differences were computed for each step and used to evaluate the agreement with the criterion and variability across subjects. FC instants from foot footswitches were on average within 10ms of the criterion. Both video and light curtain FC instants were detected at least 30 ms before the criterion. For TO, both the foot footswitches and video instants preceded the criterion. In contrast, the TO from the light curtain occurred &gt;110 ms after the criterion but the variability was the smallest. The results indicated that using a light curtain for detecting footfall instants is feasible. The advantages of light curtain are relatively low cost, no subject preparations, and real-time signals. Greater accuracy is expected with further optimization of the setup.
In songbirds, neurons that regulate learned song behavior undergo extensive seasonal plasticity in their number and size in relation to the bird's reproductive status. Seasonal plasticity of these brain regions is primarily regulated by changes in circulating concentrations of testosterone. Androgen receptors are present in all of the major song nuclei, but it is unknown whether levels of androgen receptor mRNA in the telencephalic song regions HVC, the robust nucleus of the arcopallium, and the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium change as a function of season in white-crowned sparrows. To determine whether seasonal changes in levels of androgen receptor mRNA are specific to the song control system, we also measured levels of androgen receptor mRNA in a limbic nucleus, the lateral division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (the lateral division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis). We found that levels of androgen receptor mRNA were higher in HVC and the lateral division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis of birds in the breeding condition compared with the nonbreeding condition; however, we observed no seasonal differences in levels of androgen receptor mRNA in either the robust nucleus of the arcopallium or the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium. These results are consistent with previous observations that seasonal plasticity of the song nuclei results from testosterone acting directly on HVC, which then exerts transsynaptic trophic effects on its efferent targets. The seasonal change in the expression of androgen receptor in HVC may be one component of the cellular mechanisms underlying androgenic effects on seasonal plasticity of the song control nuclei.
The MitoPark mouse, in which the mitochondrial transcription factor Tfam is selectively removed in midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons, is a genetic model for Parkinson's disease (PD) that replicates the slow and progressive development of key symptoms. To further validate this model, we have extended both behavioral and biochemical analyses in these animals. We found that vertical movements decline earlier and faster than horizontal movements, possibly modeling the early occurrence of axial, postural instability in PD. L-DOPA induces different locomotor responses depending on the age: in young MitoPark mice the L-DOPA-induced motor activation is small; middle-aged MitoPark mice respond in a dose-dependent manner to L-DOPA, whereas aged MitoPark mice display a double-peaked locomotor response to a high dose of L-DOPA that includes an intermittent period of very low motor activity, similar to the 'on-off' phenomenon in PD. To correlate behavior with biochemical data, we analyzed monoamine levels in three different brain areas that are highly innervated by the DA system: striatum, anterior cortex and olfactory bulb. DA levels declined earlier and faster in striatum than in cortex; only at the latest time-point analyzed, DA levels were found to be significantly lower than control levels in the olfactory bulb. Interestingly, the ratio between homovanillic acid (HVA) and DA differed between regions over time. In striatum and olfactory bulb, the ratio increased steeply indicating increased DA turnover. In contrast, the ratio decreased over time in cortex, revealing important differences between DA cells in substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area.
In a mouse model of Rett syndrome (RTT) which expresses a truncated form of methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (Mecp2) gene (Mecp2-308), we performed a neurobehavioral evaluation across the life span, starting from soon after birth till adulthood. A focus was made on those developmental phases and behavioral domains which have not been previously investigated. The results evidenced subtle anomalies on postnatal days (pnds) 3 to 9 (so-called presymptomatic phase) in spontaneous movements by hemizygous neonatal male mice. Specifically as early as pnd 3, mutant pups exhibited more intense curling and more side responses and on pnd 9 more pivoting and head rising behaviors than wild type (wt) littermates. A significant decrease in ultrasonic vocalization rate, also emerged in Mecp2-308 pups. The same mice were also characterized by increased anxiety-like behaviors (open-field and zero-maze tests) during the early symptomatic phase, in the absence of changes in cognitive passive-avoidance task and rotarod performances. Upon the clearly symptomatic stage, 5-month-old Mecp2-308 mice were also associated with reduced spontaneous home-cage motor activity, motor coordination impairments (rotarod and dowel tests), and a more marked profile of D-amphetamine (10 mg/kg) released stereotyped behavioral syndrome than wt mice. Present results provide an interesting timeline of the progression of symptoms in the Mecp2-308 model and emphasize the need for increased attention to the presymptomatic phase which may be especially informative in mouse models of human neurodevelopmental disorders. This analysis has provided evidence of precocious behavioral markers of RTT and has identified an early developmental window of opportunities on which potential therapies could be investigated.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a complex disorder of the central nervous system, causing inflammation, demyelination and axonal damage. A limited number of genetic risk factors for MS have been identified, but the etiology of the disease remains largely unknown. For the identification of genes regulating neuroinflammation we used a rat model of MS, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), and carried out a linkage analysis in an advanced intercross line (AIL). We thereby redefine the Eae18b locus to a 0.88 Mb region, including a cluster of chemokine genes. Further, we show differential expression of Ccl2, Ccl11 and Ccl11 during EAE in rat strains with opposite susceptibility to EAE, regulated by genotype in Eae18b. The human homologous genes were tested for association to MS in 3841 cases and 4046 controls from four Nordic countries. A haplotype in CCL2 and rs3136682 in CCL1 show a protective association to MS, whereas a haplotype in CCL13 is disease predisposing. In the HLA-DRB1* 15 positive subgroup, we also identified an association to a risk haplotype in CCL2, suggesting an influence from the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) locus. We further identified association to rheumatoid arthritis in CCL2, CCL8 and CCL13, indicating common regulatory mechanisms for complex diseases.
Development of the central nervous system (CNS) requires the generation of neuronal and glial cell subtypes in appropriate numbers, and this demands the careful coordination of cell-cycle exit, survival, and differentiation. The E2F/Rb pathway is critical for cell-cycle regulation and also modulates survival and differentiation of distinct cell types in the developing and adult CNS. In this review, we first present the specific temporal patterns of expression of the E2F and Rb family members during CNS development and then discuss the genetic ablation of single or multiple members of these two families. Overall, the available data suggest a time-dependent and cell-context specific role of E2F and Rb family members in the developing and adult CNS.
Spinal cord contusion produces a central lesion surrounded by a peripheral rim of residual white matter. Despite stimulation of NG2(+) progenitor cell proliferation, the lesion remains devoid of normal glia chronically after spinal cord injury (SCI). To investigate potential cell-cell interactions of the predominant cells in the lesion at 3 days after injury, we used magnetic activated cell sorting to purify NG2(+) progenitors and OX42(+) microglia/macrophages from contused rat spinal cord. Purified NG2(+) cells from the injured cord grew into spherical masses when cultured in defined medium with FGF2 plus GGF2. The purified OX42(+) cells did not form spheroids and significantly reduced sphere growth by NG2(+) cells in co-cultures. Conditioned medium from these OX42(+) cells, unlike that from normal peritoneal macrophages or astrocytes also inhibited growth of NG2(+) cells, suggesting inhibition by secreted factors. Expression analysis of freshly purified OX42(+) cells for a panel of six genes for secreted factors showed expression of several that could contribute to inhibition of NG2(+) cells. Further, the pattern of expression of four of these, TNFalpha, TSP1, TIMP1, MMP9, in sequential coronal tissue segments from a 2 cm length of cord centered on the injury epicenter correlated with the expression of Iba1, a marker gene for OX42(+) cells, strongly suggesting a potential regional influence by activated microglia/macrophages on NG2(+) cells in vivo after SCI. Thus, the nonreplacement of lost glial cells in the central lesion zone may involve, at least in part, inhibitory factors produced by microglia/macrophages that are concentrated within the lesion.
Receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase sigma (RPTPsigma) plays a role in inhibiting axon growth during development. It has also been shown to slow axon regeneration after peripheral nerve injury and inhibit axon regeneration in the optic nerve. Here, we assessed the ability of the corticospinal tract (CST) axons to regenerate after spinal hemisection and contusion injury in RPTPsigma deficient (RPTPsigma(-/-)) mice. We show that damaged CST fibers in RPTPsigma(-/-) mice regenerate and appear to extend for long distances after a dorsal hemisection or contusion injury of the thoracic spinal cord. In contrast, no long distance axon regeneration of CST fibers is seen after similar lesions in wild-type mice. In vitro experiments indicate that cerebellar granule neurons from RPTPsigma(-/-) mice have reduced sensitivity to the inhibitory effects of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG) substrate, but not myelin, which may contribute to the growth of CST axons across the CSPG-rich glial scar. Our data suggest that RPTPsigma may function to prevent axonal growth after injury in the adult mammalian spinal cord and could be a target for promoting long distance regeneration after spinal cord injury.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS). Like MS, the animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is characterized by CNS inflammation and demyelination and can follow a relapsing-remitting (RR) or chronic (CH) disease course. The molecular and pathological differences that underlie these different forms of EAE are not fully understood. We have compared the differences in RR- and CH-EAE generated in the same mouse strain (C57BL/6) using the same antigen. At the peak of disease when mice in both groups have similar clinical scores, CH-EAE is associated with increased lesion burden, myelin loss, axonal damage, and chemokine/cytokine expression when compared with RR-EAE. We further showed that inflammation and myelin loss continue to worsen in later stages of CH-EAE, whereas these features are largely resolved at the equivalent stage in RR-EAE. Additionally, axonal loss at these later stages is more severe in CH-EAE than in RR-EAE. We also demonstrated that CH-EAE is associated with a greater predominance of CD8(+) T cells in the CNS that exhibit MOG(35-55) antigen specificity. These studies therefore showed that, as early as the peak stage of disease, RR- and CH-EAE differ remarkably in their immune cell profile, chemokine/cytokine responses, and histopathological features. These data also indicated that this model of CH-EAE exhibits pathological features of a chronic-progressive disease profile and suggested that the sustained chronic phenotype is due to a combination of axonal loss, myelin loss, and continuing inflammation.
The 14th International Headache Congress was held in Philadelphia in September 2009. During the Congress, many important basic, translational, and patient-oriented research studies were presented. In this and an accompanying manuscript, the work that has been deemed to be among the most innovative and significant is summarized. This manuscript discusses the best clinical research, while the accompanying manuscript summarizes the top basic science research. Here, we provide background and summarize Congress presentations on novel agents for migraine treatment, botulinum toxin therapy for chronic migraine, new methods for administration of headache medications, and nerve stimulation for the treatment of medically refractory headaches.






Adult female rats with high levels of circulating estradiol are biased to use a place strategy to solve an ambiguous spatial navigation task and those with low levels are biased to use a response strategy. We examined the development of this hormonal modulation of strategy use by training juvenile female rats on an ambiguous navigation task and probing them for strategy use at postnatal day (PD) 16, 21, or 26, after administration of 17 beta-estradiol or oil 48 and 24 h prior to testing. We found that rats could use either strategy successfully by PD21 but that estradiol did not bias rats to use a place strategy until PD26. In order to evaluate the stability of this effect over multiple navigation experiences, we retested oil-treated juveniles three times during adulthood. On the first adult navigation experience, rats were significantly more likely to use the same navigation strategy they used as juveniles, regardless of current estrous cycle phase. On the second and third adult tests, after rats had more experience with the task, previous navigation experience did not predict strategy use. Rats in proestrus were significantly more likely to use a place strategy while rats in estrus and diestrus did not appear to have a group bias to use either strategy. These results suggest that estradiol can modulate spatial navigation strategy use before puberty but that this effect interacts with previous navigation experience. This study sheds light on when and under what circumstances estradiol gains control over spatial navigation behavior in the female rat.
The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) is a sensitive test for the detection of decision-making impairments in several neurological and psychiatric populations. Very few studies have employed the IGT in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) investigations, in part, because the task is cognitively complex. Here we report a method for exploring brain activity using fMRI during performance of the IGT. Decision-making during the IGT was associated with activity in several brain regions in a group of healthy individuals. The activated regions were consistent with the neural circuitry hypothesized to underlie somatic marker activation and decision-making. Specifically, a neural circuitry involving the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (for working memory), the insula and posterior cingulate cortex (for representations of emotional states), the mesial orbitofrontal and ventromedial prefrontal cortex (for coupling the two previous processes), the ventral striatum and anterior cingulate/SMA (supplementary motor area) for implementing behavioral decisions was engaged. These results have implications for using the IGT to study abnormal mechanisms of decision making in a variety of clinical populations.
Vascular involvement is frequent in systemic sclerosis, but the role of the lymphatic vasculature is poorly known. Our aim was to evaluate lymphatic vessels in systemic sclerosis skin lesions. We studied skin forearm biopsies of 9 patients with systemic sclerosis and 7 age-matched controls. Lymphatic vessels were labeled with the monoclonal antibody D2-40 and blood vessels with a polyclonal antibody to von Willebrand Factor. All blood and lymphatic vessels present in each section were counted and total area, inner luminal area, and shape factors were measured. The number of blood and lymphatic vessels in papillary dermis was greater and their diameter lower than in reticular dermis both in systemic sclerosis and controls. In the reticular dermis, the number of lymphatic vessels was markedly reduced in systemic sclerosis (4.9 +/- 1.1 microm(-2) versus 8.9 +/- 1.2 microm(-2)P = .03), and a similar trend was observed in papillary dermis (8.4 +/- 3.7 microm(-2) versus 8.1 +/- 5.3 microm(-2)). Interestingly, the number of periglandular lymphatics in systemic sclerosis was not different from controls. The inner luminal area (possibly indicating compensatory dilation) of lymphatic vessels, particularly the periglandular ones, was greater in systemic sclerosis than in controls. No differences were observed in the number of blood vessels, but the percentage of blood vessel profiles (without lumen) was significantly less in systemic sclerosis both in papillary and in reticular dermis. In conclusion, our data show that skin lesions in systemic sclerosis are characterized by a selective rarefaction of lymphatic vasculature that spares periglandular vessels and that might have a pathogenic role in the evolution and in the clinical manifestations of the disease.

Ectopic pregnancy, a worldwide health problem, is potentially life-threatening and occurs in approximately 1.5-2% of all pregnancies in the western world; however, the precise mechanisms underlying the initiation and development of tubal ectopic pregnancy are unknown. Tubal abnormalities and dysfunction, such as altered contractility or abnormal ciliary activity, have been speculated to lead to tubal ectopic pregnancy. To elucidate the cellular and molecular mechanisms of the tubal transport process, several knockout (KO) mouse models have been developed. This review summarizes what has been learned from studies of the Fallopian tube in caspase-1, cannabinoid receptor and Dicer1 KO mice. Our understanding of the mechanisms which contribute to tubal ectopic pregnancy in humans may be enhanced through further study of these KO mouse models.
Improving performance in sports can be difficult because many biomechanical, physiological, and psychological factors come into play during competition. A better understanding of the perception-action loop employed by athletes is necessary. This requires isolating contributing factors to determine their role in player performance. Because of its inherent limitations, video playback doesn't permit such in-depth analysis. Interactive, immersive virtual reality (VR) can overcome these limitations and foster a better understanding of sports performance from a behavioral-neuroscience perspective. Two case studies using VR technology and a sophisticated animation engine demonstrate how to use information from visual displays to inform a player's future course of action.
One of the fundamental goals of computational neuroscience is the study of anatomical features that reflect the functional organization of the brain. The study of physical associations between neuronal structures and the examination of brain activity in vivo have given rise to the concept of anatomical and functional connectivity, which has been invaluable for our understanding of brain mechanisms and their plasticity during development. However, at present, there is no robust and accurate computational framework for the quantitative assessment of cortical connectivity patterns. In this paper, we present a quantitative analysis and modeling tool that is able to characterize anatomical connectivity patterns based on a newly developed coclustering algorithm, termed the business model-based coclustering algorithm (BCA). We apply BCA to diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) data in order to provide an automated and reproducible assessment of the connectivity patterns between different cortical areas in human brains. BCA not only partitions the cortical mantel into well-defined clusters, but also maximizes the connectivity strength between these clusters. Moreover, BCA is computationally robust and allows both outlier detection as well as parameter-independent determination of the number of clusters. Our coclustering results have showed good performance of BCA in identifying major white matter fiber bundles in human brains and facilitate the detection of abnormal connectivity patterns in patients suffering from various neurological diseases.
Recent neuroscience findings demonstrate the fundamental role of emotion in the maintenance of physical and mental health. In the present study, a novel architecture is proposed for the robust discrimination of emotional physiological signals evoked upon viewing pictures selected from the International Affective Picture System (IAPS). Biosignals are multichannel recordings from both the central and the autonomic nervous systems. Following the bidirectional emotion theory model, IAPS pictures are rated along two dimensions, namely, their valence and arousal. Following this model, biosignals in this paper are initially differentiated according to their valence dimension by means of a data mining approach, which is the C4.5 decision tree algorithm. Then, the valence and the gender information serve as an input to a Mahalanobis distance classifier, which dissects the data into high and low arousing. Results are described in Extensible Markup Language (XML) format, thereby accounting for platform independency, easy interconnectivity, and information exchange. The average recognition (success) rate was 77.68% for the discrimination of four emotional states, differing both in their arousal and valence dimension. It is, therefore, envisaged that the proposed approach holds promise for the efficient discrimination of negative and positive emotions, and it is hereby discussed how future developments may be steered to serve for affective healthcare applications, such as the monitoring of the elderly or chronically ill people.
This study investigated the peri- and postoperative effect of pre-emptive analgesia through voluntary ingestion of buprenorphine in Nutella, in male Sprague-Dawley rats. An arterial catheter was inserted and the rats were connected to an automated blood sampling device (AccuSampler). Blood samples were drawn up to 18 h after surgery and the plasma concentrations of corticosterone were quantified. Postoperative changes in water intake and body weight were recorded, and the behaviour of the rats was analysed during two 30-min periods. Pre-emptive oral buprenorphine treatment reduced the plasma corticosterone levels in the postoperative period, compared to controls treated with local anaesthetics. Buprenorphine-treated rats consumed more water and maintained body weight better. Behavioural observations indicated that buprenorphine changed the behaviour in non-operated rats but there was no difference in the operated rats. The present study strengthens the hypothesis that pre-emptive oral buprenorphine in Nutella is suitable for treatment of postoperative pain in rats.
We report a four year old boy who was detected to have an occipital intradiploic pseudomeningocele three years following a traumatic skull fracture, and which was managed by ventriculo-peritoneal shunt placement. Traumatic intradiploic pseudomeningoceles behave differently from traditional growing skull fractures and may require individualized management decisions.
In this report, we describe the development of the first anti-mouse H(4) receptor antibody. Utilising this new immunological probe, new evidence is provided for oligomeric mH(4)Rs and the presence of H(4) receptors on a subpopulation of murine motor neurons. This expands the cell types where the H(4) receptor is expressed in the mammalian CNS.

One of the widely used tests to evaluate functional asymmetry of cerebral hemispheres is the dichotic listening test with the usually prevailing right ear advantage. The current study aims at assessing hemispheric laterality in an adult sample of individuals with dyslexia, with auditory processing disorder (APD), and adults experiencing comorbidity of the two mentioned disorders against a control group with normal hearing and absence of learning disabilities. Results exhibit a right hemispheric dominance for the control and APD group, a left hemispheric dominance for the group diagnosed with both dyslexia and APD, and absence of dominance for the dyslexia group. Assessment of laterality was repeatable and produced stable results, indicating a true deficit. A component of auditory processing, specifically the auditory performance in competing acoustic signals, seems to be deficient in all three groups, and laterality of hemispheric functions influenced at least for auditory-language stimuli in the two of the three groups, one being adults with dyslexia and the other being adults with comorbidity of dyslexia and APD.
Throughout vertebrate evolution, Sox2 marks the developing nervous system from its earliest developmental stages and, therein, the most undifferentiated precursor cells, including stem cells. Recent gene targeting studies investigated the function of Sox2 in two neuronal systems: the developing eye and brain. These studies uncovered a requirement for Sox2 in the maintenance of neural stem cells, as well as a downstream role in the differentiation of specific neuron sub-types. In both systems, Sox2 action is markedly dose-dependent, and downstream-target gene studies are beginning to reveal the mechanisms of Sox2 function.
Magnetic resonance (MRI)-based molecular imaging methods are beginning to have impact in neuroscience. A growing number of molecular imaging agents have been synthesized and tested in vitro, but so far relatively few have been validated in the brains of live animals. Here, we discuss key challenges associated with expanding the repertoire of successful molecular neuroimaging approaches. The difficulty of delivering agents past the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a particular obstacle to molecular imaging in the central nervous system. We review established and emerging techniques for trans-BBB delivery, including intracranial infusion, BBB disruption, and transporter-related methods. Improving the sensitivity with which MRI-based molecular agents can be detected is a second major challenge. Better sensitivity would in turn reduce the requirements for delivery and alleviate potential side effects. We discuss recent efforts to enhance relaxivity of conventional longitudinal relaxation time (T(1)) and transverse relaxation time (T(2)) MRI contrast agents, as well as strategies that involve amplifying molecular signals or reducing endogenous background influences. With ongoing refinement of imaging approaches and brain delivery methods, MRI-based techniques for molecular-level neuroscientific investigation will fall increasingly within reach.

Conforming to a medical disease model rooted in phenomenology and natural science, psychiatry classifies mental disorders according to signs and symptoms considered to be stable and homogeneous across individuals. Scientific studies addressing the validity of this classification are scarce. Following a seminal paper by Robins and Guze in 1970, validity of categories has been sought in specific criteria referring to symptoms and prognosis, aggregation in families, and &quot;markers&quot;, preferentially laboratory tests. There is, however, a growing misfit between the model and empirical findings from studies putting it to the test. Diagnostic categories have not been shown to represent natural groups delineated from the normal variation or from each other. Aetiological factors (genetic and/or environmental), laboratory aberrations, and treatment effects do not respect categorical boundaries. A more adequate description of mental problems may be achieved by: 1) a clear definition of the epistemological frame in which psychiatry operates, 2) a basic rating of the severity of intra- and interpersonal dysfunctions, and 3) empirical comparisons to complementary rather than exclusive dimensions of inter-individual differences in context-specific mental functions, treatment effects, and laboratory findings. Such a pluralistic understanding of mental health problems would fit empirical models in the neurosciences and postmodern notions of subjectivity alike. It would also clarify the assessment of dysfunction and background factors in relation to the requisites for penal law exemptions or insurance policies and make them empirically testable rather than dependent on expert opinion on issues such as whether a specific dysfunction is &quot;psychiatric&quot;, &quot;medical&quot;, or ascribable to &quot;personality&quot;.
Our earlier studies in vitro indicated that expression of TGFbeta2 was induced by toxic amyloid betas (Abetas) in both glial and neuronal cells and increased levels of TGFbeta2 triggered a neuronal cell death pathway related to Alzheimer's disease (AD) by binding to the extracellular domain of amyloid beta precursor protein (APP). In this study we have demonstrated by immunohistochemical analysis that the levels of TGFbeta2 are elevated in cells mainly consisting of neurons of both the hippocampi and cerebral cortices of human AD brains. This result indicates that upregulation of the TGFbeta2 level is a common pathological feature of AD brains and suggests that it may be closely linked to the development of neuronal death related to AD.

Individual differences in attention biases for motivationally significant stimuli have been reported in clinical and normative populations. Few studies, however, have attempted to examine potential biological mechanisms underlying differences in the cognitive processing of emotional stimuli. The present study examined the extent to which two well-validated psychophysiological vulnerability markers of affective style [i.e., frontal electroencephalogram (EEG) asymmetry and cardiac vagal tone] predicted biased attention toward rapid presentations (approximately 250 ms) of angry and happy facial expressions. We found that right frontal EEG asymmetry and low cardiac vagal tone, taken together, predicted approximately 37% of the variability in attentional vigilance for angry faces. Frontal EEG asymmetry and cardiac vagal tone did not predict attention for happy faces, independently of each other. Our results provide preliminary evidence that two well established psychophysiological indicators of affective style bias early processing of motivationally salient stimuli.
The adult brain shows remarkable plasticity, as demonstrated by the improvement in most visual discrimination tasks after intensive practice. However, previous studies have demonstrated that practice improved the discrimination only around oblique orientations, while performance around cardinal orientations (vertical or horizontal orientations) remained stable despite extensive training. The two experiments described here used event-related potentials (ERPs) to investigate the neural substrates underlying different training effects in the two kinds of orientation. Event-related potentials were recorded from subjects when they were trained with a grating orientation discrimination task. Psychophysical threshold measurements were performed before and after the training. For oblique gratings, psychophysical thresholds decreased significantly across training sessions. ERPs showed larger P2 and P3 amplitudes and smaller N1 amplitudes over the parietal/occipital areas with more practice. In line with the psychophysical thresholds, the training effect on the P2 and P3 was specific to stimulus orientation. However, the N1 effect was generalized over differently oriented gratings stimuli. For cardinally oriented gratings, no significant changes were found in the psychophysical thresholds during the training. ERPs still showed similar generalized N1 effect as the oblique gratings. However, the amplitudes of P2 and P3 were unchanged during the whole training. Compared with cardinal orientations, more visual processing stages and later ERP components were involved in the training of oblique orientation discrimination. These results contribute to understanding the neural basis of the asymmetry between cardinal and oblique orientation training effects.

The absorption of photons in rods and cones of the retina activate homologous biochemical signaling cascades that lead to the electrical changes that subserve the first steps in vision. Persistent activity of the cascade interferes with the ability of the photoreceptor to signal the absorption of subsequent photons, ultimately limiting the photoreceptor's sensitivity and temporal resolution. This article summarizes recent work on transgenic and knockout mouse rods that has revealed the deactivation mechanisms essential for normal response recovery and how each of these processes contributes to the overall time course of the flash response of rods.
In the framework of the European HearCom project, promising signal enhancement algorithms were developed and evaluated for future use in hearing instruments. To assess the algorithms' performance, five of the algorithms were selected and implemented on a common real-time hardware/software platform. Four test centers in Belgium, The Netherlands, Germany, and Switzerland perceptually evaluated the algorithms. Listening tests were performed with large numbers of normal-hearing and hearing-impaired subjects. Three perceptual measures were used: speech reception threshold (SRT), listening effort scaling, and preference rating. Tests were carried out in two types of rooms. Speech was presented in multitalker babble arriving from one or three loudspeakers. In a pseudo-diffuse noise scenario, only one algorithm, the spatially preprocessed speech-distortion-weighted multi-channel Wiener filtering, provided a SRT improvement relative to the unprocessed condition. Despite the general lack of improvement in SRT, some algorithms were preferred over the unprocessed condition at all tested signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs). These effects were found across different subject groups and test sites. The listening effort scores were less consistent over test sites. For the algorithms that did not affect speech intelligibility, a reduction in listening effort was observed at 0 dB SNR.
While considerable evidence suggests that bilateral cochlear implant (CI) users' sound localization abilities rely primarily on interaural level difference (ILD) cues, and only secondarily, if at all, on interaural time difference (ITD) cues, this evidence has largely been indirect. This study used head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) to independently manipulate ITD and ILD cues and directly measure their contribution to bilateral CI users' localization abilities. The results revealed a strong reliance on ILD cues, but some CI users also made use of ITD cues. The results also suggest a complex interaction between ITD and ILD cues.



Background: Neurons rely exclusively on mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation to meet cellular energy demands, and disruption of mitochondrial function often precipitates neuronal cell death. Auditory neurons in the chick brain stem (n. magnocellularis [NM]) receive glutamatergic innervation exclusively from ipsilateral eighth nerve afferents. Cochlea removal permanently disrupts afferent support and ultimately triggers apoptotic cell death in 30-50% of ipsilateral, deafferented neurons. Here, we evaluated whether disruption of mitochondrial function occurs during deafferentation-induced neuronal cell death. Purpose: To determine whether mitochondrial dysfunction occurs preferentially within dying NM neurons. Research Design: An experimental study. All birds underwent unilateral cochlea removal. Normally innervated neurons contralateral to surgery served as within-animal controls. Study Sample: Hatchling broiler chickens between 8 and 12 days of age served as subjects. A total of 62 birds were included in the study. Intervention: Cochlea removal was performed to deafferent ipsilateral NM neurons and trigger neuronal cell death. Data Collection and Analysis: Following unilateral cochlea removal, birds were sacrificed 12, 24, 48, or 168 hours later, and brain tissue was harvested. Brainstems were sectioned through NM and evaluated histochemically for oxidative enzyme reaction product accumulation or reacted for Mitotracker Red, an indicator of mitochondrial membrane potential (m) and cytoplasmic TdT-mediated dUTP Nick-End Labeling (TUNEL), an indicator of cell death. Histochemical staining intensities for three mitochondrial enzymes, succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), cytochrome c oxidase (CO), and ATP synthase (ATPase) were measured in individual neurons and compared in ipsilateral and contralateral NM. Comparisons were made using unpaired t-tests (CO) or Kruskal Wallis one way ANOVA followed by Dunn's post hoc pairwise comparisons (ATPase, SDH). Mitotracker Red tissue was examined qualitatively for the presence of and extent of colocalization between Mitotracker Red and TUNEL label in NM. Results: Results showed global upregulation of all three oxidative enzymes within deafferented NM neurons compared to contralateral, unperturbed NM neurons. In addition, differential SDH and ATPase staining intensities were detected across neurons within the ipsilateral nucleus, suggesting functional differences in mitochondrial metabolism across deafferented NM. Quantitative analyses revealed that deafferented neurons with preferentially elevated SDH and ATPase activities represent the subpopulation destined to die following cochlea removal. In addition, Mitotracker Red accumulated intensely within the subset of deafferented NM neurons that also exhibited cytoplasmic TdT-mediated dUTP Nick-End Labeling (TUNEL) and subsequently died. Conclusions: Taken together, our results demonstrate that a subset of deafferented NM neurons, presumably those that die, preferentially upregulates SDH, perhaps via the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. These same neurons undergo ATPase uncoupling and an eventual loss of Deltapsi(m).
Instructional interventions based on stimulus equivalence provide learners with the opportunity to acquire skills that are not directly taught, thereby improving the efficiency of instructional efforts. The present report describes a study in which equivalence-based instruction was used to teach college students facts regarding brain anatomy and function. The instruction involved creating two classes of stimuli that students understood as being related. Because the two classes shared a common member, they spontaneously merged, thereby increasing the yield of emergent relations. Overall, students mastered more than twice as many facts as were explicitly taught, thus demonstrating the potential of equivalence-based instruction to reduce the amount of student investment that is required to master advanced academic topics.

Craniovertebral anomalies are rare causes of vertebral artery dissection. Therefore, appropriate evaluation is necessary in vertebrobasilar strokes, specially in the young. This is particularly true for patients with vertebral stroke without risk factors. Results: Here we report a 24-year-old male presenting with posterior circulation infarcts. The patient had no obvious vascular risk factors. However, digital subtraction angiography showed chronic dissection of both vertebral arteries with partial recanalization. Further evaluation with computed tomogram of neck revealed atlantoaxial dislocation. This is a rare case in which atlantoaxial dislocation has resulted in bilateral vertebral artery dissection and stroke in young.
TRP genes encode a diverse family of ion channels which have been implicated in many sensory functions. Because several TRP channels have similar properties to the elusive hair cell transduction channel, recent attention has focused on TRP gene expression in the inner ear. At least four TRP genes are known to be expressed in hair cells: TRPC3, TRPV4, TRPA1, and TRPML3. However, there is little evidence supporting any of these as a component of the transduction complex. Other less well-characterized TRP channels are expressed in the inner ear, in particular, within the organ of Corti. Because of their potential role in sensory function, we investigated the developmental expression of RNA that encodes all 33 TRP subunits as well as several splice variants. We designed a quantitative PCR screen using cochlear samples acquired before, during, and after the time when mechanotransduction is acquired in sensory hair cells (embryonic day 17 to postnatal day 8). Cochleas, which included the organ of Corti, stria vascularis, and Reissner's membrane, were subdivided into four equal quadrants which allowed for regional comparison during development. Expression of RNA transcripts that encoded 33 TRP subunits plus several splice forms and beta-actin were quantified in 28 samples for a total of 1,092 individual measurements, each done in triplicate. We detected RNA that encoded all TRP channels except two: TRPC7 and TRPM8. The largest changes in RNA expression were for TRPA1 (&gt;100-fold), TRPP3 (&gt;50-fold), and TRPC5.2 (&gt;20-fold) which suggested that these subunits may contribute to normal cochlear function. Furthermore, the screen revealed TRPP3 and PKD1L3 RNA expression patterns that were correlated with the acquisition of sensory transduction in outer hair cells (Lelli et al., J Neurophysiol. 101:2961-2973, 2009). Numerous spatiotemporal expression gradients were identified many of which may contribute to the normal functional development of the mouse cochlea.
The purposes of the present study were to establish the mortality rate in a representative group of individuals (n = 120) born in the years 1962-1984, diagnosed with autism/atypical autism in childhood and followed up at young adult age (&gt;or=18 years of age), and examine the risk factors and causes of death. The study group, which constituted a total population sample of children with these diagnoses, were followed up in Swedish registers. Nine (7.5%) of the 120 individuals with autism had died at the time of follow-up, a rate 5.6 times higher than expected. The mortality rate was significantly higher among the females. Associated medical disorders (including epilepsy with cognitive impairment) and accidents accounted for most of the deaths, and it was not possible to determine whether autism &quot;per se&quot; actually carries an increased mortality risk.
In basic neuroscience, the attention has been recently focused on the role played by the protoplasmic astrocytes in modulating the activity of nearby neurons or else on assisting a long-term/sustained communication between these neurons and the surrounding microvasculature. However, to understand the physiological mechanisms underlying such a multiscale interactions in space and time, novel methodologies are required. This paper reports about an experimental setting and a procedure that was developed to obtain concurrently two-photon astrocytic Ca(2+) imaging and multisite large-scale extracellular potentials as recorded by a silicon-based probe. Solutions to several technical drawbacks (e.g. removal of photoelectric artifacts, the establishment of safety ranges for microinjection) are provided which are intrinsic to the technology and procedure utilized. Through the use of SR101 to stain protoplasmic astrocytes, it was possible to combine functional information represented by the Ca(2+) activity in individual astrocytes and the LFPs with geometrical descriptors of the astrocytic/vessel networks.
Burn injury can be a life-threatening and traumatic event. Despite considerable risk for psychological morbidity, few outcome measures have been evaluated. The aim of this study was to examine the psychometric properties of a Swedish version of the Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R) in patients 1 year after burn injury (N = 147). A principal component analysis was performed, and the results supported the three-factor structure of the IES-R. High internal consistency and intelligible associations with concurrent psychological symptoms and known risk factors for distress after trauma indicate satisfactory psychometric properties. Thus, the study supports the use of the IES-R as a screening tool for measuring traumatic distress after burn.
Myoblast transfer therapy for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) largely fails due to cell death and inability of transplanted cells to engraft in diseased muscles. One method attempting to enrich for cell subpopulations is the Hoechst 33342 dye exclusion assay, yielding a side population (SP) thought to be progenitor enriched and a main population (MP). However, in vitro and transplant studies yielded inconsistent results relative to downstream progeny. Cell surface markers expressed by skeletal muscle-derived MP and SP cells have not been fully characterized directly ex vivo. Using flow cytometry, MP and SP cells were characterized based on their expression of several well-accepted progenitor cell antigens. Both the MP and SP populations are heterogeneous and overlapping in the cells they contain. The percentages of cells in each population vary with species and specific muscle examined. MP and SP populations contain both satellite and multipotent progenitor cells, based on expression of CD34, Sca-1, Pax7, and M-cadherin. Thus, isolation using this procedure cannot be used to predict downstream differentiation outcomes, and explains the conflicting literature on these cells. Hoechst dye also results in significant mortality of sorted cells. As defined subpopulations are easily obtained using flow cytometry, sorting immediately ex vivo based on accepted myogenic precursor cell markers will yield superior results in terms of cell homogeneity for transplantation therapy.
Low-grade astrocytomas (LGAs) are the most common type of brain tumor in children. Until recently, very little was known about the underlying biology and molecular genetics of these tumors. However, within the past year a number of studies have shown that the MAPK pathway is constitutively activated in a high proportion of LGAs. Several genetic aberrations which generate this deregulation of the MAPK pathway have been identified, most notably gene fusions between KIAA1549 and BRAF. In this review we summarize these findings, discuss how these gene fusions may arise and consider possible implications for diagnosis and treatment.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with elevated expression of a specific disease-related spatial covariance pattern (PDRP) in radiotracer scans of cerebral blood flow and metabolism. In this study, we scanned nine early-stage patients with PD and nine healthy controls using continuous arterial spin labeling (CASL) perfusion magnetic resonance imaging (pMRI). Parkinson's disease-related metabolic pattern expression in CASL pMRI scans was compared with the corresponding (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography values. The PDRP expression was abnormally elevated (P&lt;0.01) in patients scanned with either modality, and the two values were highly intercorrelated (P&lt;0.0001). Perfusion MRI methods can be used for accurate quantification of disease-related covariance patterns.
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a serine threonine kinase that is highly conserved through evolution. AMPK is found in most mammalian tissues including the brain. As a key metabolic and stress sensor/effector, AMPK is activated under conditions of nutrient deprivation, vigorous exercise, or heat shock. However, it is becoming increasingly recognized that changes in AMPK activation not only signal unmet metabolic needs, but also are involved in sensing and responding to 'cell stress', including ischemia. The downstream effect of AMPK activation is dependent on many factors, including the severity of the stressor as well as the tissue examined. This review discusses recent in vitro and in vivo studies performed in the brain/neuronal cells and vasculature that have contributed to our understanding of AMPK in stroke. Recent data on the potential role of AMPK in angiogenesis and neurogenesis and the interaction of AMPK with 3-hydroxy-3-methy-glutaryl-CoA reductase inhibitors (statins) agents are highlighted. The interaction between AMPK and nitric oxide signaling is also discussed.
The Rho signaling has an essential function in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1-mediated disruption of the integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). However, it is unknown how membrane domains, such as lipid rafts, can influence HIV-1-mediated activation of the Rho pathway and how these processes can affect the expression of the efflux transporters at the BBB level. This study is focused on the function of HIV-1 protein Tat in activation of the Rho signaling and upregulation of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in human brain endothelial cells. Treatment with Tat markedly elevated GTP-RhoA levels and the potential downstream effectors, such as myosin phosphatase target subunit 1 and myosin light chain. In addition, Tat upregulated expression and promoter activity of P-gp as well as its efflux function. Inhibition of the Rho signaling cascade effectively blocked P-gp overexpression at the level of promoter activity. Disruption of lipid rafts by depletion of membrane cholesterol by methyl-beta-cyclodextrin, but not caveolin-1 silencing, also abolished Tat-mediated RhoA activation and P-gp upregulation. The present data indicate the critical function of intact lipid rafts and the Rho signaling in HIV-1-mediated upregulation of P-gp and potential development of drug resistance in brain endothelial cells.

Two patients with chronic expressive aphasia underwent two blocks of melodic intonation therapy (MIT) each. Maps of language-specific neurophysiological activity were obtained prior to and after each MIT block during a covert action naming task using magnetoencephalography. Both patients exhibited increased left hemisphere activation after MIT. The patient who responded positively to therapy exhibited decreasing activation within areas of the right hemisphere homotopic to left hemisphere language areas compared to baseline after both blocks of MIT. In contrast, the patient who did not show improvement after therapy exhibited increasing activation in these areas of the right hemisphere after therapy. Results are consistent with hypotheses that melodic intonation therapy acts through promotion of left hemisphere activation.
Narcolepsy is a sleep disorder characterized by excessive daytime sleepiness and attacks of muscle atonia triggered by strong emotions (cataplexy). Narcolepsy is caused by hypocretin (orexin) deficiency, paralleled by a dramatic loss in hypothalamic hypocretin-producing neurons. It is believed that narcolepsy is an autoimmune disorder, although definitive proof of this, such as the presence of autoantibodies, is still lacking. We engineered a transgenic mouse model to identify peptides enriched within hypocretin-producing neurons that could serve as potential autoimmune targets. Initial analysis indicated that the transcript encoding Tribbles homolog 2 (Trib2), previously identified as an autoantigen in autoimmune uveitis, was enriched in hypocretin neurons in these mice. ELISA analysis showed that sera from narcolepsy patients with cataplexy had higher Trib2-specific antibody titers compared with either normal controls or patients with idiopathic hypersomnia, multiple sclerosis, or other inflammatory neurological disorders. Trib2-specific antibody titers were highest early after narcolepsy onset, sharply decreased within 2-3 years, and then stabilized at levels substantially higher than that of controls for up to 30 years. High Trib2-specific antibody titers correlated with the severity of cataplexy. Serum of a patient showed specific immunoreactivity with over 86% of hypocretin neurons in the mouse hypothalamus. Thus, we have identified reactive autoantibodies in human narcolepsy, providing evidence that narcolepsy is an autoimmune disorder.
Myelin protein zero (MPZ) mutations cause demyelinating neuropathies that range from severe neonatal to milder adult forms. We report a 36-year-old man who developed weakness of his left little finger adduction 3 years earlier. The weakness progressed to his other limbs. Examination revealed mildly high-arched feet with asymmetric weakness of ulnar-innervated muscles (left &gt; right) and asymmetric weakness of peroneal-innervated muscles (right &gt; left). Motor nerve conduction velocities ranged from 18.4 to 24.4 m/s in the upper extremities and from 14.8 to 22.7 in the lower extremities. Left median partial motor conduction block was noted at the forearm segment. Genetic testing demonstrated MPZ mutation with ARG98HIS amino acid change. The patient's father is a 68-year-old man who was asymptomatic and who was noticed to have high-arched feet and asymmetric leg muscle atrophy and weakness (right &gt; left). The patient's 2-year-old son is &quot;clumsy&quot; with history of neonatal laryngomalacia. He has flat feet, areflexia, and difficulty standing on individual right versus left leg. The patient's paternal grandfather had high-arched feet and hearing loss. We conclude that ARG98HIS MPZ mutation may cause hereditary and relatively mild and asymmetric demyelinating sensorimotor polyneuropathy.



The present study aimed to elucidate the differences in depression, anxiety, anger, and quality of life in a sample of non-psychiatric IBS patients, starting from the hypothesis that IBS subtypes may have different symptomatic expressions of negative emotions with different outcomes on quality of life measures. Forty-two constipation-predominant IBS (C-IBS) subjects and 44 diarrhea-predominant IBS (D-IBS) subjects, after an examination by a gastroenterologist and a total colonoscopy, underwent a clinical interview and psychometric examination for the assessment of depression, anxiety, anger and quality of life. IBS subtypes showed different symptomatic profiles in depression, anxiety and anger, with C-IBS patients more psychologically distressed than D-IBS subjects. Affective and emotional symptoms should be considered as specific and integral to the syndrome, and recognizing the differences between IBS subtypes may have relevant implications for treatment options and clinical outcome.
Individuals receiving clozapine treatment for schizophrenia complain of drooling. Reports on salivary flow measurements are contradictory in humans and lacking in animals. Clozapine has affinity for several different receptor types and may, hypothetically, both stimulate and inhibit salivary secretion. In rats, intravenous clozapine evoked a long-lasting secretion, being more prominent from submandibular than from parotid glands. Chronic denervation enhanced the responses. Clozapine acted on muscarinic (M1-) receptors of acinar cells, independent of central nervous mechanisms, pre-synaptic intraglandular events, or circulating catecholamines. A fraction of the methacholine- and parasympathetic-nerve-evoked secretion was abolished by clozapine at doses below those evoking secretion. Sympathetic-nerve-evoked secretion was partially reduced by clozapine, due to antagonistic action on alpha-adrenoceptors; the beta-adrenoceptor-mediated response persisted. Subsecretory doses of clozapine enhanced secretion induced by the beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoprenaline. The overall actions of clozapine suggest that, in clozapine-treated humans, salivation is increased during sleep and at rest, but is decreased during meals.

The history of the practice and the guidelines of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) in Japan is reviewed in this paper. Although the practice of ECT began in Japan at the same time as the discovery of ECT in the world, the diffusion and buildup of ECT practice did not progress in comparison with this treatment modality worldwide for a long time. Recently, the establishment of the Japanese ECT guidelines, which emphasize the administration of a modified ECT using a brief pulse device, has been underway. In 2009, the first ECT network meeting was held in Tokyo, which helped to stimulate the development of ECT practice and improve the guidelines for its use in Japan.
The current and potential uses of neuroimaging in healthcare and beyond have spurred discussion about the ethical issues related to neuroimaging and neuroimaging research. This study examined the perspectives of neuroimagers on ethical issues in their research and on the ethics review process. One hundred neuroimagers from 13 Canadian neuroscience centers completed an online survey and 35 semi-structured interviews were conducted. Neuroimagers felt that most ethical and social issues identified in the literature were dealt with adequately, well, and even very well by research ethics boards (REBs), but some issues such as incidental findings and transfer of knowledge were problematic. Neuroimagers reported a range of practical problems in the ethics review process. We aimed to gather perspectives from REB on the ethics review process, but insufficient participation by REBs prevented us from reporting their perspectives. Given shortcomings identified by neuroimagers as well as longstanding issues in Canadian ethics governance, we believe that substantial challenges exist in Canadian research ethics governance that jeopardize trust, communication, and the overall soundness of research ethics governance. Neuroimagers and REBs should consider their shared responsibilities in developing guidance to handle issues such as incidental findings, risk assessment, and knowledge transfer.
The protein nucleobindin-2 (NUCB2, also known as nesfatin) was recently implicated as a mediator of anorexia and catabolism in the central nervous system, and has been suggested to act as a cleaved and secreted messenger. Given the overlap of signalling molecules between the brain and pancreas, we have explored the presence of NUCB2 in the islets of Langerhans. We also performed an investigation of the dynamic regulation of pancreatic NUCB2 in different metabolic states. NUCB2-like immunoreactivity was detected by immunofluorescence in all human and rat islet beta-cells (as detected by co-localization with insulin), but not in other islet cells or in the exocrine pancreas. Islet NUCB2 content, as measured by enzyme immunoassay, did not change significantly following an overnight fast, but was substantially lower in islets isolated from an animal model of type 2 diabetes, the Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats (48% of non-diabetic Wistar rat control). Serum levels, however, were not different between Wistar and GK rats. The release of NUCB2 from isolated rat islets was significantly elevated following glucose challenge (123%), but this effect was substantially lower than that observed for insulin (816%). In contrast, serum levels of NUCB2 showed a reversible decrease in an i.p. glucose tolerance test. These data suggest a role for NUCB2 in beta-cell function and a potential involvement in diabetic pathology. However, our findings, together with previous reports, appear more compatible with intracellular actions rather than with endocrine/paracrine communication, and suggest that NUCB2 in serum derives primarily from non-islet sources.
Glucocorticoid administration during pregnancy programmes cardiovascular and metabolic functions in the adult offspring. Often, the control procedures are stressful per se and raise maternal glucocorticoid concentrations. This study compared the effects of maternal injection with dexamethasone (dex, 200 microg/kg) or saline with no treatment from 15 to 20 days of rat pregnancy on offspring growth and glucose metabolism. Near term, maternal corticosterone concentrations were higher in the saline-treated dams and lower in the dex-treated dams relative to untreated animals. In both male and female offspring, growth rate was measured for 14 weeks, and glucose tolerance was assessed between 12 and 13 weeks together with body fat content and plasma concentrations of insulin, leptin, and corticosterone between 14 and 15 weeks. Offspring liver was collected at different ages and was analyzed for glycogen content and gluconeogenic enzyme activity. Compared with untreated animals, both dex and saline treatments altered postnatal growth although adult body weight was unaffected. The two treatments had different effects on adult insulin concentrations and on hepatic glycogen content and gluconeogenic enzyme activities both pre- and postnatally. Relative to untreated animals, adult glucose tolerance was improved by maternal saline injection in males but not in females, while it was impaired in female offspring but not in male offspring of the dex-treated dams. Adult glucose tolerance was related to male body fat content but not to female body fat content. Dex and saline treatments of pregnant rats have differential sex-linked effects on the growth and glucose metabolism of their offspring, which indicates that the programming actions of natural and synthetic glucocorticoids may differ.

Various theoretical equations have been proposed to predict response rate as a function of the rate of reinforcement. If both the rate and probability of reinforcement are considered, a simple identity, defining equation, or &quot;law&quot; holds. This identity places algebraic constraints on the allowable forms of our mathematical models and can help identify the referents for certain empirical or theoretical coefficients. This identity can be applied to both single and compound schedules of reinforcement, absolute and relative measures, and to local, global and overall rates and probabilities. The rate matching equations of Hernstein and Catania appear to have been approximations to, and to have been evolving toward, one form of this algebraic identity. Estimates of the bias and sensitivity terms in the generalized ratio and logarithmic matching models are here held to be averaging artifacts arising from fitting procedures applied to models that violate or conceal the underlying identities.
Most theories of reading development assume a shift from slow sequential subword decoding to automatic processing of orthographic word forms. We hypothesized that this shift should be reflected in a concomitant shift in reading-related cognitive functions. The current study investigated the cognitive dynamics underlying reading development in a large school sample ranging from beginning to experienced readers. The results showed that phonological awareness (PA) and rapid automatized naming (RAN) contributed substantially to reading fluency over all six primary school grades. However, the relationship between PA and word (but not pseudoword) reading fluency decreased as a function of reading experience, whereas the relationship between RAN and word reading fluency increased gradually. Moreover, this cognitive shift was most pronounced for high-frequency words. The results seem to point to the development of one (and only one) reading network for all types of words in which processing load or type of processing depends on word familiarity and amount of reading experience.
The successful detection of a target in a radiological search can reduce the detectability of a second target, a phenomenon termed satisfaction of search (SOS). Given the potential consequences, here we investigate the generality of SOS with the goal of simultaneously informing radiology, cognitive psychology, and nonmedical searches such as airport luggage screening. Ten experiments utilizing nonmedical searches and untrained searchers suggest that SOS is affected by a diverse array of factors, including (1) the relative frequency of different target types, (2) external pressures (reward and time), and (3) expectations about the number of targets present. Collectively, these experiments indicate that SOS arises when searchers have a biased expectation about the low likelihood of specific targets or events, and when they are under pressure to perform efficiently. This first demonstration of SOS outside of radiology implicates a general heuristic applicable to many kinds of searches. In an example like airport luggage screening, the current data suggest that the detection of an easy-to-spot target (e.g., a water bottle) might reduce detection of a hard-to-spot target (e.g., a box cutter).
Two experiments examined 3 variables affecting accuracy, response time, and reports of strategy use in a binary classification skill task. In Experiment 1, higher rule cue salience, allowing faster rule application, produced higher aggregate rule use than lower rule cue salience. After participants were pretrained on the relevant classification rule, rule reports were high but generally declined across training trials; after participants were pretrained on an irrelevant rule, reports of the relevant rule increased across training trials. In Experiment 2, no rule pretraining produced a pattern of results like that obtained with irrelevant rule pretraining in Experiment 1. Presenting novel stimuli during training in Experiment 2 elevated aggregate rule reports relative to conditions where they were absent. Two participant subgroups were identified: those persisting in rule reports and those transitioning from rule to memory reports during training. The proportion of persistent rule users was higher after rule discovery than after relevant rule pretraining. Overall, the results indicate that differences among prior experiments can be reconciled. Further, they raise questions about the inevitability of memory-based automaticity in binary classification, favoring instead strategy choice based on the costs and benefits of a particular strategy and of a shift from one strategy to another.
We show that perceptual sensitivity to visual stimuli can be modulated by matches between the contents of working memory (WM) and stimuli in the visual field. Observers were presented with an object cue (to hold in WM or to merely attend) and subsequently had to identify a brief target presented within a colored shape. The cue could be re-presented in the display, where it surrounded either the target (on valid trials) or a distractor (on invalid trials). Perceptual identification of the target, as indexed by A', was enhanced on valid relative to invalid trials but only when the cue was kept in WM. There was minimal effect of the cue when it was merely attended and not kept in WM. Verbal cues were as effective as visual cues at modulating perceptual identification, and the effects were independent of the effects of target saliency. Matches to the contents of WM influenced perceptual sensitivity even under conditions that minimized competition for selecting the target. WM cues were also effective when targets were less likely to fall in a repeated WM stimulus than in other stimuli in the search display. There were no effects of WM on decisional criteria, in contrast to sensitivity. The findings suggest that reentrant feedback from WM can affect early stages of perceptual processing.
Contrasting cognitive and physical decline, research in emotional aging suggests that most older adults enjoy high levels of affective well-being and emotional stability into their 70s and 80s. We investigate the contributions of age-related changes in emotional motivation and competence to positive affect trajectories. We give an overview on the recent literature on emotional processing and emotional regulation, combining evidence from correlational and experimental, as well as behavioral and neuroscience studies. In particular, we focus on emotion-cognition interactions, including the positivity effect. Looking forward, we argue that efforts to link levels of emotional functioning with long-term outcomes, combining space- and time-sensitive measures of brain function, and developing interventions to improve life quality for older adults may further refine life-span theories and open promising avenues of empirical investigation.

Nitrated alpha-synuclein (N-alpha-syn) immunization elicits adaptive immune responses to novel antigenic epitopes that exacerbate neuroinflammation and nigrostriatal degeneration in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model of Parkinson's disease. We show that such neuroimmune degenerative activities, in significant measure, are Th17 cell-mediated, with CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cell (Treg) dysfunction seen among populations of N-alpha-syn-induced T cells. In contrast, purified vasoactive intestinal peptide induced and natural Tregs reversed N-alpha-syn T cell nigrostriatal degeneration. Combinations of adoptively transferred N-alpha-syn and vasoactive intestinal peptide immunocytes or natural Tregs administered to MPTP mice attenuated microglial inflammatory responses and led to robust nigrostriatal protection. Taken together, these results demonstrate Treg control of N-alpha-syn-induced neurodestructive immunity and, as such, provide a sound rationale for future Parkinson's disease immunization strategies.
The magnitude of functional impairment that may indicate the threshold between MCI and incipient Alzheimer's disease (AD) has not been clearly defined. The objective was to examine the pattern of functional impairment in the continuum MCI-AD. Eighty-nine older adults (32 cognitively unimpaired, 31 MCI, and 26 AD patients) were examined with the Brazilian version of the Direct Assessment of Functional Status (DAFS-BR) at a university-based memory clinic. MCI patients were sub-divided according to the progression to AD upon follow-up, and had baseline cognitive, functional and biological variables analyzed. MCI patients displayed mild deficits in functional abilities, with intermediate scores as compared to controls and AD. The DAFS-BR items that differentiated MCI from controls involved the ability to deal with finances and shopping skills. At baseline, scores obtained by MCI patients who converted to AD were not significantly different from scores of nonconverters. The magnitude of functional deficits was associated with AD-like pathological findings in the CSF. In conclusion, MCI patients present with early functional changes in complex, instrumental abilities that require the integrity of memory and executive functions. The objective measurement of the functional state may help identify older adults with increased risk of developing dementia in the MCI-AD continuum.
Short- and long-term cognitive declines after cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass have been reported, but the frequency, severity, nature, and etiology of postoperative cognitive changes have been difficult to quantify. Current studies have corrected the principal methodological shortcoming of earlier studies by including control groups, and have shown that while early postoperative cognitive decline does occur in some patients, it is generally mild and reversible by 3 months after surgery. Late cognitive changes do occur, but comparison with patients undergoing off-pump surgery or those being treated medically suggests that these changes are not specific to CABG or more specifically to the use of cardiopulmonary bypass.
Type I interferon (IFN)-dependent STAT1 and STAT2 activation requires specific tyrosine residues (337Y and 512Y) located in the cytoplasmic domain of IFNAR-2c, the beta-subunit of the human type I IFN receptor. To identify STAT activation-independent induction of ISGs, we used a mutant cell line in which both 337Y and 512Y were substituted with phenylalanine (337F512F or FF mutant). In these cells, type I IFN failed to activate STAT1, STAT2, and STAT3 did not induce well-characterized ISGs and did not exert antiviral or antiproliferative effects. Using Oligonucleotide array (Affymetrix) analysis, we showed that interferon regulatory factor-9 (IRF-9) was the only gene induced by IFN-beta in FF cells. Transient transfection analysis using an IRF-9 promoter-reporter luciferase construct in FF cells confirmed induction of the IRF-9 transcription unit by IFN-beta. EMSA analysis using an IFN-stimulated response element (ISRE)-like sequence on the IRF-9 promoter detected 2 novel DNA-binding complexes induced in nuclear extracts of IFN-beta-treated FF cells. Supershift experiments identified the proteins IRF-1 and C/EBP-beta in the complex. These studies provide the first evidence that signaling pathways leading to gene transcription are activated by IFN-beta independent of STAT phosphorylation.
It is widely assumed that changes in the connections between neurons mediate the integration and storage of information in the brain and thereby underlie our ability to learn and remember. In particular, long-term memory is thought to rely on a structural reorganisation of neuronal circuits, but the proof for such a mechanism in the complex mammalian brain remains elusive. Recent advances in scientists' ability to follow structural dynamics of neuronal networks in the intact brain in vivo by means of 2-photon laser scanning microscopy has provided new insight into how information about new experiences might be stored in brain circuits.
The coordination dynamics framework has presumed that fluctuations in relative phase series produced in bimanual coordination are random. However, results from recent studies have shown that relative phase series contain 1/f(beta) noise (persistent long-range correlations) instead. Using an incremental protocol in line with the paradigmatic bimanual coordination framework, the author shows that the movement frequencies at which individuals spontaneously switch from anti-phase to in-phase coordination are significantly correlated with the intensity of long-range correlations but not with the amplitude of baseline fluctuations in relative phase. This finding illustrates the tangible relationship between present theoretical perspectives and accumulating evidence for 1/f(beta) noise. The author underscores the heuristic potential of systematic efforts to bridge the gap between present theories and the pervasive findings of 1/f(beta) noise.
The present study aimed at predicting posttraumatic stress 5 and 27 years after the North Sea oil rig disaster. The predictions were based on the initial levels of stress responses and the early recovery as reported in 1980. The Posttraumatic Stress Scale (PTSS) was used at 3 measure points. From 1980, data from 69 survivors were used in latent growth modeling. Follow-up studies included 65 survivors and 85 matched unexposed oil-rig workers in 1985; and 47 and 62 in 2007. In 1985, the survivors had higher total PTSS scores and more frequent endorsements on most single PTSS-items than the comparison group. In 2007, a few single items remained different. The initial levels of stress responses and the early recovery rate predicted the long-term outcomes after 5 and 27 years. Initial screenings may be helpful in the early detection of posttraumatic stress in the very long-term perspective.
Under special restricted feeding conditions the mammalian circadian clock, contained in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), can be entrained by food. During food restriction, hungry animals are very motivated to obtain food. This motivational state could be a key component in altering the SCN timing by feeding. In order to comprehend how hedonic signals of food affect the SCN clock, we evaluated the effects of a daily palatable snack on the behavioural rhythm of mice fed ad libitum with regular food, and housed under constant darkness conditions. As light synchronization of the SCN is modulated by feeding/metabolic cues, the effects of a palatable meal coupled to a light pulse were tested on behavioural and molecular rhythms. A daily palatable snack entrained behavioural rhythms of mice in constant darkness conditions. Furthermore, palatable meal access at the activity onset reduced light-induced behavioural phase-delays and Period genes expression in the SCN. In addition, an increase in the dopamine content and Period genes expression in the forebrain of mice was observed, concomitant with a c-FOS activation in dopaminergic and orexinergic neurons, suggesting that the effects of a palatable snack on the SCN clock are mediated by the reward/arousal central systems. In conclusion, this study establishes an underlying sensitivity of the master circadian clock to changes in motivational states related to palatable food intake.
The endocannabinoid, anandamide (AEA), modulates the activity of the dopamine transporter (DAT) in heterologous cells and synaptosomal preparations. The cellular mechanisms mediating this effect are unknown. The present studies employed live cell imaging techniques and the fluorescent, high affinity DAT substrate, 4-(4-(dimethylamino)-styryl)-N-methylpyridinium (ASP(+)), to address this issue. AEA addition to EM4 cells expressing yellow fluorescent protein-tagged human DAT (hDAT) produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of ASP(+) accumulation (IC(50): 3.2 +/- 0.8 microM). This effect occurred within 1 min after AEA addition and persisted for 10 min thereafter. Pertussis toxin did not attenuate the effects of AEA suggesting a mechanism independent of G(i)/G(o) coupled receptors. The amidohydrolase inhibitor, phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (0.2 mM), failed to alter the AEA-evoked inhibition of ASP(+) accumulation. Methanandamide (10 microM), a metabolically stable analogue of AEA inhibited accumulation but arachidonic acid (10 microM) was without effect suggesting that the effects of AEA are not mediated by its metabolic products. The extent of AEA inhibition of ASP(+) accumulation was not altered in cells pre-treated with 1 microM URB597, a specific and potent fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitor, and the cyclooxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin (5 microM) Live cell imaging revealed a significant redistribution of hDAT from the membrane to the cytosol in response to AEA treatment (10 microM; 10 min). Similarly biotinylation experiments revealed that the decrease in DAT function was associated with a reduction in hDAT cell surface expression. These results demonstrate that AEA modulates DAT function via a cannabinoid receptor-independent mechanism and suggest that AEA may produces this effect, in part, by modulating DAT trafficking.
Many phytochemicals function as noxious agents that protect plants against insects and other damaging organisms. However, at subtoxic doses, the same phytochemicals may activate adaptive cellular stress response pathways that can protect cells against a variety of adverse conditions. We screened a panel of botanical pesticides using cultured human and rodent neuronal cell models, and identified plumbagin as a novel potent activator of the nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)/antioxidant response element (ARE) pathway. In vitro, plumbagin increases nuclear localization and transcriptional activity of Nrf2, and induces the expression of the Nrf2/ARE-dependent genes, such as heme oxygenase 1 in human neuroblastoma cells. Plumbagin specifically activates the Nrf2/ARE pathway in primary mixed cultures from ARE-human placental alkaline phosphatase reporter mice. Exposure of neuroblastoma cells and primary cortical neurons to plumbagin provides protection against subsequent oxidative and metabolic insults. The neuroprotective effects of plumbagin are abolished by RNA interference-mediated knockdown of Nrf2 expression. In vivo, administration of plumbagin significantly reduces the amount of brain damage and ameliorates-associated neurological deficits in a mouse model of focal ischemic stroke. Our findings establish precedence for the identification and characterization of neuroprotective phytochemicals based upon their ability to activate adaptive cellular stress response pathways.
NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activation is enhanced by d-serine or glycine acting at a specific binding site. Previous work has shown d-serine enhancement of NMDAR currents in retinal ganglion cells. One of the major functions of most NMDA channels is to permit calcium influx into cells. We show that d-serine enhances glutamate-induced calcium responses in immunopanned retinal ganglion cells. This effect was specific to NMDA receptors as similar results were found with NMDA, but not kainate, and was reduced or blocked by modulators of the NMDAR coagonist binding site. d-Serine and glycine enhanced glutamate-induced calcium responses in a dose-dependent manner and at equimolar concentrations there was no difference in the efficacy of the coagonists. In isolated retinas NMDA-induced calcium responses were enhanced by d-serine coapplication in 46% of ganglion cells. Endogenous d-serine degradation by treatment with d-amino acid oxidase caused a approximately 45% decrease in the NMDA-induced response that could be reversed by coapplication with d-serine. d-Serine and glycine were equally effective in enhancing glutamatergic calcium responses. Endogenous d-serine contributes to NMDAR activation in retinal wholemounts and some but not all retinal ganglion cells may experience saturating levels of d-serine or glycine.

Many facets of transcriptional and translational regulation contribute to the proper functioning of the nervous system. Dysfunctional control of mRNA and protein expression can lead to neurodegenerative conditions. Recently, a new regulatory control element--small noncoding RNAs--has been found to play a significant role in many physiologic systems. Here, we review the microRNA (miRNA) field as it pertains to discovery-based and mechanistic studies on the brain and specifically in neurodegenerative disorders. Understanding the role of miRNAs in the brain will aid to open new avenues to the field of neuroscience and, importantly, neurodegenerative disease research.

Massive intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH) complicating aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) is associated with a poor prognosis. Small observational studies suggest favourable results from fibrinolysis of the intraventricular blood. We performed an observational study on IVH in a large series of patients with SAH to assess the proportion of patients that may benefit from fibrinolytic treatment. From our prospective database we retrieved patients with aneurysmal SAH admitted between January 2000 and January 2005. We calculated the proportion of patients with massive IVH and the proportion of patients that are eligible for fibrinolysis on basis of clinical and CT-scan characteristics and assessed neurological outcome in a treatment strategy without fibrinolysis. Poor neurological condition was defined as World Federation of Neurological Surgeons scale 4 and 5, poor outcome as death or dependence 3 months after SAH. Of the 573 patients admitted with aneurysmal SAH, 59 (10%; 95% confidence interval CI 8-13%) had massive IVH, of which 55 were in poor clinical condition. For these 55 patients, the case-fatality rate was 78% (95% CI 66-88%) and the proportion with poor outcome 91% (95% CI 81-97%). Of the 55 patients, 31 (56%, and 5% of all patients SAH within the study period) fulfilled our eligibility criteria and were considered suitable for intraventricular fibrinolysis. At 3 months, 30 of these 31 eligible patients (97%; 95% CI 85-100%) had a poor outcome. Massive IVH occurs in 10% of patients with aneurysmal SAH. Half of these patients may benefit from intraventricular fibrinolysis. Without fibrinolysis outcome is almost invariably poor in these patients.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a common neurogenetic condition associated with cognitive dysfunction and learning disability. Over the past decade, important and consistent findings have emerged that provide insight into the neurobiological correlates of NF1. In this review, we examine the structural and functional neuroimaging literature in individuals with NF1 and discuss findings that have emerged. Collectively, the studies reviewed here highlight structural and functional brain abnormalities as a feature of NF1 and that these abnormalities contribute to the cognitive impairments that are commonly seen. The most compelling structural finding has been an increase in total brain volume with additional areas of interest including the corpus callosum, cerebral asymmetries and differences in grey and white matter. Although the application of functional neuroimaging techniques in NF1 is in its infancy, early evidence suggests alterations in brain organisation for language and visuospatial function as well as thalamic hypometabolism. Suggestions for future research are discussed, including the importance of addressing specific hypotheses in well-defined subsamples of children with NF1 using appropriate control groups. Identifying the underlying neuropathology of NF1 will be of increased importance as targeted interventions begin to emerge.


Microdialysis enables measurement of the chemistry of the cerebral extracellular fluid. This study's objective was to utilise microdialysis to monitor levels of glucose, lactate, pyruvate, glutamate and glycerol in patients following surgery for intrinsic brain tumours, and to assess the concentration of growth factors, cytokines and other proteins involved in the pathogenesis of high-grade gliomas in vivo. Eight patients with suspected high-grade gliomas were studied. Seven of these underwent resection with one microdialysis catheter placed at the tumour resection margin and, in six of these seven cases, a second microdialysis catheter in macroscopically normal peritumour tissue. The remaining glioma patient had an image-guided biopsy with a single catheter inserted stereotactically at the tumour margin. Histology demonstrated WHO IV glioblastoma in five cases, WHO III anaplastic astrocytoma in two cases, and one cerebral lymphoma. In the high-grade gliomas (WHO IV and III), tumour margin microdialysates consistently showed significantly lower glucose, higher lactate/pyruvate (L/P) ratio, higher glutamate and higher glycerol, relative to peritumour microdialysates (P &lt; 0.05). These results indicate that malignant glioma margin tissue is metabolically extremely active. There was great variability in the microdialysate concentrations of growth factors (TGFalpha, EGF, VEGF), cytokines (IL-1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-1ra, IL-6, IL-8), matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-2, MMP-9) and their endogenous inhibitors (TIMP-1, TIMP-2). Notably, microdialysates from the glioma resection margin demonstrated significantly higher IL-8 concentration and higher MMP-2/TIMP-1 ratio when compared to peritumour microdialysates (P &lt; 0.05), suggesting an environment favouring invasion and angiogenesis at the tumour margin. Microdialysis is a promising technique to study in vivo glioma metabolism, and may assist in the development of new therapies.
To assess the synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin as a potential marker for maturation in the human fetal brain, synaptophysin immunoreactivity (sIR) was prospectively studied in postmortem sections of 162 normal human fetal and neonatal brains of both sexes from 6 to 41 weeks' gestational age. There was a consistent temporal and spatial pattern of sIR in the hippocampus and cerebral neocortex. In the rostral hippocampus, sIR was first apparent in the molecular zone of the dentate gyrus at 12 weeks, followed by CA2 at 14 weeks, CA3 and CA4 at 15 to 16 weeks, and CA1 at 19 weeks; it was incomplete until 26 weeks. In frontal neocortex, sIR developed in a laminar pattern above and below the cortical plate as early as 12 weeks, around Cajal-Retzius neurons of the molecular zone at 14 weeks, surrounding pyramidal neurons of Layers 5 and 6 at 16 weeks, and at the surface of neuronal somata in Layers 2 and 4 at 22 weeks. At 33 weeks, Layers 2 and 4 still had less sIR than other layers. Uniform sIR among all cortical layers was evident at 38 weeks. Ascending probable thalamocortical axons were reactive as early as 12 weeks and were best demonstrated by 26 weeks, after which increasing sIR in the neuropil diminished the contrast. The sIR was preserved for more than 96 hours postmortem, even in severely autolytic brains. We conclude that synaptophysin is a reliable marker in human fetal brain and that sIR provides the means for objective assessment of cerebral maturation in normal brains and to enable interpretation of abnormal synaptic patterns in pathological conditions.
Oscillations of local field potentials (LFPs) in the gamma range are found in many brain regions and are supposed to support the temporal organization of cognitive, perceptual, and motor functions. Even though gamma oscillations have also been observed in ventral striatum, one of the brain's most important structures for motivated behavior and reward processing, their specific function during ongoing behavior is unknown. Using a movable tetrode array, we recorded LFPs and activity of neural ensembles in the ventral striatum of rats performing a reward-collection task. Rats were running along a triangle track and in each round collected one of three different types of rewards. The gamma power of LFPs on subsets of tetrodes was modulated by reward-site visits, discriminated between reward types, between baitedness of reward locations and was different before versus after arrival at a reward site. Many single units in ventral striatum phase-locked their discharge pattern to the gamma oscillations of the LFPs. Phase-locking occurred more often in reward-related than in reward-unrelated neurons and LFPs. A substantial number of simultaneously recorded LFPs correlated poorly with each other in terms of gamma rhythmicity, indicating that the expression of gamma activity was heterogeneous and regionally differentiated. The orchestration of LFPs and single-unit activity by way of gamma rhythmicity sheds light on the functional architecture of the ventral striatum and the temporal coordination of ventral striatal activity for modulating downstream areas and regulating synaptic plasticity.
Neural precursor cells (NPCs) in the mammalian olfactory bulb give rise to local inhibitory neurons that integrate into existing circuitry throughout adult life. However, the functional properties of neurotransmitter receptors expressed by NPCs are not well understood. In this study, we use patch-clamp recording and calcium imaging to explore the properties of glutamate receptors expressed by NPCs in the olfactory bulb subependymal layer. We find that calcium-permeable AMPA receptors (AMPARs) are the major receptor type underlying glutamatergic signaling in olfactory bulb NPCs. We also show that when transmitter uptake is reduced, glutamate spillover from distant nerve terminals in the olfactory bulb can activate nonsynaptic NPC AMPARs and generate increases in intracellular calcium. Together, these results suggest that Ca(2+) influx via AMPARs may contribute to calcium-dependent processes that govern NPC differentiation and maturation.
The same visual stimulus evokes a different pattern of neural signals each time the stimulus is presented. Because this unreliability reduces visual performance, it is important to understand how it arises from neural circuitry. We asked whether different types of ganglion cell receive excitatory signals with different reliability and frequency content and, if so, how retinal circuitry contributes to these differences. If transmitter release is governed by Poisson statistics, the SNR of the postsynaptic currents (ratio of signal power to noise power) should grow linearly with quantal rate (qr), a prediction that we confirmed experimentally. Yet ganglion cells of the same type receive quanta at different rates. Thus to obtain a measure of reliability independent of quantal rate, we calculated the ratio SNR/qr, and found this measure to be type-specific. We also found type-specific differences in the frequency content of postsynaptic currents, although types whose dendrites branched at nearby levels of the inner plexiform layer (IPL) had similar frequency content. As a result, there was an orderly distribution of frequency response through the depth of the IPL, with alternating layers of broadband and high-pass signals. Different types of bipolar cell end at different depths of the IPL and provide excitatory synapses to ganglion cell dendrites there. Thus these findings indicate that a bipolar cell synapse conveys signals whose temporal message and reliability (SNR/qr) are determined by neuronal type. The final SNR of postsynaptic currents is set by the dendritic membrane area of a ganglion cell, which sets the numbers of bipolar cell synapses and thus the rate at which it receives quanta [SNR = qr x (SNR/qr)].
Human neuroimaging studies have implicated a number of brain regions in long-term memory formation. Foremost among these is ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. Here, we used double-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to assess whether the contribution of this part of cortex is crucial for laying down new memories and, if so, to examine the time course of this process. Healthy adult volunteers performed an incidental encoding task (living/nonliving judgments) on sequences of words. In separate series, the task was performed either on its own or while TMS was applied to one of two sites of experimental interest (left/right anterior inferior frontal gyrus) or a control site (vertex). TMS pulses were delivered at 350, 750, or 1,150 ms following word onset. After a delay of 15 min, memory for the items was probed with a recognition memory test including confidence judgments. TMS to all three sites nonspecifically affected the speed and accuracy with which judgments were made during the encoding task. However, only TMS to prefrontal cortex affected later memory performance. Stimulation of left or right inferior frontal gyrus at all three time points reduced the likelihood that a word would later be recognized by a small, but significant, amount (approximately 4%). These findings indicate that bilateral ventrolateral prefrontal cortex plays an essential role in memory formation, exerting its influence between &gt; or = 350 and 1,150 ms after an event is encountered.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been recognized as an atypical neuronal messenger affecting synaptic transmission, but its cellular source has remained unresolved as the neuronal NO synthase isoform (nNOS) in brain areas such as the neocortex is expressed only by a small subset of inhibitory neurons. The involvement of the glial NOS isoform (iNOS) in modulating neuronal activity has been largely ignored because it has been accepted that this enzyme is regulated by gene induction following detrimental stimuli. Using acute brain slices from mouse neocortex and electrophysiology, we found that selective inhibition of iNOS reduced both spontaneous and evoked synaptic release. Moreover, iNOS inhibition partially prevented and reversed the potentiation of excitatory synapses in layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons. NOS enzymatic assay confirmed a small but reliable Ca(2+)-independent activity fraction, consistent with the existence of functioning iNOS in the tissue. Together these data point to astrocytes as a source for the nitrosative regulation of synaptic release in the neocortex.
Recruitment and repetitive firing of spinal motoneurons depend on the activation of persistent inward calcium and sodium currents (PICs) that are in turn facilitated by serotonin and norepinephrine that arise primarily from the brain stem. Considering that in rats motoneuron PICs are greatly facilitated by increasing the presynaptic release of norepinephrine with amphetamine, we sought similar evidence for the modulation of PICs in human motoneurons. Pairs of motor units were recorded during a gradually increasing and then decreasing voluntary contraction. The firing frequency (F) of the lower-threshold (control) motor unit was used as an estimate of the synaptic input to the higher-threshold (test) motor unit. Generally, PICs are initiated during the recruitment of a motoneuron and subsequently provide a fixed depolarizing current that helps the synaptic input maintain firing until derecruitment. Thus the amplitude of the PIC in the test motor unit was estimated from the difference in synaptic input (DeltaF) needed to maintain minimal firing once the PIC was fully activated (measured at the time of test unit derecruitment) compared with the larger synaptic input required to initiate firing prior to full PIC activation (measured at the time of test unit recruitment; DeltaF = F(recruit) - F(derecruit)). Moreover, the activation time of the PIC was estimated as the minimal contraction duration needed to produce a maximal PIC (DeltaF). In five subjects, oral administration of amphetamine, but not placebo, increased the DeltaF by 62% [from 3.7 +/- 0.6 to 6.0 +/- 0.8 (SD) imp/s, P = 0.001] and decreased the time needed to activate a maximal DeltaF from approximately 2 to 0.5 s. Both findings suggest that the endogenous facilitation of PICs from brain stem derived norepinephrine plays an important role in modulating human motoneuron excitability, readying motoneurons for rapid and sustained activity during periods of high arousal such as stress or fear.
Our ability to make rapid decisions based on sensory information belies the complexity of the underlying computations. Recently, &quot;accumulator&quot; models of decision making have been shown to explain the activity of parietal neurons as macaques make judgments concerning visual motion. Unraveling the operation of a decision-making circuit, however, involves understanding both the responses of individual components in the neural circuitry and the relationships between them. In this functional magnetic resonance imaging study of the decision process in humans, we demonstrate that an accumulator model predicts responses to visual motion in the intraparietal sulcus (IPS). Significantly, the metrics used to define responses within the IPS also reveal distinct but interacting nodes in a circuit, including early sensory detectors in visual cortex, the visuomotor integration system of the IPS, and centers of cognitive control in the prefrontal cortex, all of which collectively define a perceptual decision-making network.
People are easily able to perceive the human body across different viewpoints, but the neural mechanisms underpinning this ability are currently unclear. In three experiments, we used functional MRI (fMRI) adaptation to study the view-invariance of representations in two cortical regions that have previously been shown to be sensitive to visual depictions of the human body--the extrastriate and fusiform body areas (EBA and FBA). The BOLD response to sequentially presented pairs of bodies was treated as an index of view invariance. Specifically, we compared trials in which the bodies in each image held identical poses (seen from different views) to trials containing different poses. EBA and FBA adapted to identical views of the same pose, and both showed a progressive rebound from adaptation as a function of the angular difference between views, up to approximately 30 degrees. However, these adaptation effects were eliminated when the body stimuli were followed by a pattern mask. Delaying the mask onset increased the response (but not the adaptation effect) in EBA, leaving FBA unaffected. We interpret these masking effects as evidence that view-dependent fMRI adaptation is driven by later waves of neuronal responses in the regions of interest. Finally, in a whole brain analysis, we identified an anterior region of the left inferior temporal sulcus (l-aITS) that responded linearly to stimulus rotation, but showed no selectivity for bodies. Our results show that body-selective cortical areas exhibit a similar degree of view-invariance as other object selective areas--such as the lateral occipitotemporal area (LO) and posterior fusiform gyrus (pFs).
It is well known that pro- and antisaccades may deploy different cognitive processes. However, the specific reason why antisaccades have longer latencies than prosaccades is still under debate. In three experiments, we studied the factors contributing to the antisaccade cost by taking attentional orienting and target location probabilities into account. In experiment 1, using a new antisaccade paradigm, we directly tested Olk and Kingstone's hypothesis, which attributes longer antisaccade latency to the time it takes to reorient from the visual target to the opposite saccadic target. By eliminating the reorienting component in our paradigm, we found no significant difference between the latencies of the two saccade types. In experiment 2, we varied the proportion of prosaccades made to certain locations and found that latencies in the high location-probability (75%) condition were faster than those in the low location-probability condition. Moreover, antisaccade latencies were significantly longer when location probability was high. This pattern can be explained by the notion of competing pathways for pro- and antisaccades in findings of others. In experiment 3, we further explored the degrees of modulation of location probability by decreasing the magnitude of high probability from 75 to 65%. We again observed a pattern similar to that seen in experiment 2 but with smaller modulation effects. Together, these experiments indicate that the reorienting process is a critical factor in producing the antisaccade cost. Furthermore, the antisaccade cost can be modulated by probabilistic contextual information such as location probabilities.
Prediction about outcomes constitutes a basic mechanism underlying informed economic decision making. A stimulus constitutes a reward predictor when it provides more information about the reward than the environmental background. Reward prediction can be manipulated in two ways, by varying the reward paired with the stimulus, as done traditionally in neurophysiological studies, and by varying the background reward while holding stimulus-reward pairing constant. Neuronal mechanisms involved in reward prediction should also be sensitive to changes in background reward independently of stimulus-reward pairing. We tested this assumption on a major brain structure involved in reward processing, the central and basolateral amygdala. In a 2 x 2 design, we examined the influence of rewarded and unrewarded backgrounds on neuronal responses to rewarded and unrewarded visual stimuli. Indeed, responses to the unchanged rewarded stimulus depended crucially on background reward in a population of amygdala neurons. Elevating background reward to the level of the rewarded stimulus extinguished these responses, and lowering background reward again reinstated the responses without changes in stimulus-reward pairing. None of these neurons responded specifically to an inhibitory stimulus predicting less reward compared with background (negative contingency). A smaller group of amygdala neurons maintained stimulus responses irrespective of background reward, possibly reflecting stimulus-reward pairing or visual sensory processes without reward prediction. Thus in being sensitive to background reward, the responses of a population of amygdala neurons to phasic stimuli appeared to follow the full criteria for excitatory reward prediction (positive contingency) rather than reflecting simple stimulus-reward pairing (contiguity).
Several recent studies have shown that extracting pattern motion direction is a dynamical process where edge motion is first extracted and pattern-related information is encoded with a small time lag by MT neurons. A similar dynamics was found for human reflexive or voluntary tracking. Here, we bring an essential, but still missing, piece of information by documenting macaque ocular following responses to gratings, unikinetic plaids, and barber-poles. We found that ocular tracking was always initiated first in the grating motion direction with ultra-short latencies (approximately 55 ms). A second component was driven only 10-15 ms later, rotating tracking toward pattern motion direction. At the end the open-loop period, tracking direction was aligned with pattern motion direction (plaids) or the average of the line-ending motion directions (barber-poles). We characterized the dependency on contrast of each component. Both timing and direction of ocular following were quantitatively very consistent with the dynamics of neuronal responses reported by others. Overall, we found a remarkable consistency between neuronal dynamics and monkey behavior, advocating for a direct link between the neuronal solution of the aperture problem and primate perception and action.
In the mammalian brain, many thousands of single-neuron recording studies have been performed but less than 10 single-cell stimulation studies. This paucity of single-cell stimulation data reflects a lack of easily applicable single-cell stimulation techniques. We provide a detailed description of the procedures involved in nanostimulation, a single-cell stimulation method derived from the juxtacellular labeling technique. Nanostimulation is easy to apply and can be directed to a wide variety of identifiable neurons in anesthetized and awake animals. We describe the recording approach and the parameters of the electric configuration underlying nanostimulation. We use glass pipettes with a DC resistance of 4-7 Mohms. Obtaining the juxtacellular configuration requires a close contact between pipette tip and neuron and is associated with a several-fold increase in resistance to values &gt; or = 20 Mohms. The recorded action potential (AP) amplitude grows to &gt; or = 2 mV, and neurons can be activated with currents in the nanoampere range--hence the term nanostimulation. While exact AP timing has not been achieved, AP frequency and AP number can be parametrically controlled. We demonstrate that nanostimulation can also be used to selectively inhibit sensory responses in identifiable neurons. Nanostimulation is biophysically similar to electroporation, and based on this assumption, we argue that nanostimulation operates on membranes in the micrometer area directly below the pipette tip, where membrane pores are induced by high transmembrane voltage. There is strong evidence to suggest that nanostimulation selectively activates single neurons and that the evoked effects are cell-specific. Nanostimulation therefore holds great potential for elucidating how single neurons contribute to behavior.
Transient global ischemia causes delayed white matter injury to the brain with oligodendrocyte (OLG) death and myelin breakdown. There is increasing evidence that hypoxia may be involved in several diseases of the white matter, including multiple sclerosis, vascular dementia, and ischemia. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are increased in rat and mouse models of hypoxic hypoperfusion and have been associated with OLG death. However, whether the MMPs act on myelin or OLGs remains unresolved. We hypothesized that delayed expression of MMPs caused OLG death and myelin breakdown. To test the hypothesis, adult mice underwent hypoxic hypoperfusion with transient bilateral occlusion of the carotid arteries. After 3 days of reperfusion, ischemic white matter had increased reactivity of astrocytes and microglia, MMP-2 localization in astrocytes, and increased protein expression and activity of MMP-2. In addition, there was a significant loss of myelin basic protein (MBP) by Western blot and caspase-3- mediated OLG death. Treatment with the broad-spectrum MMP inhibitor, BB-94, significantly decreased astrocyte reactivity and MMP-2 activity. More importantly, it reduced MBP breakdown. However, MMP inhibition had no effect on OLG loss. Our results implicate MMPs released by reactive astrocytes in delayed myelin degradation, while OLG death occurs by an MMP-independent mechanism. We propose that MMP-mediated myelin loss is important in hypoxic injury to the white matter.
Sex differences in cocaine addiction warrants further research focused on examining the growing population of female cocaine addicts. As demonstrated in both clinical and preclinical research, females are more susceptible to drug relapse with anxiety being a contributing factor. In support of this, a recent clinical study from our laboratory highlights the importance of menstrual cycle phase and anxiety at treatment admission for cocaine addiction on treatment retention. In support of these trends in the clinical population, the purpose of the present study was to design an animal model to directly test the role of circulating hormone levels during cocaine withdrawal. To directly measure the influence of estrogen on anxiety-like behavior during early stages of withdrawal, both ovariectomized and intact female rodent models were employed. The elevated-plus maze and elevated-zero maze were used to assess anxiety-like behavior. Recent evidence in male rodents highlights a potential role for the delta opioid-receptor (DOR) system in the modulation of cocaine withdrawal-induced anxiety. In addition to the evaluation of hormonal effects, a potential anxiolytic specific for DOR was tested for its efficacy in females withdrawn from cocaine. Our results support the use of DOR agonists as a potential anxiolytic in females and highlight the importance of estrogen and other circulating hormones during all phases of cocaine addiction.
This is the first description of a population of Iba1- and annexin A3-immunopositive cells residing in the peripheral olfactory nerves of adult rats and adult cats. Based on their ramified appearance, positive immunostaining for the monocytic markers Iba1 and annexin A3, and reactivity to bulbectomy (in adult rats), these cells found within the olfactory nerve fascicles of both mammalian species meet several important criteria for their designation as microglia/macrophages. These Iba1-/annexin A3-immunopositive cells may be uniquely positioned to protect against the potential spread of dangerous environmental xenobiotics (such as viruses and toxins) into the brain, where such pathogens may contribute to the development of neurological diseases, such Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.
Although there is a sizable amount of research focusing on adult neural progenitor cells (NPCs) as a therapeutic approach for many neurodegenerative diseases, including multiple sclerosis, little is known about the pathways that govern NPC survival and apoptosis. Fas, a member of the death receptor superfamily, plays a well-characterized role in the immune system, but its function in neural stem cells remains uncertain. Our study focuses on the effects of Fas on NPC survival in vitro. Activation of Fas by recombinant Fas ligand (FasL) did not induce apoptosis in murine NPCs in culture. In fact, both an increase in the amount of viable cells and a decrease in apoptotic and dying cells were observed with FasL treatment. Our data indicate that FasL-mediated adult NPC neuroprotection is characterized by a reduction in apoptosis, but not increased proliferation. Further investigation of this effect revealed that the antiapoptotic effects of FasL are mediated by the up-regulation of Birc3, an inhibitor of apoptosis protein (IAP). Conversely, the observed effect is not the result of altered caspase activation or FLIP (Fas-associated death domain-like interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme inhibitory protein) up-regulation, which is known to inhibit caspase-8-mediated cell death in T cells. Our data indicate that murine adult NPCs are resistant to FasL-induced cell death. Activation of Fas increased cell survival by decreasing apoptosis through Birc3 up-regulation. These results describe a novel pathway involved in NPC survival.
Cytoplasmic aggregates of ubiquitinated TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) are a pathological hallmark of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). However, the mechanism of TDP-43 polyubiquitination remains elusive. We investigated the effect of nuclear exclusion of TDP-43 on aggregate formation and fragmentation, using TDP-43 expression constructs for WT or mutant TDP-43 with a modified nuclear localizing signal (LQ-NLS). Overexpression of the LQ-NLS mutant alone induced no detectable cytoplasmic aggregates during a 72-hr period. Polyubiquitination of both WT TDP-43 and the LQ-NLS mutant was similar in total cell lysates exposed to the proteasome inhibitor lactacystin. However, analysis of subcellular fractions demonstrated a higher concentration of polyubiquitinated TDP-43 in the nuclear fraction than in the cytosol for WT, and vice versa for the LQ-NLS mutant. Polyubiquitin-charged WT and mutant TDP-43 were highly concentrated in the membrane/microsome fraction, which was also positive for the autophagosome marker LC3. In addition, the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine (3MA) blocked degradation of both TDP-43 types, whereas lactacystin was minimally restorative. Furthermore, lactacystin plus 3MA induced prominent cytoplasmic aggregates. We also demonstrated mediation of TDP-43 polyubiquitination by lysine 48 of ubiquitin, indicating a degradation signal in both TDP-43 types. This is the first report delineating the distribution of polyubiquitinated TDP-43 and the degradation pathway of TDP-43 and clarifying the crucial role of autophagosomes in TDP-43 clearance. We also demonstrate that nuclear exclusion itself is not an immediate trigger for ALS pathology. Further clarification of the mechanism of polyubiquitination of TDP-43 and the role of autophagosomes may help in understanding and treating ALS.
Cervical dystonia is a psychologically and physically disabling disease that has intrigued clinicians since the early history of surgery. Because of its elusive etiology, its operative treatment has had an extended evolutionary voyage. Early surgical approaches involved resection of the sternocleidomastoid muscle. Later recognition of more diffuse involvement of the posterior neck muscles led to the introduction of new techniques with more effective results. A review of available surgical patient records at The Johns Hopkins Hospital from around the turn of the 20th century provided a glimpse of the early history of the operative treatment for torticollis through the work of some of the leaders of surgery, including Halsted, Cushing, and specifically Finney. Here, the authors present a segment of history on the surgical treatment of this disease as it relates to the introduction of myotomy and denervation techniques.
The authors report the case of a 58-year-old man presenting with a 3-year history of clinical signs of progressive cervical spondylotic myelopathy (CSM). Magnetic resonance imaging showed a severe stenosis of the cervical spinal canal at C3-4 and C5-6 levels due to multiple discopathies. High signal intensities on T2-weighted MR images of the spinal cord and low signal intensities on T1-weighted images at the C2-6 levels were noted, as was contrast enhancement at the C3-4 level. The patient underwent a bilateral decompressive laminectomy at C3-6. The patient did not show any clinical improvement. Thus, further cervical MR imaging was performed and the differential diagnosis of an intramedullary tumor was considered in view of the persisting intramedullary enhancement. This diagnosis prompted a second operation involving a posterior midline myelotomy and excision of an intramedullary ependymoma at the C3-4 level. Intramedullary tumors should be considered in the differential diagnosis of CSM with an atypical pattern of MR imaging features.
Stimulating the endogenous repair process after traumatic brain injury (TBI) can be an important approach in neuroregenerative medicine. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is one of the molecules that can increase de novo hippocampal neurogenesis. Here, we tested whether VEGF signaling through Flk1 (VEGF receptor 2) is involved in the neurogenic process after experimental TBI. We found that Flk1 is expressed both by neuroblasts in the subgranular layer (SGL) and by maturing granule neurons in the adult dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus. After lateral fluid percussion TBI (LFP-TBI) in the rat, we detected elevated VEGF levels and also increased numbers of de novo neurons in the ipsilateral DG. To test the involvement of VEGF and Flk1 in the neurogenic process directly, we delivered recombinant VEGF or SU5416, an inhibitor to Flk1, into the ipsilateral cerebral ventricle of injured animals. We found that VEGF infusion significantly increased the number of BrdU+/Prox1+ new neurons, decreased the number of TUNEL+ cells, but did not change the number of BrdU+ newborn cells per se. Infusion with SU5416 caused no significant changes. Our results suggest that (a) VEGF is a part of the molecular signaling network that mediates de novo hippocampal neurogenesis after TBI; (b) VEGF predominantly mediates survival of de novo granule neurons rather than proliferation of neuroblasts in the injured brain; and (c) additional VEGF receptor(s) and/or other molecular mechanism(s) are also involved in mediating increased neurogenesis following injury.
Diffuse axonal injury (DAI) secondary to traumatic brain injury (TBI) contributes to long-term functional morbidity. The corpus callosum (CC) is particularly vulnerable to this type of injury. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) was used to characterize the metabolic status of two CC regions of interest (ROIs) (anterior and posterior), and their structural (diffusion tensor imaging; DTI) and neurobehavioral (neurocognitive functioning, bimanual coordination, and interhemispheric transfer time [IHTT]) correlates. Two groups of moderate/severe TBI patients (ages 12-18 years) were studied: post-acute (5 months post-injury; n = 10), and chronic (14.7 months post-injury; n = 8), in addition to 10 age-matched healthy controls. Creatine (energy metabolism) did not differ between groups across both ROIs and time points. In the TBI group, choline (membrane degeneration/inflammation) was elevated for both ROIs at the post-acute but not chronic period. N-acetyl aspartate (NAA) (neuronal/axonal integrity) was reduced initially for both ROIs, with partial normalization at the chronic time point. Posterior, not anterior, NAA was positively correlated with DTI fractional anisotropy (FA) (r = 0.88), and most domains of neurocognition (r range 0.22-0.65), and negatively correlated with IHTT (r = -0.89). Inverse corerlations were noted between creatine and posterior FA (r = -0.76), neurocognition (r range -0.22 to -0.71), and IHTT (r = 0.76). Multimodal studies at distinct time points in specific brain structures are necessary to delineate the course of the degenerative and reparative processes following TBI, which allows for preliminary hypotheses about the nature and course of the neural mechanisms of subsequent functional morbidity. This will help guide the future development of targeted therapeutic agents.
Neurologic impairments associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in pediatric patients may affect quality of life, and can develop despite antiretroviral therapy (ART). Behavioral changes observed in clinical studies of HIV-infected children suggest alterations in dopaminergic neurotransmission. Findings from our model of choice, the HIV-1 transgenic rat, reveal a significant increase in phosphorylated tyrosine hydroxylase protein expression and a decrease in dopamine transporter mRNA, without changes in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or dopamine transporter (DAT) protein or in more general markers of protein and gene expression levels in the HIV-1 transgenic rat midbrain. Thus these findings suggest selective vulnerability of the dopamine system in developing brains to HIV-1 infection.
Obesity in adults and children is increasingly becoming a major health problem worldwide. However, the precise biological mechanisms governing this disease have not been fully elucidated. Obesity involves the complex interaction of a wide range of environmental and genetic factors. Additionally, there is now a growing body of evidence suggesting that alterations in metabolic environment during important periods of organ development can predispose individuals to later development of obesity and diabetes. Maternal obesity or malnutrition during pregnancy increases the risk for metabolic disorders (including obesity) in the offspring. Similarly, early postnatal overnutrition also predisposes offspring to adult obesity. The hypothalamus appears to play an essential role in controlling appetite. It undergoes a tremendous growth beginning early in gestation and continuing during the postnatal period. These developmental windows represent periods of sensitivity for hypothalamic development during which alterations in the nutritional and/or hormonal environment may perturb hypothalamic development and subsequent function.

We report the features of non-length dependent small fiber neuropathy (SFN) and compare them to those with distal length-dependent SFN. In a series of 224 consecutive neuropathy patients, we evaluated 44 patients with SFN diagnosed in the presence of both symptoms and signs. Eleven were classified as non-length dependent SFN. Disease associations were Sjgren's syndrome (two patients), impaired glucose tolerance, rheumatoid arthritis, hepatitis C virus, Crohn's disease, and idiopathic (five patients). In the 33 patients with distal SFN, the age of onset was significantly older and more had impaired glucose metabolism (16/33). In both groups, pain was mainly characterized as burning, but patients with non-length dependent SFN more often reported an &quot;itchy&quot; quality and allodynia to light touch.
Changes in the expression of potassium channels regulate skeletal muscle development. The purpose of this study was to investigate the expression profile and pharmacological role of K(v)7 voltage-gated potassium channels in skeletal muscle differentiation, proliferation, and survival after myotoxic insults. Transcripts for all K(v)7 genes (K(v)7.1-K(v)7.5) were detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and/or real-time PCR in murine C(2)C(12) myoblasts; K(v)7.1, K(v)7.3, and K(v)7.4 transcripts were up-regulated after myotube formation. Western blot experiments confirmed K(v)7.2, K(v)7.3, and K(v)7.4 subunit expression, and the up-regulation of K(v)7.3 and K(v)7.4 subunits during in vitro differentiation. In adult skeletal muscles from mice and humans, K(v)7.2 and K(v)7.3 immunoreactivity was mainly localized at the level of intracellular striations positioned between ankyrinG-positive triads, whereas that of K(v)7.4 subunits was largely restricted to the sarcolemmal membrane. In C(2)C(12) cells, retigabine (10 microM), a specific activator of neuronally expressed K(v)7.2 to K(v)7.5 subunits, reduced proliferation, accelerated myogenin expression, and inhibited the myotoxic effect of mevastatin (IC(50) approximately 7 microM); all these effects of retigabine were prevented by the K(v)7 channel blocker 10,10-bis(4-pyridinylmethyl)-9(10H)-anthracenone (XE-991) (10 muM). These data collectively highlight neural K(v)7 channels as significant pharmacological targets to regulate skeletal muscle proliferation, differentiation, and myotoxic effects of drugs.
Histamine potentiates activation of native and recombinant N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), but its mechanisms of action and physiological functions in the brain remain controversial. Using four different models, we have further investigated the histamine-induced potentiation of various NMDAR-mediated responses. In single cultured hippocampal neurons, histamine potentiated NMDA currents. It also potentiated the NMDA-induced increase in intracellular calcium in the absence, as well as with saturating concentrations, of exogenous d-serine, indicating both glycine-dependent and glycine-independent components of its effect. In rat hippocampal synaptosomes, histamine strongly potentiated NMDA-induced [(3)H]noradrenaline release. The profile of this response contained several signatures of the histamine-mediated effect at neuronal or recombinant NMDARs. It was NR2B-selective, being sensitive to micromolar concentrations of ifenprodil. It was reproduced by tele-methylhistamine, the metabolite of histamine in brain, and it was antagonized by impromidine, an antagonist/inverse agonist of histamine on NMDA currents. Up to now, histamine was generally considered to interact with the polyamine site of the NMDAR. However, spermine did not enhance NMDA-induced [(3)H]noradrenaline release from synaptosomes, and the potentiation of the same response by tele-methylhistamine was not antagonized by the polyamine antagonist arcaine. In hippocampal membranes, like spermine, tele-methylhistamine enhanced [(3)H]dl-(E)-2-amino-4-propyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid (CGP39653) binding to the glutamate site. In contrast, spermine increased nonequilibrium [(3)H]5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine (dizocilpine maleate; MK-801) binding, and suppressed [(3)H]ifenprodil binding, whereas histamine and tele-methylhistamine had no effect. In conclusion, the histamine-induced potentiation of NMDARs occurs in the brain under normal conditions. Histamine does not bind to the polyamine site, but to a distinct entity, the so-called histamine site of the NMDAR.
Thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) in ischemic stroke is limited by the increased risk of hemorrhage transformation due to blood-brain barrier breakdown. We determined the interaction of 17beta-estradiol (E2) and rtPA on activation of plasminogen system and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in a transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) model. Ovariectomized female rats were subjected to 1-h transient focal cerebral ischemia using a suture MCAO model. Ischemic lesion volume was significantly reduced with acute treatment of E2 despite of exogenous administration of rtPA. The expression and activation of urokinase (uPA), MMP2, and MMP9 were significantly increased in ischemic hemisphere after transient cerebral ischemia. Exogenous rtPA administration further enhanced expression and activation of uPA, MMP2, and MMP9, which was blocked by E2 treatment. We further determined the effect of combination therapy of E2 and rtPA in an embolic MCAO model. Although no protection was indicated upon acute treatment of E2 alone, combination treatment of E2 and rtPA provided protective action at 3 h after embolism. Collectively, the present study suggests that estrogen could be a candidate for combination therapy with rtPA to attenuate its side effect and hence expand its short therapeutic window for treatment of ischemic stroke.

The technique of observing cellular interactions in real time using intravital microscopy is now a recognised technique in many laboratories. This review highlights the potential uses and pitfalls of this form of microscopy in drug research. This review covers topics such as applications of this highly versatile technique, the choice of vascular bed available (with particular emphasis on the cremaster muscle, the mesentery and the brain), and the types of measurements that can be collected. Where possible, we have provided examples and technical advice to aid the use of this technique in research. This article is not intended to be a complete overview of the use of intravital microscopy in drug research, and readers are encouraged to refer to the references engaged within.



During hopping an early burst can be observed in the EMG from the soleus muscle starting about 45 ms after touch-down. It may be speculated that this early EMG burst is a stretch reflex response superimposed on activity from a supra-spinal origin. We hypothesised that if a stretch reflex indeed contributes to the early EMG burst, then advancing or delaying the touch-down without the subject's knowledge should similarly advance or delay the burst. This was indeed the case when touch-down was advanced or delayed by shifting the height of a programmable platform up or down between two hops and this resulted in a correspondent shift of the early EMG burst. Our second hypothesis was that the motor cortex contributes to the first EMG burst during hopping. If so, inhibition of the motor cortex would reduce the magnitude of the burst. By applying a low-intensity magnetic stimulus it was possible to inhibit the motor cortex and this resulted in a suppression of the early EMG burst. These results suggest that sensory feedback and descending drive from the motor cortex are integrated to drive the motor neuron pool during the early EMG burst in hopping. Thus, simple reflexes work in concert with higher order structures to produce this repetitive movement.
Gamma frequency oscillations (30-100 Hz) are prominent in the hippocampal EEG signal during active network states. An intrahippocampal gamma generator has been identified in the CA3 region. To understand the mechanism of oscillation generation, both the rhythm and the current generators must be identified. While earlier work has elucidated mechanisms of rhythm generation, little attention has been given to identifying the CA3 gamma current generator. Here, we aimed to identify a current generator underlying cholinergically induced gamma frequency oscillations in vitro. To this end, we analysed the instantaneous fluctuations in the wavelet amplitude of the field potential oscillation recorded in the stratum pyramidale, and concomitantly recorded action potentials and synaptic input in individual, anatomically identified neurons. The data revealed that perisomatic inhibitory currents in pyramidal cells generated the majority of the field potential. Pyramidal cell action currents also contributed to the field. In contrast, we found no evidence that excitatory currents contribute significantly to the field oscillations in this model. The moment-by-moment analysis of the dynamics of the field potential presented here provides insight into the distinct contributions of synaptic and action currents to the EEG signal and sheds light on the changing balance of excitation and inhibition during cholinergically induced gamma frequency oscillations.
Our sense of hearing and balance relies on the very rapid gating of mechanotransducer channels known to be located close to the tops of the hair cell stereocilia within the stereociliary bundle. The molecular identity of the channels is unknown but functional aspects such as permeation, block and sensitivity to bundle displacement are well known. The channel has high calcium permeability and this feature has been used in conjunction with fast confocal calcium imaging to unambiguously localise the channels at the top of the two shorter rows of stereocilia in mammalian cochlear hair cells. The data suggest that they are completely absent from the tallest row. It is thought that the structures connecting stereocilia in adjacent rows, the tip links, are either directly responsible for the channel's mechanical gating, or are closely associated with the gating process. The channels must therefore be associated with the bottom part of the tip links and not the top. This feature has important implications for both the channel's gating mechanism and its regulatory adaptation mechanism. The tip link remains an attractive candidate for mechanical coupling between the bundle and the channel or an accessory protein. The localisation of the mechanotransducer channels to the lower end of the tip link represents an important milestone in the journey towards eventual identification of the channel and its gating mechanism.
In order to evaluate the expression of nuclear receptors at the peripheral level in obese subjects, messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of different isoforms of retinoic acid receptor (RAR), triiodothyronine (TR), and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) were determined and compared in peripheral mononuclear blood cells (PBMC) and subcutaneous white adipose tissue (SWAT). Twelve lean subjects and 68 obese subjects divided into weight gain (WG), weight-stable (WS), and weight loss (WL) groups were studied. Nuclear receptor mRNA levels were assessed in PBMC and SWAT using a quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction method. mRNA levels of RARgamma were significantly lower in PBMC of obese subjects (WG -19%, WS -30%, and WL -24.7%) as in SWAT of WG (-50%). Lower mRNA levels of TRbeta were observed in PBMC and SWAT of WG (-50.7% and -28%, respectively) just as for TRalpha in PBMC of WG (-19%). In contrast, retinoid X receptors alpha (RXRalpha) and RARalpha mRNA levels were higher in PBMC of obese subjects (+53% and +54.5% in WG, +56% and +67% in WS, and +68% and +49.7% in WL, respectively), while expression of RXRalpha was lower in SWAT of WG (-24.5%). As for PPARgamma, its mRNA level was significantly higher in PBMC of WG subjects (+34%) while its expression was not modified in SWAT, contrary to the PPARgamma2 isoform which was significantly higher. These data show that in both adipose tissue and blood compartment of obese subjects, expressions of RARgamma and TRbeta were downregulated. Thus, we suggest that the expression in PBMC of obese subjects may constitute new cellular indicators of nuclear receptor retinoid and thyroid status.
Loss of motoneurons may underlie some of the deficits in motor function associated with the central nervous system (CNS) injuries and diseases. We tested whether melatonin, a potent antioxidant and free radical scavenger, would prevent motoneuron apoptosis following exposure to toxins and whether this neuroprotection is mediated by melatonin receptors. Exposure of VSC4.1 motoneurons to either 50 microm H(2)O(2), 25 microm glutamate (LGA), or 50 ng/mL tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) for 24 h caused significant increases in apoptosis, as determined by Wright staining and ApopTag assay. Analyses of mRNA and proteins showed increased expression and activities of stress kinases and cysteine proteases and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential during apoptosis. These insults also caused increases in intracellular free [Ca(2+)] and activities of calpain and caspases. Cells exposed to stress stimuli for 15 min were then treated with 200 nm melatonin. Post-treatment of cells with melatonin attenuated production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and phosphorylation of p38, MAPK, and JNK1, prevented cell death, and maintained whole-cell membrane potential, indicating functional neuroprotection. Melatonin receptors (MT1 and MT2) were upregulated following treatment with melatonin. To confirm the involvement of MT1 and MT2 in providing neuroprotection, cells were post-treated (20 min) with 10 microm luzindole (melatonin receptor antagonist). Luzindole significantly attenuated melatonin-induced neuroprotection, suggesting that melatonin worked, at least in part, via its receptors to prevent VSC4.1 motoneuron apoptosis. Results suggest that neuroprotection rendered by melatonin to motoneurons is receptor mediated and melatonin may be an effective neuroprotective agent to attenuate motoneuron death in CNS injuries and diseases.
Noradrenaline-dopamine interactions mediate increases in locomotor activity, development of sensitisation and subjective effects of psychostimulant drugs. However, the modulatory effects of noradrenaline on psychostimulant-induced impulsivity are less clear. This article examined the relative roles of noradrenaline and dopamine in the modulation of methylphenidate-induced impulsive responding in rats performing the 5-choice serial reaction time task. Experiment 1 examined the systemic antagonism of methylphenidate-induced impulsivity with either propranolol, a beta-adrenoreceptor blocker, or prazosin, an alpha1-adrenoreceptor antagonist, which antagonises the locomotor activating effects of amphetamine. Propranolol completely abolished methylphenidate-induced impulsivity. This effect was centrally rather than peripherally mediated, as nadolol, a peripheral beta-blocker failed to affect methylphenidate-induced premature responding. Prazosin partially attenuated the methylphenidate-mediated increase in premature responding. A second experiment examined the effects of selective anti-D beta H saporin-induced cortical noradrenaline depletion on methylphenidate-induced impulsivity. Contrary to the effects of beta-adrenoreceptor blockade, cortical noradrenergic depletion did not alter methylphenidate-induced impulsivity. Other experiments examined the comparative effects of selective dopamine and serotonin receptor blockade. D4 dopamine receptor blockade with systemically administered L-745,870 also attenuated methylphenidate-induced impulsivity. The other antagonists had no effect on methylphenidate-induced impulsivity. Taken together, these studies provide evidence for a modulatory role of beta-adrenoreceptors on methylphenidate-induced impulsive responding.
There is evidence to suggest that neurotensin (NT) may enhance cognitive function. For example, in aversive trace conditioning, the NT agonist PD149163 selectively increased trace conditioning (Grimond-Billa, et al., 2008). The present study, therefore, examined the role of NT in associative learning, tested using an appetitive trace conditioning procedure (0-s or 10-s inter-stimulus-interval [ISI]) with a mixed frequency noise as a conditioned stimulus (CS) and food delivery as the unconditioned stimulus (UCS). The effects of an NT agonist (PD149163, 0.125 and 0.25 mg/kg, Experiment 1) and an NT antagonist (SR142948A, 0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg, Experiment 2) were compared. To take nonspecific effects of these compounds into account, conditioning to the CS was measured as a percentage of total responding, during UCS deliveries and in the inter-trial-interval (ITI). In both experiments, associative learning to the contiguously (0-s) presented CS was demonstrated, although there was a relative reduction in this learning under 0.125 mg/kg PD149163. Counter to prediction, the only effect on trace conditioning was some overall reduction in responding to the CS in the 10-s group conditioned under 0.25 mg/kg PD149163. The NT antagonist was without any effect on appetitive conditioning. However, these NT compounds were not ineffective: decreases and increases in responding in the ITI, ISI and during UCS deliveries seen under PD149163 and SR142948A were dissociable from effects on discrete cue conditioning.
Guidelines of the American Psychiatric Association for borderline personality disorder (BPD) indicate selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors and the serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) venlafaxine for treating affective dysregulation and impulsive behavioural dyscontrol symptoms. The SNRI duloxetine has been studied in patients with major depression, generalized anxiety disorder and fibromyalgia, showing particular efficacy on somatic complaints. This study investigates duloxetine in the treatment of patients with BPD. Eighteen outpatients with a DSM-IV-TR diagnosis of BPD were treated with open-label duloxetine, 60 mg/day, for 12 weeks. Patients were assessed at baseline, week 4 and 12 with the CGI Severity item, the BPRS, the HAM-D, the HAM-A, the SOFAS, the BPD Severity Index (BPDSI) and the HSCL-90-Somatization Subscale (HSCL-90 SOM). Adverse effects were evaluated using the Dosage Record Treatment Emergent Symptom Scale. Statistics were performed with the analysis of variance. Significant P values were &lt;or=0.05. Fourteen patients completed the study. Four patients (22.2%) discontinued treatment in the first 4 weeks because of non-compliance. A significant change was found for: BPRS, HAM-D, SOFAS, BPDSI total score and items 'impulsivity', 'outbursts of anger' and 'affective instability' and HSCL-90 SOM. Adverse effects were mild headache and nausea. Initial results suggest that duloxetine is an effective and well-tolerated treatment for BPD, with positive effects on somatic symptoms.
We show magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography-angiography, and ultrasound images of internal carotid artery dissection in a patient with acute ischemic stroke. Arterial changes occurring during the first few days were detected by serial ultrasound examinations. Neurologic and functional outcome are provided and therapeutic options discussed.
A better prediction of the time course of symptomatic vasospasm (SVSP) might have a significant impact on the management and prevention of delayed neurologic ischemic deficit (DIND). We studied the influence of the treatment for ruptured aneurysm on SVSP timing. We retrospectively analyzed data of consecutive patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (aSAH) admitted in our center between 1999 and 2005, treated within 72 hours of the rupture by surgical clipping or endovascular coiling and in accordance with our neuroscience unit protocol. We analyzed the presence of SVSP and recorded the timing of occurrence after the aneurysmal repair intervention. Data on demographics, premorbid conditions, time elapsed from the subarachnoid hemorrhage onset and intervention, and clinical and radiologic characteristics at admission were collected. The first occurrence of postintervention SVSP was recorded and compared between the 2 treatment groups using a proportional hazards regression model, including significant covariates. Of the 67 patients analyzed, 21 (31%) underwent endovascular coiling and 46 (69%) underwent surgical clipping. The baseline variables were similar in the 2 groups. The median time from the procedure to clinical vasospasm was 4 days in the coiled patients and 7 days in the clipped patients. In a proportional hazards model regression analysis including age, sex, Fisher and Hunt-Hess grades, time between onset to procedure, and intervention type, only intervention type emerged as a significant predictor of time to SVSP after intervention (likelihood ratio chi2 = 16.8; P &lt; .00). Treatment modality of ruptured intracranial aneurysm may influence the timing of SVSP occurrence.
This essay studies the phenomenon of 'obtaining of qi' in acupuncture. Combined with clinical practice, the authors think that it was a habitual misunderstanding in the past to equate 'needling sensation' to 'obtaining of qi' in acupuncture practice. The two concepts are different and are related with each other. The authors have also classified the phenomenon of 'obtaining of qi' according to its depth in the skin layer. Based on the research achievements in neuroscience, the authors propose the study on 'catching' the specific cerebrations, so as to reveal the essence of 'obtaining of qi'.


Neurotropic coronavirus induces acute encephalomyelitis and demyelination in mice. Infection of BALB/c (H-2(d)) mice expressing a dominant negative gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) receptor specifically in oligodendrocytes was examined to determine the influence of IFN-gamma signaling on pathogenesis. Inhibition of IFN-gamma signaling in oligodendrocytes increased viral load, infection of oligodendrocytes, oligodendrocyte loss, demyelination, and axonal damage resulting in increased mortality. IFN-gamma levels and the inflammatory response were not altered, although the level of tumor necrosis factor (TNF) mRNA was increased. These data indicate that IFN-gamma signaling by oligodendroglia reduces viral replication but affects both demyelination and tissue destruction in a host-specific manner.
In compliance with health and safety management guidelines against harmful formaldehyde (FA) levels in the gross anatomy laboratory, we newly developed a dissection-table-connected local ventilation system in 2006. The system was composed of (1) a simple plenum-chambered dissection table with low-cost filters, (2) a transparent vinyl flexible duct for easy mounting and removal, which connects the table and the exhaust pipe laid above the ceiling, and (3) an intake creating a downward-flow of air, which was installed on the ceiling just above each table. The dissection table was also designed as a separate-component system, of which the upper plate and marginal suction inlets can be taken apart for cleaning after dissection, and equipped with opening/closing side-windows for picking up materials dropped during dissection and a container underneath the table to receive exudate from the cadaver through a waste-fluid pipe. The local ventilation system dramatically reduced FA levels to 0.01-0.03 ppm in the gross anatomy laboratory room, resulting in no discomforting FA smell and irritating sensation while preserving the student's view of room and line of flow as well as solving the problems of high maintenance cost, sanitation issues inside the table, and working-inconvenience during dissection practice. Switching ventilation methods or power-modes, the current local ventilation system was demonstrated to be more than ten times efficient in FA reduction compared to the whole-room ventilation system and suggested that 11 m3/min/table in exhaust volume should decrease FA levels in both A- and B-measurements to less than 0.1 ppm in 1000 m3 space containing thirty-one 3.5%-FA-fixed cadavers.
The photoneuroendocrine circadian system of the brain consists of (a) specialized photoreceptors in the retina, (b) a circadian generator located in the forebrain that contains &quot;clock genes,&quot; (c) specialized nuclei in the forebrain involved in neuroendocrine secretion, and (d) the pineal gland. The circadian generator is a nucleus, called the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). The neurons of this nucleus contain &quot;clock genes,&quot; the transcription of which exhibits a circadian rhythm. Most circadian rhythms are generated by the neurons of this nucleus and, via neuronal and humoral connections, the SCN controls circadian activity of the brain and peripheral tissues. The endogenous oscillator of the SCN is each day entrained to the length of the daily photoperiod by light that reach the retina, and specialized photoreceptors transmit impulses to the SCN via the optic nerves. Mass screening for day/night variations in gene expression in the circadian system as well as in the whole brain and peripheral tissues have, during the last decade, been performed. However, studies of circadian changes in the proteome have been less investigated. In this survey, the anatomy and function of the circadian-generating system in mammals is described, and recent proteomic studies that investigate day/night changes in the retina, SCN, and pineal gland are reviewed. Further circadian changes controlled by the SCN in gene and protein expression in the liver are discussed.
System Identification refers to the problem of identifying a model or description of a system based on a stretch of input and the corresponding output from the system. The paired-pulse paradigm or the conditioning test pulse paradigm is often used in neurophysiology experiments. In this work we provide a statistical framework for the conditioning test pulse paradigm which also serves as a system identification tool for quadratic or second order Volterra systems. A nonparametric spectral domain based methodology is proposed for the quadratic system identification. It is shown that by carrying out the analysis in the spectral domain one needs to perform only a single set of double pulse experiments as opposed to multiple sets of experiments in the time domain. Simulation studies are performed to assess the performance of the methodology and to study the conditions under which the methods are expected to perform well.
LRRK2 mutations are recognized as the most frequent genetic cause of both familial and sporadic parkinsonism identified to date. A remarkable feature of this form of parkinsonism is the variable penetrance of symptom manifestation resulting in a wide range of age-at-onset in patients. Herein we use a functional approach to identify the Lrrk1 protein as a potential disease modifier demonstrating an interaction and heterodimer formation with Lrrk2. In addition, evaluation of LRRK1 variants in our large Lrrk2 p.G2019S-parkinsonism series from a Tunisian (n=145) identified a missense mutation (p.L416M) resulting in an average 6.2 years younger age at disease onset. In conclusion we show that the interaction of Lrrk1-Lrrk2 can form protein dimers and this interaction may influence the age of symptomatic manifestation in Lrrk2-parkinsonism patients.

Dynamic (13)N-ammonia PET is used to assess ammonia metabolism in brain, liver and muscle based on kinetic modeling of metabolic pathways, using arterial blood (13)N-ammonia as input function. Rosenspire et al. (1990) introduced a solid phase extraction procedure for fractionation of (13)N-content in blood into (13)N-ammonia, (13)N-urea, (13)N-glutamine and (13)N-glutamate. Due to a radioactive half-life for (13)N of 10 min, the procedure is not suitable for blood samples taken beyond 5-7 min after tracer injection. By modifying Rosenspire's method, we established a method enabling analysis of up to 10 blood samples in the course of 30 min. The modified procedure was validated by HPLC and by 30-min reproducibility studies in humans examined by duplicate (13)N-ammonia injections with a 60-min interval. Blood data from a (13)N-ammonia brain PET study (from Keiding et al. 2006) showed: (1) time courses of (13)N-ammonia fractions could be described adequately by double exponential functions; (2) metabolic conversion of (13)N-ammonia to (13)N-metabolites were in the order: healthy subjects &gt; cirrhotic patients without HE &gt; cirrhotic patients with HE; (3) kinetics of initial tracer distribution in tissue can be assessed by using total (13)N-concentration in blood as input function, whereas assessment of metabolic processes requires (13)N-ammonia measurements.
There is evidence to suggest that, in acute liver failure (ALF), brain ammonia and proinflammatory cytokines may act synergistically to cause brain edema and its complications (intracranial hypertension, brain herniation). However, the molecular mechanisms involved remain to be established. In order to address this issue, semi-quantitative RT-PCR was used to measure the expression of genes coding for astrocytic proteins with an established role in cell volume regulation in cerebral cortical astrocytes exposed to toxic agents previously identified in experimental and clinical ALF. Such agents include ammonia, the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and combinations of the two. Exposure of cultured astrocytes to recombinant IL-1beta (but not ammonia) resulted in increased expression of aquaporin-4 (AQP-4). Both ammonia and proinflammatory mediators led to decreased expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a cytoskeletal protein, but these effects were not additive. On the other hand, heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression were significantly increased by exposure to both ammonia and proinflammatory mediators and although modest, these effects were additive suggestive of a synergistic mechanism. These findings suggest that worsening of brain edema and its complications in ALF due to proinflammatory mechanisms may result from exacerbation of oxidative stress-related mechanisms rather than upregulation of AQP-4 or decreases in expression of the astrocytic structural protein GFAP.
Previous studies have demonstrated protective effects of mild hypothermia following acetaminophen (APAP)-induced acute liver failure (ALF). However, effects of this treatment in ALF due to other toxins have not yet been fully investigated. In the present study, the effects of mild hypothermia in relation to liver pathology, hepatic and cerebral glutathione, plasma ammonia concentrations, progression of encephalopathy, cerebral edema, and plasma proinflammatory cytokines were assessed in mice with ALF resulting from azoxymethane (AOM) hepatotoxicity, a well characterized model of toxic liver injury. Male C57BL/6 mice were treated with AOM (100 microg/g; i.p.) or saline and sacrificed at coma stages of encephalopathy in parallel with AOM mice maintained mildly hypothermic (35 degrees C). AOM treatment led to hepatic damage, significant increase in plasma transaminase activity, decreased hepatic glutathione levels, and brain GSH/GSSG ratios as well as selective increases in expression of plasma proinflammatory cytokines. Mild hypothermia resulted in reduced hepatic damage, improvement in neurological function, normalization of glutathione levels, and selective attenuation in expression of circulating proinflammatory cytokines. These findings demonstrate that the beneficial effects of mild hypothermia in experimental AOM-induced ALF involve both antioxidant and anti-inflammatory mechanisms.
Ammonia is neurotoxic and believed to play a major role in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy (HE). It has been demonstrated, in vitro and in vivo, that acute and high ammonia treatment induces oxidative stress. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are highly reactive and can lead to oxidization of proteins resulting in protein damage. The present study was aimed to assess oxidative status of proteins in plasma and brain (frontal cortex) of rats with 4-week portacaval anastomosis (PCA). Markers of oxidative stress, 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) and carbonylation were evaluated by immunoblotting in plasma and frontal cortex. Western blot analysis did not demonstrate a significant difference in either HNE-linked or carbonyl derivatives on proteins between PCA and sham-operated control rats in both plasma and frontal cortex. The present study suggests PCA-induced hyperammonemia does not lead to systemic or central oxidative stress.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a serious complication of liver failure. HE manifests as a series of neuropsychiatric and neuromuscular symptoms including personality changes, sleep abnormalities, asterixis and muscle rigidity progressing through stupor to coma. The pathophysiologic basis of HE remains unclear. There is general agreement that ammonia plays a key role. In recent years, it has been suggested that oxidative/nitrosative stress constitutes part of the pathophysiologic cascade in HE. Direct evidence for oxidative/nitrosative stress in the pathogenesis of HE has been demonstrated in experimental animal models of acute or chronic liver failure. However, evidence from studies in HE patients is limited. This review summarizes this evidence for a role of oxidative/nitrosative stress in relation to ammonia toxicity and to the pathogenesis of HE.
Metal-binding compounds have recently been reported to have anti-hyperglycaemic properties in vivo. In the current study, we have investigated the ability of these compounds and related structures to induce insulin-like signal transduction to downstream effectors such as the transcription factor FOXO1a and the key gluconeogenic regulatory enzymes phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) and glucose 6-phosphatase (G6Pase). Our results indicate that -thujaplicin, diethyldithiocarbamate (DEDTC) and its clinically-used dimer disulfiram, induce insulin-like dose-dependent effects on signalling to FOXO1a in a manner that is strictly dependent on the presence of zinc ions, as other ions including aluminium, cobalt, copper, lithium and manganese cannot substitute. The most potent compound tested on gluconeogenesis is disulfiram, which in the presence of 10 M zinc, inhibited both PEPCK and G6Pase with an IC50 of 4 M. Our results demonstrate that metal-binding compounds with diverse structures can induce zinc-dependent insulin-like effects on signal transduction and gene expression.
In vivo(1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) can be used to directly monitor brain ethanol. Previously, studies of human subjects have lead to the suggestion that the ethanol methyl (1)H MRS signal intensity relates to tolerance to ethanol's intoxicating effects. More recently, the ethanol (1)H MRS signal intensity has been recognized to vary between brain gray matter (GM), white matter (WM), and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) due to differences in T(2) within these environments. The methods presented here extend ethanol MRS techniques to non-human primate subjects. Twelve monkeys were administered ethanol while sedated and positioned within a 3T MRI system. Chemical shift imaging (CSI) measurements were performed following intravenous infusion of 1g/kg ethanol. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data were also recorded for each monkey to provide volume fractions of GM, WM, and CSF for each CSI spectrum. To estimate co-variance of ethanol MRS intensity with GM, WM, and CSF volume fractions, the relative contribution of each tissue subtype was determined following corrections for radiofrequency pulse profile non-uniformity, chemical shift artifacts, and differences between the point spread function in the CSI data and the imaging data. The ethanol MRS intensity per unit blood ethanol concentration was found to differ between GM, WM, and CSF. Individual differences in MRS intensity were larger in GM than WM. This methodology demonstrates the feasibility of ethanol MRS experiments and analysis in non-human primate subjects, and suggests GM may be a site of significant variation in ethanol MRS intensity between individuals.
Mitochondrial dysfunction underlying changes in neurodegenerative diseases is often associated with apoptosis and a progressive loss of neurons, and damage to the mitochondrial genome is proposed to be involved in such pathologies. In the present study we designed a mouse model that allows us to specifically induce mitochondrial DNA toxicity in the forebrain neurons of adult mice. This is achieved by CaMKIIalpha-regulated inducible expression of a mutated version of the mitochondrial UNG DNA repair enzyme (mutUNG1). This enzyme is capable of removing thymine from the mitochondrial genome. We demonstrate that a continual generation of apyrimidinic sites causes apoptosis and neuronal death. These defects are associated with behavioral alterations characterized by increased locomotor activity, impaired cognitive abilities, and lack of anxietylike responses. In summary, whereas mitochondrial base substitution and deletions previously have been shown to correlate with premature and natural aging, respectively, we show that a high level of apyrimidinic sites lead to mitochondrial DNA cytotoxicity, which causes apoptosis, followed by neurodegeneration.
UBB(+1), a mutant form of ubiquitin, is both a substrate and an inhibitor of the proteasome which accumulates in the neuropathological hallmarks of Huntington disease (HD). In vitro, expression of UBB(+1) and mutant huntingtin synergistically increase aggregate formation and polyglutamine induced cell death. We generated a UBB(+1) transgenic mouse line expressing UBB(+1) within the neurons of the striatum. In these mice lentiviral driven expression of expanded huntingtin constructs in the striatum results in a significant increase in neuronal inclusion formation. Although UBB(+1) transgenic mice show neither a decreased lifespan nor apparent neuronal loss, they appear to be more vulnerable to toxic insults like expanded polyglutamine proteins due to a modest proteasome inhibition. These findings underscore the relevance of an efficient ubiquitin-proteasome system in HD.
The peri-ventricular area of the forebrain constitutes a preferential site of inflammation in multiple sclerosis, and the sub-ventricular zone (SvZ) is functionally altered in its animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). The reasons for this preferential localization are still poorly understood. We show here that, in EAE mice, blood-derived macrophages, T and B cells and microglia (Mg) from the surrounding parenchyma preferentially accumulate within the SvZ, deranging its cytoarchitecture. We found that the chemokine Cxcl10 is constitutively expressed by a subset of cells within the SvZ, constituting a primary chemo-attractant signal for activated T cells. During EAE, T cells and macrophages infiltrating the SvZ in turn secrete pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNFalpha and IFNgamma capable to induce Mg cells accumulation and SvZ derangement. Accordingly, lentiviral-mediated over-expression of IFNgamma or TNFalpha in the healthy SvZ mimics Mg/microglia recruitment occurring during EAE, while Cxcl10 over-expression in the SvZ is able to increase the frequency of peri-ventricular inflammatory lesions only in EAE mice. Finally, we show, by RT-PCR and in situ hybridization, that Cxcl10 is expressed also in the healthy human SvZ, suggesting a possible molecular parallelism between multiple sclerosis and EAE.
Glucocorticoid (GC) has been shown to affect the neuronal survival/death through a genomic mechanism, but whether or not it does through a nongenomic mechanism is unknown. Using a previously identified GR-deficient primary hippocampal neuron culture, we show here that a 15-min coexposure of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) with corticosterone at a stress-induced level significantly enhances neuronal death compared to NMDA alone. This enhancing effect of GC can be mimicked by the BSA-conjugated corticosterone, which is plasma membrane impermeable and cannot be blocked by RU38486 spironolactone. Furthermore, using a calcium-imaging technique, we found that B could increase both the percentage of neurons showing a significant increment of intracellular free calcium ([Ca2+](i)) due to NMDA stimulation and the amplitude of [Ca2+](i) increment in the individual responsive cells. Interestingly, this boosting effect of GC on [Ca2+](i) increment could be blocked by the NMDA receptor subunit 2A (NR2A)-specific antagonist [(R)-[(S)-1-(4-bromo-phenyl)-ethylamino]-(2,3-dioxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-quinoxalin-5-yl)-methyl]-phosphonic acid (NVP-AAM077) but not by the NMDA receptor subunit 2B (NR2B)-specific antagonist Ro25-6981. Moreover, we also found that GC can dramatically attenuate the NMDA-induced activation of ERK1/2 without affecting that of p38; and that the NMDA-induced ERK1/2 activation and its attenuation by GC both can be occluded by the NVP-AAM077 but not by Ro25-6981. Consistently, the enhancing effect of GC on NMDA neurotoxicity can also be blocked by NVP-AAM077 and the ERK1/2 inhibitor PD98059 but not by Ro25-6981 and p38 inhibitor SB203580. Indeed, the NMDA neurotoxicity itself can be blocked by Ro25-6981 or SB203580, whereas it is increased by NVP-AAM077 and PD98059. Therefore, it is probable that NMDA triggers a prodeath signaling through the NR2B-p38 MAPK pathway, and a prosurvival signaling through the NR2A-ERK1/2 MAPK pathway, whereas the latter was negatively regulated by rapid GC action. Taken together, the present data suggest a nongenomic action by GC that enhances NMDA neurotoxicity through facilitating [Ca2+](i) increment and attenuating the NR2A-ERK1/2-mediated neuroprotective signaling, implicating a novel pathway underlying the regulatory effect of GC on neuronal survival/death.
bTREK-1 K(+) channels set the resting membrane potential of bovine adrenal zona fasciculata (AZF) cells and function pivotally in the physiology of cortisol secretion. Adrenocorticotropic hormone controls the function and expression of bTREK-1 channels through signaling mechanisms that may involve cAMP and downstream effectors including protein kinase A (PKA) and exchange protein 2 directly activated by cAMP (Epac2). Using patch-clamp and Northern blot analysis, we explored the regulation of bTREK-1 mRNA and K(+) current expression by cAMP analogs and several of their putative metabolites in bovine AZF cells. At concentrations sufficient to activate both PKA and Epac2, 8-bromoadenosine-cAMP enhanced the expression of both bTREK-1 mRNA and K(+) current. N(6)-Benzoyladenosine-cAMP, which activates PKA but not Epac, also enhanced the expression of bTREK-1 mRNA and K(+) current measured at times from 24 to 96 h. An Epac-selective cAMP analog, 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-2'-O-methyl-cAMP (8CPT-2'-OMe-cAMP), potently stimulated bTREK-1 mRNA and K(+) current expression, whereas the nonhydrolyzable Epac activator 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-2'-O-methyl-cAMP, Sp-isomer was ineffective. Metabolites of 8CPT-2'-OMe-cAMP, including 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-2'-O-methyladenosine-5'-O-monophosphate and 8CPT-2'-OMe-adenosine, promoted the expression of bTREK-1 transcripts and ion current with a temporal pattern, potency, and effectiveness resembling that of the parent compound. Likewise, at low concentrations, 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cAMP (8CPT-cAMP; 30 microM) but not its nonhydrolyzable analog 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cAMP, Sp-isomer, enhanced the expression of bTREK-1 mRNA and current. 8CPT-cAMP metabolites, including 8CPT-adenosine and 8CPT-adenine, also increased bTREK-1 expression. These results indicate that cAMP increases the expression of bTREK-1 mRNA and K(+) current through a cAMP-dependent but Epac2-independent mechanism. They further demonstrate that one or more metabolites of 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cAMP analogs potently stimulate bTREK-1 expression by activation of a novel cAMP-independent mechanism. These findings raise significant questions regarding the specificity of 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cAMP analogs as cAMP mimetics.
Dopamine D2 receptor blockade has been an obligate mechanism of action present in all medications that effectively treat positive symptoms of schizophrenia (e.g., delusions and hallucinations) and have been approved by regulatory agencies since the 1950s. Blockade of 5-hydroxytryptamine(2A) receptors plays a contributory role in the actions of the second generation of antipsychotic drugs, the so-called atypical antipsychotics. Nevertheless, substantial unmet medical needs remain for the treatment of negative symptoms and cognitive dysfunction. Recognition that dissociative anesthetics block the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor channel has inspired a search for glutamatergic therapeutic mechanisms because ketamine and phencyclidine are known to induce psychotic-like symptoms in healthy volunteers and exacerbate the symptoms of patients with schizophrenia. Current pathophysiological theories of schizophrenia emphasize that hypofunction of NMDA receptors at critical sites in local circuits modulate the function of a given brain region or control projections from one region to another (e.g., hippocampal-cortical or thalamocortical projections). The demonstration that a metabotropic glutamate 2/3 (mGlu2/3) receptor agonist prodrug decreased both positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia raised hopes that glutamatergic mechanisms may provide therapeutic advantages. In addition to discussing the activation of mGlu2 receptors with mGlu2/3 receptor agonists or mGlu2 receptor positive allosteric modulators (PAMs), we discuss other methods that may potentially modulate circuits with hypofunctional NMDA receptors such as glycine transporter inhibitors and mGlu5 receptor PAMs. The hope is that by modulating glutamatergic neurotransmission, the dysfunctional circuitry of the schizophrenic brain (both local circuits and long-loop pathways) will be improved.
Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H MRS) neurometabolite abnormalities have been detected widely in subjects with and at risk for schizophrenia. We hypothesized that such abnormalities would be present both in patients with schizophrenia and in their unaffected twin siblings. We acquired magnetic resonance spectra (TR/TE=3000/30 ms) at voxels in the mesial prefrontal gray matter, left prefrontal white matter and left hippocampus in 14 twin pairs discordant for schizophrenia (2 monozygotic, 12 dizygotic), 13 healthy twin pairs (4 monozygotic, 9 dizygotic) and 1 additional unaffected co-twin of a schizophrenia proband. In the mesial prefrontal gray matter voxel, N-acetylaspartate (NAA), creatine+phosphocreatine (Cr), glycerophosphocholine+phosphocholine (Cho) and myo-inositol (mI) did not differ significantly between patients with schizophrenia, their unaffected co-twins or healthy controls. However, glutamate (Glu) was significantly lower in patients with schizophrenia (31%, percent difference) and unaffected co-twins (21%) than in healthy controls (collapsed across twin pairs). In the left hippocampus voxel, levels of NAA (23%), Cr (22%) and Cho (36%) were higher in schizophrenia patients compared with controls. Hippocampal NAA (25%), Cr (22%) and Cho (37%) were also significantly higher in patients than in their unaffected co-twins. Region-to-region differences in metabolite levels were also notable within all three diagnosis groups. These findings suggest that (1)H MRS neurometabolite abnormalities are present not only in patients with schizophrenia, but also in their unaffected co-twins. Thus, reduced mesial prefrontal cortical Glu and elevated hippocampal NAA, Cr and Cho may represent trait markers of schizophrenia risk and, when exacerbated, state markers of schizophrenia itself.
Stockholm, December 11th, 1906. The Nobel committee has just crowned the respective works of the Spaniard Cajal and the Italian Golgi on the nervous system. But the ceremony turns into a drama: during its conference, Golgi violently attacks his colleague, creating a controversy with deep repercussions between &quot;reticulists&quot; and &quot;neuronists&quot;.
This study was performed to assess the temporal evolution of damage within lesions and the normal-appearing white matter, measured using frequent magnetization transfer (MT) MRI, in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). The relationship of MT ratio (MTR) changes with measures of lesion burden, and the sample sizes needed to demonstrate a treatment effect on MTR metrics in placebo-controlled MS trials were also investigated. Bimonthly brain conventional and MT MRI scans were acquired from 42 patients with RRMS enrolled in the placebo arm of a 14-month, double-blind trial. Longitudinal MRI changes were evaluated using a random effect linear model accounting for repeated measures, and adjusted for centre effects. The Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score remained stable over the study period. A weak, but not statistically significant, decrease over time was detected for normal-appearing brain tissue (NABT) average MTR (-0.02% per visit; p = 0.14), and MTR peak height (-0.15 per visit; p = 0.17), while average lesion MTR showed a significant decrease over the study period (-0.07% per visit; p = 0.03). At each visit, all MTR variables were significantly correlated with T2 lesion volume (LV) (average coefficients of correlation ranging from -0.54 to -0.28, and p-values from &lt;0.001 to 0.02). At each visit, NABT average MTR was also significantly correlated with T1-hypointense LV (average coefficient of correlation = -0.57, p &lt; 0.001). The estimation of the sample sizes required to demonstrate a reduction of average lesion MTR (the only parameter with a significant decrease over the follow-up) ranged from 101 to 154 patients to detect a treatment effect of 50% in a 1-year trial with a power of 90%. The steady correlation observed between conventional and MT MRI measures over time supports the hypothesis of axonal degeneration of fibres passing through focal lesions as one of the factors contributing to the overall MS burden.
The Martin-Gruber anastomosis (MGA) is the most common anatomic variation in the upper extremity. Anomalous superficial radial innervation to the ulnar dorsum of the hand is the most common cause of an absent dorsal ulnar cutaneous (DUC) response. The coexistence of these variants introduces a relatively common yet underrecognized potential pitfall in nerve conduction studies (NCS). We performed confirmatory NCS in two cases referred for ulnar neuropathy in the forearm (case 1) and at the elbow (UNE, case 2). Initial NCS in both cases suggested ulnar nerve injury at the forearm and elbow, respectively, based on an apparent conduction block in ulnar motor fibers in the forearm (case 1) and elbow (case 2), and absent DUC responses. Additional NCS documented an MGA in the mid-forearm (case 1) and high proximal forearm (case 2) with anomalous superficial radial innervation to the ulnar dorsum of the hand (both cases). Failure to recognize the coexistence of these two common variants may lead to misdiagnosis of ulnar neuropathy and inappropriate treatment.
Maintenance of DNA integrity is crucial for all cell types, but neurons are particularly sensitive to mutations in DNA repair genes, which lead to both abnormal development and neurodegeneration. We describe a previously unknown autosomal recessive disease characterized by microcephaly, early-onset, intractable seizures and developmental delay (denoted MCSZ). Using genome-wide linkage analysis in consanguineous families, we mapped the disease locus to chromosome 19q13.33 and identified multiple mutations in PNKP (polynucleotide kinase 3'-phosphatase) that result in severe neurological disease; in contrast, a splicing mutation is associated with more moderate symptoms. Unexpectedly, although the cells of individuals carrying this mutation are sensitive to radiation and other DNA-damaging agents, no such individual has yet developed cancer or immunodeficiency. Unlike other DNA repair defects that affect humans, PNKP mutations universally cause severe seizures. The neurological abnormalities in individuals with MCSZ may reflect a role for PNKP in several DNA repair pathways.
Current extracellular multisite recordings suffer from low signal-to-noise ratio, limiting the monitoring to action potentials, and preclude detection of subthreshold synaptic potentials. Here we report an approach to induce Aplysia californica neurons to actively engulf protruding microelectrodes, providing 'in-cell recordings' of subthreshold synaptic and action potentials with signal-to-noise ratio that matches that of conventional intracellular recordings. Implementation of this approach may open new vistas in neuroscience and biomedical applications.
We found that demyelinated axons formed functional glutamatergic synapses onto adult-born NG2(+) oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs) migrating from the subventricular zone after focal demyelination of adult mice corpus callosum. This glutamatergic input was substantially reduced compared with endogenous callosal OPCs 1 week after lesion and was lost on differentiation into oligodendrocytes. Therefore, axon-oligodendrocyte progenitor synapse formation is a transient and regulated step that occurs during remyelination of callosal axons.
Multiple sclerosis is an inflammatory demyelinating disorder of the CNS. Recent studies have suggested diverse mechanisms as underlying demyelination, including a subset of lesions induced by an interaction between metabolic insult to oligodendrocytes and inflammatory mediators. For mice of susceptible strains, cuprizone feeding results in oligodendrocyte cell loss and demyelination of the corpus callosum. Remyelination ensues and has been extensively studied. Cuprizone-induced demyelination remains incompletely characterized. We found that mice lacking the type 2 CXC chemokine receptor (CXCR2) were relatively resistant to cuprizone-induced demyelination and that circulating CXCR2-positive neutrophils were important for cuprizone-induced demyelination. Our findings support a two-hit process of cuprizone-induced demyelination, supporting the idea that multiple sclerosis pathogenesis features extensive oligodendrocyte cell loss. These data suggest that cuprizone-induced demyelination is useful for modeling certain aspects of multiple sclerosis pathogenesis.
To assess the importance of brain cytochrome P450 (P450) activity in mu opioid analgesic action, we generated a mutant mouse with brain neuron-specific reductions in P450 activity; these mice showed highly attenuated morphine antinociception compared with controls. Pharmacological inhibition of brain P450 arachidonate epoxygenases also blocked morphine antinociception in mice and rats. Our findings indicate that a neuronal P450 epoxygenase mediates the pain-relieving properties of morphine.
Electrophysiological connectivity patterns in cortex often have a few strong connections, which are sometimes bidirectional, among a lot of weak connections. To explain these connectivity patterns, we created a model of spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) in which synaptic changes depend on presynaptic spike arrival and the postsynaptic membrane potential, filtered with two different time constants. Our model describes several nonlinear effects that are observed in STDP experiments, as well as the voltage dependence of plasticity. We found that, in a simulated recurrent network of spiking neurons, our plasticity rule led not only to development of localized receptive fields but also to connectivity patterns that reflect the neural code. For temporal coding procedures with spatio-temporal input correlations, strong connections were predominantly unidirectional, whereas they were bidirectional under rate-coded input with spatial correlations only. Thus, variable connectivity patterns in the brain could reflect different coding principles across brain areas; moreover, our simulations suggested that plasticity is fast.
Elucidation of the neural substrates underlying complex animal behaviors depends on precise activity control tools, as well as compatible readout methods. Recent developments in optogenetics have addressed this need, opening up new possibilities for systems neuroscience. Interrogation of even deep neural circuits can be conducted by directly probing the necessity and sufficiency of defined circuit elements with millisecond-scale, cell type-specific optical perturbations, coupled with suitable readouts such as electrophysiology, optical circuit dynamics measures and freely moving behavior in mammals. Here we collect in detail our strategies for delivering microbial opsin genes to deep mammalian brain structures in vivo, along with protocols for integrating the resulting optical control with compatible readouts (electrophysiological, optical and behavioral). The procedures described here, from initial virus preparation to systems-level functional readout, can be completed within 4-5 weeks. Together, these methods may help in providing circuit-level insight into the dynamics underlying complex mammalian behaviors in health and disease.
Intense multidisciplinary research has provided detailed knowledge of the molecular pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD). This knowledge has been translated into new therapeutic strategies with putative disease-modifying effects. Several of the most promising approaches, such as amyloid-beta immunotherapy and secretase inhibition, are now being tested in clinical trials. Disease-modifying treatments might be at their most effective when initiated very early in the course of AD, before amyloid plaques and neurodegeneration become too widespread. Thus, biomarkers are needed that can detect AD in the predementia phase or, ideally, in presymptomatic individuals. In this Review, we present the rationales behind and the diagnostic performances of the core cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers for AD, namely total tau, phosphorylated tau and the 42 amino acid form of amyloid-beta. These biomarkers reflect AD pathology, and are candidate markers for predicting future cognitive decline in healthy individuals and the progression to dementia in patients who are cognitively impaired. We also discuss emerging plasma and CSF biomarkers, and explore new proteomics-based strategies for identifying additional CSF markers. Furthermore, we outline the roles of CSF biomarkers in drug discovery and clinical trials, and provide perspectives on AD biomarker discovery and the validation of such markers for use in the clinic.
Neuroscience is contributing to an understanding of the biological bases of human intelligence differences. This work is principally being conducted along two empirical fronts: genetics--quantitative and molecular--and brain imaging. Quantitative genetic studies have established that there are additive genetic contributions to different aspects of cognitive ability--especially general intelligence--and how they change through the lifespan. Molecular genetic studies have yet to identify reliably reproducible contributions from individual genes. Structural and functional brain-imaging studies have identified differences in brain pathways, especially parieto-frontal pathways, that contribute to intelligence differences. There is also evidence that brain efficiency correlates positively with intelligence.
Munc13 is a multidomain protein present in presynaptic active zones that mediates the priming and plasticity of synaptic vesicle exocytosis, but the mechanisms involved remain unclear. Here we use biophysical, biochemical and electrophysiological approaches to show that the central C(2)B domain of Munc13 functions as a Ca(2+) regulator of short-term synaptic plasticity. The crystal structure of the C(2)B domain revealed an unusual Ca(2+)-binding site with an amphipathic alpha-helix. This configuration confers onto the C(2)B domain unique Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid-binding properties that favor phosphatidylinositolphosphates. A mutation that inactivated Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid binding to the C(2)B domain did not alter neurotransmitter release evoked by isolated action potentials, but it did depress release evoked by action-potential trains. In contrast, a mutation that increased Ca(2+)-dependent phosphatidylinositolbisphosphate binding to the C(2)B domain enhanced release evoked by isolated action potentials and by action-potential trains. Our data suggest that, during repeated action potentials, Ca(2+) and phosphatidylinositolphosphate binding to the Munc13 C(2)B domain potentiate synaptic vesicle exocytosis, thereby offsetting synaptic depression induced by vesicle depletion.
Temporal derivatives are computed by a wide variety of neural circuits, but the problem of performing this computation accurately has received little theoretical study. Here we systematically compare the performance of diverse networks that calculate derivatives using cell-intrinsic adaptation and synaptic depression dynamics, feedforward network dynamics, and recurrent network dynamics. Examples of each type of network are compared by quantifying the errors they introduce into the calculation and their rejection of high-frequency input noise. This comparison is based on both analytical methods and numerical simulations with spiking leaky-integrate-and-fire (LIF) neurons. Both adapting and feedforward-network circuits provide good performance for signals with frequency bands that are well matched to the time constants of postsynaptic current decay and adaptation, respectively. The synaptic depression circuit performs similarly to the adaptation circuit, although strictly speaking, precisely linear differentiation based on synaptic depression is not possible, because depression scales synaptic weights multiplicatively. Feedback circuits introduce greater errors than functionally equivalent feedforward circuits, but they have the useful property that their dynamics are determined by feedback strength. For this reason, these circuits are better suited for calculating the derivatives of signals that evolve on timescales outside the range of membrane dynamics and, possibly, for providing the wide range of timescales needed for precise fractional-order differentiation.
Continuous decline in cognitive performance accompanies the natural aging process in humans, and multiple studies in both humans and animal models have indicated that this decrease in cognitive function is associated with an age-related increase in oxidative stress. Treating aging mammals with exogenous free radical scavengers has generally been shown to attenuate age-related cognitive decline and oxidative stress. The present study assessed the effectiveness of the superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetics EUK-189 and EUK-207 on age-related decline in cognitive function and increase in oxidative stress. C57/BL6 mice received continuous treatment via osmotic minipumps with either EUK-189 or EUK-207 for 6 months starting at 17 months of age. At the end of treatment, markers for oxidative stress were evaluated by analyzing levels of free radicals, lipid peroxidation and oxidized nucleic acids in brain tissue. In addition, cognitive performance was assessed after 3 and 6 months of treatment with fear conditioning. Both EUK-189 and EUK-207 treatments resulted in significantly decreased lipid peroxidation, nucleic acid oxidation, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. In addition, the treatments also significantly improved age-related decline in performance in the fear-conditioning task. Our results thus confirm a critical role for oxidative stress in age-related decline in learning and memory and strongly suggest a potential usefulness for salen-manganese complexes in reversing age-related declines in cognitive function and oxidative load.
Conventional indices of the utilization of FDOPA in living human brain have not consistently revealed important declines in dopamine function with normal aging. However, most methods of kinetic analysis have assumed irreversible trapping of decarboxylated FDOPA metabolites in brain, an assumption that is violated even in PET recordings of short duration. Therefore, we have developed methods for the calculation of steady-state storage of FDOPA together with its decarboxylated metabolites (V(d), mlg(-1)), based upon improved kinetic analysis of 120-min emission recordings. In a group of 28 normal male subjects, of age ranging from 23 to 73 years, the magnitude of V(d) in the striatum and in extrastriatal regions declined by approximately 10% with each decade. The utilization of FDOPA was also calculated by several conventional methods assuming irreversible trapping, i.e. the net blood brain clearance (K(in)(app), mlg(-1)min(-1)), the DOPA decarboxylase activity relative to a reference tissue input (k(3)(S), min(-1)), and relative to the arterial input (k(3)(D), min(-1)). None of these methods revealed an age-related decline in FDOPA utilization in the extended striatum, although the magnitude of K(in)(app) did decline in cerebral cortex. Thus, the capacity to synthesize [(18)F]fluorodopamine remained largely intact in striatum of the elderly subjects, but in the presence of a substantially increased rate of washout (k(loss)), which was evident in all brain regions examined. Consequently, the magnitude of V(d) declined with healthy aging, possibly reflecting impaired vesicular storage capacity, resulting in enhanced exposure of cytosolic [(18)F]fluorodopamine to monoamine oxidase.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) of the brain has become a mainstay in the study of normal aging of white matter, and only recently has attention turned to the use of DTI to examine aging effects in gray matter structures. Of the many changes in the brain that occur with advancing age is increased presence of iron, notable in selective deep gray matter structures. In vivo detection and measurement of iron deposition is possible with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) because of iron's effect on signal intensity. In the process of a DTI study, a series of diffusion-weighted images (DWI) is collected, and while not normally considered as a major dependent variable in research studies, they are used clinically and they reveal striking conspicuity of the globus pallidus and putamen caused by signal loss in these structures, presumably due to iron accumulation with age. These iron deposits may in turn influence DTI metrics, especially of deep gray matter structures. The combined imaging modality approach has not been previously used in the study of normal aging. The present study used legacy DTI data collected in 10 younger (22-37 years) and 10 older (65-79 years) men and women at 3.0T and fast spin-echo (FSE) data collected at 1.5T and 3.0T to derive an estimate of the field-dependent relaxation rate increase (the &quot;FDRI estimate&quot;) in the putamen, caudate nucleus, globus pallidus, thalamus, and a frontal white matter sample comparison region. The effect of age on the diffusion measures in the deep gray matter structures was distinctly different from that reported in white matter. In contrast to lower anisotropy and higher diffusivity typical in white matter of older relative to younger adults observed with DTI, both anisotropy and diffusivity were higher in the older than younger group in the caudate nucleus and putamen; the thalamus showed little effect of age on anisotropy or diffusivity. Signal intensity measured with DWI was lower in the putamen of elderly than young adults, whereas the opposite was observed for the white matter region and thalamus. As a retrospective study based on legacy data, the FDRI estimates were based on FSE sequences, which underestimated the classical FDRI index of brain iron. Nonetheless, the differential effects of age on DTI metrics in subcortical gray matter structures compared with white matter tracts appears to be related, at least in part, to local iron content, which in the elderly of the present study was prominent in the FDRI estimate of the putamen and visibly striking in the diffusion-weighted image of the basal ganglia structures.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) can affect up to 50% of infected people during the disease course. While antiretroviral therapies have substantively increased the quality of life and reduced HIV-1-associated dementia, less severe minor cognitive and motor deficits continue. Trafficking of HIV-1 into the central nervous system (CNS), peripheral immune activation, dysregulated glial immunity, and diminished homeostatic responses are the disease-linked pathobiologic events. Monocyte-macrophage passage into the CNS remains an underlying force for disease severity. Monocyte phenotypes may change at an early stage of cell maturation and immune activation of hematopoietic stem cells. Activated monocytes are pulled into the brain in response to chemokines made as a result of glial inflammatory processes, which in turn, cause secondary functional deficits in neurons. Current therapeutic approaches are focused on adjunctive and brain-penetrating antiretroviral therapies. These may attenuate virus-associated neuroinflammatory activities thereby decreasing the severity and frequency of HAND.
Whether seizures in the developing brain cause long-term changes in the mature brain has been debated. We tested the hypothesis that a model of early-life seizures, induced by systemic injection of a GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP56999A in immature rats, decreased GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in the hippocampus of adolescent rats. Whole-cell recordings were made in CA1 pyramidal cells and dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells in vitro, 30-45 days after the rats had seizures induced by CGP56999A (1-1.5 mg/kg i.p.) or control saline injection on postnatal day 15. GABA(B) receptor-mediated IPSCs were reduced in DG neurons but not in CA1 neurons of early-life seizure rats as compared to controls. Additionally, hippocampal neurons of early-life seizure rats, as compared to those in control rats, showed a more depolarized resting membrane potential in both CA1 and DG, and a larger input resistance but reduced spike frequency adaptation in DG neurons. In conclusion, early-life seizures result in a long-lasting reduction in GABA(B) receptor-mediated transmission in DG principal neurons and depolarization in CA1 and DG principal neurons. These alterations are expected to increase seizure susceptibility in the adult brain.
The relationships between immune and neural function are an increasingly important area of study for neuropsychiatric disorders, in particular depression. This is exemplified by the growing number of publications on cytokines and depression during the last 10 years, as compared to earlier decades. This review summarizes the current theories and novel treatment strategies for depression, with a focus on cytokine-induced depression. Neuroimmune mechanisms are now viewed as central to the development of depressive symptoms and emerging evidence is beginning to identify the neural circuits involved in cytokine-induced depression. The current diagnostic categories for depression, as defined by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, however, are not etiologically or biologically derived, and it has been proposed that &quot;depression&quot;, likely reflects multiple pathogeneses leading to varying symptom constellations. As we move toward a better biological understanding of depression-related symptom constellations or syndromes, the term &quot;depression&quot; may prove inadequately broad, and an integration of interdisciplinary literatures will increase in importance. Future research should aim to characterize these depression-related symptom constellations or syndromes better with the goal of optimizing treatment strategies.
The aetiology of multiple sclerosis (MS), an autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS), includes both genetic and environmental factors, but the pathogenesis is still incompletely known. We performed gene expression profiling on paired cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) samples from 26 MS patients without immunomodulatory treatment, sampled in relapse or remission, and 18 controls using Human Genome U133 plus 2.0 arrays (Affymetrix). In the CSF, 939 probe sets detected differential expression in MS patients compared to controls, but none in PBMCs, confirming that CSF cells might mirror the disease processes. The regulation of selected transcripts in CSF of MS patients was confirmed by quantitative PCR. Unexpectedly however, when comparing MS patients in relapse to those in remission, 266 probe sets detected differential expression in PBMCs, but not in CSF cells, indicating the importance of events outside of the CNS in the triggering of relapse.
Megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts (MLC) is a rare congenital leukodystrophy caused by mutations in the MLC1 gene that encodes a membrane protein of unknown function. In the brain MLC1 protein is mainly expressed in astrocyte end-feet, localizes in lipid rafts and associates with the dystrophin glycoprotein complex (DGC). Using pull-down and co-fractionation assays in cultured human and rat astrocytes, we show here that MLC1 intracellular domains pull-down the DGC proteins syntrophin, dystrobrevin, Kir4.1 and caveolin-1, the structural protein of caveolae, thereby supporting a role for DGC and caveolar structures in MLC1 function. By immunostaining and subcellular fractionation of cultured rat or human astrocytes treated with agents modulating caveolin-mediated trafficking, we demonstrate that MLC1 is also expressed in intracellular vesicles and endoplasmic reticulum and undergoes caveolae/raft-mediated endocytosis. Inhibition of endocytosis, cholesterol lowering and protein kinases A- and C-mediated MLC1 phosphorylation favour the expression of membrane-associated MLC1. Because pathological mutations prevent MLC1 membrane expression, the identification of substances regulating MLC1 intracellular trafficking is potentially relevant for the therapy of MLC.
Microglia are the brain's tissue macrophage and representative of the innate immune system. These cells normally provide tissue maintenance and immune surveillance of the brain. In the Alzheimer's disease brain, amyloid deposition provokes the phenotypic activation of microglia and their elaboration of proinflammatory molecules. Recent work has implicated Toll-like receptors in microglial recognition and response to amyloid fibrils. It is now evident that these cells exhibit more complex and heterogeneous phenotypes than previously appreciated that reflect both the plasticity of cells in this lineage and their ability to transition between activation states. The phenotypic diversity is associated with inactivation of the inflammatory response and tissue repair. We discuss recent evidence that the brain can be infiltrated by circulating monocytes in the diseased brain and that these cells may comprise a unique subpopulation of myeloid cells that may be functionally distinct from the endogenous microglia.
Correlations between brain or brain component size and behavioral measures are frequently studied by comparing different animal species, which sometimes introduces variables that complicate interpretation in terms of brain function. Here, we have analyzed the brain composition of honey bees (Apis mellifera) that have been individually tested in an olfactory learning paradigm. We found that the total brain size correlated with the bees' learning performance. Among different brain components, only the mushroom body, a structure known to be involved in learning and memory, showed a positive correlation with learning performance. In contrast, visual neuropils were relatively smaller in bees that performed better in the olfactory learning task, suggesting modality-specific behavioral specialization of individual bees. This idea is also supported by inter-individual differences in brain composition. Some slight yet statistically significant differences in the brain composition of European and Africanized honey bees are reported. Larger bees had larger brains, and by comparing brains of different sizes, we report isometric correlations for all brain components except for a small structure, the central body.
In monkeys and rats, neural activity patterns during learning are reactivated during subsequent periods of rest or sleep. According to the reactivation-consolidation account, this process underlies the consolidation of memories. Brain imaging studies have extended these findings to humans during sleep, but not yet, during rest. Here, we show that learning-related reactivation also occurs in humans during rest. During functional MRI-scanning, participants trained on a perceptuomotor task flanked by rest periods. During training, we found robust activity in the superior parietal cortex. During post-training rest, this same area reactivated. We also found a link between parietal reactivation and learning. Activity in superior parietal cortex was associated with learning during training, and a control group that did not train on the perceptuomotor task did not show any difference between the pre- and post-training rest blocks in this region. These findings indicate that, during rest, reactivation also occurs in humans. This process may contribute to consolidation of perceptuomotor memories.
The progression of brain circuits involved in spatial learning tasks is still a matter of debate. In addition, the participation of individual regions at different stages of spatial learning remains a controversial issue. In order to address these questions, we used quantitative cytochrome oxidase histochemistry as a metabolic brain mapping method applied to rats (Rattus norvegicus) trained in a water maze for 1, 3 or 5 days of training. Sustained changes throughout training were found in the lateral septal nucleus and anteroventral thalamic nucleus. As compared to nave or habituation groups, rats with 1 day of training in the spatial learning task showed involvement of the lateral mammillary nucleus, basolateral amygdala and anterodorsal thalamic nucleus. By 5 days of training, there were mean changes in the hippocampal CA3 field and the prefrontal cortex. The regions involved and their pattern of network interactions changed progressively over days of training. At 1-day there was an open serial network of pairwise correlations. At 3-days there was a more closed reciprocal network of intercorrelations. At 5-days there were three separate parallel networks. In addition, brain-behavior correlations showed that CA1 and CA3 hippocampal fields together with the parietal cortex are related to the mastery of the spatial learning task. The present study extends previous findings on the progressive contribution of neural networks to spatial learning.
Dietary omega3-polyunsaturated fatty acids are thought to influence the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and supplemental docosahexaenoic acid (DHA; 22:6n-3) has been reported to reduce neurodegeneration in mouse models of AD. We have analysed the fatty acid composition of frontal, temporal and parietal neocortex in 58 normal and 114 AD brains. Significant reductions were found for stearic acid (18:0) in frontal and temporal cortex and arachidonic acid (20:4n-6) in temporal cortex in AD, and increases in oleic acid in frontal and temporal cortex (18:1n-9) and palmitic acid (16:0) in parietal cortex. DHA level varied more in AD than controls but the mean values were not significantly different. Fatty acid composition was not related to APOE genotype, age, gender or post-mortem delay. Further research is needed to distinguish between alterations that are secondary to AD and those that contribute to the disease process.
Ongoing clinical trials suggest that linaclotide, a first-in-class, 14-amino acid peptide guanylate cyclase-C (GC-C) receptor agonist and intestinal secretagogue is an effective treatment for chronic constipation. A study in this issue of the Journal suggests that linaclotide also has antihyperalgesic effects in three common rat models of inflammation- and stress-induced hypersensitivity (i.e., acute trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid colitis, water avoidance stress [WAS], and restraint-induced stress) but not in nave animals. In mice, linaclotide at least partly reduces hyperalgesia via GC-C receptors. Dose-effect relationships of linaclotide were complicated and non-linear. This viewpoint discusses human clinical trials with linaclotide and the results of this study. Potential mechanisms and clinical significance of these findings are explored. Collectively, these data suggest that GC-C receptors exert other, as yet poorly understood, effects on gastrointestinal sensitivity in conditions associated with inflammation and/or stress-induced increased intestinal permeability. However, the data need to be confirmed in humans and in long-term animal models. Further studies are also necessary to elucidate the mechanisms as these effects cannot be explained by linaclotide's known effects on epithelial GC-C receptors.
BACKGROUND Abnormalities of colonic motility were reported in relatively small studies of patients with lower functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGID) including irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). The influence of gender and body mass on the observed motor pathophysiology is unclear. We sought to compare colonic transit in patients within different lower FGID subgroups and healthy controls, controlling for gender and BMI, and to determine whether BMI independently influences colonic motility. METHODS We evaluated a scintigraphic gastrointestinal and colonic transit database of 287 lower FGID patients associated with constipation (IBS-C, or functional constipation, n = 118), diarrhoea (IBS-D or functional diarrhoea, n = 139) or mixed bowel function (IBS-M, n = 30) and 170 healthy controls. We measured colon filling at 6 h (CF 6 h), and overall colonic transit at 8, 24 and 48 h. KEY RESULTS Colon filling at 6 h did not differentiate health from FGID. Colonic transit was abnormal at 24 h (GC24 of &lt;1.50 or &gt;3.86) in 29.7% of all lower FGID patients. There was a significant overall association between colonic transit and subject group (healthy controls and FGID subgroups) at 8 (P = 0.01), 24 (P &lt; 0.001) and 48 h (P &lt; 0.001) in particular for those with diarrhoea or constipation at 24 and 48 h (P &lt; 0.05), even after adjusting for age, gender and BMI. In addition, BMI was associated with colonic transit after adjusting for age, gender and subject group. CONCLUSIONS &amp; INFERENCES Abnormal transit is documented non-invasively with scintigraphy in 30% of lower FGID patients; transit measurement may help document pathophysiology and inform selection of therapy in lower FGID.
BACKGROUND Typically, conventional functional imaging methods involve repeated exposures to sensory stimulation. In rectal distension (RD) studies that involve multiple distensions, however, it is difficult to disambiguate the central response to RD from pathological alterations in peripheral neural responses associated with relaxation and accommodation of the rectum. METHODS This study addressed potential confounders found in previous imaging studies by collecting functional magnetic resonance imaging studies (fMRI) data during a single slow ramp-tonic distension paradigm and analysing fMRI signal changes using independent component analysis. KEY RESULTS Compared with controls, IBS participants showed increased activation of the anterior cingulate cortices, insula and ventral medial prefrontal regions suggesting heightened affective responses to painful visceral stimuli. In addition, the failure by IBS patients to down-regulate activity within ventral medial prefrontal and the posterior cingulate/precuneus regions was suggestive of reduced sensitivity to somatic changes and delayed shifts away from rest in ;default network' activity patterns. Controls showed heightened activation of the thalamus, striatal regions and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex suggesting greater arousal and salience-driven sustained attention reactions and greater modulation of affective responses to discomfort and pain. CONCLUSION&amp;INFERENCES This work points to alterations in the central response to visceral pain and discomfort in IBS, highlighting diminished modulation and heightened internalization of affective reactions.
It is unknown whether facilitation and inhibition of stimulus processing represent one or two mechanisms in auditory attention. We performed electrophysiological experiments in humans to address these two competing hypothesis. Participants performed an attention task under low or high memory load. Facilitation and inhibition were measured by recording electrophysiological responses to attended and ignored sounds and comparing them to responses to these same sounds when attention was considered to be equally distributed towards all sounds. We observed two late frontally distributed components: a negative one in response to attended sounds, and a positive one to ignored sounds. These two frontally distributed responses had distinct timing and scalp topographies and were differentially affected by memory load. Taken together these results provide evidence that attention-mediated top-down control reflects the activity of distinct facilitation and inhibition mechanisms.
One hundred and fifty years of neurolinguistic research has identified the key structures in the human brain that support language. However, neither the classic neuropsychological approaches introduced by Broca (1861) and Wernicke (1874), nor modern neuroimaging employing PET and fMRI has been able to delineate the temporal flow of language processing in the human brain. We recorded the electrocorticogram (ECoG) from indwelling electrodes over left hemisphere language cortices during two common language tasks, verb generation and picture naming. We observed that the very high frequencies of the ECoG (high-gamma, 70-160 Hz) track language processing with spatial and temporal precision. Serial progression of activations is seen at a larger timescale, showing distinct stages of perception, semantic association/selection, and speech production. Within the areas supporting each of these larger processing stages, parallel (or &quot;incremental&quot;) processing is observed. In addition to the traditional posterior vs. anterior localization for speech perception vs. production, we provide novel evidence for the role of premotor cortex in speech perception and of Wernicke's and surrounding cortex in speech production. The data are discussed with regards to current leading models of speech perception and production, and a &quot;dual ventral stream&quot; hybrid of leading speech perception models is given.
This study used arterial spin labeling (ASL) fMRI to measure brain perfusion in a group of healthy men under conditions that closely resembled customary sexual behavior. Serial perfusion measures for 30 min during two self-limited periods of partnered penis stimulation, and during post-stimulatory periods, revealed novel sexual activity-related cerebral blood flow (rCBF) changes, mainly in subcortical parts of the brain. Ventral pallidum rCBF was highest during the onset of penile erection, and lowest after the termination of penis stimulation. The perceived level of sexual arousal showed the strongest positive association with rCBF in the right basal forebrain. In addition, our results demonstrate that distinct subregions of the hypothalamus and cingulate cortex subserve opposite functions during human male sexual behavior. The lateral hypothalamus and anterior part of the middle cingulate cortex showed increased rCBF correlated with penile erection. By contrast, the anteroventral hypothalamus and subgenual anterior cingulate cortex exhibited rCBF changes correlated with penile detumescence after penile stimulation. Continuous rapid and high-resolution brain perfusion imaging during normal sexual activity has provided novel insights into the central mechanisms that control male sexual arousal.
Computing phase-locking values (PLVs) between EEG signals is becoming a popular measure for quantifying functional connectivity, because it affords a more detailed picture of the synchrony relationships between channels at different times and frequencies. However, the accompanying increase in data dimensionality incurs a serious multiple testing problem for determining PLV significance. Standard methods for controlling Type I error, which treat all hypotheses as belonging to a single family, can fail to detect any significant discoveries. Instead, we propose a novel application of a hierarchical FDR method, which subsumes multiple families, for detecting significant PLV effects. For simulations and experimental data, we show that the proposed hierarchical FDR method is most powerful. This method revealed significant synchrony effects in the expected regions at an acceptable error rate of 5%, where other methods, including standard FDR correction failed to reveal any significant effects.
Brief radiant laser pulses can be used to activate cutaneous Adelta and C nociceptors selectively and elicit a number of transient brain responses in the ongoing EEG (N1, N2 and P2 waves of laser-evoked brain potentials, LEPs). Despite its physiological and clinical relevance, the early-latency N1 wave of LEPs is often difficult to measure reliably, because of its small signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), thus producing unavoidable biases in the interpretation of the results. Here, we aimed to develop a method to enhance the SNR of the N1 wave and measure its peak latency and amplitude in both average and single-trial waveforms. We obtained four main findings. First, we suggest that the N1 wave can be better detected using a central-frontal montage (Cc-Fz), as compared to the recommended temporal-frontal montage (Tc-Fz). Second, we show that the N1 wave is optimally detected when the neural activities underlying the N2 wave, which interfere with the scalp expression of the N1 wave, are preliminary isolated and removed using independent component analysis (ICA). Third, we show that after these N2-related activities are removed, the SNR of the N1 wave can be further enhanced using a novel approach based on wavelet filtering. Fourth, we provide quantitative evidence that a multiple linear regression approach can be applied to these filtered waveforms to obtain an automatic, reliable and unbiased estimate of the peak latency and amplitude of the N1 wave, both in average and single-trial waveforms.
Research on the biological underpinnings of personality can provide leads to the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders. In particular, interpersonal aspects of behavior are a common problem during the course of psychiatric illness. Animal research has demonstrated a role for the dopamine system in social behaviour, and recent molecular imaging studies have shown a negative correlation between dopamine D2-receptor binding in the striatum and social desirability. The emotional and cognitive aspects of social behavior suggest involvement of brain regions outside of the striatum, such as limbic structures. The aim of the present study was to explore associations between the personality trait social desirability and dopamine D2-receptor binding in both striatal and extrastriatal brain regions. We examined 16 control subjects with Positron Emission Tomography and the radioligands [(11)C]raclopride and [(11)C]FLB 457, in relation to social desirability in the inventory Swedish universities Scales of Personality. [(11)C]raclopride D2-receptor binding in the striatum showed negative correlations to social desirability scores, corroborating previous findings. Furthermore, a correlation of a higher statistical significance was demonstrated for [(11)C]FLB 457 binding in the hippocampal-amygdala complex. A separate analysis of social desirability items in relation to a model of interpersonal behaviour revealed that the associations were driven by items reflecting high submissiveness and high affiliation. Taken together with previous evidence on D2-receptor binding and social behaviour, a role for dopaminergic neurotransmission in regulating displays of dominance vs. submissive behaviour is proposed.
Not only finger tapping speed, but also tapping regularity can be impaired after stroke, contributing to reduced dexterity. The neural substrates of impaired tapping regularity after stroke are unknown. Previous work suggests damage to the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) and prefrontal cortex (PFCx) affects externally-cued hand movement. We tested the hypothesis that these two areas are involved in impaired post-stroke tapping regularity. In 19 right-handed patients (15 men/4 women; age 45-80 years; purely subcortical in 16) partially to fully recovered from hemiparetic stroke, tri-axial accelerometric quantitative assessment of tapping regularity and BOLD fMRI were obtained during fixed-rate auditory-cued index-thumb tapping, in a single session 10-230 days after stroke. A strong random-effect correlation between tapping regularity index and fMRI signal was found in contralesional PMd such that the worse the regularity the stronger the activation. A significant correlation in the opposite direction was also present within contralesional PFCx. Both correlations were maintained if maximal index tapping speed, degree of paresis and time since stroke were added as potential confounds. Thus, the contralesional PMd and PFCx appear to be involved in the impaired ability of stroke patients to fingertap in pace with external cues. The findings for PMd are consistent with repetitive TMS investigations in stroke suggesting a role for this area in affected-hand movement timing. The inverse relationship with tapping regularity observed for the PFCx and the PMd suggests these two anatomically-connected areas negatively co-operate. These findings have implications for understanding the disruption and reorganization of the motor systems after stroke.

Topiramate could potentially effective as prophylaxis for cluster headache, but the experience remains limited in Asians. We performed an open-label clinical study to evaluate the efficacy of topiramate in the tolerable dosage to prevent cluster headache. We studied patients who fulfilled the criteria of episodic or chronic cluster headaches (International Classification of Headache Disorders second edition) prospectively. Headache severity was assessed using a verbal rating scale (excruciating, severe, moderate, mild, and no headache). Treatment was started with a topiramate dose of 50 mg twice daily and was increased by 50-100 mg a day every 3 to 7 days as tolerated to a maximal daily dosage of 400 mg. Of the 12 patients with episodic cluster headache, nine patients had remission of headache at a mean daily dosage of 273 mg (range 100-400 mg), and the patient with chronic cluster headache had remission at a daily dosage of 400 mg. The adverse effects included: paresthesia (84%), slow speech (54%), and dizziness (46%), but were tolerated by most patients. Two patients discontinued topiramate due to adverse events and one due to lack of efficacy. This open-label study suggests that topiramate is effective in the treatment of cluster headache in Taiwanese patients.


Recent clinical data have implicated chronic adverse stress as a potential risk factor in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and data also suggest that normal, physiological stress responses may be impaired in AD. It is possible that pathology associated with AD causes aberrant responses to chronic stress, due to potential alterations in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Recent study in rodent models of AD suggests that chronic adverse stress exacerbates the cognitive deficits and hippocampal pathology that are present in the AD brain. This review summarizes recent findings obtained in experimental AD models regarding the influence of chronic adverse stress on the underlying cellular and molecular disease processes including the potential role of glucocorticoids. Emerging findings suggest that both AD and chronic adverse stress affect hippocampal neural networks in a similar fashion. We describe alterations in hippocampal plasticity, which occur in both chronic stress and AD including dendritic remodeling, neurogenesis, and long-term potentiation. Finally, we outline potential roles for oxidative stress and neurotrophic factor signaling as the key determinants of the impact of chronic stress on the plasticity of neural networks and AD pathogenesis.
The amyloid beta-peptide theory of Alzheimer's Disease has helped to advance our understanding of the disease tremendously. A new area of research focuses on the changes in neuronal network activity that take place and may contribute to the clinical and pathological picture of Alzheimer's Disease. An apparent symptom of altered neuronal network activity in Alzheimer's Disease is an increased frequency in epileptic seizures that is observed both in human patients and in mouse models of Alzheimer's Disease. A root cause for altered network activity may be amyloid beta itself by its ability to alter synaptic (glutamatergic) transmission and to impair the induction of long-term potentiation. It is on this aspect of Alzheimer's Disease research that the current issue of NeuroMolecular Medicine will focus. Reviews will discuss the basic research and clinical aspects of the issue such as the effects of amyloid beta on synaptic transmission and neuronal networks, as well as the changes in functional MRI activation patterns observed in early stages of Alzheimer's Disease and the frequency and relevance of epileptic seizures in Alzheimer's Disease patients.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized neuropathologically by the deposition of different forms of amyloid beta-protein (A beta) including variable amounts of soluble species that correlate with severity of dementia. The extent of synaptic loss in the brain provides the best morphological correlate of cognitive impairment in clinical AD. Animal research on the pathophysiology of AD has therefore focussed on how soluble A beta disrupts synaptic mechanisms in vulnerable brain regions such as the hippocampus. Synaptic plasticity in the form of persistent activity-dependent increases or decreases in synaptic strength provide a neurophysiological substrate for hippocampal-dependent learning and memory. Acute treatment with human-derived or chemically prepared soluble A beta that contains certain oligomeric assemblies, potently and selectively disrupts synaptic plasticity causing inhibition of long-term potentiation (LTP) and enhancement of long-term depression (LTD) of glutamatergic transmission. Over time these and related actions of A beta have been implicated in reducing synaptic integrity. This review addresses the involvement of neurotransmitter intercellular signaling in mediating or modulating the synaptic plasticity disrupting actions of soluble A beta, with particular emphasis on the different roles of glutamatergic and cholinergic mechanisms. There is growing evidence to support the view that NMDA and possibly nicotinic receptors are critically involved in mediating the disruptive effect of A beta and that targeting muscarinic receptors can indirectly modulate A beta's actions. Such studies should help inform ongoing and future clinical trials of drugs acting through the glutamatergic and cholinergic systems.
We report that bath application of the group I mGluR agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) causes acute inhibition of evoked IPSCs recorded from hilar mossy cells, and that significant long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission remains following washout of DHPG. Subsequent experiments using minimal stimulation techniques revealed that expression of both acute and long-term effects of DHPG are restricted to a subset of GABAergic afferents that are also sensitive to depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI). Experiments with a selective CB1 antagonist and with transgenic animals lacking CB1 receptors indicate that all effects of DHPG, like DSI, depend on activation of CB1 receptors. Further work with selective mGluR antagonists suggests a direct involvement of mGluR1 receptors. Interestingly, we also report that induction of LTD under our experimental conditions does not require prior direct somatic depolarization via the patch pipette and does not appear to depend critically on the level of activity in incoming GABAergic afferents. Collectively, these results represent the first characterization of mGluR-mediated and endocannabinoid-dependent LTD in the hilar region of the dentate gyrus. The dentate gyrus is thus one of relatively few areas where this mechanism has clearly been demonstrated to induce long-term modulation of inhibitory synaptic transmission.
Recent research has suggested that the neuronal circuit adaptations elicited by drugs of abuse share common features with traditional learning models, and that drugs of abuse cause long-term changes in behavior by altering synaptic function and plasticity. Especially, the endocannabinoid (eCB) system appears to be involved in the neuronal circuitry regulating ethanol (EtOH) preference in rodent. The aim of this study was to evaluate if acute EtOH exposure could modulate eCB-mediated plasticity in the dorsolateral striatum. Our data show that EtOH (20-50 mM) prevents eCB-mediated long-lasting disinhibition (DLL) of striatal output induced by a single stimulation train delivered at 5 Hz for 60 s, and reduces long-term depression (LTD) induced by low-frequency stimulation at inhibitory synapses. Acute EtOH-treatment also prevents DLL induced by the L-type calcium channel activator 2,5-dimethyl-4-[2-(phenylmethyl)benzoyl]-1H-pyrrole-3-carboxylic acid methylester (FPL64176; 500 nM), or by the cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB(1)R) agonist WIN55,212-2 (300 nM), indicating that EtOH affects eCB-signaling at a stage that is downstream from eCB production and release. Importantly, high-frequency stimulation, or a higher concentration of WIN55,212-2 (1 muM), induces EtOH-insensitive depression of striatal output, suggesting that EtOH affects CB(1)R-mediated signaling in a synapse-specific manner. Maintaining the balance between excitation and inhibition is vital for neuronal networks, and EtOH-mediated modulation of eCB-signaling might thus affect the stability and the fine-tuning of neuronal circuits in the striatum. Our data suggest that changes in eCB-signaling could be involved in the physiological response to acute alcohol intoxication.
The need for newer compounds to treat depression is an ever-growing concern due to the enormous societal and financial ramifications of this disorder. Here, we review some of the candidate systems that could potentially be involved in depression, or an inherent resistance to depression termed resilience, and the numerous protein targets for these systems. A substantial body of literature provides strong evidence that neurotrophic factors, glutamate receptors, hypothalamic feeding peptides, nuclear hormone receptors, and epigenetic mechanisms, among others, will make for interesting targets when examining depressive behavior or resilience in preclinical models, and eventually clinical trials. Although some of these targets for depression already appear promising, new waves of more selective compounds for any molecular system should promote a better understanding of this complex disease and perhaps improved treatments.
P2X receptors are ligand-gated ion channels activated by ATP that are widely expressed in the organism and regulate many physiological functions. We have studied the effect of progesterone (PROG) on native P2X receptors present in rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and on recombinant P2X receptors expressed in HEK293 cells or Xenopus laevis oocytes. The effects of PROG were observed and already maximal during the first coapplication with ATP and did not need any preincubation of the cells with PROG, indicating a fast mechanism of action. In DRG neurons, PROG rapidly and reversibly potentiated submaximal but not saturating plateau-like currents evoked by ATP, but had no effect on the currents activated by alpha,beta-methylene ATP, an agonist of homomeric or heteromeric receptors containing P2X1 or P2X3 subunits. In cells expressing homomeric P2X2 receptors, responses to submaximal ATP, were systematically potentiated by PROG in a dose-dependent manner with a threshold between 1 and 10 nM. PROG had no effect on ATP currents carried by homomeric P2X1, P2X3, and P2X4 receptors or by heteromeric P2X1/5 and P2X2/3 receptors. We conclude that PROG selectively potentiates homomeric P2X2 receptors and, in contrast with dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), discriminates between homomeric and heteromeric P2X2-containing receptors. This might have important physiological implications since the P2X2 subunit is the most widely distributed P2X subunit in the organism. Moreover, DHEA and PROG might be useful tools to clarify the distribution and the role of native homo- and heteromeric P2X2 receptors.
Striatal medium-sized spiny neurons (MSNs) contain the highest levels of soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) in the brain. Striatal sGC signaling is activated by nitric oxide (NO) and other neuromodulators. MSNs also express cGMP-dependent protein kinase and other components of the cGMP signaling system which are critically involved in integrating corticostriatal transmission and regulating synaptic plasticity in striatal networks. However, the influence of tonic and phasic activation of this signaling pathway on striatal MSN activity is poorly understood. The present study examined the impact of systemic administration of the selective sGC inhibitor [1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo-[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one] (ODQ) on spike activity evoked using low and high frequency electrical stimulation of the frontal cortex. MSN activity was monitored using single-unit extracellular recordings in urethane-anesthetized rats. ODQ administration significantly decreased spike activity evoked by low frequency cortical stimulation in a stimulus intensity- and time-dependent manner. Additionally, ODQ administered along with the neuronal NO synthase inhibitor 7-nitroindazole (7-NI) potently decreased the incidence of excitatory responses observed during high-frequency train stimulation of the contralateral frontal cortex. The short-term depression of cortically-evoked spike activity induced by train stimulation was enhanced following pretreatment with ODQ in MSNs exhibiting an excitatory response during cortical train stimulation. Unexpectedly, this effect of ODQ was reversed in animals receiving co-administration of ODQ and 7-NI. 7-NI/ODQ co-administration also reversed measures of short-term depression observed in MSNs exhibiting an inhibitory response during cortical train stimulation. These observations extend previous studies showing that tonic and phasic NO-sGC signaling modulates the responsiveness of MSNs to corticostriatal input. Moreover, phasic activation of NO signaling is likely to regulate short-term changes in corticostriatal synaptic plasticity via complex mechanisms involving both sGC-cGMP-dependent and independent pathways.
In the present study we demonstrated that ketamine, an NMDA antagonist and possible psychotomimetic, increases extracellular histamine (HA) in the rat brain. We then examined the ability of the group II mGlu receptor agonist LY379268 to modulate the ketamine evoked increases in HA release in three limbic brain regions. Ketamine (25 mg/kg) increased HA in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), ventral hippocampus (vHipp) and the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell. LY379268 administered alone was without effect on basal HA efflux in the mPFC or vHipp but modestly decreased HA efflux in the NAc shell. Administration of LY379268 (3 and 10 mg/kg) prior to ketamine significantly attenuated the HA response in the mPFC, vHipp and the NAc shell. The inhibitory effects of LY379268 in the mPFC were mimicked by the systemic administration of the mGlu2 receptor positive allosteric modulator CBiPES (60 mg/kg). Finally, local perfusion experiments revealed that the effects of LY379268 on ketamine evoked HA efflux appear to be mediated by mGlu2 receptors outside the PFC as the intra-mPFC perfusion of LY379268 (100 microM or 300 microM) failed to attenuate ketamine evoked increases in HA efflux. Together, these novel observations reveal an effect of ketamine on histaminergic transmission in limbic brain areas and provide further insight into the possible antipsychotic mechanism of action of mGlu2/3 receptor agonists.
Adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists have emerged as an attractive non-dopaminergic target in clinical trials aimed at evaluating improvement in motor deficits in Parkinson's disease (PD). Moreover, preclinical studies suggest that A(2A) receptor antagonists may slow the course of the underlying neurodegeneration of dopaminergic neurons. In this study, we evaluated the efficacy of the new adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonist 8-ethoxy-9-ethyladenine (ANR 94) in parkinsonian models of akinesia and tremor. In addition, induction of the immediate early gene zif-268, and neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects of ANR 94 were evaluated. ANR 94 was effective in reversing parkinsonian tremor induced by the administration of tacrine. ANR 94 also counteracted akinesia (stepping test) and sensorimotor deficits (vibrissae-elicited forelimb-placing test), as well as potentiating l-dopa-induced contralateral turning behavior in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion model of PD. Potentiation of motor behavior in 6-OHDA-lesioned rats was not associated with increased induction of the immediate early gene zif-268 in the striatum, suggesting that ANR 94 does not induce long-term plastic changes in this structure. Finally, in a subchronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of PD, ANR 94 protected nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons from degeneration and counteracted neuroinflammatory processes by contrasting astroglial (glial fibrillary acidic protein, GFAP) and microglial (CD11b) activation. A(2A) receptor antagonism represents a uniquely realistic opportunity for improving PD treatment, since A(2A) receptor antagonists offer substantial symptomatic benefits and possibly disease-modifying activity. The characterization of ANR 94 may represent a further therapeutic opportunity for the treatment of PD with this new class of drugs.
Impulsivity, a key symptom of ADHD (attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder), is also common in obsessive-compulsive and addictive disorders. There is rising interest in animal models of inhibitory-control impairment. Adolescent rats were tested daily in the intolerance-to-delay (ID) task (session 25 min, timeout 20 s), involving choice between either immediate small amount of food (SS), or larger amount of food after a delay (LL). The mixed 5-HT(1A/7) agonist (8-OH-DPAT, 0 or 0.060 mg/kg i.p.) was administered acutely just before the last three sessions at highest delays. In addition to the classical choice parameter (percent LL preference), the spontaneous waiting (termed response time, RT) occurring between end of a timeout (TO) and next nose-poke was calculated. The pace between consecutive reinforcer deliveries is given by the mean inter-trial interval (mITI, i.e. TO + RT). Hence, the impact of any given delay may be proportional to this pace and be expressed as delay-equivalent odds, i.e. the extent by which delays are multiples of the mITI. Data revealed that RT/mITI increased sharply from around 15 s/35 s to around 30 s/50 s when imposed delay changed from 30 s to 45 s (i.e. odds from 0.91 to 1.06). This suggests that rats adopted a strategy allowing them to keep in pace with perceived reinforcing rate. The increasing delay constraint directly influenced the length of rats' spontaneous waiting (RT) before next decision. For higher delays, with odds &gt;1, rats shifted to a clear-cut SS preference, which is devoid of any exogenous temporal constraint. A challenge with 8-OH-DPAT (0 or 0.060 mg/kg i.p.) decreased impulsive choice but also increased RT. Thus, tapping onto 5-HT(1A/7) receptors slightly enhanced RT/mITI values, possibly reflecting ability of rats to cope with slower reinforcing rates and/or with delay-cancelled reward paces. In summary, delay-induced states of aversion may arise from the innate tendency to rely on a regular rate of reinforcement. Conversely, a drug-enhanced capacity to cope with delay may involve an internal ability to adjust expectancy about such a reinforcing rate.
Small conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels (SK, K(Ca2.1), K(Ca2.2), K(Ca2.3)) are expressed at high levels in brain regions critical for learning and memory. The activation of dendritic SK channels limits the induction of synaptic plasticity that may underlie hippocampal and amygdala dependent memory. EBIO facilitates SK channel activation by increasing their sensitivity to calcium. The compound CyPPA selectively activates SK2 and SK3 channels in a similar manner. To date there has been no report of the effects of SK channel activators on memory. Therefore, the present study examined the effects of systemic EBIO on mice in a behavioral task battery. Significant effects of EBIO on memory and motor activity were validated and extended by examining the effects of systemic CyPPA. Systemic EBIO and CyPPA both produced a transient decline in locomotor behavior. Neither SK channel activator affected anxiety. EBIO (17.5 mg/kg) impaired the encoding, but not retrieval, of object memory in a spontaneous object recognition task. A similar impairment of object memory encoding was observed in CyPPA (15 mg/kg)-treated mice. These memory-impairing effects were not due to changes in motivation, attention or movement. Systemic EBIO did not affect contextual or cued fear memory after conditioning with a 3 tone (CS)-footshock (US) pairing protocol or a 1 CS-US pairing protocol. Interestingly, apamin (0.4 mg/kg) enhanced contextual fear memory in mice conditioned with a 1 CS-US pairing protocol. These results suggest that SK channel activation impairs the encoding of non-aversive memory but not memory for aversive events. These data support converging evidence that SK channels regulate cellular mechanisms of memory encoding.
Glycine receptor function mediates most inhibitory neurotransmission in the brainstem and spinal cord and is enhanced by alcohols, volatile anesthetics, inhaled drugs of abuse, and endogenous compounds including zinc. Because zinc exists ubiquitously throughout the brain, investigations of its effects on the enhancement of GlyR function by alcohols and anesthetics are important to understanding the effects of these agents in vivo. In the present study, the effects of zinc plus ethanol, pentanol, or isoflurane were tested on homomeric alpha1 glycine receptors to determine if concurrent applications of physiological concentrations of zinc with each of these modulators changed the magnitude of their effects. Homomeric alpha1 glycine receptors were expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes, and the two-electrode voltage-clamp technique was used to measure glycine-mediated currents in the presence of combinations of zinc with ethanol, pentanol or isoflurane. The combined effects of zinc plus ethanol were greater than the sum of the effects produced by either compound alone. However, this was not seen when zinc was combined with either pentanol or isoflurane. Chelation of zinc by tricine decreased the effects of sub-maximal, but not maximal, concentrations of glycine, and diminished the magnitude of ethanol enhancement observed. These findings suggest a zinc/ethanol interaction at the alpha1 GlyR that results in the enhancement of the effects of ethanol action on GlyR function.
This review was aimed at systematically investigating the treatment efficacy and clinical effectiveness of neurobehavioral rehabilitation programs for adults with acquired brain injury and making evidence-based recommendations for the adoption of these rehabilitation trainings. Using a variety of search procedures, 63 studies were identified and reviewed using a set of questions about research methods, treatments, results and outcomes for the 1,094 participants. The 63 studies included treatments falling into three general categories: approaches based on applied behavior analysis, interventions based on cognitive-behavior therapy (CBT), and comprehensive-holistic rehabilitation programs (CHRPs). Considerable heterogeneity exists in the reviewed literature among treatment methods and within reported sample subjects. Despite the variety of methodological concerns, results indicate that the greatest overall improvement in psychosocial functioning is achieved by CHRP that can be considered a treatment standard for adults with behavioral and psychosocial disorders following acquired brain injury. Both approaches based on applied behavior analysis and CBT can be said to be evidence-based treatment options. However, findings raise questions about the role of uncontrolled factors in determining treatment effects and suggest the need for rigorous inclusion/exclusion criteria, with greater specification of theoretical basis, design, and contents of treatments for both interdisciplinary-comprehensive approaches and single-case methodologies.
Studies in rats and non-human primates suggest that medial temporal lobe (MTL) structures play a role in perceptual processing, with the hippocampus necessary for spatial discrimination, and the perirhinal cortex for object discrimination. Until recently, there was little convergent evidence for analogous functional specialisation in humans, or for a role of the MTL in processes beyond long-term memory. A recent series of novel human neuropsychological studies, however, in which paradigms from the animal literature were adapted and extended, have revealed findings remarkably similar to those seen in rats and monkeys. These experiments have demonstrated differential effects of distinct stimulus categories on performance in tasks for which there was no explicit requirement to remember information across trials. There is also accruing complementary evidence from functional neuroimaging that MTL structures show differential patterns of activation for scenes and objects, even on simple visual discrimination tasks. This article reviews some of these key studies and discusses the implications of these new findings for existing accounts of memory. A non-modular view of memory is proposed in which memory and perception depend upon the same anatomically distributed representations (emergent memory account). The limitations and criticisms of this theory are discussed and a number of outstanding questions proposed, including key predictions that can be tested by future studies.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder affecting voluntary motor control. However, little is known about the experience of voluntary action in PD patients. A key component of action experience is the feeling of controlling one's own actions, and through them, external events. In healthy individuals this sense of agency (SoA) is associated with a subjective compression of time, such that actions and their effects are perceived as bound together across time. This action-effect binding provides an indirect measure of SoA. Nine PD patients and age-matched controls judged the time of voluntary actions and of an auditory effect (a tone) of the action. The pattern of results resembled previous studies, with the perceived time of actions showing a shift towards the subsequent tone, relative to a baseline condition involving actions without tones. Similarly, the perceived times of tones showed a shift towards the preceding action that caused the tone, relative to a baseline condition involving tones only. The patients were tested both on and off dopaminergic medication. PD patients off medication showed no significant change in action-effect binding relative to controls. Conversely, PD patients on medication showed a significant increase in action-effect binding relative to their own performance off medication. Increased availability of dopamine strengthened the experience of association between actions and external events, enhancing the sense of agency. These results shed light on the contribution of dopamine to the experience of instrumental action, and also on impulse control disorders and psychosis in medicated PD patients.
In Parkinson's disease (PD), it is possible that tonic increase of dopamine associated with levodopa medication overshadows phasic release of dopamine, which is essential for learning. Thus while the motor symptoms of PD are improved with levodopa medication, learning would be disrupted. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the effect of levodopa medication on learning on the weather prediction task (WPT), which involves probabilistic classification learning. 11 PD patients and 13 matched controls completed 200 trials of the WPT, with the patients either on or off their usual levodopa medication. Consistent with prior studies, when PD patients were assessed on medication, overall WPT performance was significantly worse than controls. However, when these patients were studied following withdrawal from medication, overall performance was equivalent to controls, and significantly better than when on medication. The significant deterioration of learning on the WPT in PD patients when on compared to off medication supports the proposal that tonic increase of dopamine with dopaminergic medication masks phasic changes in dopamine release essential for learning. These results highlight the need for careful 'titration' of dopaminergic medication to produce the desired improvement of the motor symptoms without the associated detrimental effects on cognition and learning.
It is commonly accepted that right posterior parietal cortex (PPC) plays an important role in updating spatial representations, directing visuospatial attention, and planning actions. However, recent studies suggest that right PPC may also be involved in processes that are more closely associated with our visual awareness as its activation level positively correlates with successful conscious change detection (Beck, D.M., Rees, G., Frith, C.D., &amp; Lavie, N. (2001). Neural correlates of change detection and change blindness. Nature Neuroscience, 4, 645-650.). Furthermore, disruption of its activity increases the occurrences of change blindness, thus suggesting a causal role for right PPC in change detection (Beck, D.M., Muggleton, N., Walsh, V., &amp; Lavie, N. (2006). Right parietal cortex plays a critical role in change blindness. Cerebral Cortex, 16, 712-717.). In the context of a 1-shot change detection paradigm, we applied transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) during different time intervals to elucidate the temporally precise involvement of PPC in change detection. While subjects attempted to detect changes between two image sets separated by a brief time interval, TMS was applied either during the presentation of picture 1 when subjects were encoding and maintaining information into visual short-term memory, or picture 2 when subjects were retrieving information relating to picture 1 and comparing it to picture 2. Our results show that change blindness occurred more often when TMS was applied during the viewing of picture 1, which implies that right PPC plays a crucial role in the processes of encoding and maintaining information in visual short-term memory. In addition, since our stimuli did not involve changes in spatial locations, our findings also support previous studies suggesting that PPC may be involved in the processes of encoding non-spatial visual information (Todd, J.J. &amp; Marois, R. (2004). Capacity limit of visual short-term memory in human posterior parietal cortex. Nature, 428, 751-754.).
The detection of social threat is crucial for adaptive behaviour. Previous studies have shown that angry faces capture attention and are processed more efficiently than happy faces. While this anger superiority effect has been found in typical and atypical development, it is unknown whether it exists in individuals with Williams syndrome (WS), who show reduced social fear and atypical sociability. In this study, children with WS searched for angry or happy target faces surrounded by 2, 5 or 8 distracters (happy or angry faces, respectively). Performance was compared to that of mental age-matched controls. Results revealed no group differences for happy faces, however for angry faces, the WS, but not the control group, showed a significant performance decrease for the 8-distracters condition, indicating the absence of an anger superiority effect, in good agreement with evidence for abnormal structure and function in brain areas for social threat processing in WS.
Working memory (WM) and emotion classification are amongst the cognitive domains where specific deficits have been reported for patients with schizophrenia. In healthy individuals, the capacity of visual working memory is enhanced when the material to be retained is emotionally salient, particularly for angry faces. We investigated whether patients with schizophrenia also have an enhanced WM capacity for angry faces. We compared 34 inpatients with schizophrenia and 34 age-, handedness- and gender-matched control participants in three separate tasks. In the WM task, participants saw two faces with angry, happy or neutral emotional expressions for 2s and had to decide whether a probe face presented after a 1s delay was identical to one of them. In the emotion classification task, they had to assign these faces to the appropriate categorical emotion. They also rated faces for valence and arousal. Although patients performed generally worse on the working memory task, they showed the same benefit for angry faces as control participants. However, patients were specifically impaired for angry faces on the emotion classification task. These results indicate preserved implicit emotion processing in schizophrenia patients, which contrasts with their impairment in explicit emotion classification. With regard to clinical practice, our findings underline the importance of assessing responsiveness to emotions in patients with schizophrenia, with a view possibly to utilize preserved implicit emotion processing in cognitive remediation programs.
Previous behavioural and neuroscience studies have shown that the systems involved in the control of attention and action are functionally and anatomically linked. We used behavioural and event-related brain potential measures to investigate whether such links are mandatory or merely optional. Cues presented at the start of each trial instructed participants to shift attention to the left or right side and to simultaneously prepare to a finger movement with their left or right hand. In different trials, cues were followed by a central Go signal, requiring execution of the prepared manual response (motor task), or by a peripheral visual stimulus, which required a target-non-target discrimination only when presented on the cued side (attention task). Lateralised ERP components indicative of covert attention shifts were found when attention and action were directed to the same side (same side condition), but not when attention and action were directed to opposite sides (opposite sides condition). Likewise, effects of spatial attention on the processing of peripheral visual stimuli were present only when attention and action were directed to the same side, but not in the opposite sides condition. These results demonstrate that preparing a manual response on one side severely disrupts the attentional selection of visual stimuli on the other side, and suggest that it is not possible to simultaneously direct attention and action to different locations in space. They support the hypothesis that the control of spatial attention and action are implemented by shared brain circuits, and are therefore linked in a mandatory fashion.
Re-telling a story is thought to produce a progressive refinement in the mental representation of the discourse. A neuroanatomical substrate for this compression effect, however, has yet to be identified. We used a discourse re-listening task and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to identify brain regions responsive to repeated discourse in twenty healthy volunteers. We found a striking difference in the pattern of activation associated with the first and subsequent presentations of the same story relative to rest. The first presentation was associated with a highly significant increase in blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal in a bilateral perisylvian distribution, including auditory cortex. Listening to the same story on subsequent occasions revealed a wider network with activation extending into frontal, parietal, and subcortical structures. When the first and final presentations of the same story were directly compared, significant increments in activation were found in the middle frontal gyrus bilaterally, and the right inferior parietal lobule, suggesting that the spread of activation with re-listening reflected an active neural process over and above that required for comprehension of the text. Within the right inferior parietal region the change in BOLD signal was highly correlated with a behavioural index of discourse compression based in re-telling, providing converging evidence for the role of the right inferior parietal region in the representation of discourse. Our findings demonstrate, for the first time, the existence of a neural network underlying discourse compression, showing that parts of this network are common to re-telling and re-listening effects.
The aim of this study was to investigate the role of several specific neurocognitive functions in developmental dyslexia (DD). The performances of 60 dyslexic children and 65 age-matched normally reading children were compared on tests of phonological abilities, visual processing, selective and sustained attention, implicit learning, and executive functions. Results documented deficits in dyslexics on both phonological and non-phonological tasks. More stringently, in dyslexic children individual differences in non-phonological abilities accounted for 23.3% of unique variance in word reading and for 19.3% in non-word reading after controlling for age, IQ and phonological skills. These findings are in accordance with the hypothesis that DD is a multifactorial deficit and suggest that neurocognitive developmental dysfunctions in DD may not be limited to the linguistic brain area, but may involve a more multifocal cortical system.
Deficits in self awareness and taking the perspective of others are often observed following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Nine adolescents (ages 12-19 years) who had sustained moderate to severe TBI after an average interval of 2.6 years and nine typically developing (TD) adolescents underwent functional MRI (fMRI) while performing a perspective taking task (D'Argembeau et al., 2007). Participants made trait attributions either from their own perspective or from that of the significant other. The groups did not differ in reaction time or on a consistency criterion. When thinking of the self from a third-person perspective, adolescents with TBI demonstrated greater activation in posterior brain regions implicated in social cognition, the left lingual gyrus (BA 18) and posterior cingulate (BA 31), extending into neighboring regions not generally associated with social cognition, that is, cuneus (BA 31) and parahippocampal gyrus, relative to TD adolescents. We postulate that adolescents with moderate to severe TBI recruited alternative neural pathways during perspective-taking because traumatic axonal injury disrupted their fronto-parietal networks mediating social cognition.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by abnormal reciprocal social interactions, communication deficits, and repetitive behaviors with restricted interests. BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR) is an inbred mouse strain that shows robust behavioral phenotypes with analogies to all three of the diagnostic symptoms of autism, including well-replicated deficits in reciprocal social interactions and social approach, unusual patterns of ultrasonic vocalization, and high levels of repetitive self-grooming. These phenotypes offer straightforward behavioral assays for translational investigations of pharmacological compounds. Two suggested treatments for autism were evaluated in the BTBR mouse model. Methyl-6-phenylethynyl-pyridine (MPEP), an antagonist of the mGluR5 metabotropic glutamate receptor, blocks aberrant phenotypes in the Fmr1 mouse model of Fragile X, a comorbid neurodevelopmental disorder with autistic features. Risperidone has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of irritability, tantrums, and self-injurious behavior in autistic individuals. We evaluated the actions of MPEP and risperidone on two BTBR phenotypes, low sociability and high repetitive self-grooming. Open field activity served as an independent control for non-social exploratory activity and motor functions. C57BL/6J (B6), an inbred strain with high sociability and low self-grooming, served as the strain control. MPEP significantly reduced repetitive self-grooming in BTBR, at doses that had no sedating effects on open field activity. Risperidone reduced repetitive self-grooming in BTBR, but only at doses that induced sedation in both strains. No overall improvements in sociability were detected in BTBR after treatment with either MPEP or risperidone. Our findings suggest that antagonists of mGluR5 receptors may have selective therapeutic efficacy in treating repetitive behaviors in autism.
Earlier studies have shown widespread alterations of functional connectivity of various brain networks in schizophrenia, including the default mode network (DMN). The DMN has also an important role in the performance of cognitive tasks. Furthermore, treatment with second-generation antipsychotic drugs may ameliorate to some degree working memory (WM) deficits and related brain activity. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of treatment with olanzapine monotherapy on functional connectivity among brain regions of the DMN during WM. Seventeen patients underwent an 8-week prospective study and completed two functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans at 4 and 8 weeks of treatment during the performance of the N-back WM task. To control for potential repetition effects, 19 healthy controls also underwent two fMRI scans at a similar time interval. We used spatial group-independent component analysis (ICA) to analyze fMRI data. Relative to controls, patients with schizophrenia had reduced connectivity strength within the DMN in posterior cingulate, whereas it was greater in precuneus and inferior parietal lobule. Treatment with olanzapine was associated with increases in DMN connectivity with ventromedial prefrontal cortex, but not in posterior regions of DMN. These results suggest that treatment with olanzapine is associated with the modulation of DMN connectivity in schizophrenia. In addition, our findings suggest critical functional differences in the regions of DMN.
Giant axonal neuropathy (GAN) is a neurodegenerative disorder classified within the hereditary motor and sensory neuropathies, affecting both the peripheral and central nervous systems. GAN typically presents in early childhood before the age of five years and progresses to death usually by early adulthood. Various imaging findings in giant axonal neuropathy have been described and documented in literature in the form multiple case reports. We here present a pictorial essay of all the major imaging GAN findings described in the literature. In addition, involvement of the dentate nucleus hitherto not described in the literature was noted in the present case.

Recent studies of monkeys and humans have identified several brain regions that respond to bodies. Researchers have so far mainly addressed the same questions about bodies and bodily expressions that are already familiar from three decades of face and facial expression studies. Our present goal is to review behavioral, electrophysiological and neurofunctional studies on whole body and bodily expression perception against the background of what is known about face perception. We review all currently available evidence in more detail than done so far, but we also argue for a more theoretically motivated comparison of faces and bodies that reflects some broader concerns than only modularity or category specificity of faces or bodies.
One of the fundamental goals in understanding schizophrenia is linking the observable symptoms to the underlying unobservable pathophysiology. Given recent advances in medical imaging, researchers are increasingly investigating brain-behavior relationships to better understand the neural substrates of negative, positive, and disorganization symptoms in schizophrenia. This review focused on 25 task-related functional magnetic resonance imaging studies and found meaningful small to moderate associations between specific symptom dimensions and regional brain activity. Negative symptoms were related to the functioning of the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and ventral striatum. Positive symptoms, particularly persecutory ideation, were related to functioning of the medial prefrontal cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus/parahippocampal region. Disorganization symptoms, although less frequently evaluated, were related to functioning of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Surprisingly, no symptom domain had a consistent relationship with the middle or superior temporal regions. While a number of adaptations in experimental design and reporting standards can facilitate this work, current neuroimaging approaches appear to provide a number of consistent links between the manifest symptoms of schizophrenia and brain dysfunction.
A decade has passed since near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) was first applied to functional brain imaging in infants. As part of the team that published the first functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) infant study in 1998, we have continued to develop and refine both the technology and methods associated with these measurements. The increasing international interest that this technology is generating among neurodevelopmental researchers and the recent technical developments in biomedical optics have prompted us to compile this review of the challenges that have been overcome in this field, and the practicalities of performing fNIRS in infants. We highlight the increasingly diverse and ambitious studies that have been undertaken and review the technological and methodological advances that have been made in the study design, optical probe development, and interpretation and analyses of the haemodynamic response. A strong emphasis is placed on the potential of the technology and future prospects of fNIRS in the field of developmental neuroscience.
Animal studies suggest that phosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein tau is a physiological way of destabilizing axons in the developing brain, promoting synaptic plasticity, while in the adult human brain tau phosphorylation is a specific sign of Alzheimer's disease. We here show, for the first time, that newborn human infants have extremely high levels of phosphorylated tau in their cerebrospinal fluid, and that these levels decrease during the first years of life. Tau phosphorylation in Alzheimer's disease may be a physiological response to Alzheimer-associated synaptotoxicity.
Galectin-1, a member of a family of beta-galactoside-binding proteins, is differentially expressed by various tissues and performs a wide range of biological functions. Galectin-1 has been shown to mediate inflammation and to be involved in axonal regeneration in the oxidized form and in axonal degeneration in the reduced form; however, its involvement in injury and the repair processes after spinal cord injury have not been studied. Therefore, we studied galectin-1 expression in injured spinal cords. Immunostaining analysis of galectin-1 in injured spinal cords revealed that galectin-1-expressing cells assembled around the lesion site. Galectin-1 was intensively expressed by neutrophils 1 day, by microglia/macrophages 3 days, and by astrocytes 7 days after spinal cord injury. These results suggest that galectin-1 may be associated with the pathogenesis of spinal cord injury.
Charcot spinal disease is a destructive degenerative process involving the vertebrae and surrounding discs, resulting from repetitive microtrauma in patients who have decreased joint protective mechanisms due to loss of deep pain and proprioceptive sensation. The typical presentation of the disease is back pain and progressive spinal instability and deformity. The authors report an unusual case of massive Charcot spinal disease deformity in a patient presenting with increasing abdominal girth and discomfort.
In this review, we explain the origins of central cord syndrome and Bell's cruciate paralysis and the intricate detail of neural pathways located in this region and their influence on motor and sensory function. Although lesion studies and tract tracing studies on primates over the past 50 years refute the theory of a somatotopically organized corticospinal tract, this concept continues to pervade many neuroanatomic texts. We categorized the various pathologies of the craniovertebral junction and their unique neurologic presentations. New developments in the fields of neuroscience of spinal tract lesioning are also discussed.





The purpose of this study was to evaluate the entire cost of nursing staff-prepared thickened liquids with Resource ThickenUp vs. utilizing commercially prepared thickened liquids in an acute care hospital. Time, cost, and effectiveness were studied in a 37-bed adult acute care neuroscience patient care unit in a large urban community hospital. Registered nurses and patient care technicians experienced in mixing thickened liquids for patients with dysphagia created liquids thickened to the consistency of nectar and honey from water, milk, and orange juice. Commercially prepared thickened liquids were 44% to 59% less expensive than the cost of manually creating the thickened liquids. Commercially prepared thickened liquids were more effective and of consistent viscosity than manually prepared thickened liquids due to variability in the skill of the preparer, alteration in the viscosity of the product based on acidity, protein, or sit-time from preparation to consumption.
We tested the hypothesis that primary afferent inputs play a role in astroglial hyperactivity after tissue injury. We first injected complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA, 0.05 ml, 1:1 oil/saline) into the masseter muscle, which upregulated glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a marker of astrocytes, interleukin (IL)-1 an inflammatory cytokine, and phosphorylation of serine896 of the NR1 subunit (P-NR1) of the NMDA receptor in the subnuclei interpolaris/caudalis (Vi/Vc) transition zone, an important structure for processing trigeminal nociceptive input. Local anesthetic block with lidocaine (2%) of the masseter muscle at 10 min prior to injection of CFA into the same site significantly reduced the CFA-induced increase in GFAP, IL-1 and P-NR1 (p&lt;0.05, n=4/group). We then tested the effect of peripheral electrical stimulation (ES). The ES protocol was burst stimulation consisting of trains of 4 square pulses (10-100 Hz, 0.1-3 mA, 0.5 ms pulse width). Under pentobarbital anesthesia, an ES was delivered every 0.2 s for a total of 30 min. The Vi/Vc tissues were processed for immunohistochemistry or western blot analysis at 10-120 min after ES. Compared to naive and SHAM-treated rats, there was increased immunoreactivity against GFAP, IL-1 and P-NR1 in the Vi/Vc in rats receiving ES. Double staining showed that IL-1 was selectively localized in GFAP-positive astroglia, and P-NR1-immunoreactivity was localized to neurons. These findings indicate that primary afferent inputs are necessary and sufficient to induce astroglial hyperactivity and upregulation of IL-1, as well as neuronal NMDA receptor phosphorylation.



Previously, we have demonstrated that nicotinamide (NAM), a neuroprotective soluble B-group vitamin, improves recovery of function following traumatic brain injury (TBI). However, no prior studies have examined whether NAM is beneficial following continuous infusions over 7 days post-TBI. The purpose of this study was to investigate the preclinical efficacy of NAM treatment as it might be delivered clinically; over several days by slow infusion. Rats were prepared with either unilateral controlled cortical impact (CCI) injuries or sham procedures and divided into three groups: CCI-NAM, CCI-vehicle, and sham. Thirty minutes following CCI, Alzet osmotic mini-pumps were implanted subcutaneously. NAM was delivered at a rate of 50 mg/kg/day for 7 days immediately post-CCI. On day 7 following injury, the pumps were removed and blood draws were collected for serum NAM and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) analyses. Starting on day 2 post-CCI, animals were tested on a battery of sensorimotor tests (bilateral tactile adhesive removal, locomotor placing, and limb-use asymmetry). Continuous infusion of NAM resulted in a significant serum elevation in NAM, but not NAD+. Statistical analyses of the tactile removal and locomotor placing data revealed that continuous administration of NAM significantly reduced the initial magnitude of the injury deficit and improved overall recovery compared to the vehicle-treated animals. NAM treatment also significantly decreased limb-use asymmetries compared to vehicle-treated animals. The overall extent of the cortical damage was also reduced by NAM treatment. No detrimental effects were seen following continuous infusion. The present results suggest that NAM delivered via a clinically relevant therapeutic regimen may truncate behavioral damage following TBI. Thus our results offer strong support for translation into the clinical population.




Mutations in PINK1 have been identified in familial and sporadic cases of early onset Parkinson's disease (PD). To determine the contribution of PINK1 variants in Indian PD patients, the gene was screened in 250 patients and 205 ethnically matched controls by polymerase chain reaction, single-stranded conformation polymorphism and DNA sequencing. Two potentially pathogenic variants (Arg246Gln &amp; Arg276Gln) were detected in the heterozygous state in 5 patients; none of the patients carried homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations. In addition, 13 other variants were identified, including a known polymorphism (Ala340Thr), a few synonymous or intronic changes, none of which are likely to be pathogenic. Unlike the Chinese population, the Ala340Thr variant did not show any association with PD in Indian population. Six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) selected from dbSNP were genotyped in 531 normal, healthy individuals representing different ethnic groups of India. Most of the SNP markers were observed to be highly heterozygous among Indians, which could be used for segregation analysis of PINK1 alleles in familial PD cases.
Apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4) and female sex are risk factors for developing Alzheimer's disease. It is unclear whether apoE4 contributes to behavioral function at younger ages. Standard neuropsychological assessments [intelligence quotient (IQ), attention, and executive function] and a test developed in this laboratory (Memory Island test of spatial learning and memory) were used to determine whether E4 and sex affect neuropsychological performance in healthy primary school children (age 7-10). A medical history was also obtained from the mother to determine whether negative birth outcomes were associated with apoE4. Mothers of apoE4+ children were more likely to report that their newborn was placed in an intensive care unit. A sex difference in birth weight was noted among apoE4- (males &gt; females), but not apoE4+, offspring. Conversely, among apoE4+, but not apoE4- children, there was a sex difference in the Wechsler Abbreviated Scale of Intelligence (WASI) vocabulary score favoring boys. ApoE4- girls had better visual recall than apoE4+ girls or apoE4- boys on the Family Pictures test. Finally, apoE4+, unlike apoE4-, children did not show spatial memory retention during the Memory Island probe trial. Thus, apoE4 may affect neurobehavioral performance, particularly spatial memory, and antenatal health decades before any clinical expression of neurodegenerative processes.
Individual and developmental differences in novelty seeking have been implicated in differential sensitivity to psychostimulants in rodents, but findings are mixed. The extent to which age differences in activity in a novel arena depended on test duration was examined by comparing adolescent and adult rats after 5 and after 60 min of testing (session 1). Rats were tested again after amphetamine or saline administration 24h later (session 2) to examine whether activity in a novel arena predicts sensitivity to locomotor-activating effects of amphetamine. Data from two experiments were used to examine consistency of the findings. Only activity in 60 min sessions produced a consistent age difference (adolescent&lt;adult) and predicted activity after amphetamine in session 2. Session 1 activity also predicted saline activity in session 2, indicating that individual differences in activity is a stable trait. A third data set was used to determine whether general (saline) and amphetamine-induced activity predicted magnitude of conditioned place preference (CPP) in late-adolescent and adult rats. Age was not a significant predictor, but CPP was positively associated with amphetamine activity and negatively associated with saline activity. Thus, in contrast to enhanced psychostimulant sensitivity in high novelty-seekers, rats higher in general activity are less sensitive to amphetamine conditioned place preference.
The histamine H(4) receptor (H(4)R) is expressed primarily on cells involved in inflammation and immune responses. To determine the potential role of H(4)R in pain transmission, the effects of JNJ7777120, a potent and selective H(4) antagonist, were characterized in preclinical pain models. Administration of JNJ7777120 fully blocked neutrophil influx observed in a mouse zymosan-induced peritonitis model (ED(50)=17 mg/kg s.c., 95% CI=8.5-26) in a mast cell-dependent manner. JNJ7777120 potently reversed thermal hyperalgesia observed following intraplantar carrageenan injection of acute inflammatory pain (ED(50)=22 mg/kg i.p., 95% CI=10-35) in rats and significantly decreased the myeloperoxide activity in the carrageenan-injected paw. In contrast, no effects were produced by either H(1)R antagonist diphenhydramine, H(2)R antagonists ranitidine, or H(3)R antagonist ABT-239. JNJ7777120 also exhibited robust anti-nociceptive activity in persistent inflammatory (CFA) pain with an ED(50) of 29 mg/kg i.p. (95% CI=19-40) and effectively reversed monoiodoacetate (MIA)-induced osteoarthritic joint pain. This compound also produced dose-dependent anti-allodynic effects in the spinal nerve ligation (ED(50)=60 mg/kg) and sciatic nerve constriction injury (ED(50)=88 mg/kg) models of chronic neuropathic pain, as well as in a skin-incision model of acute post-operative pain (ED(50)=68 mg/kg). In addition, the analgesic effects of JNJ7777120 were maintained following repeated administration and were evident at the doses that did not cause neurologic deficits in rotarod test. Our results demonstrate that selective blockade of H(4) receptors in vivo produces significant anti-nociception in animal models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain.
Susceptibility to affective disorders is individually different, and determined both by genetic variance and life events that cause significant differences in the CNS structure and function between individual subjects. Therefore it is plausible that search for the inter-individual differences in endophenotypes that mediate the effects of causal factors, both genetic and environmental, will reveal the substrates for vulnerability, help to clarify pathogenetic mechanisms, and possibly aid in developing strategies to discover better, more personalized treatments. This review first examines comparatively a number of animal models of human affect and affect-related disorders that rely on persistent inter-individual differences, and then highlights some of the neurobiological findings in these models that are compatible with much of research in human behavioural and personality traits. Many behaviours occur in specific combinations in several models, but often remarkable dissociations are observed, providing a variety of constellations of traits. It is concluded that more systematic comparative experimentation on behaviour and neurobiology in different models is warranted to reveal possible &quot;building blocks&quot; of affect-related personality common in animals and humans. Looking into the perspectives in psychopharmacology the focus is placed on probable associations of inter-individual differences with brain structure and function, personality and coping strategies, and psychiatric vulnerability, highlighting some unexpected interactions between vulnerability endophenotypes, adverse life events, and behavioural traits. It is argued that further studies on inter-individual differences in affect and underlying neurobiology should include formal modeling of their epistatic, hierarchical and dynamic nature.
Cell to cell communication by biophotons has been demonstrated in plants, bacteria, animal neutrophil granulocytes and kidney cells. Whether such signal communication exists in neural cells is unclear. By developing a new biophoton detection method, called in situ biophoton autography (IBA), we have investigated biophotonic activities in rat spinal nerve roots in vitro. We found that different spectral light stimulation (infrared, red, yellow, blue, green and white) at one end of the spinal sensory or motor nerve roots resulted in a significant increase in the biophotonic activity at the other end. Such effects could be significantly inhibited by procaine (a regional anaesthetic for neural conduction block) or classic metabolic inhibitors, suggesting that light stimulation can generate biophotons that conduct along the neural fibers, probably as neural communication signals. The mechanism of biophotonic conduction along neural fibers may be mediated by protein-protein biophotonic interactions. This study may provide a better understanding of the fundamental mechanisms of neural communication, the functions of the nervous system, such as vision, learning and memory, as well as the mechanisms of human neurological diseases.



Theories of music origins and the role of musical emotions in the mind are reviewed. Most existing theories contradict each other, and cannot explain mechanisms or roles of musical emotions in workings of the mind, nor evolutionary reasons for music origins. Music seems to be an enigma. Nevertheless, a synthesis of cognitive science and mathematical models of the mind has been proposed describing a fundamental role of music in the functioning and evolution of the mind, consciousness, and cultures. The review considers ancient theories of music as well as contemporary theories advanced by leading authors in this field. It addresses one hypothesis that promises to unify the field and proposes a theory of musical origin based on a fundamental role of music in cognition and evolution of consciousness and culture. We consider a split in the vocalizations of proto-humans into two types: one less emotional and more concretely-semantic, evolving into language, and the other preserving emotional connections along with semantic ambiguity, evolving into music. The proposed hypothesis departs from other theories in considering specific mechanisms of the mind-brain, which required the evolution of music parallel with the evolution of cultures and languages. Arguments are reviewed that the evolution of language toward becoming the semantically powerful tool of today required emancipation from emotional encumbrances. The opposite, no less powerful mechanisms required a compensatory evolution of music toward more differentiated and refined emotionality. The need for refined music in the process of cultural evolution is grounded in fundamental mechanisms of the mind. This is why today's human mind and cultures cannot exist without today's music. The reviewed hypothesis gives a basis for future analysis of why different evolutionary paths of languages were paralleled by different evolutionary paths of music. Approaches toward experimental verification of this hypothesis in psychological and neuroimaging research are reviewed.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a severe neurological disease that affects young adults. A large body of evidence suggests that MS is mediated by an immunological process in genetic susceptible individuals. This process probably varies greatly not only between individuals, but also for one patient over time. In this review, we will describe current knowledge about the pathogenesis of MS, providing special attention to the questions patients frequently ask. We also describe the immunological foundations of this disease so that we can better understand the mechanisms by which the different approved treatments act. A better understanding of the disease has led to substantial improvement in treatments that act on the immune system. By blocking immune attacks early, we can hope to avoid the secondarily progressive phase of the disease, which remains frequent.
Technology has advanced to where it is possible to design and grow-with predefined geometry and surprisingly good fidelity-living networks of neurons in culture dishes. Here we overview the elements of design, emphasizing the lithographic techniques that alter the cell culture surface which in turn influences the attachment and growth of the neural networks. Advanced capability in this area makes it possible to design networks of desired complexity. Other issues addressed include the influence of glial cells and media on activity and the potential for extending the designs into three dimensions. Investigators are advancing the art and science of analyzing and controlling through stimulation the function of the neural networks, including the ability to take advantage of their geometric form in order to influence functional properties.
During the past ten years, dramatic advances have been made in unraveling the biological bases of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the most common cause of irreversible blindness in western populations. In that timeframe, two distinct lines of evidence emerged which implicated chronic local inflammation and activation of the complement cascade in AMD pathogenesis. First, a number of complement system proteins, complement activators, and complement regulatory proteins were identified as molecular constituents of drusen, the hallmark extracellular deposits associated with early AMD. Subsequently, genetic studies revealed highly significant statistical associations between AMD and variants of several complement pathway-associated genes including: Complement factor H (CFH), complement factor H-related 1 and 3 (CFHR1 and CFHR3), complement factor B (CFB), complement component 2 (C2), and complement component 3 (C3). In this article, we revisit our original hypothesis that chronic local inflammatory and immune-mediated events at the level of Bruch's membrane play critical roles in drusen biogenesis and, by extension, in the pathobiology of AMD. Secondly, we report the results of a new screening for additional AMD-associated polymorphisms in a battery of 63 complement-related genes. Third, we identify and characterize the local complement system in the RPE-choroid complex - thus adding a new dimension of biological complexity to the role of the complement system in ocular aging and AMD. Finally, we evaluate the most salient, recent evidence that bears directly on the role of complement in AMD pathogenesis and progression. Collectively, these recent findings strongly re-affirm the importance of the complement system in AMD. They lay the groundwork for further studies that may lead to the identification of a transcriptional disease signature of AMD, and hasten the development of new therapeutic approaches that will restore the complement-modulating activity that appears to be compromised in genetically susceptible individuals.
Thirteen proteins (identified with 2-D gels and MALDI-TOF MS) are significantly altered during staurosporine-induced apoptosis in SH-SY5Y cells. To gain further insight into the integrated cellular response to apoptosis, we have investigated whether a network can be generated of direct and indirect interactions between these 13 proteins. A network that contains 12 out of the 13 proteins was generated using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) and this network is dominated (89%) by direct protein-protein interactions. This network scored 34 with IPA. Bootstrapping 1000 random lists of 13 proteins suggested that the frequency of this score occurring by chance was 1 in 500. We examined whether subsets of proteins such as HSPs, which were elevated after staurosporine, had a disproportionate impact on the network generated. There was no evidence that any subset of 8 from the 13 proteins contributed disproportionately to the network. Network generation, using IPA, identified common features (such as endoplasmic reticular stress protein interactions) in apoptotic studies from different laboratories. The generation of protein interaction networks clearly enhances the interpretation of proteomic data, but only when interpreted cautiously, particularly in respect of statistical analyses.
Relationships between mental health symptoms (anxiety and depression) or a positive state of mind and behavior associated with HIV transmission (substance use and risky sexual behavior) were explored in a longitudinal study of persons living with HIV (PLH; N = 936) who were participants in a transmission-prevention trial. Bivariate longitudinal regressions were used to estimate the correlations between mental health symptoms and HIV-related transmission acts for 3 time frames: at the baseline interview, over 25 months, and from assessment to assessment. At baseline, mental health symptoms were associated with transmission acts. Elevated levels of mental health symptoms at baseline were associated with decreasing alcohol or marijuana use over 25 months. Over 25 months, an increasingly positive state of mind was associated with decreasing alcohol or marijuana use; an increasingly positive state of mind in the immediate intervention condition and increasing depressive symptoms in the lagged condition were related to increasing risky sexual behavior. Our findings suggest that mental health symptoms precede a decrease in substance use and challenge self-medication theories. Changes in mental health symptoms and sexual behavior occur more in tandem.
When researchers use the term mind wandering for task-unrelated thoughts in signal detection tasks, we may fall into the trap of believing that spontaneous thoughts are task unrelated in a deeper sense. Similar negative connotations are attached to common terms like cognitive failures, resting state, rumination, distraction, attentional failures, absent-mindedness, repetitiveness, mind lapses, going AWOL in the brain, cortical idling, and the like. Nevertheless, it seems obvious that mathematicians and scientists often engage in spontaneous repetitive thoughts and that the results of those thoughts are by no means maladaptive. Yet that seems to be implied by the standard use of common terms in the research literature. As humans, we know that spontaneous ideation goes on during all of our waking hours, during dreams and even in slow-wave sleep. It is unlikely that such a great allocation of mental resources has no useful adaptive function. This view of the spontaneous stream is consistent with the perspective of global workspace theory on conscious contents, which suggests that conscious events are not like unconscious cognitive representations. Rather, conscious events trigger widespread adaptive changes in the brain, far beyond their cortical origins. The brain evidence for such &quot;global broadcasting&quot; triggered by conscious (but not matched unconscious) events throughout the cortex is now quite compelling. Spontaneous conscious thoughts, even if they appear to be arbitrary, irrelevant, unwanted, or intrusive, may still play an important adaptive role in life-relevant problem solving and learning.


The category shift literature suggests that rule-based classification, an important form of explicit learning, is mediated by two separate learned associations: a stimulus-to-label association that associates stimuli and category labels, and a label-to-response association that associates category labels and responses. Three experiments investigate whether information-integration classification, an important form of implicit learning, is also mediated by two separate learned associations. Participants were trained on a rule-based or an information-integration categorization task and then the association between stimulus and category label, or between category label and response location was altered. For rule-based categories, and in line with previous research, breaking the association between stimulus and category label caused more interference than breaking the association between category label and response location. However, no differences in recovery rate emerged. For information-integration categories, breaking the association between stimulus and category label caused more interference and led to greater recovery than breaking the association between category label and response location. These results provide evidence that information-integration category learning is mediated by separate stimulus-to-label and label-to-response associations. Implications for the neurobiological basis of these two learned associations are discussed.
Transitive inference is a complex task, conducive to the use of multiple strategies. We investigated whether transitive inference accuracy can be improved by biasing strategy choice towards a proposition-based approach that relies on the extraction of relations among stimuli. We biased strategy choice by using familiar stimuli with known relations that tap prior knowledge. Semantic information led to increased accuracy for younger and older adults, and increased awareness of stimulus relations. Increased age was associated with reduced awareness. Awareness accounted for the variability in performance accuracy to a greater extent than age, as aware older and younger adults showed similar accuracies on all conditions. The current work indicates that age differences in performance can be minimized by providing semantically meaningful stimuli that bias participants to use a relational proposition-based approach.
Human readiness to incur personal costs to punish norm violators is a key force in the maintenance of social norms. The willingness to punish is, however, characterized by vast individual heterogeneity that is poorly understood. In fact, this heterogeneity has so far defied explanations in terms of individual-level demographic or psychological variables. Here, we use resting electroencephalography, a stable measure of individual differences in cortical activity, to show that a highly specific neural marker--baseline cortical activity in the right prefrontal cortex--predicts individuals' punishment behavior. The analysis of task-independent individual variation in cortical baseline activity provides a new window into the neurobiology of decision making by bringing dispositional neural markers to the forefront of the analysis.




Numerous social-cognitive models posit that social behavior largely is driven by links between constructs in long-term memory that automatically become activated when relevant stimuli are encountered. Various response biases have been understood in terms of the influence of such &quot;implicit&quot; processes on behavior. This article reviews event-related potential (ERP) studies investigating the role played by cognitive control and conflict resolution processes in social-cognitive phenomena typically deemed automatic. Neurocognitive responses associated with response activation and conflict often are sensitive to the same stimulus manipulations that produce differential behavioral responses on social-cognitive tasks and that often are attributed to the role of automatic associations. Findings are discussed in the context of an overarching social cognitive neuroscience model in which physiological data are used to constrain social-cognitive theories.
This study investigated the relationship between autonomic cardiovascular reactivity and cardiac awareness during the following conditions: baseline, emotional picture viewing, mental stress, and heartbeat tracking. Cardiac parameters were examined by using power spectrum analysis of heart rate variability and impedance cardiography. According to their performance in a heartbeat tracking task, 38 participants were classified as good (n=19) or poor (n=19) heartbeat perceivers. Neither group differed during baseline and heartbeat tracking, but good compared to poor heartbeat perceivers demonstrated greater sympathetic reactivity during mental stress and more vagal reactivity and subjective arousal during emotional picture viewing. The results suggest that cardiac awareness is related to greater responsivity of the autonomic nervous system during situations evoking autonomic reactivity.
This study aimed at differentiating between memory- and task-related processes and their correlates on the electrodermal and electrocortical level during information concealment. Variations of the Guilty Knowledge Test were implemented in two experiments while we measured skin conductance responses (SCRs) and event-related brain potentials. P300 amplitudes were specifically enhanced for items requiring a deviant behavioral response but they were not sensitive to concealed knowledge. In contrast, N200 amplitudes differed between memorized and irrelevant items in both experiments. SCR measures reflected a combined influence of task relevance and probe recognition, and they provided incremental validity above N200 amplitudes. These results suggest that the P300 mainly reflects task relevance in the given experimental setting whereas the N200 amplitude is sensitive to previously encoded information and potentially linked to response monitoring processes.
Considerable progress has been made in our understanding of the remarkable fidelity with which the human auditory brainstem represents key acoustic features of the speech signal. The brainstem response to speech can be assessed noninvasively by examining scalp-recorded evoked potentials. Morphologically, two main components of the scalp-recorded brainstem response can be differentiated, a transient onset response and a sustained frequency-following response (FFR). Together, these two components are capable of conveying important segmental and suprasegmental information inherent in the typical speech syllable. Here we examine the putative neural sources of the scalp-recorded brainstem response and review recent evidence that demonstrates that the brainstem response to speech is dynamic in nature and malleable by experience. Finally, we propose a putative mechanism for experience-dependent plasticity at the level of the brainstem.


Examine the rate, predictors, and effect on daily life skills of developmental coordination disorder (DCD) and other motor control difficulties in school age girls with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and/or attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), in preschool age girls with ASD referred to a neuropsychiatric clinic, and in a community sample of school age girls. The girls (131 in total) were examined with standardised test of motor function and parent interviews and questionnaires. The school girls were compared with 57 age-and IQ-matched girls from the community. DCD was diagnosed in 25% of clinic school girls with ASD, in 32% of those with ADHD, and in 80% of the clinic preschool girls with ASD. Parents reported more motor problems in the school age clinic group. Agreement between a brief motor screening test and a full comprehensive motor examination was moderate to good in the clinic group. Young age, autistic symptomatology, and low performance IQ predicted more motor coordination problems. Motor coordination problems were related to lower ability in daily life skills even when the effect of PIQ was controlled for. A large minority of school girls with ASD and/or ADHD, and a majority of preschool girls with ASD meet full diagnostic criteria for DCD. Their motor problems contribute to reduced activity in daily life even when the effects of IQ have been partialled out.
Descriptive and comparative follow-up studies of young adult males with Asperger syndrome (AS) diagnosed in childhood, using both interview, self- and parent assessment instruments for the study of aspects of emotional well-being, social functioning, and cognitive-practical skills have not been performed in the past. One-hundred males with AS diagnosed in childhood were approached for the assessment using the Asperger Syndrome Diagnostic Interview (ASDI), (personal and parent interview), the Leiter-R-Questionnaires, the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), and the Dysexecutive Questionnaire (DEX). About 75% of the targeted group participated. The ASDI results came out significantly different at personal vs parent interviews in several key domains. In contrast, the Leiter-R-Questionnaires, showed no significant differences across the individuals with AS and their parents in the scoring of cognitive/social and emotional/adaptive skills. The BDI proved to be an adequate screening instrument for depression in that it correctly identified the vast majority of cases with clinical depression in the AS group. The DEX results suggested an executive function deficit problem profile in males with AS as severe as that reported in groups of individuals with traumatic brain injury and schizophrenia. Interviews (personal and collateral), and self-rating and parent-rating questionnaires all have a role in the comprehensive diagnostic process in AS and other autism spectrum disorders, and could be used as adjuncts when evaluating whether or not individuals meeting diagnostic symptom criteria for the condition have sufficient problems in daily life to warrant a clinical diagnosis of AS.

OBJECTIVE: This study determined the validity and reliability of a new, abbreviated version of the Spanish Barratt Impulsiveness Scale (BIS-15S) in Colombian subjects. METHOD: The BIS-15S was tested in non-clinical (n=283) and clinical (n=164) native Spanish-speakers. Intra-scale reliability was calculated using Cronbach's , and test-retest reliability was measured with Pearson correlations. Psychometric properties were determined using standard statistics. A factor analysis was performed to determine BIS-15S factor structure. RESULTS: 447 subjects participated in the study. Clinical subjects were older and more educated compared to non-clinical subjects. Impulsivity scores were normally distributed in each group. BIS-15S total, motor, non-planning and attention scores were significantly lower in non-clinical vs. clinical subjects. Subjects with substance-related disorders had the highest BIS-15S total scores, followed by subjects with bipolar disorders and bulimia nervosa/binge eating. Internal consistency was 0.793 and test-retest reliability was 0.80. Factor analysis confirmed a three-factor structure (attention, motor, non-planning) accounting for 47.87% of the total variance in BIS-15S total scores. CONCLUSIONS: The BIS-15S is a valid and reliable self-report measure of impulsivity in this population. Further research is needed to determine additional components of impulsivity not investigated by this measure.
We report a novel regimen of nutritional management in 22-year-old woman with myopathic form of very-long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency. This regimen is based on avoidance of fasting by frequent intake of carbohydrates and substitution of medium chain triglyceride for long- and very long-chain fatty acids. Oral intake of medium amount of long-chain fatty acid (300 kcal daily) was allowed, to facilitate compliance and to escape pigmentary retinopathy. After this nutritional management and lifestyle guidance about prevention of fatigue and starvation, the patient was free from severe rhabdomyolysis for more than three years, which had forced her to hospital management nine times in seven years.


Cognitive deficits are core features of psychiatric disorders and contribute substantially to functional outcome. It is still unclear, however, how cognitive deficits are related to underlying genetic liability and overt clinical symptoms. Fortunately, animal models of susceptibility genes can illuminate how the products of disease-associated genetic variants affect brain function and ultimately alter behavior. Using as a reference findings from the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia program and the SchizophreniaGene database, we review cognitive data from mutant models of rare and common genetic variants associated with schizophrenia.
Psychiatric diagnoses are currently categorized on a syndromic basis. The syndrome of catatonia, however, remains in a diagnostic limbo, acknowledged predominantly as a subtype of schizophrenia. Yet, catatonia is present in about 10% of acutely ill psychiatry patients, only a minority of whom have schizophrenia. Among those with comorbid affective disorders, who comprise the largest subgroup of catatonic patients, the catatonic signs typically resolve dramatically and completely with benzodiazepine therapy. Those with schizophrenia respond less reliably, suggesting that the underlying processes causing the catatonia may be different in this group. The majority of patients with catatonia have concurrent psychosis. Failure to treat the catatonia before institution of antipsychotic medication may increase the risk of inducing neuroleptic malignant syndrome. At this point of time, the pathobiology of catatonia is unknown; the major reason for considering catatonia as a separate diagnostic entity would be to increase recognition of this eminently treatable neuropsychiatric syndrome.
Maternal influenza during pregnancy is a controversial risk factor for schizophrenia in the child. We conducted a meta-analysis to examine whether birth during the 9-month period after the pandemic of 1957 was a risk factor for schizophrenia. Studies that compared the risk of schizophrenia among subjects born after the pandemic with that among those born in corresponding time periods in surrounding years were divided into those conducted in the United States, Europe, or Australia (type A studies, n = 8) and those from Japan, where the epidemic came in 2 waves (type B studies, n = 3). Other studies examined the risk among subjects born to mothers who were pregnant during the pandemic and reported having had influenza (type C studies, n = 2). Relative risks (RRs) were extracted or calculated for each month and/or trimester of possible exposure by 2 independent authors. All analyses were performed using a fixed-effects model. The weighted results of the type A studies did not indicate a significantly increased risk of schizophrenia among children exposed during any trimester or month of prenatal life. Not a single study found a significant first- or second-trimester effect. The mean weighted RR for subjects who were in their first, second, or third trimester of prenatal life during the pandemic (8 effect sizes) was 0.91 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.85-0.98), 1.00 (95% CI: 0.93-1.07), and 1.05 (95% CI: 0.98-1.12), respectively. The pooled results of the type B and type C studies were also negative. Given high infection rates during the pandemic (about 50%), these results do not support the maternal influenza hypothesis.
The ultimate goal of Computational Neuroscience (CNS) is to use and develop mathematical models and approaches to elucidate brain functions. CNS is a young and highly multidisciplinary field. It heavily interacts with experimental neuroscience and such other research areas as artificial intelligence, robotics, computer vision, information science and machine learning. This paper reviews the history of CNS in China, its current status and the prospects for its future development. Examples of CNS research in China are also presented.
Visual cognition, as one of the fundamental aspects of cognitive neuroscience, is generally associated with high-order brain functions in animals and human. Drosophila, as a model organism, shares certain features of visual cognition in common with mammals at the genetic, molecular, cellular, and even higher behavioral levels. From learning and memory to decision making, Drosophila covers a broad spectrum of higher cognitive behaviors beyond what we had expected. Armed with powerful tools of genetic manipulation in Drosophila, an increasing number of studies have been conducted in order to elucidate the neural circuit mechanisms underlying these cognitive behaviors from a genes-brain-behavior perspective. The goal of this review is to integrate the most important studies on visual cognition in Drosophila carried out in mainland China during the last decade into a body of knowledge encompassing both the basic neural operations and circuitry of higher brain function in Drosophila. Here, we consider a series of the higher cognitive behaviors beyond learning and memory, such as visual pattern recognition, feature and context generalization, different feature memory traces, salience-based decision, attention-like behavior, and cross-modal leaning and memory. We discuss the possible general gain-gating mechanism implementing by dopamine - mushroom body circuit in fly's visual cognition. We hope that our brief review on this aspect will inspire further study on visual cognition in flies, or even beyond.
Historically, vision research in China was one of a few distinct research programs within the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS). With improved funding opportunities and research environment in neuroscience, vision research at several research institutes within the academy has made significant progress not only in the quantity of publications, but also in the quality of the work. Based on our own expertise, this review is mainly focused on the findings that have advanced the understanding of visual processing in the central visual pathway, visual perceptual learning, visual development and eye diseases.
In addition to investigating the anatomy, neurochemistry and neurophysiology of pain pathways, Chinese researchers have extended their work into the molecular and cellular mechanisms of sensory afferent transmission at the spinal cord level as well as cognitive processing in the brain. The mechanism underlying acupuncture analgesia remains a subject of special interest for Chinese pain researchers, with the aim of combining clinical practice with the understanding of pain transmission and analgesic mechanism.
Neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), are common disorders of the central nervous system among aging populations. In the last 10 years insights concerning the etiology, diagnosis and pathogenesis of these diseases have come from research carried out by Chinese neuroscientists. Their findings include the description of Chinese patients with autosomal recessive early-onset PD, the function of the tau protein, molecular mechanisms underlying protein aggregation, and the identification of biomarkers for AD diagnosis and molecules/compounds with potential neuroprotective activities.
The study of ion channels represents one of the most active fields in neuroscience research in China. In the last 10 years, active research in various Chinese neuroscience institutions has sought to understand the mechanisms responsible for sensory processing, neural development and neurogenesis, neural plasticity, as well as pathogenesis. In addition, extensive studies have been directed to measure ion channel activity, structure-function relationships, as well as many other biophysical and biochemical properties. This review focuses on the progress achieved in the investigation of ion channels in neuronal survival during the past 10 years in China.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are one specific type of multipotential stem cells that have the ability to proliferate for a long time and to differentiate into neural cells, including neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. These NSCs exist in both the embryonic and adult central nervous system (CNS) of all mammalian species. Progress has been made in the understanding of the developmental regulation of NSCs and their function in neurogenesis. This review discusses recent progress in this area, with emphasis on work done by investigators in China.
Glial cells in the central nervous system (CNS) consist of a heterogeneous population of cell types, each characterized by distinct morphological features, physiological properties, and specific markers. In contrast to the previous view that glial cells were passive elements in the brain, accumulating evidence suggests that glial cells are active participants in various brain functions and brain disorders. This review summarizes recent progress of glial cell studies from several groups in China, ranging from studies about the mechanisms of neuron-glia crosstalking to investigations on the roles of glial cells in various CNS disorders.
One of the properties of the nervous system is the use-dependent plasticity of neural circuits. The structure and function of neural circuits are susceptible to changes induced by prior neuronal activity, as reflected by short- and long-term modifications of synaptic efficacy and neuronal excitability. Regarded as the most attractive cellular mechanism underlying higher cognitive functions such as learning and memory, activity-dependent synaptic plasticity has been in the spotlight of modern neuroscience since 1973 when activity-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) of hippocampal synapses was first discovered. Over the last 10 years, Chinese neuroscientists have made notable contributions to the study of the cellular and molecular mechanisms of synaptic plasticity, as well as of the plasticity beyond synapses, including activity-dependent changes in intrinsic neuronal excitability, dendritic integration functions, neuron-glia signaling, and neural network activity. This work highlight some of these significant findings.
Synapses are specialized structures that mediate information flow between neurons and target cells, and thus are the basis for neuronal system to execute various functions, including learning and memory. There are around 10(11) neurons in the human brain, with each neuron receiving thousands of synaptic inputs, either excitatory or inhibitory. A synapse is an asymmetric structure that is composed of pre-synaptic axon terminals, synaptic cleft, and postsynaptic compartments. Synapse formation involves a number of cell adhesion molecules, extracellular factors, and intracellular signaling or structural proteins. After the establishment of synaptic connections, synapses undergo structural or functional changes, known as synaptic plasticity which is believed to be regulated by neuronal activity and a variety of secreted factors. This review summarizes recent progress in the field of synapse development, with particular emphasis on the work carried out in China during the past 10 years (1999-2009).
Proper migration of neuronal somas and axonal growth cones to designated locations in the developing brain is essential for the assembly of functional neuronal circuits. Rapid progress in research of axon guidance and neuronal migration has been made in the last twenty years. Chinese researchers began their exploration in this field ten years ago and have made significant contributions in clarifying the signal transduction of axon guidance and neuronal migration. Several unique experimental approaches, including the migration assay of single isolated neurons in response to locally delivered guidance cues, have been developed by Chinese neuroscientists to investigate the molecular machinery underlying these guidance events.


Chordomas are rare malignant tumors arising from embryonic remnants of the primitive notochord, around which the skull base and vertebral column develop. They are locally aggressive but metastasize rarely. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of synchronous intraosseous chordomas. A 32-year-old man presented with intermittent double vision secondary to a right-side abducent nerve palsy. Imaging revealed a clivus chordoma and an asymptomatic synchronous second primary chordoma in the fifth lumbar vertebra. Both chordomas were surgically excised: the clivus using the endonasal, endoscopic route and the L5 vertebra by total vertebral excision and replacement with a titanium prosthesis. The patient made an uneventful and complete recovery. We have modified our departmental practice as we believe that all patients diagnosed with chordoma should have magnetic resonance imaging of their entire spinal tract to exclude a second primary chordoma.
The field of social neuroscience has made remarkable progress in elucidating the neural mechanisms of social cognition. More recently, the need for new experimental approaches has been highlighted that allow studying social encounters in a truly interactive manner by establishing 'online' reciprocity in social interaction. In this article, we present a newly developed adaptation of a method which uses eyetracking data obtained from participants in real time to control visual stimulation during functional magnetic resonance imaging, thus, providing an innovative tool to generate gaze-contingent stimuli in spite of the constraints of this experimental setting. We review results of two paradigms employing this technique and demonstrate how gaze data can be used to animate a virtual character whose behavior becomes 'responsive' to being looked at allowing the participant to engage in 'online' interaction with this virtual other in real-time. Possible applications of this setup are discussed highlighting the potential of this development as a new 'tool of the trade' in social cognitive and affective neuroscience.
A major controversy in the social cognitive neurosciences evolved around the question whether activity in the posterior superior temporal sulcus and adjacent temporoparietal junction (pSTS/TPJ-region) evoked by various tasks represents a common process or distinct processes. To investigate this question, we employed functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while participants performed Biological Motion (BM), Theory-of-Mind (ToM) and Moral Judgment (MJ) tasks. Importantly, for each task we used the same newly developed animated stimuli. Indicative of a common process, we identified small clusters of overlapping activity for BM and ToM in right pSTS and for ToM and MJ in bilateral pSTS and left TPJ. Indicative of distinct processes, on the contrary, we detected extensive dissociable activity for BM in right pSTS, for ToM in bilateral pSTS and left TPJ, and for MJ in bilateral pSTS and TPJ. Thus, our data provide strong evidence for a combined two-staged process account: (i) the parsing of a stream of visual-spatial information, represented by activity in right pSTS, where neighboring and overlapping clusters of increased responses were found for all three tasks; (ii) increasingly more complex processing of the communicative significance of other people's behavior, represented by hierarchically increasing activity in left pSTS and bilateral TPJ elicited by ToM and MJ.
Recent studies have implicated the short allele of the serotonin transporter-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) in depression vulnerability, particularly in the context of stress. Several neuroimaging studies have shown that 5-HTTLPR genotype predicts amygdala reactivity to negatively valenced stimuli, suggesting a mechanism whereby the short allele confers depression risk. The current study investigated whether 5-HTTLPR genotype similarly affects neural activity during an induced sad mood and during recovery from sad mood. Participants were 15 homozygous short (S) and 15 homozygous long (L) individuals. Regional cerebral blood flow was measured with perfusion functional magnetic resonance imaging during four scanning blocks: baseline, sad mood, mood recovery and following return to baseline. Comparing mood recovery to baseline, both whole brain analyses and template-based region-of-interest analyses revealed greater amygdala activity for the S vs the L-group. There were no significant amygdala differences found during the induced sad mood. These results demonstrate the effect of the S allele on amygdala activity during intentional mood regulation and suggest that amygdala hyperactivity during recovery from a sad mood may be one mechanism by which the S allele confers depression risk.



The brachial plexus is the complex network of nerves, extending from the neck to the axilla, which supplies motor, sensory, and sympathetic fibers to the upper extremity. Typically, it is formed by the union of the ventral primary rami of the spinal nerves, C5-C8 &amp; T1, the so-called &quot;roots&quot; of the brachial plexus. By examining the neural architecture of the brachial plexus, the most constant arrangement of nerve fibers can be delineated, and the most predominate variations in the neural architecture defined. A thorough understanding of the neuroanatomy of the brachial plexus, with an appreciation of the possible anatomic variations that may occur is necessary for effective clinical practice.
A panel of structurally related substituted 4-phenylpiperazines with nanomolar affinity and selectivity at D3 dopamine receptors has been synthesized. Compounds in which a heterocyclic (2-phenyl pyridyl, 3-phenyl pyridyl, benzothiophene, or benzofuran) moiety is adjacent to the amide was varied and/or a double bond (trans-butenyl) replaced the four-carbon aliphatic chain linking the arylamide with the 4-phenylpiperazine moiety were compared for (a) affinity at human D2 and D3 dopamine receptors, (b) intrinsic efficacy using an adenylyl cyclase inhibition assay, and (c) intrinsic efficacy using a mitogenic assay. All 16 compounds were (a) more efficacious for the D3 receptor cyclase inhibition assay than for the D3 receptor mitogenic assay and (b) exhibited the same or greater efficacy at D3 compared to D2 receptor (with the exception of one compound). Although the heterocyclic amide moiety appears to be the pivotal structural element determining the intrinsic efficacy of our D3 receptor selective compounds, the magnitude of the efficacy is modulated by the (a) substituent(s) on the phenyl piperazine and (b) the saturation of the four-carbon chain that links the arylamide and the phenylpiperazine. In addition, our ligands are functionally selective, because they can have differing intrinsic efficacies for the cyclase inhibition and the mitogenic activation signaling pathways. Compounds that are essentially full agonists at the cyclase assay appear to be only partial agonists in the mitogenic assay and compounds that are partial agonists in our cyclase assay are partial agonists or antagonists in the mitogenic assay.
The serotonergic system has close interactions with the dopaminergic system and is strongly implicated in the pathophysiological mechanisms and therapeutic paradigms of Parkinson's disease (PD). This study aims to investigate regional changes in 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) 2A receptors in the rat brain 3 weeks after unilateral medial forebrain bundle lesion by 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). 5-HT 2A receptor distributions and alterations in the postmortem rat brain were detected by [(3)H]ketanserin-binding autoradiography. In the 6-OHDA-induced Parkinson's rat model, nigrostriatal dopaminergic neuron loss significantly mediated the decreased [(3)H]ketanserin binding, predominantly in the agranular insular cortex (17.3%, P = 0.03), cingulate cortex (18.2%, P &lt; 0.001), prefrontal cortex (8%, P = 0.043), primary somatosensory cortex (17.7%, P = 0.002), and caudate putamen (14.5%, P = 0.02) compared to controls while a profound reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunostaining in the striatum was also observed. Alterations in [(3)H]ketanserin binding in the examined brain areas may represent the specific regions that mediate cognitive dysfunctions via the serotonin system. The downregulation of 5-HT(2A) receptor binding in this study also provides indirect evidence for plasticity in the serotonergic system in the rat brains. This study contributes to a better understanding of the critical roles of 5-HT(2A) receptors in treating neurodegenerative disorders and implicates 5-HT(2A) receptors as a novel therapeutic target in the treatment of PD.
Two isolates, with an optimum growth temperature of about 45-50 degrees C and an optimum pH for growth between 7.5 and 8.5, were recovered from a hot spring in the Furnas area on the Island of So Miguel in the Azores. Strains form irregular rod-shaped cells are motile and stain Gram negative. The cells multiply by budding. These strains are non-pigmented, strictly aerobic, catalase and oxidase positive. These organisms assimilated carbohydrates, organic acids and amino acids. The major fatty acids are 19:0(cyclo omega8c) and 18:0. Ubiquinone 10 is the major respiratory quinone. The major polar lipids are diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylmonomethylethanolamine, phosphatidylethanolamine, phosphatidylglycerol and phosphatidylcholine in addition to one unidentified aminolipid and one unidentified glycolipid. Bacteriochlorophyll a, puf genes and RuBisCo genes were not detected. Analysis of the 16SrRNA gene shows the strains to cluster with species of the genera Afifella, Rhodobium, Anderseniella and Amorphus to which they have sequence similarity in the range 93-94%. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, physiological and biochemical characteristics we describe a new species of a novel genus represented by strain CB-27A(T) (=DSM 19345(T)=LMG 24113(T)) for which we propose the name Tepidamorphus gemmatus.
Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV), also called hereditary inclusion body myopathy (hIBM), is a moderately progressive hereditary muscle disorder affecting young adults. DMRV/hIBM is characterized clinically by muscle atrophy and weakness initially involving the distal muscles, and pathologically by the presence of small angular fibers, formation of rimmed vacuoles and deposition of various proteins in the muscle fibers. This disease is known to be caused by mutations in the UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase gene, which encodes the essential enzyme in sialic acid biosynthesis, leading to a reduction of sialic acid levels in the serum and skeletal muscles of affected patients. As it is a metabolic disease, metabolite supplementation is theoretically one of the therapeutic options. In this review, recent animal models for DMRV/hIBM are briefly characterized followed by a focus on the administration of sialic acid metabolites as a reliable therapeutic option to DMRV/hIBM with the following points highlighted: the property of compounds, the pharmacokinetic metabolism in vivo, and the therapeutic effects on the DMRV/hIBM mouse model.
Antipsychotic drugs are particularly interesting in pharmacogenetic studies as they are associated with a large interindividual variability in terms of response and side effects and, therefore, frequently need to be discontinued, requiring switches to other antipsychotics. Any information that allows the prediction of outcome to a given antipsychotic in a particular patient will, therefore, be of great help for the clinician to minimize time and find the right drug for the right patient, thus optimizing response and minimizing side effects. This will also have a substantial impact on compliance and doctor-patient relationships. Moreover, antipsychotic drug treatments are often required for life-long treatment and are also frequently prescribed to the more 'vulnerable' populations: children, adolescents and the elderly. This article focuses on some important studies performed with candidate gene variants associated with antipsychotic response. In addition, important findings in pharmacogenetic studies of antipsychotic-induced side effects will be briefly summarized, such as antipsychotic treatment induced tardive dyskinesia and weight gain.
Most psychiatric and neurological disorders exhibit sleep disorders, and in some cases presage the disease. Study of the control of sleep and waking has the potential for making a major impact on a number of disorders, making translational neuroscience research on this area critical. One element of the reticular activating system (RAS) is the pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), which is the cholinergic arm of the RAS, and projects to the thalamus to trigger thalamocortical rhythms and to the brainstem to modulate muscle tone and locomotion. We developed a research program using brainstem slices containing the PPN to tell us about the cellular and molecular organization of this region. In addition, we developed the P13 midlatency auditory evoked potential, which is generated by PPN outputs, preparation in freely moving rats. This allows the study of PPN cellular and molecular mechanisms at the level of the whole animal. We also study the P50 midlatency auditory evoked potential, which is the human equivalent of the rodent P13 potential, allowing us to study processes detected in vitro, confirmed in the whole animal, and tested in humans. This translational research program led to the discovery of a novel mechanism of sleep-wake control, pointing the way to a number of new clinical applications in the development of novel stimulants and anesthetics.
The stem cell niche is an anatomical site that contains a reservoir of multipotent stem cells (SCs) that can maintain normal tissue, or replenish injured or aged cell populations, in response to mechanisms that regulate whether they should remain quiescent, undergo self-renewal, or differentiate. The choice among these hallmark SC behaviors is governed by intricate soluble and &quot;solid phase&quot; signals that are systemic or presented by the local niche cells. In this review, we discuss the progress achieved in understanding the mechanisms and principles that govern microenvironmental regulation of SC behavior, and focus on novel approaches that have been developed to synthesize this basic information to engineer creative strategies for harnessing and controlling SCs ex vivo and in vivo.
The possibility of using neuroimaging to detect deception in legal settings has generated widespread resistance. Many neuroscientists insist the research is flawed science, containing weaknesses of reliability (the degree of accuracy), external validity (do laboratory results predict real-world outcomes), and construct validity (do studies test what they purport to test). These flaws are real, but although using neural lie-detection in non-experimental legal settings is premature, the critics are mistaken in believing that scientific standards should determine when these methods are ready for legal use. Law's goals differ from science's, and the legal suitability of neural lie-detection depends on legal standards and not those determining what good science is.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are among the most common potential targets for pharmacological design. Synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum, they interact with endogenous chaperones that assist in folding (or can retain incorrectly folded proteins) and are transferred to the plasma membrane where they exert their physiological functions. We summarize trafficking of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor (GnRHR) to the plasma membrane. The trafficking of GnRHR is among the best characterized due in part to its small size and the consequent ease of making mutant proteins. Human mutations that cause disease through the misrouting of GPCRs including GnRHR are also reviewed. Special emphasis is placed on therapeutic opportunities presented by pharmacological chaperone drugs, or pharmacoperones, that allow misrouted mutants to be routed correctly and restored to function.
The vas deferens has been used as a model for many diverse studies of different aspects of autonomic neurotransmission since its introduction including, in particular, sympathetic cotransmission involving release of ATP and neuropeptide Y together with noradrenaline and prejunctional and postjunctional neuromodulation. It has also been used to study sympathetic reinnervation following vasectomy and castration, as well as the deleterious effects of diabetes, hypertension and chronic alcohol.
Basic and clinical neurosciences have effectively advanced research on aetiology, pathogenesis and therapy options of psychiatric disorders. The objectives of the present short review were to summarise the key findings regarding the neurobiology of major depressive disorder (MDD) on the gene, cell as well as system level. Consistent with structural findings, which report alterations in regions of emotionally relevant networks of the brain in depressive disorders, findings of functional studies point to changes in an ordered interaction of ventral-limbic and dorsal-neocortical regions of the brain. Genetic and stress vulnerabilities as well as social rhythm disrupting interact to initiate a cascade of neurobiological alterations that disrupt this dynamic system. On the cellular level, monoamine as well as glutamate neurotransmission, circadian rhythm disturbance, glucocorticoids, inflammatory cytokines and brain-derived growth factors are relevant mediators of these pathological alterations. Progressive effects of recurrent and chronic MDD may then lead to further structural and functional abnormalities. Thus, treatment providers are directed to recog-nise that the factors that may initiate an MDD episode and those that maintain the illness are likely to be different. Given these long-term consequences, an essential objective of treatment must be to restore as early as possible normative functioning and prevent further neurobiological structural alterations.
Injury to the nervous system is a common occurrence after trauma. Severe cases of injury exact a tremendous personal cost and place a significant healthcare burden on society. Unlike some tissues in the body that exhibit self healing, nerve cells that are injured, particularly those in the brain and spinal cord, are incapable of regenerating circuits by themselves to restore neurological function. In recent years, researchers have begun to explore whether micro/nanoscale tools and materials can be used to address this major challenge in neuromedicine. Efforts in this area have proceeded along two lines. One is the development of new nanoscale tissue scaffold materials to act as conduits and stimulate axon regeneration. The other is the use of novel cellular-scale surgical micro/nanodevices designed to perform surgical microsplicing and the functional repair of severed axons. We discuss results generated by these two approaches and hurdles confronting both strategies.

The orbital frontal cortex (OFC) has been implicated in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Participants comprised 28 treatment-nave pediatric OCD patients and 21 controls, who were examined using magnetic resonance imaging. OCD patients had larger right but not left OFC white matter volume than controls. This is fresh evidence implicating white matter in OCD.
Recently we demonstrated that neocortical pyramidal cells in visual, visual association and prefrontal cortex of the macaque monkey are characterised by different growth, branching, spinogenesis and pruning during development. Some neurons, such as those in the primary visual area, prune more spines than they grow following sensory onset, while others such as those in area TE grow more than they prune. To what extent these different neuronal growth profiles may vary among cortical areas remains to be determined. To better comprehend the nature and extent of these regional differences in pyramidal cell growth profiles we expanded the bases for comparison by studying neurons in the primary auditory cortex (A1). We found that pyramidal cells in A1 continue to grow their basal dendritic trees beyond the peak period of spinogenesis (3(1)/(2) months) up until at least 7 months of age. Likewise, the most prolific branching patterns were observed in the dendritic trees of pyramidal cells at 7 months of age. These data reveal that the basal dendritic trees of cells in A1 continue to grow for a much longer period, and attain almost double the number of spines, as compared with those in V1. Such differences in the growth profiles of neocortical pyramidal cells among cortical areas may influence therapeutic outcomes when applying new technologies such as neurotrophic delivery devices or stem cell therapy.
The present study tested the hypothesis that mutations in amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin (PS) 1 result in alterations in the amount of nuclear (n) DNA repair and nDNA damage in neurons in vivo. To this end, the relative amount of nDNA repair was measured in 8-month-old transgenic mice expressing either human mutant APP (APP751(SL) mice), human mutant PS1 (PS1(M146L) mice) or both human mutant APP and PS1 (APP751(SL)/PS1(M146L) mice) with unscheduled DNA synthesis, and the relative amount of nDNA single strand breaks (SSB) with in situ nick translation. APP751(SL)/PS1(M146L) mice showed a significantly decreased relative amount of nDNA repair in pyramidal cells in hippocampal area CA1/2 compared to APP751(SL) mice. Furthermore, PS1(M146L) mice showed a significantly increased relative amount of nDNA SSB in both granule cells in the dentate gyrus and pyramidal cells in area CA1/2 compared to both APP751(SL) mice and APP751(SL)/PS1(M146L) mice. These results might indicate a previously unknown action of mutations in PS1 on DNA integrity, which might be involved in the pathophysiologic processes of mutant PS1 in Alzheimer's disease.
Activation of purinergic P2 receptors, which are expressed in neurons and microglial cells, normally induces an increase in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) and some of the inflammatory mediators and excitatory neurotransmitters found to be implicated in neuronal cell death observed in diabetic retinas are released in response to an increase in the [Ca(2+)](i). However, it is unknown whether hyperglycemia/high glucose has an effect in the [Ca(2+)](i) changes triggered by the activation of P2 receptors in retinal cells. Using single-cell calcium imaging studies, we found that [Ca(2+)](i) changes triggered by purinergic receptors activation, both in retinal neurons and microglial cells, were potentiated in cells that had been cultured in high glucose conditions. In retinal neurons the increase in [Ca(2+)](i) was mostly due to Ca(2+) influx through voltage sensitive calcium channels, whereas in microglial cells Ca(2+) influx occurred mainly through P2X receptor channels, while there was also a smaller component of [Ca(2+)](i) rise dependent on calcium release from intracellular stores, probably due to P2Y receptor activation. In conclusion, our results show that rat retinal neural cells cultured in high glucose conditions show increased calcium responses to P2 receptors activation. This augmented calcium response might account for the increase in the release of neurotransmitters and inflammatory mediators found in diabetic retinas and, therefore, be responsible for retinal cell death observed in the early stages of diabetic retinopathy.
The present study investigated the neural overlap and dissociation underlying overt word production in the first language (L1) and second language (L2). Twenty-four Chinese-English bilinguals named pictures in either L1 or L2 while being scanned with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). When comparing picture naming in L2 to naming in L1, increased activity in the left inferior frontal gyrus, bilateral supplementary motor areas (SMA), left precentral gyrus, left lingual gyrus, left cuneus, bilateral putamen, bilateral globus pallidus, bilateral caudate and bilateral cerebellum were observed. This suggested that word production in L2 is less automatic and needs to recruit more neural resources for lexical retrieval, articulatory processing and cognitive control than in L1. In contrast, picture naming in L1 relative to picture naming in L2 revealed increased activity in the right putamen and right globus pallidus probably due to different phonological features between Chinese and English. In addition, the conjunction analysis, for the first time, revealed the common neural correlates underlying picture naming in L1 and L2.
The actin cytoskeleton is a dynamic superstructure that regulates multiple cellular functions and that has been implicated in cell death regulation. We investigated whether modulating the neuronal actin cytoskeleton polymerization by Rho-GTPase kinase (ROCK) inhibition influences cell death in hippocampal neuronal cultures and in murine organotypic hippocampal slice cultures subjected to in vitro ischemia (IVI). During IVI, spines on vehicle treated hippocampal neurons collapsed and large dendritic actin aggregates were formed. Following ROCK inhibition by Y27632, the actin aggregates were markedly smaller while large filopodia extended from the dendritic trunk. Y27632 also provided strong neuroprotection of hippocampal pyramidal CA1 neurons, which was of similar magnitude as protection by NMDA receptor blockade. Likewise, treatment with the F-actin depolymerizing agent latrunculin during IVI diminished actin aggregation and mitigated cell death following IVI. We propose that ROCK inhibition protects neurons against ischemic damage by disrupting actin polymerization thereby mitigating NMDA receptor induced toxicity and releasing ATP bound to actin for cellular energy use. We conclude that ROCK inhibitors abrogate multiple detrimental processes and could therefore be useful in stroke therapy.
Early environmental factors can modulate the development of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis response to stress, together with subsequent brain functions and emotional behaviors. Two rat strains, Sprague-Dawley (SD) and Fischer 344 (F344), are known to exhibit differences in HPA axis reactivity and anxiety behavior in response to restraint stress in adulthood. To investigate the contribution of maternal influences in determining HPA axis and behavioral responses to stress, a cross-fostering study was performed using stress-resilient (SD) or stress-susceptible (F344) strains. We found that SD rats adopted by either an SD (in-fostered) or an F344 (cross-fostered) dam and F344 rats adopted by an SD dam (cross-fostered) showed a suppression of the HPA axis response following 14 days of repeated restraint stress. In contrast, F344 rats adopted by an F344 dam (in-fostered) did not show such HPA axis habituation. We also found that F344 rats adopted by an F344 dam showed increased anxiety-related behaviors in social interaction and novelty-suppressed feeding tests as a result of the 14 days of restraint stress, while SD rats adopted by either an SD or an F344 dam and F344 rats adopted by an SD dam showed normal anxiety-related behaviors under the same experimental conditions. These results suggest that while genetic differences between SD and F344 strains account for some of the variations in stress vulnerability, maternal factors also contribute.
TDP-43 is a DNA/RNA-binding protein implicated in multiple steps of transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. Alteration of this multifunctional protein is associated with a number of neurodegenerative diseases including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin positive inclusions. Whereas a pathological link to neurodegenerative disorders has been established, the cellular and physiological functions of TDP-43 remain unknown. In this study, we show that TDP-43 is a nuclear protein with persistent high-level expression during embryonic development and with progressively decreased protein levels during postnatal development. In mice where the TDP-43 gene (Tardbp) was disrupted using a gene trap that carries a beta-galactosidase marker gene, heterozygous (Tardbp(+/-)) mice are fertile and healthy, but intercrosses of Tardbp(+/-) mice yielded no viable homozygotic null (Tardbp(-/-)) mice. Indeed, Tardbp(-/-) embryos die between 3.5 and 8.5 days of development. Tardbp(-/-) blastocysts grown in cell culture display abnormal expansion of their inner cell mass. The pattern of beta-galactosidase staining at E9.5 Tardbp(+/-) embryos is predominantly restricted to the neuroepithelium and remains prominent in neural progenitors at E10.5-12.5. TDP-43 is detected in spinal cord progenitors and in differentiated motor neurons as well as in the dorsal root ganglia at E12.5. Beta-galactosidase staining of tissues from adult Tardbp(+/-) mice shows widespread expression of TDP-43, including prominent levels in various regions of the central nervous system afflicted in neurodegenerative disorders. These results indicate that TDP-43 is developmentally regulated and indispensible for early embryonic development.
The N-terminal domain of NogoA, called amino-Nogo, inhibits axonal outgrowth and cell spreading via a largely unknown mechanism. In the present study, we show that amino-Nogo decreases Rac1 activity and inhibits fibroblast spreading. 12-O-Tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-type tumor promoters, such as phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and teleocidin, increase Rac1 activity and overcome the amino-Nogo-induced inhibition of cell spreading. The stimulating effect of tumor promoters on cell spreading requires activation of protein kinase D and the subsequent activation of Akt1. Furthermore, we identified Akt1 as a new signaling component of the amino-Nogo pathway. Akt1 phosphorylation is decreased by amino-Nogo. Activation of Akt1 with a cell-permeable peptide, TAT-TCL1, blocks the amino-Nogo inhibition. Finally, we provide evidence that these signaling pathways operate in neurons in addition to fibroblasts. Our results suggest that activation of protein kinase D and Akt1 are approaches to promote axonal regeneration after injury.
We studied the effects of combination treatment with an anti-inflammatory agent, interferon (IFN)-beta, and a putative neuroprotective agent, an estrogen receptor (ER)-beta ligand, during EAE. Combination treatment significantly attenuated EAE disease severity, preserved axonal densities in spinal cord, and reduced CNS inflammation. Combining ERbeta treatment with IFNbeta reduced IL-17, while it abrogated IFNbeta-mediated increases in Th1 and Th2 cytokines from splenocytes. Additionally, combination treatment reduced VLA-4 expression on CD4+ T cells, while it abrogated IFNbeta-mediated decreases in MMP-9. Our data demonstrate that combination treatments can result in complex effects that could not have been predicted based on monotherapy data alone.
Gestures should play a role in second language comprehension, given their importance in conveying contextual information. In this study, the N400 and the LPC were evaluated in a task involving the observation of videos showing utterances accompanied by gestures. Students studying advanced (G-High participants) and basic German (G-Low participants) as a second language were investigated. The utterance-gesture congruence and metaphoric meaning of content were manipulated during the task. As in previous ERP reports with native speakers, metaphorical expressions were sensitive to gestures. In G-Low participants, no modulation in the 300-500 ms window was observed, and only a modest effect was observed for the 500-700 ms window. More subtle differences of verbal expression were not processed in this group. Consistent with previous reports of the same paradigm with native speakers, the N400 from G-High group discriminated both congruent and incongruent gestures as well as literal and metaphorical sentences. Our results suggest that semantic processing is robust in the learning of a second language, although the amplitude modulation and latency of ERPs might depend on the speaker's proficiency level.
There is an emerging body of data suggesting that bipolar disorder is associated with DNA damage. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of ouabain in rats results in manic-like alterations. We evaluated DNA damage of peripheral blood, cerebrospinal fluid and hippocampus of rats after i.c.v. ouabain injection. Ouabain-induced hyperlocomotion was examined in an open field. Additionally, we used single cell gel electrophoresis (comet assay) to measure early transient damage in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), hippocampus and blood; and the micronucleus test to measure persistent damage in total blood samples of rats after ouabain administration. Our findings demonstrated that ouabain induced hyperlocomotion in rats, and this response remained up to 7 days following a single i.c.v. injection. In addition, we observed that the persistent increase in the rat spontaneous locomotion is associated with increased hippocampal and peripheral index of early DNA damage in rats. No significant alterations were observed in the micronucleus frequency in total blood samples of the rats after the ouabain i.c.v. injection. These results suggest that ouabain may induce peripheral and central early DNA damage, but this early damage may be repaired.
The Type I cells are the sensory elements of the carotid bodies and play a critical role in defining the ventilatory response to hypoxia and hypercapnia. Type I cells release multiple neurotransmitters during a chemosensory stimulus resulting in increased firing of the carotid sinus nerve and modification of the breathing pattern. While much is known about the actions of individual neurotransmitters in this system, very little is known about how multiple neurotransmitters may integrate to shape the output of the carotid body. Recent data has indicated that the neurotransmitter histamine does not excite isolated Type I cells despite being released during hypoxia and its receptors being present on the Type I cells. Here the hypothesis that histamine might modulate an excitatory neurotransmitter such as acetylcholine was tested. Using calcium imaging techniques it was found that histamine attenuated calcium signaling events initiated by the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist acetyl-beta-methylcholine via an H3 receptor mediated mechanism. In summary, these results suggest that when acetylcholine and histamine are co-released from Type I cells in response to chemostimuli, histamine may attenuate or modulate the excitatory presynaptic actions of acetylcholine.
The identification of molecules responsible for apoptotic cell (AC) uptake by dendritic cells (DCs) and induction of T-cell immunity against AC-associated antigens is a challenge in immunology. DCs differentiated in the presence of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha-conditioned DCs) exhibit a marked phagocytic activity and a special attitude in inducing CD8(+) T-cell response. In this study, we found marked overexpression of the scavenger receptor oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1 (LOX-1) in IFN-alpha-conditioned DCs, which was associated with increased levels of genes belonging to immune response families and high competence in inducing T-cell immunity against antigens derived from allogeneic apoptotic lymphocytes. In particular, the capture of ACs by IFN-alpha DCs led to a substantial subcellular rearrangement of major histocompatibility complex class I and class II molecules, along with enhanced cross-priming of autologous CD8(+) T cells and CD4(+) T-cell activation. Remarkably, AC uptake, CD8(+) T-cell cross-priming, and, to a lesser extent, priming of CD4(+) T lymphocytes were inhibited by a neutralizing antibody to the scavenger receptor LOX-1 protein. These results unravel a novel LOX-1-dependent pathway by which IFN-alpha can, under both physiologic and pathologic conditions, render DCs fully competent for presenting AC-associated antigens for cross-priming CD8(+) effector T cells, concomitantly with CD4(+) T helper cell activation.
Neuropsychiatric adverse events have been reported in influenza patients with and without exposure to oseltamivir (Tamiflu), triggering speculation as to whether oseltamivir may be interacting with any human receptors and contributing to such neuropsychiatric events. In this study, the in vitro selectivity profile of oseltamivir prodrug and active metabolite was investigated. Both compounds lacked clinically relevant pharmacological activities on human, rodent and primate neuraminidases and on a panel of 155 other molecular targets, including those relevant for mood, cognition and behavior. Neuropsychiatric adverse events observed in influenza patients are likely a phenomenon caused by the infection rather than by oseltamivir.
Puparial cases are common remnants of necrophagous flies in crime investigations. They usually represent the longest developmental time and, therefore, they can be very useful for the estimation of the post-mortem interval (PMI). However, before any PMI estimate, it is crucial to identify the species of fly eclosed from each puparium associated with the corpse. Morphological characteristics of the puparium are often distinctive enough to permit a species identification. But, even an accurate morphological analysis of empty puparia cannot discriminate among different species of closely related flies. Furthermore, morphological identification may be impossible if the fly puparia are poorly preserved or in fragments. This study explores the applicability of biomolecular techniques on empty puparia and their fragments for identification purposes. A total of 63 empty puparia of necrophagous Diptera resulting from forensic casework were examined. Samples were divided into three groups according to size, type and time of eclosion in order to verify whether the physical characteristics and puparia weathering can influence the amount of DNA extraction. The results suggest that a reliable genetic identification of forensically important flies may also be performed from empty puparia and/or their fragments. However, DNA degradation can deeply compromise the genetic analysis since the older the fly puparia, the smaller are the amplified fragments.
Understanding the neural code underlying perception requires the mapping of physical stimulus parameters to both psychophysical decisions and neuronal responses. Here, we employed a novel psychophysical task in head-fixed rats to measure discriminability of vibrotactile whisker deflections. Rats could discriminate 90 Hz from 60 Hz pulsatile stimuli if stimulus intensity covaried with frequency. To pin down the physical parameters used by the rats to discriminate these vibrations, we manipulated stimulus amplitude to arrive at pairs of nondiscriminable stimuli. We found that vibrations matched in intensity (measured as mean absolute velocity), but differing in frequency, were no longer discriminable. Recordings of trigeminal ganglion neurons revealed that the distribution of neurometric sensitivities based on spike counts, but not interspike intervals, matched the rats' inability to discriminate intensity-matched stimuli. In conclusion, we suggest that stimulus mean absolute velocity, encoded in primary afferent spike counts, plays a prominent role for whisker-mediated perception.
Studies of visual processing in rodents have conventionally been performed on anesthetized animals, precluding examination of the effects of behavior on visually evoked responses. We have now studied the response properties of neurons in primary visual cortex of awake mice that were allowed to run on a freely rotating spherical treadmill with their heads fixed. Most neurons showed more than a doubling of visually evoked firing rate as the animal transitioned from standing still to running, without changes in spontaneous firing or stimulus selectivity. Tuning properties in the awake animal were similar to those measured previously in anesthetized animals. Response magnitude in the lateral geniculate nucleus did not increase with locomotion, demonstrating that the striking change in responsiveness did not result from peripheral effects at the eye. Interestingly, some narrow-spiking cells were spontaneously active during running but suppressed by visual stimuli. These results demonstrate powerful cell-type-specific modulation of visual processing by behavioral state in awake mice.
Beta oscillations (12-30 Hz) in local field potentials are prevalent in the motor system, yet their functional role within the context of planning a movement is still debated. In this study, a human participant implanted with a multielectrode array in the hand area of primary motor cortex (MI) was instructed to plan a movement using either the second or fourth of five sequentially presented instruction cues. The beta amplitude increased from the start of the trial until the informative (second or fourth) cue, and was diminished afterwards. Moreover, the beta amplitude peaked just prior to each instruction cue and the delta frequency (0.5-1.5 Hz) entrained to the interval between the cues-but only until the informative cue. This result suggests that the beta amplitude and delta phase in MI reflect the subject's engagement with the rhythmically presented cues and work together to enhance sensitivity to predictable and task-relevant visual cues.
Many excitatory synapses express Group 1, or Gq coupled, metabotropic glutamate receptors (Gp1 mGluRs) at the periphery of their postsynaptic density. Activation of Gp1 mGluRs typically occurs in response to strong activity and triggers long-term plasticity of synaptic transmission in many brain regions, including the neocortex, hippocampus, midbrain, striatum, and cerebellum. Here we focus on mGluR-induced long-term synaptic depression (LTD) and review the literature that implicates Gp1 mGluRs in the plasticity of behavior, learning, and memory. Moreover, recent studies investigating the molecular mechanisms of mGluR-LTD have discovered links to mental retardation, autism, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and drug addiction. We discuss how mGluRs lead to plasticity of neural circuits and how the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of mGluR plasticity provides insight into brain disease.
Chromogranin A (CgA), a member of the granin family serves several important cell biological roles in (neuro)endocrine cells which are summarized in this review. CgA is a &quot;prohormone&quot; that is synthesized at the rough endoplasmic reticulum and transported into the cisternae of this organelle via its signal peptide. It is then trafficked to the Golgi complex and then to the trans-Golgi network (TGN) where CgA aggregates at low pH in the presence of calcium. The CgA aggregates provide the physical driving force to induce budding of the TGN membrane resulting in dense core granule (DCG) formation. Within the granule, a small amount of the CgA is processed to bioactive peptides, including a predicted C-terminal peptide, serpinin. Upon stimulation, DCGs undergo exocytosis and CgA and its derived peptides are released. Serpinin, acting extracellularly is able to signal the increase in transcription of a serine protease inhibitor, protease nexin-1 (PN-1) that protects DCG proteins against degradation in the Golgi complex, which then enhances DCG biogenesis to replenish those that were released. Thus CgA and its derived peptide, serpinin, plays a significant role in granule formation and regulation of granule biogenesis, respectively, in (neuro) endocrine cells.
Notch signaling is known to play important roles during retinal development. Recently, Notch signaling has been shown to be active in proliferating Mller glia in acutely damaged chick retina (Hayes et al., 2007). However, the roles of Notch in mature, undamaged retina remain unknown. Thus, the purpose of this study was to determine the role of the Notch-signaling pathway in the postnatal retina. Here we show that components of the Notch-signaling pathway are expressed in most Mller glia at low levels in undamaged retina. The expression of Notch-related genes varies during early postnatal development and across regions, with higher expression in peripheral versus central retina. Blockade of Notch activity with a small molecule inhibitor before damage was protective to retinal interneurons (amacrine and bipolar cells) and projection neurons (ganglion cells). In the absence of damage, Notch is upregulated in retinas treated with insulin and FGF2; the combination of these factors is known to stimulate the proliferation and dedifferentiation of Mller glia (Fischer et al., 2002b). Inhibition of Notch signaling during FGF2 treatment reduces levels of the downstream effectors of the MAPK-signaling pathway-p38 MAPK and pCREB in Mller glia. Further, inhibition of Notch activity potently inhibits FGF2-induced proliferation of Mller glia. Together, our data indicate that Notch signaling is downstream of, and is required for, FGF2/MAPK signaling to drive the proliferation of Mller glia. In addition, our data suggest that low levels of Notch signaling in Mller glia diminish the neuroprotective activities of these glial cells.
Elucidating neuronal circuits and their plasticity in the cerebral cortex is one of the important questions in neuroscience research. Here we report novel axonal trajectories and their plasticity in the mouse somatosensory barrel cortex. We selectively visualized layer 2/3 neurons using in utero electroporation and examined the axonal trajectories of layer 2/3 neurons. We found that the axons of layer 2/3 neurons preferentially run in the septal regions of layer 4 and named this axonal pattern &quot;barrel nets.&quot; The intensity of green fluorescent protein in the septal regions was markedly higher compared with that in barrel hollows. Focal in utero electroporation revealed that the axons in barrel nets were indeed derived from layer 2/3 neurons in the barrel cortex. During development, barrel nets became visible at postnatal day 10, which was well after the initial appearance of barrels. When whisker follicles were cauterized within 3 d after birth, the whisker-related pattern of barrel nets was altered, suggesting that cauterization of whisker follicles results in developmental plasticity of barrel nets. Our results uncover the novel axonal trajectories of layer 2/3 neurons with whisker-related patterns and their developmental plasticity in the mouse somatosensory cortex. Barrel nets should be useful for investigating the pattern formation and axonal reorganization of intracortical neuronal circuits.
Descriptions of how attention modulates neuronal responses suggest that the strength of its effects depends on stimulus conditions. Attention to an isolated stimulus in the receptive field of an individual neuron typically produces a moderate enhancement of the cell's response, but neuronal responses are often strongly modulated when attention is shifted between multiple stimuli that lie within the receptive field. However, previous reports have not compared these stimulus effects under equivalent conditions, so differences in task difficulty could have been responsible for much of the difference. Consequently, the quantitative effects of stimulus conditions have remained unknown, and it has not been possible to address the question of whether the differences that have been observed could be explained by a single mechanism. We measured the attentional modulation of the responses of 70 single neurons in area MT of two rhesus monkeys using a task designed to keep attention stable across different stimulus configurations. We found that attentional modulation was indeed much stronger when more than one stimulus was within the receptive field. Nevertheless, the broad range of attentional modulations seen across the different conditions could be readily explained by single mechanism. The neurophysiological data from all stimulus conditions were well fit by a model in which attention acts via a response normalization mechanism (Lee and Maunsell, 2009). Collectively, these results validate previous impressions of the effects of stimulus configuration on attentional modulation, and add support to hypothesis that attention modulation depends on a response normalization mechanism.
Lanthionine ketimine (LK) represents a poorly understood class of thioethers present in mammalian CNS. Previous work has indicated high-affinity interaction of LK with synaptosomal membrane protein(s), but neither LK binding partners nor specific bioactivities have been reported. In this study, LK was chemically synthesized and used as an affinity agent to capture binding partners from mammalian brain lysate. Liquid chromatography with electrospray ionization-mass spectrometry of electrophoretically separated, LK-bound proteins identified polypeptides implicated in axon remodeling or vesicle trafficking and diseases including Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia: collapsin response mediator protein-2/dihydropyrimidinase-like protein-2 (CRMP2/DRP2/DPYSL2), myelin basic protein, and syntaxin-binding protein-1 (STXBP1/Munc-18). Also identified was the recently discovered glutathione-binding protein lanthionine synthetase-like protein-1. Functional consequences of LK:CRMP2 interactions were probed through immunoprecipitation studies using brain lysate wherein LK was found to increase CRMP2 coprecipitation with its partner neurofibromin-1 but decreased CRMP2 coprecipitation with beta-tubulin. Functional studies of NSC-34 motor neuron-like cells indicated that a cell-permeable LK-ester, LKE, was nontoxic and protective against oxidative challenge with H(2)O(2). LKE-treated NSC-34 cells significantly increased neurite number and length in a serum concentration-dependent manner, consistent with a CRMP2 interaction. Finally, LKE antagonized the activation of EOC-20 microglia by inflammogens. The results are discussed with reference to possible biochemical origins, paracrine functions, neurological significance, and pharmacological potential of lanthionyl compounds.
Hippocampal mossy fiber (MF) synapses on area CA3 lacunosum-moleculare (L-M) interneurons are capable of undergoing a Hebbian form of NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-independent long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by the same type of high-frequency stimulation (HFS) that induces LTP at MF synapses on pyramidal cells. LTP of MF input to L-M interneurons occurs only at synapses containing mostly calcium-impermeable (CI)-AMPA receptors (AMPARs). Here, we demonstrate that HFS-induced LTP at these MF-interneuron synapses requires postsynaptic activation of protein kinase A (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC). Brief extracellular stimulation of PKA with forskolin (FSK) alone or in combination with 1-Methyl-3-isobutylxanthine (IBMX) induced a long-lasting synaptic enhancement at MF synapses predominantly containing CI-AMPARs. However, the FSK/IBMX-induced potentiation in cells loaded with the specific PKA inhibitor peptide PKI(6-22) failed to be maintained. Consistent with these data, delivery of HFS to MFs synapsing onto L-M interneurons loaded with PKI(6-22) induced posttetanic potentiation (PTP) but not LTP. Hippocampal sections stained for the catalytic subunit of PKA revealed abundant immunoreactivity in interneurons located in strata radiatum and L-M of area CA3. We also found that extracellular activation of PKC with phorbol 12,13-diacetate induced a pharmacological potentiation of the isolated CI-AMPAR component of the MF EPSP. However, HFS delivered to MF synapses on cells loaded with the PKC inhibitor chelerythrine exhibited PTP followed by a significant depression. Together, our data indicate that MF LTP in L-M interneurons at synapses containing primarily CI-AMPARs requires some of the same signaling cascades as does LTP of glutamatergic input to CA3 or CA1 pyramidal cells.
This article has been withdrawn at the request of the author(s) and/or editor. The Publisher apologizes for any inconvenience this may cause. The full Elsevier Policy on Article Withdrawal can be found at (http://www.elsevier.com/locate/withdrawalpolicy.
Pediatric particularities and management of pediatric hemorrhagic strokes are reviewed. Etiologies of hemorrhagic strokes in children are quite different than in adults. Arterio-venous malformations are much more frequently encountered than aneurysms, cavernous malformations and other non structural causes. Modem imagery allows to diagnose the cause of the hemorrhage with a good security and the management is based on the association of neurosurgery, interventional neuroradiology and radiosurgery. These cases must be handled in specialized tertiary care hospital where these three modalities of treatment are available 24 hours/day.
Many animal species employ natural hypothermia in seasonal (hibernation) and daily (torpor) strategies to save energy. Facultative daily torpor is a typical response to fluctuations in food availability, but the relationship between environmental quality, foraging behaviour and torpor responses is poorly understood. We studied body temperature responses of outbred ICR (CD-1) mice exposed to different food reward schedules, simulating variation in habitat quality. Our main comparison was between female mice exposed to low foraging-cost environments and high-cost environments. As controls, we pair-fed a group of inactive animals (no-cost treatment) the same amount of pellets as high-cost animals. Mice faced with high foraging costs were more likely to employ torpor than mice exposed to low foraging costs, or no-cost controls (100% versus 40% and 33% of animals, respectively). While resting-phase temperature showed a non-significant decrease in high-cost animals, torpor was not associated with depressions in active-phase body temperature. These results demonstrate (i) that mice show daily torpor in response to poor foraging conditions; (ii) that torpor incidence is not attributable to food restriction alone; and (iii) that high levels of nocturnal activity do not preclude the use of daily torpor as an energy-saving strategy. The finding that daily torpor is not restricted to conditions of severe starvation puts torpor in mice in a more fundamental ecological context.
Orientation of animals towards or away from light is a simple behavior commonly found in the animal kingdom. A recent study using zebrafish larvae has revealed the underlying neural logic of this primal choice behavior, by differential use of the retinal ON- and OFF-pathways.
Two new studies explore structural changes of nerve cells as a potential mechanism for memory formation by studying synaptic reorganization associated with motor learning.



Inflammatory response following central nervous system (CNS) injury contributes to progressive neuropathology and reduction in functional recovery. Axons are sensitive to mechanical injury and toxic inflammatory mediators, which may lead to demyelination. Although it is well documented that degenerated myelin triggers undesirable inflammatory responses in autoimmune diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS) and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), there has been very little study of the direct inflammatory consequences of damaged myelin in spinal cord injury (SCI), i.e., there is no direct evidence to show that myelin debris from injured spinal cord can trigger undesirable inflammation in vitro and in vivo. Our data showed that myelin can initiate inflammatory responses in vivo, which is complement receptor 3 (CR3)-dependent via stimulating macrophages to express pro-inflammatory molecules and down-regulates expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines. Mechanism study revealed that myelin-increased cytokine expression is through activation of FAK/PI3K/Akt/NF-kappaB signaling pathways and CR3 contributes to myelin-induced PI3K/Akt/NF-kappaB activation and cytokine production. The myelin induced inflammatory response is myelin specific as sphingomyelin (the major lipid of myelin) and myelin basic protein (MBP, one of the major proteins of myelin) are not able to activate NF-kappaB signaling pathway. In conclusion, our results demonstrate a crucial role of myelin as an endogenous inflammatory stimulus that induces pro-inflammatory responses and suggest that blocking myelin-CR3 interaction and enhancing myelin debris clearance may be effective interventions for treating SCI.
Sensation seeking is a core personality trait that declines with age in both men and women, as do also both density and availability of the dopamine D(2/3) receptors in striatum and cortical regions. In contrast, novelty seeking at a given age relates inversely to dopamine receptor availability. The simplest explanation of these findings is an inverted-U-shaped correlation between ratings of sensation seeking on the Zuckerman scale and dopamine D(2/3) receptor availability. To test the claim of an inverted-U-shaped relation between ratings of the sensation-seeking personality and measures of dopamine receptor availability, we used PET to record [(11)C]raclopride binding in striatum of 18 healthy men. Here we report that an inverted-U shape significantly matched the receptor availability as a function of the Zuckerman score, with maximum binding potentials observed in the midrange of the scale. The inverted-U shape is consistent with a negative correlation between sensation seeking and the reactivity (&quot;gain&quot;) of dopaminergic neurotransmission to dopamine. The correlation reflects Zuckerman scores that are linearly linked to dopamine receptor densities in the striatum but nonlinearly linked to dopamine concentrations. Higher dopamine occupancy and dopamine concentrations explain the motivation that drives afflicted individuals to seek sensations, in agreement with reduced protection against addictive behavior that is characteristic of individuals with low binding potentials.
The molecular oscillations underlying the generation of circadian rhythmicity in mammals develop gradually during ontogenesis. However, the developmental process of mammalian cellular circadian oscillator formation remains unknown. In differentiated somatic cells, the transcriptional-translational feedback loops (TTFL) consisting of clock genes elicit the molecular circadian oscillation. Using a bioluminescence imaging system to monitor clock gene expression, we show here that the circadian bioluminescence rhythm is not detected in the mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells, and that the ES cells likely lack TTFL regulation for clock gene expression. The circadian clock oscillation was induced during the differentiation culture of mouse ES cells without maternal factors. In addition, reprogramming of the differentiated cells by expression of Sox2, Klf4, Oct3/4, and c-Myc genes, which were factors to generate induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells, resulted in the re-disappearance of circadian oscillation. These results demonstrate that an intrinsic program controls the formation of the circadian oscillator during the differentiation process of ES cells in vitro. The cellular differentiation and reprogramming system using cultured ES cells allows us to observe the circadian clock formation process and may help design new strategies to understand the key mechanisms responsible for the organization of the molecular oscillator in mammals.
We tested healthy preterm (born near 28 +/- 2 weeks of gestational age) and full-term infants at various different ages. We compared the two populations on the development of a language acquisition landmark, namely, the ability to distinguish the native language from a rhythmically similar one. This ability is attained 4 months after birth in healthy full-term infants. We measured the induced gamma-band power associated with passive listening to (i) the infants' native language (Spanish), (ii) a rhythmically close language (Italian), and (iii) a rhythmically distant language (Japanese) as a marker of gains in language discrimination. Preterm and full-term infants were matched for neural maturation and duration of exposure to broadcast speech. We found that both full-term and preterm infants only display a response to native speech near 6 months after their term age. Neural maturation seems to constrain advances in speech discrimination at early stages of language acquisition.




Female decision rules can influence the nature and intensity of sexual selection on males, but empirical demonstrations of rules underlying choice are rare. We hypothesized that female choice is largely based on a courtship duration threshold in the Australian redback spider (Latrodectus hasselti) because females kill males before copulation is complete (premature cannibalism) and reduce their paternity if courtship is brief. We used published data to infer that the female's threshold is approximately 100 min of courtship. We support this hypothesis by showing that premature cannibalism is common when the male's courtship duration is below this threshold, but is infrequent and unrelated to duration once courtship exceeds the threshold. We then ask whether females discriminate the source of courtship when rival males compete, as this will determine the effect of the threshold on male competitive tactics. We staged competitions where 'resident' males initially courted females in the absence of competition, exceeding the courtship threshold before 'intruding' males were introduced. Intruding males mated rapidly but were not prematurely cannibalized by females, in contrast to cases where competition starts before the threshold is surpassed. This suggests females do not distinguish which male satisfies the threshold, allowing intruders to parasitize the courtship efforts of residents. To our knowledge, such exploitation of mating efforts by rival males mediated by a female choice threshold has not been demonstrated elsewhere. Ironically, this female choice threshold and the attendant possibility of courtship parasitism may lead to selection for lower-quality males to recognize and seek out (rather than avoid) webs in which competitors are already present.
Expectations, especially those formed on the basis of extensive training, can substantially enhance visual performance. However, it is not clear that the physiological mechanisms underlying this enhancement are identical to those examined by experiments in which attention is directed by explicit instructions rather than strong expectations. To study the changes in visual representations associated with strong expectations, we trained animals to detect a brief motion pulse that was embedded in noise. Because the nature of the pulse and the statistics of its appearance were well known to the animals, they formed strong expectations which determined their behavioral performance. We used white-noise methods to infer the receptive field structure of single neurons in area MT while they were performing this task. Incorporating non-linearities, we compared receptive fields during periods of time when the animals were expecting the motion pulse with periods of time when they were not. We found receptive field changes consistent with an increased reliability in signaling pulse occurrence. Moreover, these changes were not consistent with a simple gain modulation. The results suggest that strong expectations can create very specific changes in the visual representations at a cellular level to enhance performance.
Using the external noise plus training paradigm, we have consistently found that two independent mechanisms, stimulus enhancement and external noise exclusion, support perceptual learning in a range of tasks. Here, we show that re-weighting of stable early sensory representations through Hebbian learning (Petrov et al., 2005, 2006) can generate performance patterns that parallel a large range of empirical data: (1) perceptual learning reduced contrast thresholds at all levels of external noise in peripheral orientation identification (Dosher &amp; Lu, 1998, 1999), (2) training with low noise exemplars transferred to performance in high noise, while training with exemplars embedded in high external noise transferred little to performance in low noise (Dosher &amp; Lu, 2005), and (3) pre-training in high external noise only reduced subsequent learning in high external noise, whereas pre-training in zero external noise left very little additional learning in all the external noise conditions (Lu et al., 2006). In the augmented Hebbian re-weighting model (AHRM), perceptual learning strengthens or maintains the connections between the most closely tuned visual channels and a learned categorization structure, while it prunes or reduces inputs from task-irrelevant channels. Reducing the weights on irrelevant channels reduces the contributions of external noise and additive internal noise. Manifestation of stimulus enhancement or external noise exclusion depends on the initial state of internal noise and connection weights in the beginning of a learning task. Both mechanisms reflect re-weighting of stable early sensory representations.
Perceptual learning of orientation discrimination is reported to be precisely specific to the trained retinal location. This specificity is often taken as evidence for localizing the site of orientation learning to retinotopic cortical areas V1/V2. However, the extant physiological evidence for training improved orientation turning in V1/V2 neurons is controversial and weak. Here we demonstrate substantial transfer of orientation learning across retinal locations, either from the fovea to the periphery or amongst peripheral locations. Most importantly, we found that a brief pretest at a peripheral location before foveal training enabled complete transfer of learning, so that additional practice at that peripheral location resulted in no further improvement. These results indicate that location specificity in orientation learning depends on the particular training procedures, and is not necessarily a genuine property of orientation learning. We suggest that non-retinotopic high brain areas may be responsible for orientation learning, consistent with the extant neurophysiological data.
The behavior of a female in search of a mate determines the likelihood that she encounters a high-quality male in the search process. The fixed sample (best-of-n) search strategy and the sequential search (fixed threshold) strategy are two prominent models of search behavior. The sequential search strategy dominates the former strategy--yields an equal or higher expected net fitness return to searchers--when search costs are nontrivial and the distribution of quality among prospective mates is uniform or truncated normal. In this paper our objective is to determine whether there are any search costs or distributions of male quality for which the sequential search strategy is inferior to the fixed sample search strategy. The two search strategies are derived under general conditions in which females evaluate encountered males by inspection of an indicator character that has some functional relationship to male quality. The solutions are identical to the original models when the inspected male attribute is itself male quality. The sequential search strategy is shown to dominate the fixed sample search strategy for all search costs and distributions of male quality. Low search costs have been implicated to explain empirical observations that are consistent with the use of a fixed sample search strategy, but under conditions in which the original models were derived there is no search cost or distribution of male quality that favors the fixed sample search strategy. Plausible alternative explanations for the apparent use of this search strategy are discussed.
A common predator or anti-predator strategy involves camouflage based on background matching. In some systems, the background is an organism whose fitness is affected by the predator-prey interaction. In these cases, the phenotype of the background species may evolve to affect the degree of background matching in the predator-prey interaction. For example, some flower species (the background) are inhabited by camouflaged ambush predators that attack visiting pollinators. These flowers have a fitness interest in the outcome of the predator-prey interaction because flowers depend on pollinator visitations for reproduction. Therefore, floral colour might evolve relative to predator colour so as to influence the detectability of resident predators. I have created a three-player game, based on Signal Detection Theory, to model the co-evolution of predator and prey/pollinator behavioural strategies with floral colour. This model makes two general predictions: (1) Constraints on predator distributions favour the evolution of flowers that match the predators' colour because they prevent predators from overexploiting these flowers; (2) factors that produce less discriminating pollinators also favour the evolution of flowers that match the predators' colour because these pollinators are willing to land on these flowers even if the safety of the flower is in doubt.
Forgetting has been thought to occur as a result of the natural decay of the neuronal changes induced by learning or because of interference from other cognitive functions. In this issue, Shuai et al. (2010) find that the small G protein Rac may function as a switch for remembering versus forgetting.
The neural adaptor protein FE65 interacts with the amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP). In osmotically stressed cells, the membrane APP-tethered FE65 is released into the cytoplasm and translocates to the nuclear matrix, where it stabilizes p53 via a non-canonical pathway. In this study, we found that the second phosphotyrosine interaction domain (PI2) of FE65 mediated its trans-accumulation in the nuclear matrix of osmotically stressed cells. The carboxyl-terminal half of FE65, which contains the PI2 domain, failed to stabilize p53, suggesting that the amino-terminal half of the protein plays an important role in the stabilization of p53 in osmotically stressed cells.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays a pivotal role in brain development and synaptic plasticity. It is synthesized as a precursor (pro-BDNF), sorted into the secretory pathway, transported along dendrites and axons, and released in an activity-dependent manner. Mutant Huntingtin with expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) and the V66M polymorphism of BDNF reduce the dendritic distribution and axonal transport of BDNF. However, the mechanism underlying this defective transport remains unclear. Here, we report that Huntingtin-associated protein-1 (HAP1) interacts with the prodomain of BDNF and that the interaction was reduced in the presence of polyQ-expanded Huntingtin and BDNF V66M. Consistently, there was reduced coimmunoprecipitation of pro-BDNF with HAP1 in the brain homogenate of Huntington disease. Pro-BDNF distribution in the neuronal processes and its accumulation in the proximal and distal segments of crushed sciatic nerve and the activity-dependent release of pro-BDNF were abolished in HAP1(-/-) mice. These results suggest that HAP1 may participate in axonal transport and activity-dependent release of pro-BDNF by interacting with the BDNF prodomain. Accordingly, the decreased interaction between HAP1 and pro-BDNF in Huntington disease may reduce the release and transport of BDNF.

Microneurography has provided valuable data on single-fiber characteristics in healthy volunteers and patients, featuring a unique setting that allows linking discharge of single fibers to percept. This advantage is of particular value, when pain patients are examined. Latest results on specific changes of axonal excitability differentially expressed in various C-fiber classes have incited studies linking axonal excitability changes to the mechanism of chronic pain. These studies are mainly based on investigating patients rather than establishing animal models and have led to specific questions on the molecular mechanisms underlying axonal excitability changes. However, pharmacological interventions are limited in human microneurography and therefore an animal model is required. Ideally, the distribution of fiber classes and their sensory and axonal characteristics should be comparable to human. Here we report on corresponding C-fiber classes between human and pig. Nociceptive and non-nociceptive fiber classes found in pig correlate with human fiber classes, in both distribution and axonal excitability changes. It is suggested that the pig is an attractive model for studying modulation of excitability in nociceptive and non-nociceptive C-fiber classes that correspond to those in man.
Microneurography is a method suitable for recording intraneural single or multiunit action potentials in conscious subjects. Microneurography has rarely been applied to animal experiments, where more invasive methods, like the teased fiber recording technique, are widely used. We have tested the feasibility of microneurographic recordings from the peripheral nerves of rats. Tungsten microelectrodes were inserted into the sciatic nerve at mid-thigh level. Single or multiunit action potentials evoked by regular electrical stimulation were recorded, digitized and displayed as a raster plot of latencies. The method allows unambiguous recording and recognition of single C-fiber action potentials from an in vivo preparation, with minimal disruption of the nerve being recorded. Multiple C-fibers can be recorded simultaneously for several hours, and if the animal is allowed to recover, repeated recording sessions can be obtained from the same nerve at the same level over a period of weeks or months. Also, single C units can be functionally identified by their changes in latency to natural stimuli, and insensitive units can be recognized as 'silent' nociceptors or sympathetic efferents by their distinctive profiles of activity-dependent slowing during repetitive electrical stimulation, or by the effect on spontaneous efferent activity of a proximal anesthetic block. Moreover, information about the biophysical properties of C axons can be obtained from their latency recovery cycles. Finally, we show that this preparation is potentially suitable for the study of C-fiber behavior in models of neuropathies and nerve lesions, both under resting conditions and in response to drug administration.
Synchronization of 30-80 Hz oscillatory activity of the principle neurons in the olfactory bulb (mitral cells) is believed to be important for odor discrimination. Previous theoretical studies of these fast rhythms in other brain areas have proposed that principle neuron synchrony can be mediated by short-latency, rapidly decaying inhibition. This phasic inhibition provides a narrow time window for the principle neurons to fire, thus promoting synchrony. However, in the olfactory bulb, the inhibitory granule cells produce long lasting, small amplitude, asynchronous and aperiodic inhibitory input and thus the narrow time window that is required to synchronize spiking does not exist. Instead, it has been suggested that correlated output of the granule cells could serve to synchronize uncoupled mitral cells through a mechanism called &quot;stochastic synchronization&quot;, wherein the synchronization arises through correlation of inputs to two neural oscillators. Almost all work on synchrony due to correlations presumes that the correlation is imposed and fixed. Building on theory and experiments that we and others have developed, we show that increased synchrony in the mitral cells could produce an increase in granule cell activity for those granule cells that share a synchronous group of mitral cells. Common granule cell input increases the input correlation to the mitral cells and hence their synchrony by providing a positive feedback loop in correlation. Thus we demonstrate the emergence and temporal evolution of input correlation in recurrent networks with feedback. We explore several theoretical models of this idea, ranging from spiking models to an analytically tractable model.
A number of cross-sectional studies have suggested an association between insulin resistance (IR) and affective disorders. However, limited data exist on potential changes in IR in a prospective treatment of depression. The present pilot study tested the hypothesis that improvement of IR with the addition of an insulin-sensitizing agent would improve mood in nondiabetic patients with unipolar or bipolar depression, who had surrogate blood markers suggestive of IR. Surrogate IR-criteria blood markers were fasting plasma glucose &gt;100 mg/dl or triglyceride (TG) to high density lipoprotein (HDL) ratio &gt;3.0. Open-label rosiglitazone, titrated to a dose of 8 mg/day, was administered for 12 weeks to 12 patients with depressive disorder receiving treatment as usual (TAU). Eight patients who completed the 12-week study exhibited significant declines in both depression severity by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale and the Clinical Global Impression scale, with moderate effect sizes noted. Modest improvement in Matsuda Index scores was also noted at 12 weeks, yet declines in depression severity scores were not associated with improvements in the endocrine markers (Matsuda Index, TG/HDL ratio, and body mass index). These results suggest the potential novel use for an insulin-sensitizing agent in the treatment of depressive disorders. Larger placebo-controlled studies are warranted.


Multiple Sclerosis (MS) patients present a decrease of antioxidants and neuroprotective and immunoregulatory vitamins and an increase of total homocysteine (tHcy), cholesterol (CHL), HDL-cholesterol, and of cellular stress markers, variably associated with the different phases of the disease. We compared the blood levels of uric acid, folic acid, vitamins B12, A, and E, tHcy, CHL, HDL-cholesterol, and triglycerides in forty MS patients during a phase of clinical inactivity with those of eighty healthy controls, matched for age and sex. We found higher levels of tHcy (p = 0.032) and of HDL-cholesterol (p = 0.001) and lower levels of vitamin E (p = 0.001) and the ratio vitamin E/CHL (p = 0.001) in MS patients. In conclusion, modifications of some biochemical markers of cell damage were detected in MS patients during a phase of clinical inactivity.
Training has been shown to improve perceptual performance on limited sets of stimuli. However, whether training can generally improve top-down biasing of visual search in a target-nonspecific manner remains unknown. We trained subjects over ten days on a visual search task, challenging them with a novel target (top-down goal) on every trial, while bottom-up uncertainty (distribution of distractors) remained constant. We analyzed the changes in saccade statistics and visual behavior over the course of training by recording eye movements as subjects performed the task. Subjects became experts at this task, with twofold increased performance, decreased fixation duration, and stronger tendency to guide gaze toward items with color and spatial frequency (but not necessarily orientation) that resembled the target, suggesting improved general top-down biasing of search.
A central objective in neuroscience is to understand how neurons interact. Such functional interactions have been estimated using signals recorded with different techniques and, consequently, different temporal resolutions. For example, spike data often have sub-millisecond resolution while some imaging techniques may have a resolution of many seconds. Here we use multi-electrode spike recordings to ask how similar functional connectivity inferred from slower timescale signals is to the one inferred from fast timescale signals. We find that functional connectivity is relatively robust to low-pass filtering--dropping by about 10% when low pass filtering at 10 hz and about 50% when low pass filtering down to about 1 Hz--and that estimates are robust to high levels of additive noise. Moreover, there is a weak correlation for physiological filters such as hemodynamic or Ca2+ impulse responses and filters based on local field potentials. We address the origin of these correlations using simulation techniques and find evidence that the similarity between functional connectivity estimated across timescales is due to processes that do not depend on fast pair-wise interactions alone. Rather, it appears that connectivity on multiple timescales or common-input related to stimuli or movement drives the observed correlations. Despite this qualification, our results suggest that techniques with intermediate temporal resolution may yield good estimates of the functional connections between individual neurons.




The gating of ion channels by mechanical force underlies the sense of touch and pain. The mode of gating of mechanosensitive ion channels in vertebrate touch receptors is unknown. Here we show that the presence of a protein link is necessary for the gating of mechanosensitive currents in all low-threshold mechanoreceptors and some nociceptors of the dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Using TEM, we demonstrate that a protein filament with of length approximately 100 nm is synthesized by sensory neurons and may link mechanosensitive ion channels in sensory neurons to the extracellular matrix. Brief treatment of sensory neurons with non-specific and site-specific endopeptidases destroys the protein tether and abolishes mechanosensitive currents in sensory neurons without affecting electrical excitability. Protease-sensitive tethers are also required for touch-receptor function in vivo. Thus, unlike the majority of nociceptors, cutaneous mechanoreceptors require a distinct protein tether to transduce mechanical stimuli.
Endocannabinoids control hippocampal inhibitory synaptic transmission through activation of presynaptic CB(1) receptors. During depolarization-induced suppression of inhibition (DSI), endocannabinoids are synthesized upon postsynaptic depolarization. The endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) may mediate hippocampal DSI. Currently, the best studied pathway for biosynthesis of 2-AG involves the enzyme diacylglycerol lipase (DAGL). However, whether DAGL is necessary for hippocampal DSI is controversial and was not systematically addressed. Here, we investigate DSI at unitary connections between CB(1) receptor-containing interneurons and pyramidal neurons in CA1. We found that the novel DAGL inhibitor OMDM-188, as well as the established inhibitor RHC-80267, did not affect DSI. As reported previously, effects of the DAGL inhibitor tetrahydrolipstatin depended on the application method: postsynaptic intracellular application left DSI intact, while incubation blocked DSI. We show that all DAGL inhibitors tested block slow self-inhibition in neocortical interneurons, which involves DAGL. We conclude that DAGL is not involved in DSI at unitary connections in hippocampus.
It has been suggested that the caudate nucleus, the input stage of the basal ganglia, facilitates and suppresses saccade initiation based on its anatomical characteristics. Although the involvement of the caudate nucleus in saccade facilitation has been shown previously, it is still unclear whether the caudate nucleus is also involved in saccade suppression. Here, we revealed the direct involvement of the caudate nucleus in saccade suppression by electrical microstimulation in behaving monkeys. We delivered microstimulation to the caudate nucleus while monkeys performed the prosaccade (look toward a peripheral visual stimulus) and antisaccade (look away from the stimulus) paradigm. The reaction times of contralateral saccades were prolonged on both prosaccade and antisaccade trials. The suppression effects on reaction times were stronger on prosaccade trials compared with antisaccade trials. The analysis of reaction time distributions using the linear approach to threshold with ergodic rate model (LATER model) revealed that microstimulation prolonged reaction times by reducing the rate of rise to the threshold for saccade initiation. Microstimulation also worsened correct performance rates for contralateral saccades. The same microstimulation prolonged and/or shortened the reaction times of ipsilateral saccades, although the effects were not as consistent as those on contralateral saccades. We conclude that caudate signals are sufficient to suppress contralateral saccades and influence saccadic decision by controlling contralateral and ipsilateral saccade commands at the same time.
Although the hippocampus plays a crucial role in encoding and retrieval of contextually mediated episodic memories, considerable controversy surrounds the role of the hippocampus in short-term or working memory. To examine both hippocampal and neocortical contributions to working memory function, we recorded electrocorticographic activity from widespread cortical and subcortical sites as 20 neurosurgical patients performed working memory tasks. These recordings revealed significant increases in 48-90 Hz gamma oscillatory power with memory load for two classes of stimuli: letters and faces. Sites exhibiting gamma increases with memory load appeared primarily in the hippocampus and medial temporal lobe. These findings implicate gamma oscillatory activity in the maintenance of both letters and faces in working memory and provide the first direct evidence for modulation of hippocampal gamma oscillations as humans perform a working memory task.
Sleep deprivation impairs many cognitive abilities, but these impairments can be reversed after a certain quantity and quality of sleep. The ability to inhibit responding is particularly susceptible to disruption after prolonged wakefulness. How recovery sleep (RS) alters brain activity, leading to improved performance on a variety of cognitive tasks, remains unclear. This issue was examined in the current study using spectral analysis of electroencephalogram (EEG) data during sleep. These measures of sleep physiology were acquired after both normal sleep (NS) and RS, and were related to measures of inhibitory control and concurrent brain activity. Subjects were nine young adults who underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging twice, after 9 h of NS and after 10 h of RS that followed 38 h of being awake. A multiple regression model was used to examine differences between conditions in (1) EEG spectral power during sleep, (2) probability of successful inhibition in a go/no-go task, and (3) activation within a region of right prefrontal cortex during the task. Performance recovery, as indexed by reduced performance differences between conditions, was predicted by increased delta power and decreased sigma power in RS compared with NS. These EEG variables predicted most of the variance in inhibitory performance difference between conditions. Regressions also suggested that RS improved performance because of changes in brain function including prefrontal regions that resulted from delta rebound. We thus propose that slow waves, reflected in delta power during RS, act to restore brain function, thereby improving cognitive performance that entails response inhibition.
Elevated oxidative stress and alteration in antioxidant systems, including glutathione (GSH) decrease, are observed in schizophrenia. Genetic and functional data indicate that impaired GSH synthesis represents a susceptibility factor for the disorder. Here, we show that a genetically compromised GSH synthesis affects the morphological and functional integrity of hippocampal parvalbumin-immunoreactive (PV-IR) interneurons, known to be affected in schizophrenia. A GSH deficit causes a selective decrease of PV-IR interneurons in CA3 and dendate gyrus (DG) of the ventral but not dorsal hippocampus and a concomitant reduction of beta/gamma oscillations. Impairment of PV-IR interneurons emerges at the end of adolescence/early adulthood as oxidative stress increases or cumulates selectively in CA3 and DG of the ventral hippocampus. Such redox dysregulation alters stress and emotion-related behaviors but leaves spatial abilities intact, indicating functional disruption of the ventral but not dorsal hippocampus. Thus, a GSH deficit affects PV-IR interneuron's integrity and neuronal synchrony in a region- and time-specific manner, leading to behavioral phenotypes related to psychiatric disorders.
While presynaptic, protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent, long-term plasticity has been described in numerous brain regions, the target(s) of PKA and the molecular mechanisms leading to sustained changes in neurotransmitter release remain elusive. Here, we acutely reconstitute mossy fiber long-term potentiation (mfLTP) de novo in the mature brains of mutant mice that normally lack this form of plasticity. These results demonstrate that RIM1alpha, a presynaptic scaffold protein and a potential PKA target, can support mfLTP independent of a role in brain development. Using this approach, we study two mutations of RIM1alpha (S413A and V415P) and conclude that PKA-phosphorylation-dependent signaling by RIM1alpha serine 413 is not required for mfLTP, consistent with conclusions reached from the study of RIM1alpha S413A knockin mice. Together, these results provide insights into the mechanism of mossy fiber LTP and demonstrate a useful acute approach to genetically manipulate mossy fiber synapses in the mature brain.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor, TrkB, play prominent roles in food intake regulation through central mechanisms. However, the neural circuits underlying their anorexigenic effects remain largely unknown. We showed previously that selective BDNF depletion in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) of mice resulted in hyperphagic behavior and obesity. Here, we sought to ascertain whether its regulatory effects involved the mesolimbic dopamine system, which mediates motivated and reward-seeking behaviors including consumption of palatable food. We found that expression of BDNF and TrkB mRNA in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of wild-type mice was influenced by consumption of palatable, high-fat food (HFF). Moreover, amperometric recordings in brain slices of mice depleted of central BDNF uncovered marked deficits in evoked release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell and dorsal striatum but normal secretion in the NAc core. Mutant mice also exhibited dramatic increases in HFF consumption, which were exacerbated when access to HFF was restricted. However, mutants displayed enhanced responses to D(1) receptor agonist administration, which normalized their intake of HFF in a 4 h food intake test. Finally, in contrast to deletion of Bdnf in the VMH of mice, which resulted in increased intake of standard chow, BDNF depletion in the VTA elicited excessive intake of HFF but not of standard chow and increased body weights under HFF conditions. Our findings indicate that the effects of BDNF on eating behavior are neural substrate-dependent and that BDNF influences hedonic feeding via positive modulation of the mesolimbic dopamine system.
The core feature of an economic exchange is a decision to trade one good for another, based on a comparison of relative value. Economists have long recognized, however, that the value an individual ascribes to a good during decision making (i.e., their relative willingness to trade for that good) does not always map onto the reward they actually experience. Here, we show that experienced value and decision value are represented in distinct regions of ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC) during the passive consumption of rewards. Participants viewed two categories of rewards-images of faces that varied in their attractiveness and monetary gains and losses-while being scanned using functional magnetic resonance imaging. An independent market task, in which participants exchanged some of the money that they had earned for brief views of attractive faces, determined the relative decision value associated with each category. We found that activation of anterior VMPFC increased with increasing experienced value, but not decision value, for both reward categories. In contrast, activation of posterior VMPFC predicted each individual's relative decision value for face and monetary stimuli. These results indicate not only that experienced value and decision value are represented in distinct regions of VMPFC, but also that decision value signals are evident even in the absence of an overt choice task. We conclude that decisions are made by comparing neural representations of the value of different goods encoded in posterior VMPFC in a common, relative currency.
Neuronal circuits commonly receive simultaneous inputs from descending, ascending, and hormonal systems. Thus far, however, most such inputs have been studied individually to determine their influence on a given circuit. Here, we examine the integrated action of the hormone crustacean cardioactive peptide (CCAP) and the gastropyloric receptor (GPR) proprioceptor neuron on the biphasic gastric mill (chewing) rhythm driven by the projection neuron modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1) in the isolated crab stomatogastric ganglion. In control saline, GPR stimulation selectively prolongs the gastric mill retractor phase, via presynaptic inhibition of MCN1. In the absence of GPR stimulation, CCAP does not alter retraction duration and modestly prolongs protraction. Here, we show, using computational modeling and dynamic-clamp manipulations, that the presence of CCAP weakens or eliminates the GPR effect on the gastric mill rhythm. This CCAP action results from its ability to activate the same modulator-activated conductance (G(MI)) as MCN1 in the gastric mill circuit neuron lateral gastric (LG). Because GPR prolongs retraction by weakening MCN1 activation of G(MI) in LG, the parallel G(MI) activation by CCAP reduces the impact of GPR regulation of this conductance. The CCAP-activated G(MI) thus counteracts the GPR-mediated decrease in the MCN1-activated G(MI) in LG and reduces the GPR ability to regulate the gastric mill rhythm. Consequently, although CCAP neither changes retraction duration nor alters GPR inhibition of MCN1, its activation of a modulator-activated conductance in a pivotal downstream circuit neuron enables CCAP to weaken or eliminate sensory regulation of motor circuit output.

Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) ergic neurons are important for controlling sleep and wakefulness but are difficult to identify, limiting their study. Knock-in mice with GABAergic neurons labeled by expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) under control of the glutamate decarboxylase 67 (GAD67) promoter are now extensively used in neuroscience. However, it is unknown whether these mice have a normal sleep phenotype. Compared with wild-type control mice, GAD67-GFP knock-in mice had the same amount of non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep and rapid-eye movement (REM) sleep, a similar diurnal distribution of sleep, no NREM or REM sleep differences in electroencephalogram power, and normal sleep rebound following 6-h sleep deprivation. Our results suggest GAD67-GFP knock-in mice are an excellent tool for study of GABAergic neurons involved in sleep-wake regulation.
In the CA1 region of mouse hippocampal slices, a strong tetanic stimulation triggers a long-lasting long-term potentiation (L-LTP), which requires transcription for the development of its late phase. Nevertheless, we were able to elicit such an L-LTP in CA1 dendrites separated from their somas provided that we restricted our investigations to isolated dendrites where a very robust early LTP was triggered. This particular type of L-LTP, which relied on translation of preexisting messenger RNAs - as it was blocked by anisomycin - could not be captured by another pathway activated only by a weak tetanic stimulation. This suggests that the plasticity-related proteins resulting from translation of messenger RNAs in dendrites cannot pass from the synaptic site where they were synthesized to another one.
Noradrenergic inputs from the brainstem are critical for the central stress response. It has been suggested that endogenous interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) is involved in norepinephrine (NE)-induced release of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) from the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). However, no IL-1 receptor on PVN CRH neurons has been identified. Therefore we hypothesized that the action of IL-1beta in the PVN requires downstream modulators that eventually lead to CRH release by PVN neurons. In the current study, we used organotypic cultures from neonatal rat PVN which display neuroendocrine characteristics suitable for in vitro studies. Pharmacological treatments with NE or IL-1beta elicited nitric oxide (NO) release from the PVN cultures, implying that local NO might be a candidate for modulating the action of IL-1beta. In addition, NE treatments significantly increased IL-1beta and CRH release. Treatment with IL-1beta or sodium nitroprusside also induced CRH release. Next, we also showed that either an IL-1 receptor antagonist or NOS inhibitor Nomega-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) attenuated the NE-induced CRH release. These results suggest that IL-1beta and NO are involved in NE-induced CRH release. Moreover, we found that application of L-NNA attenuated IL-1beta-induced CRH release, indicating that NO likely mediates this process. In summary, the current study demonstrates that IL-1beta plays a significant role in NE-induced CRH release, and that neuroendocrine response in the PVN may depend on local NO action.
Daily feeding schedules entrain temporal patterns of behavior, metabolism, neuronal activity and clock gene expression in several brain areas and periphery while the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the biological clock, remains coupled to the light/dark cycle. Because bilateral lesions of the SCN do not abolish food entrained behavioral and hormonal rhythms it is suggested that food entrained and light entrained systems are independent of each other. Special circumstances indicate a possible interaction between the light and the food entrained systems and indicate modulation of SCN activity by restricted feeding. This study explores the influence of the SCN on food entrained rhythms. Food entrained temporal profiles of behavior, core temperature, corticosterone and glucose, as well as Fos and PER1 immunoreactivity in the hypothalamus and corticolimbic structures were explored in rats bearing bilateral SCN lesions (SCNX). In SCNX rats food anticipatory activity and the food entrained temperature and corticosterone increase were expressed with earlier onset and higher values than in intact controls. Glucose levels were lower in SCNX rats in all time points and SCNX rats anticipation to a meal induced higher c-Fos positive neurons in the hypothalamus, while a decreased c-Fos response was observed in corticolimbic structures. SCNX rats also exhibited an upregulation of the PER1 peak in hypothalamic structures, especially in the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH), while in some limbic structures PER1 rhythmicity was dampened. The present results indicate that the SCN participates actively during food entrainment modulating the response of hypothalamic and corticolimbic structures, resulting in an increased anticipatory response.
Activation of neurons in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) plays a critical role in stress and anxiety-related behaviors. Previously, we have shown that serotonin (5-HT) can directly modulate BNST neuronal excitability by an action at postsynaptic receptors. In this study we built upon that work to examine the effects of 5-HT on excitatory neurotransmission in an in vitro rat BNST slice preparation. Bath application of 5-HT reversibly reduced the amplitude of evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (eEPSCs). These effects were mimicked by the 5-HT(1B/D) receptor agonist, sumatriptan, and by the 5-HT(1B) receptor selective agonist, CP93129. Conversely, the effects of 5-HT and sumatriptan could be blocked by the 5-HT(1B) receptor-selective antagonist, GR55562. In contrast, the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OH DPAT or antagonist WAY 100635 could not mimic or block the effect of 5-HT on eEPSCs. Together, these data suggest that the 5-HT-induced attenuation of eEPSCs was mediated by 5-HT(1B) receptor activation. Moreover, sumatriptan had no effect on the amplitude of the postsynaptic current elicited by pressure applied AMPA, suggesting a possible presynaptic locus for the 5-HT(1B) receptor. Furthermore, 5-HT, sumatriptan and CP93129 all increased the paired pulse ratio of eEPSCs while they concomitantly decreased the amplitude of eEPSCs, suggesting that these agonists act to reduce glutamate release probability at presynaptic locus. Consistent with this observation, sumatriptan decreased the frequency of miniature EPSCs, but had no effect on their amplitude. Taken together, these results suggest that 5-HT suppresses glutamatergic neurotransmission in the BNST by activating presynaptic 5-HT(1B) receptors to decrease glutamate release from presynaptic terminals. This study illustrates a new pathway by which the activity of BNST neurons can be indirectly modulated by 5-HT, and suggests a potential new target for the development of novel treatments for depression and anxiety disorders.
Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) is a long-lasting increase in synaptic efficacy considered to be the cellular basis of memory. LTP consists of an early, protein synthesis-independent phase (E-LTP) and a late phase that depends on protein synthesis (L-LTP). In water-deprived rats E-LTP in the dentate gyrus (DG) can be reinforced into L-LTP, if the rats were allowed to drink within 15 min after E-LTP induction (behavioral LTP-reinforcement, BR). LTP can be depotentiated by low-frequency stimulation (LFS) to the same synaptic input if applied shortly after tetanization (&lt;10 min). Here, we addressed the question of whether a BR protocol is able to recover LTP at depotentiated synaptic inputs. We show that LTP, depotentiation, LFS and BR specifically interact within one afferent input, which could be explained by the &quot;synaptic tagging&quot; hypothesis outlined by [Frey and Morris (1997) Nature 385:533-536]. E-LTP induced by a weak tetanus (WTET) sets tags in the activated inputs which are able to capture and to process plasticity-related proteins (PRPs) required for L-LTP, the synthesis of which was induced by BR. Synaptic tags could be reset by LFS. BR alone was unable to rescue depotentiated LTP, but the combination of BR and subsequent WTET transformed E-LTP into L-LTP. We show that LTP, LTD and behavioral stimuli alternatively and reversibly affect a single afferent input for long periods of time by LTP as well as LTD mechanisms, competing with each other under the influence of different concurrent stimuli. Affective modulation can shift the balance to one or the other. We show that the result will depend not only on the last stimulus, but on the history of previous stimuli applied to the specific input. Afferent stimuli activate alternative, but partially overlapping cascades with long-lasting consequences for the input including spaced-associative processes of &quot;synaptic tagging&quot; as well as &quot;cross-tagging&quot; which could be demonstrated in single synaptic afferents to one neuronal population in freely behaving animals.
Spontaneous activity is a well-known neural phenomenon that occurs throughout the brain and is essential for normal development of auditory circuits and for processing of sounds. Spontaneous activity could interfere with sound processing by reducing the signal-to-noise ratio. Multiple studies have reported that spontaneous activity in auditory neurons can be suppressed by sound stimuli. The goal of this study was to determine the stimulus conditions that cause this suppression and to identify possible underlying mechanisms. Experiments were conducted in the inferior colliculus (IC) of awake little brown bats using extracellular and intracellular recording techniques. The majority of IC neurons (82%) fired spontaneously, with a median spontaneous firing rate of 6 spikes/s. After offset of a 4 ms sound, more than half of these neurons exhibited suppression of spontaneous firing that lasted hundreds of milliseconds. The duration of suppression increased with sound level. Intracellular recordings showed that a short (&lt;50 ms) membrane hyperpolarization was often present during the beginning of suppression, but it was never observed during the remainder of the suppression. Beyond the initial 50 ms period, the absence of significant changes in input resistance during suppression suggests that suppression is presynaptic in origin. Namely, it may occur on presynaptic terminals and/or elsewhere on presynaptic neurons. Suppression of spontaneous firing may serve as a mechanism for enhancing signal-to-noise ratios during signal processing.
For the efficient transfer of information across neural circuits, the number of synaptic components at synapses must be appropriately regulated. Here, we found that postsynaptic calcium/calmodulin dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) modulates the localization of glutamate receptors (GluRs) at Drosophila larval neuromuscular junctions (NMJs). Expression of an inhibitory peptide of CaMKII, Ala, in muscle cells enhanced the density of GluRIIA, which is a major and calcium-permeable subunit of GluR, at synapses of third instar larval NMJs. On the other hand, postsynaptic expression of a constitutively active form of CaMKII (T287D) reduced synaptic GluRIIA. These results suggest that CaMKII regulates GluRIIA at NMJs. Moreover, postsynaptic expression of T287D abolished the accumulation of the scaffolding protein discs large (DLG) at synapses, while exerting no significant effects on the presynaptic area and the localization of cell adhesion molecule fasciclin II (FasII). The amplitude of excitatory junctional potentials (EJPs) was enhanced in Ala-expressing larvae, whereas it was unaffected in T287D-expressing larvae in spite of the prominent loss of GluRIIA. The amplitude of miniature EJPs (mEJPs) was significantly reduced and quantal content was significantly increased in T287D-expressing larvae. Notably, another class of GluR containing GluRIIB was enhanced by the postsynaptic expression of T287D. These results suggest that the homeostatic mechanism in T287D larvae works to maintain the level of synaptic responses. Thus, the Drosophila larval NMJs have several regulatory systems to ensure efficient muscle excitability which is necessary for proper larval movement.
Long-term morphological synaptic changes associated with homosynaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) and heterosynaptic long-term depression (LTD) in vivo, in awake adult rats were analyzed using three-dimensional (3-D) reconstructions of electron microscope images of ultrathin serial sections from the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. For the first time in morphological studies, the specificity of the effects of LTP and LTD on both spine and synapse ultrastructure was determined using an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist CPP (3-[(R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonic acid). There were no differences in synaptic density 24 h after LTP or LTD induction, and CPP alone had no effect on synaptic density. LTP increased significantly the proportion of mushroom spines, whereas LTD increased the proportion of thin spines, and both LTP and LTD decreased stubby spine number. Both LTP and LTD increased significantly spine head evaginations (spinules) into synaptic boutons and CPP blocked these changes. Synaptic boutons were smaller after LTD, indicating a pre-synaptic effect. Interestingly, CPP alone decreased bouton and mushroom spine volumes, as well as post-synaptic density (PSD) volume of mushroom spines.These data show similarities, but also some clear differences, between the effects of LTP and LTD on spine and synaptic morphology. Although CPP blocks both LTP and LTD, and impairs most morphological changes in spines and synapses, CPP alone was shown to exert effects on aspects of spine and synaptic structure.
Post-translational modifications of proteins are a major determinant of biological function. Phosphorylation of proteins involved in signal transduction contributes to the induction and maintenance of several examples of cellular and synaptic plasticity. In this study we have identified phosphoproteins regulated by Pavlovian conditioning in lysates of Hermissenda nervous systems using two-dimensional electrophoresis (2DE) in conjunction with (32)P labeling, fluorescence based phosphoprotein in-gel staining, and mass spectrometry. Modification of protein phosphorylation regulated by conditioning was first assessed by densitometric analysis of (32)P labeled proteins resolved by 2DE from lysates of conditioned and pseudorandom control nervous systems. An independent assessment of phosphorylation regulated by conditioning was obtained from an examination of 2D gels stained with Pro-Q Diamond phosphoprotein dye. Mass spectrometric analysis of protein digests from phosphoprotein stained analytical gels or Coomassie Blue stained preparative gels provided for the identification of phosphoproteins that exhibited statistically significant increased phosphorylation in conditioned groups as compared to pseudorandom controls. A previously identified cytoskeletal related protein, Csp24 (24 kDa conditioned stimulus pathway phosphoprotein), involved in intermediate-term memory exhibited significantly increased phosphorylation detected 24 h post-conditioning. Our results show that proteins involved in diverse cellular functions such as transcriptional regulation, cell signaling, cytoskeletal regulation, metabolic activity, and protein degradation contribute to long-term post-translational modifications associated with Pavlovian conditioning.
Retrograde synaptic signaling by endogenous cannabinoids (endocannabinoids) is a recently discovered form of neuromodulation in various brain regions. In hippocampus, it is well known that endocannabinoids suppress presynaptic inhibitory neurotransmitter release in CA1 region. However, endocannabinoid signaling in CA3 region remains to be examined. Here we investigated whether presynaptic inhibition can be caused by activation of postsynaptic group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and following presynaptic cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1 receptor) using mechanically dissociated rat hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons with adherent functional synaptic boutons. Application of group I mGluR agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) reversibly suppressed spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs). In the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX), frequency of miniature IPSCs was significantly reduced by DHPG, while there were no significant changes in minimum quantal size and sensitivity of postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors to the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol, indicating that this suppression was caused by a decrease in GABA release from presynaptic nerve terminals. Application of CB1 synthetic agonist WIN55212-2 (mesylate(R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[4-morpholino)methyl]pyrrolo-[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl](1-naphthyl)methanone) or endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol also suppressed the spontaneous IPSC. The inhibitory effect of DHPG on spontaneous IPSCs was abolished by SR-141716 (5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichloro-phenyl)-4-methyl-N-(piperidin-1-yl)-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide), a CB1 receptor antagonist. Furthermore, postsynaptic application of GDP-betaS blocked the DHPG-induced inhibition of spontaneous IPSCs, indicating the involvement of endcannabinoid-mediated retrograde synaptic signaling. These results provide solid evidence for retrograde signaling from postsynaptic group I mGluRs to presynaptic CB1 receptors, which induces presynaptic inhibition of GABA release in rat hippocampal CA3 region.
The role of transient receptor potential channel A1 (TRPA1) in noxious cold sensation remains unclear. Some data support the hypothesis that TRPA1 is a transducer of noxious cold whilst other data contest it. In this study we investigated the role of TRPA1 in cold detection in cutaneous nociceptors in vivo using complementary experimental approaches. We used noxious withdrawal reflex electromyography, and single fibre recordings in vivo, to test the hypothesis that TRPA1-expressing primary afferents mediate noxious cold responses in anaesthetised rats. TRPV1 and TRPM8 agonists sensitise their cognate receptors to heat and cold stimuli respectively. Herein we show that the TRPA1 agonist cinnamaldehyde applied to the skin in anaesthetised rats did not sensitise noxious cold evoked hind limb withdrawal. In contrast, cinnamaldehyde did sensitise the C fibre-mediated noxious heat withdrawal, indicated by a significant drop in the withdrawal temperature. TRPA1 agonist thus sensitised the noxious reflex withdrawal to heat, but not cold. Thermal stimuli also sensitise transient receptor potential (TRP) channels to agonist. Activity evoked by capsaicin in teased primary afferent fibres showed a significant positive correlation with receptive field temperature, in both normal and Freund's complete adjuvant-induced cutaneous inflammation. Altering the temperature of the receptive field did not modulate TRPA1 agonist evoked-activity in cutaneous primary afferents, in either normal or inflamed skin. In addition, block of the TRPA1 channel with Ruthenium Red did not inhibit cold evoked activity in either cinnamaldehyde sensitive or insensitive cold responsive nociceptors. In cinnamaldehyde-sensitive-cold-sensitive afferents, although TRPA1 agonist-evoked activity was totally abolished by Ruthenium Red, cold evoked activity was unaffected by channel blockade. We conclude that these results do not support the hypothesis that TRPA1-expressing cutaneous afferents play an important role in noxious cold responses.
A role of neuropeptides in neuropathic pain development has been implicated; however, the neuroimmune interactions that are involved in the underlying mechanisms may be more important than previously thought. To examine a potential role of relations between glia cells and neuropeptides in neuropathic pain, we performed competitive reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) from the dorsal lumbar spinal cord and the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) after chronic constriction injury (CCI) in the rat sciatic nerve. The RT-PCR results indicated that complement component 1, q subcomponent (C1q) mRNA expression was higher than glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in the spinal cord 3 and 7 days post-CCI, suggesting that spinal microglia and perivascular macrophages are more activated than astrocytes. In parallel, we observed a strong upregulation of prodynorphin mRNA in the spinal cord after CCI, with no changes in the expression of proenkephalin or pronociceptin. Conversely, the expression of GFAP mRNA in the DRG was higher than C1q, which suggests that the satellite cells are activated shortly after injury, followed by the macrophages and polymorphonuclear leukocytes infiltrating the DRG. In the DRG, we also observed a very strong upregulation of prodynorphin (1387%) as well as pronociceptin (122%) and a downregulation of proenkephalin (47%) mRNAs. Interestingly, preemptive and repeated i.p. injection of minocycline reversed the activation of microglia/macrophages in the spinal cord and the trafficking of peripheral immune cells into the DRG, and markedly diminished the upregulation of prodynorphin and pronociceptin in the DRG. We thus provide novel findings that inhibition of C1q-positive cells by minocycline can diminish injury-induced neuropeptide changes in the DRG. This suggests that immune cells-derived pronociceptive factors may influence opioid peptide expression. Therefore, the injury-induced activation of microglia and leukocytes and the subsequent activation of neuropeptides involved in nociception processes are potential targets for the attenuation of neuropathic pain.
It has been reported that glucocorticoid (Gc) can induce neuronal cell toxicity in the hippocampus. In addition, we examined that serum Gc increased by restraint stress aggravated kainic acid (KA)-induced neuronal death in hippocampal CA3 region. However, the effect of other stressful stimulus like lipopolysaccharide (LPS) increasing serum Gc on KA-induced neuronal death was not elucidated until now. Thus, we examined the time course effect of LPS on KA-induced neuronal death in the hippocampal CA3 region of mice, especially to address the role of Gc and inflammatory mediators. In the present study, we found that an aggravating effect of LPS on KA-induced neuronal death was correlated with an alteration of hippocampal IL-1beta mRNA level at all time points, and the serum Gc and hippocampal IL-1beta mRNA level was peak at 90 min after LPS treatment (LPS 90 min) when the aggravating effect of LPS on KA-induced neuronal death was maximum. In addition, RU38486 (glucocorticoid receptor antagonist) decreased the hippocampal IL-1beta mRNA level and abolished the aggravating effect of LPS on KA-induced neuronal death at LPS 90 min and 24 h. In the immunohistochemical study, we found activated and ramified microglia (OX-42) and astrocyte (GFAP) at 24 h after LPS treatment (LPS 24 h) in the hippocampus. These results suggest that Gc itself, cytokines triggered by Gc, or both appears to be involved in the LPS effect depending on LPS pretreatment time.
Amylin is a member of calcitonin or calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) family. Immunohistochemical study revealed a dense network of amylin-immunoreactive (irAMY) cell processes in the superficial dorsal horn of the mice. Numerous dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and trigeminal ganglion cells expressed moderate to strong irAMY. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) revealed amylin receptor mRNA in the mouse spinal cord, brain stem, cortex, hypothalamus and hippocampus. The nociceptive or antinociceptive effects of amylin were evaluated in the acetic acid-induced writhing test. Amylin (0.1, 0.5 and 1 mg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.) or 1-10 microg, intrathecally (i.t.)) reduced the number of writhes in a dose-dependent manner. Pretreatment of the mice with the amylin receptor antagonist salmon calcitonin (8-32), either by i.p. or i.t., antagonized the effect of amylin on acetic acid-induced writhing test. Locomotor activity was not significantly modified by amylin injected either i.p. (0.01-1 mg/kg) or i.t. (1-10 microg). Measurement of c-fos mRNA by RT-PCR or proteins by Western blot showed that the levels were upregulated in the spinal cord of mice injected with acetic acid and the increase was attenuated by pretreatment with amylin (10 microg, i.t.). Collectively, our result demonstrates that irAMY is expressed in DRG neurons with their cell processes projecting to the superficial layers of the dorsal horn, and that the peptide by interacting with amylin receptors in the spinal cord may be antinociceptive.
Pulmonary activation-regulated chemokine (PARC) now designated CC-chemokine ligand 18 (CCL18) has been shown to play a significant role in the pathogenesis of various tissue injuries and diseases in a proinflammatory or immune suppressive way to limit or support the inflammation or disease. While much is known about the roles of CCL18/PARC in non-neural tissues, its expression in the CNS has remained largely unexplored and controversial. Using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and double immunohistochemical staining, we analyzed the expression of CCL18/PARC in the human brain with special reference to traumatic brain injuries and tumors. The RT-PCR analysis revealed the expression of CCL18/PARC mRNA both in the traumatic brain and glioma tissues examined. Immunoexpression of CCL18/PARC protein was consistently detected in all cases of traumatic brain injuries examined by immunohistochemical staining. Double immunofluorescence labeling has extended the study that CCL18/PARC positive cells were macrophages/microglia, astrocytes or neurons. The CCL18/PARC expression was localized in macrophage-like cells in two of eight glioblastoma tissues whose cancer cells were CCL18/PARC negative. Unexpectedly, CCL18/PARC mRNA weakly and constitutively expressed by glioblastoma cell line was upregulated after endotoxin stimulation. The present results indicated a significant production of CCL18/PARC in different CNS traumatic and neoplasm tissues by specific cellular elements expressing the chemokine. An anti-inflammatory mechanism jointly exerted by these cells via CCL18/PARC may be involved in the CNS immunity after traumatic injury and tumorigenesis.
Tissue factor (TF) is upregulated in several malignant diseases, including gliomas. Here, we demonstrate pronounced differences in the expression of TF and its interactors factor VII and protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR-2) in nine human glioma cell lines (U87, U251, U343, U373, MZ-18, MZ-54, MZ-256, MZ-304, Hs 683) as detected by RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. Inhibition of TF signaling by a neutralizing monoclonal antibody (mAb TF9-10H10) led to significantly reduced proliferation in high-grade astroglial (MZ-18 and MZ-304) and oligodendroglial (Hs 683) cell lines abundantly expressing TF, but not in U373 cells expressing low amounts of TF. Scratch migration assays and Boyden chamber assays indicated that mAb TF9-10H10 and lentiviral knockdown of TF significantly reduced cell migration and invasion of MZ-18, MZ-304 and Hs 683 cells, both under normoxic and hypoxic conditions. Of note, all three cell lines displayed increased cell migration and invasion under hypoxic conditions (1% O(2)), which was associated with enhanced expression of TF and increased phosphorylation of p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK1/2). Silencing of TF blocked activation of the ERK pathway, induction of TF expression and the potentiating effect of hypoxia on cell migration and invasion. RNA interference against PAR-2 abrogated the autocrine effects of TF on cell proliferation, migration and invasion, indicating that TF signals via PAR-2 in glioma cells. Our results suggest an important role for the TF/FVIIa/PAR-2/ERK axis in tumor growth and invasion of glioma and suggest that TF may be a suitable target for the development of novel therapies against high-grade glioma.
The effect of treating rats with clorgyline, an irreversible monoamine oxidase-A (MAO-A) inhibitor, on methamphetamine (METH)-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) was investigated. Administering rats with METH (1.0 mg/kg i.p.) every other day during two conditioning sessions (i.e., saline/METH conditioning with no clorgyline pretreatment) induced a significant CPP compared with saline/saline conditioning. Pretreatment of the rats with clorgyline at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg (i.p.), but not 1.0 or 10 mg/kg, attenuated the METH-induced CPP. Neurochemical analysis using high-performance liquid chromatography revealed that the tissue levels of monoamines and their metabolites were not significantly affected by treatment with 0.1 mg/kg clorgyline except for the levels of 3-methoxy4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) in the striatum and nucleus accumbens (NAc). Clorgyline at doses of 1.0 or 10 mg/kg significantly affected the tissue levels of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, norepinephrine (NE), MHPG, and serotonin in the cerebral cortex and those of all monoamines and metabolites examined in the striatum and NAc. A significant decrease in the MHPG/NE ratio in the striatum and NAc was apparent in the rats pretreated with 0.1 mg/kg clorgyline. Overall, the present study demonstrated that low-dose clorgyline attenuated METH-induced CPP in rats.
Fatiguing exercise of the quadriceps femoris muscle degrades postural control in human subjects. The aim of this work was to compare the effects of the fatigue of the quadriceps femoris induced by voluntary muscular contraction (VC), and by electrical stimulation (ES) superimposed onto voluntary muscular contraction (VC+ES), on postural control and muscle strength. Fourteen healthy young adults participated in the study. Postural control and muscle strength were evaluated using a stable force platform and an isokinetic dynamometer, respectively, before (PRE condition) and after the completion of each fatiguing exercise (immediately: POST condition; after a 5 min recovery time: POST 5 condition). In POST, both postural control and muscle strength were impaired by both fatiguing exercises. However, the impairment was higher for VC than for VC+ES. In POST 5, for both fatiguing exercises, postural control recovered its initial level while muscle strength did not. These results suggest that superimposing ES onto voluntary muscular contractions (VCs) impaired muscle strength and postural control less than did VCs alone. However the duration of recovery of these two neurophysiological functions did not differ for the two fatiguing exercises. For both exercises, postural control was restored faster than the ability to produce muscular strength.
Visceral nociceptive signals are the subject of descending modulation from the locus coeruleus/subcoeruleus (LC/SC). We have recently found dorsal horn neurons whose visceral nociceptive responses are not inhibited by the descending LC/SC system (LC/SC-unaffected neurons) in the rat. The aim of the present study was to estimate a possible role of LC/SC-unaffected neurons for pain processing and pain-related responses. We focused on the fact that nociceptive signals from a visceral organ produce not only visceral pain but also visceromotor reflexes (muscular defense). Different effects of LC/SC stimulation can be expected between visceral pain and visceromotor reflexes. To accomplish our objective, the descending colon was electrically stimulated, and both the evoked discharge (ED) in the ventral posterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus and the electromyogram (EMG) of the abdominal muscle were simultaneously recorded under halothane anesthesia. The ED recorded from the VPL was completely inhibited with the increase of LC/SC stimulus intensity, while the EMG of the abdominal muscle still remained even after the ED disappeared. This result suggests that the minimum visceromotor reflex responses are maintained by the presence of LC/SC-unaffected neurons, which play the important role of protecting the visceral organs. Considering a role of muscular defense, the presence of the LC/SC-unaffected neurons may be advantageous for the individual under an abnormal pain state, such as inflammation.
Brain-specific microRNAs (miRs) may be involved in synaptic plasticity through the control of target mRNA translation. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) also contributes to the regulation of synaptic function. However, the possible involvement of miRs in BDNF-regulated synaptic function is poorly understood. Importantly, an increase in glucocorticoid levels and the downregulation of BDNF are supposed to be involved in the pathophysiology of depressive disorders. Previously, we reported that glucocorticoid exposure inhibited BDNF-regulated synaptic function via weakening mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase1/2 (MAPK/ERK) and/or phospholipase C-gamma (PLC-gamma) intracellular signaling in cultured neurons [Kumamaru et al (2008) Mol Endocrinol 22:546-558; Numakawa et al (2009) Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 106:647-652]. Therefore, in this study, we investigate the possible influence of glucocorticoid on BDNF/miRs-stimulated biological responses in cultured cortical neurons. Significant upregulation of miR-132 was caused by BDNF, although miR-9, -124, -128a, -128b, -134, -138, and -16 were intact. Transfection of exogenous ds-miR-132 induced marked upregulation of glutamate receptors (NR2A, NR2B, and GluR1), suggesting that miR-132 has a positive effect on the increase in postsynaptic proteins levels. Consistently, transfection of antisense RNA to inhibit miR-132 function decreased the BDNF-dependent increase in the expression of postsynaptic proteins. U0126, an inhibitor of the MAPK/ERK pathway, suppressed the BDNF-increased miR-132, suggesting that BDNF upregulates miR-132 via the MAPK/ERK1/2 pathway. Interestingly, pretreatment with glucocorticoid (dexamethasone, DEX) reduced BDNF-increased ERK1/2 activation, miR-132 expression, and postsynaptic proteins. We demonstrate that the exposure of neurons to an excess glucocorticoid results in a decrease in the BDNF-dependent neuronal function via suppressing miR-132 expression.
Ror1 and Ror2, a small family of tyrosine kinase receptors, have been implicated in multiple aspects of brain development in C. elegans and X. laevis. More recently, we have shown that these receptors modulate the rate of neurite elongation in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. However, no information is available regarding a potential role of these receptors in other developmental milestones in mammalian central neurons. Neither is the identity known of the Ror ligand(s) and/or the signal transduction pathway(s) in which they participate. Here we report that the down regulation of either Ror1 or Ror2 led to a significant decrease in synapse formation in cultured hippocampal neurons. Simultaneous targeting of Ror proteins, however, did not result in an additive phenotype. Our results also indicated that Ror1 and Ror2 physically interact in the mouse brain, suggesting that they might function as heterodimers in central neurons. In addition, these Ror complexes interacted with Wnt-5a mediating its effects on synaptogenesis. Together, these data suggest that Ror proteins play a key role in Wnt-5a-activated signaling pathways leading to synapse formation in the mammalian CNS.
During brain development neural stem cells may differentiate to neurons or to other cell types. The aim of this work was to assess the role of cGMP (cyclic GMP) in the modulation of differentiation of neural stem cells to neurons or non-neuronal cells. cGMP in brain of fetuses was reduced to 46% of controls by treating pregnant rats with nitroarginine-methylester (L-NAME) and was restored by co-treatment with sildenafil.Reducing cGMP during brain development leads to reduced differentiation of stem cells to neurons and increased differentiation to non-neuronal cells. The number of neurons in the prefrontal cortex originated from stem cells proliferating on gestational day 14 was 715+/-14/mm(2) in control rats and was reduced to 440+/-29/mm(2) (61% of control) in rats treated with L-NAME. In rats exposed to L-NAME plus sildenafil, differentiation to neurons was completely normalized, reaching 683+/-11 neurons/mm(2). In rats exposed to sildenafil alone the number of cells labelled with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and NeuN was 841+/-16/mm(2). In prefrontal cortex of control rats 48% of the neural stem cells proliferating in gestational day 14 differentiate to neurons, but only 24% in rats exposed to L-NAME. This was corrected by sildenafil, 40% of cells differentiate to neurons. Similar results were obtained for neurons proliferating during all developmental period. Treatment with L-NAME did not reduce the total number of cells labelled with BrdU, further supporting that L-NAME reduces selectively the differentiation of stem cells to neurons. Similar results were obtained in hippocampus. Treatment with L-NAME reduced the differentiation of neural stem cells to neurons, although the effect was milder than in prefrontal cortex. These results support that cGMP modulates the fate of neural stem cells in brain in vivo and suggest that high cGMP levels promote its differentiation to neurons while reduced cGMP levels promote differentiation to non-neuronal cells.
The transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1) receptor acts as a polymodal nociceptor activated by capsaicin, heat, and acid. TRPV1, which is expressed in sensory neurons innervating the oral cavity, is associated with an oral burning sensation in response to spicy food containing capsaicin. However, little is known about the involvement of TRPV1 in responses to acid stimuli in either the gustatory system or the general somatosensory innervation of the oropharynx. To test this possibility, we recorded electrophysiological responses to several acids (acetic acid, citric acid and HCl) and other taste stimuli from the mouse chorda tympani, glossopharyngeal and superior laryngeal nerves, and compared potential effects of iodo-resiniferatoxin (I-RTX), a potent TRPV1 antagonist, on chemical responses of the three nerves. The results indicated that in the chorda tympani nerve, I-RTX (1-100 nM) did not affect responses to acids, sucrose and quinine HCl, but reduced responses to NaCl (I-RTX at concentrations of 10 and 100 nM) and KCl and NH(4)Cl (100 nM). In contrast, in the glossopharyngeal nerve, I-RTX significantly suppressed responses to all acids and salts, but not to sucrose and quinine HCl. Responses to acetic acid were suppressed by I-RTX even at 0.1 nM concentration. The superior laryngeal nerve responded in a concentration-dependent manner to acetic acid, citric acid, HCl, KCl, NH(4)Cl and monosodium l-glutamate. The responses to acetic acid, but not to the other stimuli, were significantly inhibited by I-RTX. These results suggested that TRPV1 may be involved in the mechanism for responses to acids presented to the posterior oral cavity and larynx. This high degree of responsiveness to acetic acid may account for the oral burning sensation, known as a flavor characteristic of vinegar.
Tinnitus is a non-observable phantom sensation. As such, it is a difficult condition to investigate and, to date, no effective treatment has been developed. To approach this phantom sensation, we aimed to develop a rat behavioral model of tinnitus using salicylate, an active component of aspirin known to induce tinnitus. We also aimed to establish a molecular marker of tinnitus by assessing the expression of transient receptor potential cation channel superfamily V-1 (TRPV1) in the rat auditory pathway during salicylate-induced tinnitus. Animals were trained to perform &quot;an active avoidance task&quot;: animals were conditioned by electrical footshock to move to the other side of the conditioning box when hearing a sound. Animals received a single injection of saline or salicylate (400 mg/kg i.p.) and false positive responses were measured 2 h after injection as the number of movements during a silent period. The number of responses in salicylate-treated animals was highest when the conditioned stimulus was 60 dB sound pressure level (SPL) and 16 kHz. This indicates that animals could feel tinnitus 2 h after salicylate injection, equivalent to that induced by 60 dB SPL and 16 kHz. By means of real-time PCR and western blot analysis, TRPV1 expression was significantly upregulated in spiral ganglion cells 2 h after salicylate injection and this upregulation together with the increase in the number of false positive responses was significantly suppressed by capsazepine (10 mg/kg i.p.), a specific antagonist of TRPV1. This suggests that salicylate could induce tinnitus through activation of TRPV1 in the rat auditory pathway.
Hippocampal functioning, in the form of theta band oscillation, has been shown to modulate and predict cerebellar learning of which rabbit eyeblink conditioning is perhaps the most well-known example. The contribution of hippocampal neural activity to cerebellar learning is only possible if there is a functional connection between the two structures. Here, in the context of trace eyeblink conditioning, we show (1) that, in addition to the hippocampus, prominent theta oscillation also occurs in the cerebellum, and (2) that cerebellar theta oscillation is synchronized with that in the hippocampus. Further, the degree of phase synchrony (PS) increased both as a response to the conditioning stimuli and as a function of the relative power of hippocampal theta oscillation. However, the degree of PS did not change as a function of either training or learning nor did it predict learning rate as the hippocampal theta ratio did. Nevertheless, theta band synchronization might reflect the formation of transient neural assemblies between the hippocampus and the cerebellum. These findings help us understand how hippocampal function can affect eyeblink conditioning, during which the critical plasticity occurs in the cerebellum. Future studies should examine cerebellar unit activity in relation to hippocampal theta oscillations in order to discover the detailed mechanisms of theta-paced neural activity.
Dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) constitute the origin of major dopaminergic neural pathways associated with essential functions including reward, motivation and cognition. Hence, regulation of VTA DA neurons' excitability is of important significance. Like other neurons, the activity level of VTA DA neurons is considerably determined by excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs. Here we show that DA itself, the most available modulator in the VTA, causes an inhibition of GABA receptor type A (GABA(A)R)-mediated evoked-IPSC (eIPSC) recorded from rat VTA DA neurons. The DA-induced inhibition was accomplished by activation of DA receptors, known to inhibit adenylyl cyclase activity (D2-like receptors), and was absent when these receptors were blocked. Moreover, blocking of either GABA receptor type B (GABA(B)R) or G-protein coupled inwardly-rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels was also found to effectively prevent the DA-induced inhibition of GABA(A)R eIPSC. In addition, we found that DA changes the values of both paired-pulse ratio (PPR) and coefficient of variation (CV) of GABA(A)R eIPSC amplitude, similar to the changes obtained by lowering the extracellular calcium concentration. Taken together, we propose that activation of D2-like receptors and GABA(B)R in the VTA enhances presynaptic GIRK channels activity, which in turn leads to reduced GABA release. The consequence of reduced GABA release on VTA DA neurons may contribute to their increased activity. Accordingly, a novel potential regulatory form of VTA DA neurons' excitability, which involves presynaptic potassium channels, is proposed.
We investigated the effects of the neurosteroid 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) on the evoked and spontaneous activity of rat medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) neurons in brainstem slices. E(2) enhances the synaptic response to vestibular nerve stimulation in type B neurons and depresses the spontaneous discharge in both type A and B neurons. The amplitude of the field potential, as well as the excitatory post-synaptic potential (EPSP) and current (EPSC), in type B neurons, are enhanced by E(2). Both effects are long-term phenomena since they outlast the drug washout. The enhancement of synaptic response is mainly due to facilitation of glutamate release mediated by pre-synaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), since the reduction of paired pulse ratio (PPR) and the increase of miniature EPSC frequency after E(2) are abolished under D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5). E(2) also facilitates post-synaptic NMDARs, but it does not affect directly alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPARs) and group I-metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs-I). In contrast, the depression of the spontaneous discharge of type A and type B neurons appears to depend on E(2) modulation of intrinsic ion conductances, as the effect remains after blockade of glutamate, GABA and glycine receptors (GlyRs). The net effect of E(2) is to enhance the signal-to-noise ratio of the synaptic response in type B neurons, relative to resting activity of all MVN neurons. These findings provide evidence for a novel potential mechanism to modulate the responsiveness of vestibular neurons to afferent inputs, and so regulate vestibular function in vivo.
The modulation by serotonin (5-HT) of low- and high-threshold tetrodotoxin- (TTX) resistant Na(+) currents was studied in small-diameter (approximately 25 microm) acutely-isolated rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells. Each DRG cell included in the study was classified as type 2 or non-type 2, based on expression of a low-threshold A-type K(+) current. When cells of either type were recorded from using a CsF based internal solution and a holding potential (HP) of -80 mV, the apparent threshold for activation of TTX-resistant Na(+) currents ranged from -75 to -60 mV. A 500 ms prepulse to -60 mV greatly suppressed currents evoked by test potentials (TPs) to -75 through -35 mV. A similar scenario was observed when the CsF based internal solution was changed for one that contained CsCl, except that the apparent threshold of activation was shifted by about +25 mV, and currents evoked by TPs to -55 to -35 mV in the absence of a prepulse were much smaller than their counterparts observed with the CsF internal. These data suggest two types of TTX-resistant Na(+) currents; one with a low-threshold for activation that is enhanced by the presence of fluoride inside the cell and is inactivated by holding at -60 mV, and one with a higher threshold for activation that is not inactivated by holding at -60 mV. In type 2 DRG cells, 10 microM 5-HT upregulated low-threshold currents evoked by TPs to -55 to -35 mV from HP -80 mV, as well as high-threshold currents evoked by more depolarized TPs from HP -60 mV. However, when cells were held at -60 mV, 5-HT did not upregulate currents evoked by TPs to -35 or -30 mV, suggesting that the low-threshold current was nearly completely inactivated. Previous studies have suggested that type 2 DRG cells are nociceptor cell bodies. If 5-HT produces similar effects in type 2 DRG cell peripheral receptors, the upregulation of the low-threshold currents may serve to lower the threshold for nociception, while the upregulation of the high-threshold current may strengthen nociceptive signals.
The effects of neonatal visual deafferentation on the final adult pattern of cortico-collicular connections from the rat primary somatosensory cortex barrel field were studied by injecting an anterograde tracer (BDA) into different locations of the barrel cortex. Collicular afferents originating in the barrel cortex normally end in the intermediate collicular strata (SGI and SAI). However, neonatal visual deafferentation caused an invasion of abundant somatosensory cortical afferents into the lateral portions of the superficial collicular strata (SGS and SO). Moreover, anterograde-labelled fibers in the intermediate strata were more densely packed in visually deafferented animals. In order to study the activity of the altered somatosensory cortico-collicular connection, the effects of two different types of whisker stimuli on c-fos expression in the SC were analyzed (apomorphine treatment and enriched environment exploration). In stimulated control animals, c-fos expression was clearly evident in neurons of the intermediate layers 2 h after whisker stimulation. Similar stimulation in adult animals that underwent neonatal visual deafferentation triggered higher levels of c-fos expression in the superficial collicular layers that were invaded by cortico-collicular axonal branches. In exploration experiments, increased levels of c-fos expression were also detected in lateral parts of the intermediate layers of visually deafferented animals. These results suggest that the ascending fibers of somatosensory cortical origin can recruit deafferented superficial collicular neurons that enabling them to participate in extravisual behavioural responses mediated by collicular circuits.
Adolescence is a time period when major changes occur in the brain with long-term consequences for behavior. One ramification is altered responses to drugs of abuse, but the specific brain mechanisms and implications for mental health are poorly understood. Here, we used a mouse model in which adolescents display dramatically reduced sensitivity to the acute locomotor stimulating effects of cocaine and methamphetamine. The goal was to identify key brain regions or circuits involved in the differential behavior. Male adolescent (postnatal day (PN), 30-35) and young adult (PN, 69-74) C57BL/6J mice were administered an i.p. injection of cocaine (0, 15, 30 mg/kg) or methamphetamine (0, 2, 4 mg/kg) and euthanized 90 min later. Locomotor activity was monitored continuously in the home cage by video tracking. Immunohistochemical detection of Fos protein was used to quantify neuronal activation in 16 different brain regions. As expected, adolescents were less sensitive to the locomotor stimulating effects of cocaine and methamphetamine as indicated by a rightward shift in the dose response relationship. After a saline injection, adolescents showed similar levels of Fos as adults in all regions except the dorsal caudate (CPuD) and lateral caudate (CPuL) where levels were lower in adolescents. Cocaine and methamphetamine dose dependently increased Fos in all brain regions sampled in both adolescents and adults, but Fos levels were similar in both age groups for a majority of regions and doses. Locomotor activity was correlated with Fos in several brain areas within adolescent and adult groups, and adolescents had a significantly greater induction of Fos for a given amount of locomotor activity in key brain regions including the caudate where they showed reduced Fos under baseline conditions. Future research will identify the molecular and cellular events that are responsible for the differential psychostimulant-induced patterns of brain activation and behavior observed in adolescent versus adult mice.
Recently, the hematopoietic factor, granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF), has been shown to exhibit neuroprotective effects in CNS injuries. Our previous study demonstrated that intrathecal (i.t.) G-CSF significantly improved neurological defects in spinal cord ischemic rats. Considerable evidence indicates that the release of excessive amounts of excitatory amino acids (EAAs) plays a critical role in neuron injury induced by ischemic insult. In the present study, we used a spinal cord ischemia-microdialysis model to examine whether i.t. G-CSF exerted antiexcitotoxicity effects in a rat model of spinal cord ischemia. I.t. catheters and a microdialysis probe were implanted in male Wistar rats. The results revealed that spinal cord ischemia-induced neurological defects were accompanied by a significant increase in the concentration of EAAs (aspartate and glutamate) in the spinal dialysates from 30 min to 2 days after reperfusion. I.t administration of G-CSF immediately after the performance of surgery designed to induce ischemia led to a significant reduction in ischemia-induced increases in the levels of spinal EAAs. Moreover, i.t. G-CSF also brought about a significant reduction in the elevation of spinal EAA concentrations induced by exogenous i.t. administration of glutamate (10 microl of 500 mM). I.t. G-CSF attenuated spinal cord ischemia-induced downregulation of expression of three glutamate transporters (GTs), glial transporter Glu-Asp transporter (GLAST), Glu transporter-1 (GLT-1), and excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) protein 48 h after spinal cord ischemic surgery. Immunohistofluorescent staining showed that i.t. G-CSF significantly upregulated expression of the three GTs in the gray matter of the lumbar spinal cord from 3 to 24 h after injection. We propose that i.t. G-CSF possesses an ability to reduce the extent of spinal cord ischemia-induced excitotoxicity by inducing the expression of glutamate transporters.
We tested whether calcium-induced calcium release (CICR) contributes to synaptic release from rods in mammalian retina. Electron micrographs and immunofluorescent double labeling for the sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA2) and synaptic ribbon protein, ribeye, showed a close association between ER and synaptic ribbons in mouse rod terminals. Stimulating CICR with 10 microM ryanodine evoked Ca(2+) increases in rod terminals from mouse retinal slices visualized using confocal microscopy with the Ca(2+)-sensitive dye, Fluo-4. Ryanodine also stimulated membrane depolarization of individual mouse rods. Inhibiting CICR with a high concentration of ryanodine (100 microM) reduced the electroretinogram (ERG) b-wave but not a-wave consistent with inhibition of synaptic transmission from rods. Ryanodine (100 microM) also inhibited light-evoked voltage responses of individual rod bipolar cells (RBCs) and presumptive horizontal cells recorded with perforated patch recording techniques. A presynaptic site of action for ryanodine's effects is further indicated by the finding that ryanodine (100 microM) did not alter currents evoked in voltage-clamped RBCs by puffing the mGluR6 antagonist, (RS)-alpha-cyclopropyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine (CPPG), onto bipolar cell dendrites in the presence of the mGluR6 agonist L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4). Ryanodine (100 microM) also inhibited glutamatergic outward currents in RBCs evoked by electrical stimulation of rods using electrodes placed in the outer segment layer. Together, these results indicate that, like amphibian retina, CICR contributes to synaptic release from mammalian (mouse) rods. By boosting synaptic release in darkness, CICR may improve the detection of small luminance changes by post-synaptic neurons.
Several studies have reported the neuroprotective effects of lithium (Li) suggesting its potential in the treatment of neurological disorders, among of them amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Although the cause of motoneuron (MN) death in ALS remains unknown, there is evidence that glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity plays an important role. In the present study we used an organotypic culture system of chick embryo spinal cord to explore the presumptive neuroprotective effects of Li against kainate-induced excitotoxic MN death. We found that chronic treatment with Li prevented excitotoxic MN loss in a dose dependent manner and that this effect was mediated by the inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) signaling pathway. This neuroprotective effect of Li was potentiated by a combined treatment with riluzole. Nevertheless, MNs rescued by Li displayed structural changes including accumulation of neurofilaments, disruption of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and free ribosome loss, and accumulation of large dense core vesicles and autophagic vacuoles. Accompanying these changes there was an increase in immunostaining for (a) phosphorylated neurofilaments, (b) calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and (c) the autophagic marker LC3. Chronic Li treatment also resulted in a reduction in the excitotoxin-induced rise in intracellular Ca(2+) in MNs. In contrast to the neuroprotection against excitotoxicity, Li was not able to prevent normal programmed (apoptotic) MN death in the chick embryo when chronically administered in ovo. In conclusion, these results show that although Li is able to prevent excitotoxic MN death by targeting GSK-3beta, this neuroprotective effect is associated with conspicuous cytopathological changes.
Rett syndrome is a progressive neurodevelopmental disorder caused by mutations in the methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) gene. Previous reports have revealed serotonergic function to be altered in the medullas of patients with Rett syndrome and in an animal model of the disease. However, it has remained unclear whether a genetic loss of MeCP2 disrupts serotonergic innervation to the forebrain. In this study, we measured levels of monoamines by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection in selected regions of the forebrains of Mecp2-null mice (Mecp2-/y) and wild-type mice (Mecp2+/y) on postnatal day (P) 14, P28, P42 and P56. The levels of hippocampal serotonin (5-HT) and its main metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), were significantly lower in Mecp2-null mice than in age-matched wild-type mice on P28, P42 and P56. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed a loss of 5-HT-immunoreactive fibers in the Mecp2-null hippocampus on P56. By contrast, in the raphe region of Mecp2-null mice, there were significant decreases in 5-HT and noradrenaline levels, but these differences later disappeared and there was no change in the number of 5-HT-immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies. Furthermore, we conducted an experiment comparing HPLC measurements in presymptomatic heterozygous females (Mecp2+/-) and wild-type female littermates (Mecp2+/+) on P56. Significant decreases in hippocampal 5-HT and 5-HIAA contents in Mecp2-heterozygous mice were revealed, and these were not accompanied by changes in 5-HT or noradrenaline contents in the raphe region. Therefore, these results indicated decreases in serotonergic innervation to the hippocampus in Mecp2-null males and Mecp2 heterozygous females. We speculate that disturbances in serotonergic neurotransmission in the hippocampus may be linked to the behavioral abnormalities seen in Rett syndrome, such as increased anxiety-like behaviors and reduced exploratory locomotion. MeCP2 may be required for stable serotonergic homeostasis and serotonergic innervation to the hippocampus during postnatal development.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is a circadian oscillator and biological clock. Cell-to-cell communication is important for synchronization among SCN neuronal oscillators and the great majority of SCN neurons use GABA as a neurotransmitter, the principal inhibitory neurotransmitter in the adult CNS. Acting via the ionotropic GABA(A) receptor, a chloride ion channel, GABA typically evokes inhibitory responses in neurons via Cl(-) influx. Within the SCN GABA evokes both inhibitory and excitatory responses although the mechanism underlying GABA-evoked excitation in the SCN is unknown. GABA-evoked depolarization in immature neurons in several regions of the brain is a function of intracellular chloride concentration, regulated largely by the cation-chloride cotransporters NKCC1 (sodium/potassium/chloride cotransporter for chloride entry) and KCC1-4 (potassium/chloride cotransporters for chloride egress). It is well established that changes in the expression of the cation-chloride cotransporters through development determines the polarity of the response to GABA. To understand the mechanisms underlying GABA-evoked excitation in the SCN, we examined the SCN expression of cation-chloride cotransporters. Previously we reported that the K(+)/Cl(-) cotransporter KCC2, a neuron-specific chloride extruder conferring GABA's more typical inhibitory effects, is expressed exclusively in vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) neurons in the SCN. Here we report that the K(+)/Cl(-) cotransporter isoforms KCC4 and KCC3 are expressed solely in vasopressin (VP) neurons in the rat SCN whereas KCC1 is expressed in VIP neurons, similar to KCC2. NKCC1 is expressed in VIP, GRP and VP neurons in the SCN as is WNK3, a chloride-sensitive neuron-specific with no serine-threonine kinase which modulates intracellular chloride concentration via opposing actions on NKCC and KCC cotransporters. The heterogeneous distribution of cation-chloride cotransporters in the SCN suggests that Cl(-) levels are differentially regulated within VIP/GRP and VP neurons. We suggest that GABA's excitatory action is more likely to be evoked in VP neurons that express KCC4.
The volume homeostasis of retinal glial cells is mediated by an autocrine purinergic mechanism of ion channel opening which is activated in response to a decrease in the extracellular osmolarity. Here, we show that erythropoietin (EPO) prevents the osmotic swelling of glial somata in retinal slices and of isolated glial cells from control and diabetic rats, with a half-maximal effect at approximately 0.01 nM. The downstream signaling evoked by EPO includes a release of vascular endothelial growth factor from the cells which was blocked by Janus kinase and extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK)1/2 inhibitors. Transactivation of kinase insert domain-containing receptor/fms-like tyrosine kinase 1 (KDR/flk-1) evokes a calcium-dependent, exocytotic release of glutamate, followed by activation of group I/II metabotropic glutamate receptors which results in calcium-independent release of ATP and adenosine from the cells. The final step in this cascade is the activation of adenosine A(1) receptors which results in protein kinase A- and phosphoinositide 3-kinase-mediated opening of potassium and chloride channels. EPO receptor protein was immunohistochemically localized to the inner retina and photoreceptor inner segments. In isolated glial cells, EPO receptor protein is selectively localized to fibers which traverse the inner nuclear layer in situ. Inhibition of glial swelling might contribute to the neuroprotective action of EPO in the retina under pathological conditions.
Plasticity at corticostriatal synapses is thought to underlie both normal and aberrant forms of reinforcement-driven learning. Studies in brain slices have found bidirectional, spike-timing dependent plasticity in striatum; however it is not known whether similar rules govern corticostriatal plasticity in awake behaving animals. To assess whether behavioral state is a key regulator of plasticity in this pathway, we examined the effects of 5 Hz cortical stimulation trains on evoked striatal field potentials, in either anesthetized or awake, unrestrained rats. Consistent with prior studies we observed long-term potentiation in intact, barbiturate-anesthetized animals. However, when an identical stimulation pattern was applied to the same animals while awake, long-term depression was observed instead. Our results demonstrate that the rules governing corticostriatal plasticity depend critically on behavioral state, and suggest that the dynamic context of cortical-basal ganglia loops must be considered while investigating synaptic mechanisms underlying reinforcement learning and neurological disorders.
Despite known health risks, nicotine use remains high, especially in populations diagnosed with mental illnesses, including anxiety disorders and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Smoking in these populations may relate to the effects of nicotine on emotional memories. The current study examined the effects of nicotine administration on the extinction of conditioned fear memories. C57BL/6J mice were trained with two white noise conditioned stimulus (CS; 30 s, 85 dB)-foot shock (2 s, 0.57 mA) pairings. Extinction sessions consisted of six presentations of the CS (60 s) across multiple days. Mice were either tested in an AAA design, in which all stages occurred in the same context, or in an ABA design to identify if context changes alter extinction. Saline or nicotine was administered 5 min before training and/or extinction. In the AAA design, nicotine administration before training did not alter extinction. Nicotine administered prior to extinction sessions enhanced extinction and nicotine administered before training and extinction decreased extinction. In the ABA design, nicotine administered before extinction enhanced extinction and blocked context renewal of conditioned fear, while nicotine administered during training and extinction did not alter extinction but enhanced the context renewal of conditioned fear. Nicotine has a differential effect on extinction of fear conditioning depending on when it is administered. Administration during extinction enhances extinction whereas administration during training and extinction may strengthen contextual fear memories and interfere with extinction.
Previous findings suggest that neuroadaptations downstream of D-1 dopamine (DA) receptor stimulation in nucleus accumbens (NAc) are involved in the enhancement of drug reward by chronic food restriction (FR). Given the high co-expression of D-1 and GluR1 AMPA receptors in NAc, and the regulation of GluR1 channel conductance and trafficking by D-1-linked intracellular signaling cascades, the present study examined effects of the D-1 agonist, SKF-82958, on NAc GluR1 phosphorylation, intracranial electrical self-stimulation reward (ICSS), and reversibility of reward effects by a polyamine GluR1 antagonist, 1-NA-spermine, in ad libitum fed (AL) and FR rats. Systemically administered SKF-82958, or brief ingestion of a 10% sucrose solution, increased NAc GluR1 phosphorylation on Ser845, but not Ser831, with a greater effect in FR than AL rats. Microinjection of SKF-82958 in NAc shell produced a reward-potentiating effect that was greater in FR than AL rats, and was reversed by co-injection of 1-NA-spermine. GluR1 abundance in whole cell and synaptosomal fractions of NAc did not differ between feeding groups, and microinjection of AMPA, while affecting ICSS, did not exert greater effects in FR than AL rats. These results suggest a role of NAc GluR1 in the reward-potentiating effect of D-1 DA receptor stimulation and its enhancement by FR. Moreover, GluR1 involvement appears to occur downstream of D-1 DA receptor stimulation rather than reflecting a basal increase in GluR1 expression or function. Based on evidence that phosphorylation of GluR1 on Ser845 primes synaptic strengthening, the present results may reflect a mechanism via which FR normally facilitates reward-related learning to re-align instrumental behavior with environmental contingencies under the pressure of negative energy balance.
GABA(A) functioning has been implicated in anxiety and depressive disorders. In this regard, we suggested that in addition to analyzing GABA(A) and the subunits that comprise the GABA(A) receptor, it might be profitable to assess the coordinated expression of subunits that comprise the GABA(A) receptor cassette. We demonstrate that certain subunits within stress-sensitive brain regions were higher in stressor reactive BALB/cByJ than in hardy C57BL/6ByJ mice, and that a chronic, intermittent, variable stressor (6 days/week over 7 weeks) differentially influenced subunit expression in these strains. Further, mRNA expression of GABA(A) subunits were highly coordinated (inter-correlated), and markedly altered by stressors, once again varying with brain region. At the central amygdala of BALB/cByJ mice the ordinarily high subunit inter-relations were reduced in acutely stressed mice, and this outcome was exacerbated with a chronic stressor. In C57BL/6ByJ mice subunit inter-relations were lower than in BALB/cByJ mice; the acute stressor increased subunit organization, which returned to control levels with following a chronic stressor. The profile of amygdala subunit inter-relations was recapitulated in a step-down behavioral test; anxiety was increased by acute and chronic stressors in BALB/cByJ mice, but in the C57BL/6ByJ strain the elevated anxiety associated with an acute stressor was not apparent after chronic stressor treatment. The anxiety could be dissociated from apparent anhedonia (reflected by free sucrose consumption) where the preference for sucrose was reduced by an acute stressor, but this outcome was more pronounced following a chronic stressor, especially in BALB/cByJ mice. These findings support the view that analyses involving subunit organization, rather than just differences in absolute levels, may be expedient in assessing GABA(A) functioning in stressor-related psychological disturbances.
Brain injury is associated with neuroinflammation, neurodegeneration, and also blood coagulation with thrombin formation and generation of activated protein C (APC). We have previously shown that APC, a serine protease of hemostasis, at very low concentrations has protective effects in rat hippocampal and cortical neurons at glutamate-induced excitotoxicity through protease-activated receptor-1 (PAR-1) or endothelial receptor of protein C (EPCR)/PAR-1. The transcription factor nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) takes part in regulating neuronal survival in several pathological conditions. To elucidate the impact of NF-kappaB in APC-mediated cell survival, we investigated nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB p65 at glutamate- or thrombin-induced toxicity in hippocampal neurons. We used immunoassay and immunostaining with confocal microscopy with anti-NF-kappaBp65 antibody. We show that APC at concentrations as low as 1-2 nM inhibits translocation of NF-kappaB p65 into the nucleus of cultured rat hippocampal neurons, induced by 100 muM glutamate or 50 nM thrombin (but not 10 nM). The blocking effect of APC on NF-kappaB p65 translocation was observed at 1 and 4 h after treatment of neurons with glutamate, when the NF-kappaBp 65 level in the nucleus was significantly above the basal level. Then we investigated whether the binding of APC to EPCR/PAR-1 is required to control NF-kappaB activation. Antibodies blocking PAR-1 (ATAP2) or EPCR (P-20) abolished the APC-induced decrease of nuclear level of NF-kappaB p65 at glutamate-induced toxicity, whereas control antibodies to PAR-1 (S-19) and EPCR (IgG) exerted no effect. Thus, we suggest that the activation of NF-kappaB in rat hippocampal neurons mediates the glutamate- and thrombin-activated cell death program, which is reduced by exposure of cells to APC. APC induces the reduction of the nuclear level of NF-kappaB p65 in hippocampal neurons at glutamate-induced excitotoxicity via binding to EPCR and subsequent PAR-1 activation and signaling.
Stress responses are elicited by a variety of stimuli and are aimed at counteracting direct or perceived threats to the well-being of an organism. In the mammalian central and peripheral nervous systems, specific cell groups constitute signaling circuits that indicate the presence of a stressor and elaborate an adequate response. Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is expressed in central and peripheral parts of these circuits and has recently been identified as a candidate for regulation of the stress axis. In the present experiments, we tested the involvement of PACAP in the response to a psychological stressor in vivo. We used a restraint paradigm and compared PACAP-deficient mice (PACAP-/-) to wild-type controls (PACAP+/+). Acute secretion of corticosterone elicited by 1 h of restraint was found to be identical between genotypes, whereas sustained secretion provoked by 6 h of unrelieved restraint was 48% lower in PACAP-/-mice. Within the latter time frame, expression of messenger RNA (mRNA) encoding corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) was increased in the hypothalamus of wild type, but not PACAP-deficient mice. Expression of the activity-regulated transcription factors Egr1 (early growth response 1) and Fos (FBJ osteosarcoma oncogene) in the hypothalamus was rapidly and transiently induced by restraint in a PACAP-dependent fashion, a pattern that was also found in the adrenal glands. Here, abundance of transcripts encoding enzymes required for adrenomedullary catecholamine biosynthesis, namely TH (tyrosine hydroxylase) and PNMT (phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase), was higher in PACAP+/+ mice after 6 h of unrelieved restraint. Our results suggest that sustained corticosterone secretion, synthesis of the hypophysiotropic hormone CRH in the hypothalamus, and synthesis of the enzymes producing the hormone adrenaline in the adrenal medulla, are controlled by PACAP signaling in the mouse. These findings identify PACAP as a major contributor to the stimulus-secretion-synthesis coupling that supports stress responses in vivo.
In many rodent species, such as Syrian hamsters, reproductive behavior requires neural integration of chemosensory information and steroid hormone cues. The medial amygdala (MA) processes both of these signals through anatomically distinct sub-regions; the anterior region (MeA) receives substantial chemosensory input, but contains few steroid receptor-labeled neurons, whereas the posterodorsal region (MePD) receives less chemosensory input, but contains a dense population of steroid receptors. Importantly, these sub-regions have considerable reciprocal connections, and the goal of this experiment was therefore to determine whether interactions between MeA and MePD are required for male hamsters' preference to investigate female over male odors. To functionally disconnect MeA and MePD, males received unilateral lesions of MeA and MePD within opposite brain hemispheres. Control males received either unilateral lesions of MeA and MePD within the same hemisphere or sham surgery. Odor preferences were measured using a 3-choice apparatus, which simultaneously presented female, male and clean odor stimuli; all tests were done under conditions that either prevented or allowed contact with the odor sources. Under non-contact conditions, males with asymmetrical lesions investigated female and male odors equally, whereas males in both control groups preferred to investigate female odors. Under contact conditions, all groups investigated female odors longer than male odors, although males with asymmetrical lesions displayed decreased investigation of female odors compared to sham males. These data suggest that MeA-MePD interactions are critical for processing primarily the volatile components of social odors and highlight the importance of input from the main olfactory system (MOS) to these nuclei in the regulation of reproductive behavior. More broadly, these results support the role of the MA in integrating chemosensory and hormone information, a process that may underlie social odor processing in a variety of behavioral contexts.
Executive working memory operations are related to prefrontal regions in the healthy brain. Moreover, neuroimaging data provide evidence for a functional dissociation of ventrolateral and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Most authors either suggest a modality-specific or a function-specific prefrontal cortex organization. In the present study we particularly aimed at the identification of different prefrontal cerebral areas that are involved in executive inhibitory processes during spatial working memory encoding. In an fMRI study (functional magnetic resonance imaging) we examined the neural correlates of spatial working memory processing by varying the amount of executive demands of the task. Twenty healthy volunteers performed the Corsi Block-Tapping test (CBT) during fMRI. The CBT requires the storage and reproduction of spatial target sequences. In a second condition, we presented an adapted version of the Block-Suppression-Test (BST). The BST is based on the original CBT but additionally requires the active suppression of visual distraction within the target sequences. In comparison to the CBT performance, particularly the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (BA 9) showed more activity during the BST condition. Our results show that the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex plays a crucial role for executive controlled inhibition of spatial distraction. Furthermore, our findings are in line with the processing model of a functional dorsolateral-ventrolateral prefrontal cortex organization.
Functional and morphological differences between temporary (TTS) and permanent (PTS) hearing loss induced by acoustic trauma are well characterized whereas molecular differences remain to be elucidated. A comparative analysis of the expression of the phosphorylated forms of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2), c-jun-N-terminal kinases 1/2 (JNK1/2) and p38 in the mouse cochlea after acoustic trauma resulting in either a temporary or permanent damage is presented. In the acute phase of PTS an upregulation of phosphorylated p38, JNK1/2, and ERK1/2 was found while in the acute phase of TTS a downregulation of phospho-p38 occurred and no immediate change of pJNK1/2 and pERK1/2 was noted. After a 24 h recovery from TTS JNK1/2 and ERK1/2 was activated while the expression of phospho-p38 was downregulated. In contrast PTS group showed complete recovery to control values for all three MAPKs by 24 h post. The level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a potent otoprotective agent, was elevated after both types of acoustic trauma but the elevation after permanent trauma was of a longer duration. The expression of BDNF receptor's TrkB (truncated form) was downregulated only after permanent hearing loss. Thus, temporary and permanent hearing loss demonstrate different expression patterns and temporal aspects of MAPK, BDNF and TrkB in the cochlea. The results of this study will help reveal the cellular mechanisms underlying hearing loss induced by acoustic trauma.
The role of human medial temporal structures in fear conditioning has led to the suggestion that neurons in these structures might respond to painful stimuli. We have now tested the hypothesis that recordings from these structures will demonstrate potentials related to the selective activation of cutaneous nociceptors by a painful laser stimulus (laser evoked potential, LEP) (Kenton B, Coger R, Crue B, Pinsky J, Friedman Y, Carmon A (1980) Neurosci Lett 17:301-306). Recordings were carried out through electrodes implanted bilaterally in these structures for the investigation of intractable epilepsy. Reproducible LEPs were commonly recorded both bilaterally and unilaterally, while LEPs were recorded at contacts on the left (9/14, P=0.257) as commonly as on the right (5/14), independent of the hand stimulated. Along electrodes traversing the amygdala the majority of LEPs were recorded from dorsal contacts near the central nucleus of the amygdala and the nucleus basalis. Stimulus evoked changes in theta activity were observed at contacts on the right at which isolated early negative LEPs (N2*) responses could be recorded. Contacts at which LEPs could be recorded were as commonly located in medial temporal structures with evidence of seizure activity as on those without. These results demonstrate the presence of pain-related inputs to the medial temporal lobe where they may be involved in associative learning to produce anxiety and disability related to painful stimuli.
The gamma isoform of protein kinase C (PKCgamma) is an injury-activated intracellular modulator that boosts neuronal activity in algesic and neuroregenerative signalling pathways. Acetyl-L-carnitine (ALCAR), a physiological compound with role in bioenergetic functions, shows an antihyperalgesic effect and at the same time can exert neuroregenerative and neuroprotective effects. Aimed to explore the link between pain and neuroregeneration, the effect of ALCAR treatment (100 mg kg(-1) i.p. twice daily for 15 days) on PKCgamma and mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) expression has been evaluated in CCI (chronic constriction injury) rats. The sciatic nerve and the lumbar tract of the spinal cord were processed to evaluate the levels of the phosphorylated form of PKCgamma, ERK 1,2, SAP/JNK, p-38 and c-Jun; furthermore, the mRNA expression of the early genes c-Jun and c-Fos has been investigated. Fifteen days after injury, the analysis in the sciatic nerves highlighted a bilateral increase of the activated forms of PKCgamma, ERK 1,2 and SAP/JNK, whereas c-Jun showed an increase only ipsilaterally. ALCAR completely prevented mechanical hyperalgesia and provoked in the nerve a c-Jun increment only. In the lumbar tract of the spinal cord, higher levels of activated PKCgamma, ERK 1,2, p38, SAP/JNK and c-Jun proteins were detected in the ipsilateral side in respect of sham. ALCAR was able to stimulate this expression profile. At the transcriptional level c-Jun mRNA was increased in the ipsilateral side of spinal cord of CCI saline-treated rats, whereas c-Fos mRNA was unchanged. ALCAR had a stimulatory effect on both these early genes. These findings may represent a different approach in the study of the complex balance between pain and neuroregeneration and could constitute the basis for developing new disease modifying agents in the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Amygdala dysfunction has been reported among patients with various psychiatric disorders, and dopamine is critical to the amygdala's ability to mediate fear conditioning. Recent work indicates that the midbrain dopaminergic neurons have heterogeneous receptor and membrane channel profiles, as well as differential physiologic responses to discrete stimuli. To begin understanding how dopamine affects amygdala physiology and pathology in higher primates, we mapped the inputs from the midbrain dopaminergic neurons to various amygdala nuclei in the monkey using retrograde and anterograde tracing techniques, and single and double immunofluorescence histochemistry for tracer and tyrosine hydroxylase, a dopamine marker. Our results show that the primate amygdala as a whole receives broad input, mostly from the dorsal tier of the substantia nigra, pars compacta, and the A8-retrorubral field. Input from the A10-ventral tegmental area, while present, was less prominent. These results differ from data in the rat, where the midline A10-ventral tegmental area is a major source of dopamine to the amygdala &quot;mesolimbic&quot; pathway. Both the &quot;amygdala proper&quot; and the &quot;extended amygdala&quot; receive the majority of their input from the dorsal tier of the substantia nigra and A8-retrorubral field, but the extended amygdala receives additional modest input from the ventral tier. In addition, the &quot;extended amygdala&quot; structures have a denser input than the &quot;amygdala proper,&quot; with the exception of the lateral core of the central nucleus, which receives no input. Our anterograde studies confirm these findings, and revealed fine, diffuse terminal fibers in the amygdala proper, but a denser network of fibers in the extended amygdala outside the lateral core of the central nucleus. These results indicate that the entire extent of the dorsal tier beyond the A10-ventral tegmental area may regulate the amygdala in primates, and subsequently serve as a source of dysfunction in primate psychopathology.
Experience with behavioral control over tailshock (escapable shock, ES) has been shown to block the behavioral and neurochemical changes produced by later uncontrollable tail shock (inescapable shock, IS). The present experiments tested, in rats, whether the protective effect of control over tailshock extends beyond reducing the behavioral and neurochemical impact of a subsequent tailshock experience to stressors that are quite different. Social defeat (SD) was chosen as the second stress experience because it has few if any cues in common with tailshock. SD produced shuttlebox escape learning deficits (&quot;learned helplessness&quot;) and reduced juvenile social investigation 24 h later, as does IS. IS is notable for inducing a large increase in dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) serotonergic (5-HT) activity as measured by extracellular levels of 5-HT within the DRN, and SD did so as well. ES occurring 7 days before SD blocked this SD-induced DRN activation, as well as the SD-induced interference with shuttlebox escape and reduction in social investigation. Prior exposure to yoked IS did not reduce the DRN 5-HT activation or later behavioral effects produced by SD, and thus the proactive stress-blunting effects of ES can be attributed to it's controllability. Thus, ES confers a very general protection to the impact of a subsequent stress experience.
Although peripheral immune cells infiltrate ischemic infarct tissue and elicit immune injury, the role of Cytotoxic T Lymphocytes (CTLs) and the toxins they release in mediating neuronal death is not well understood. Granzyme-b (Gra-b), a serine protease found in the cytoplasmic granules of CTLs and natural killer cells, plays an important role in inducing target cell death by activating several caspases and by initiating caspase-independent pathways that contribute to target cell death. To determine if CTLs and Gra-b are involved in post-ischemic cerebral cell death; we investigated the role of CD8(+) CTLs and Gra-b in ischemic rat brain infarct after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) and in sham-operated animals. We observed that CTLs infiltrate the ischemic infarct within 1 h of reperfusion. There was a significant increase in Gra-b levels in the ischemic region starting from 1 h until 3 day which correlated with increased levels of chemokines (IP-10/CXCL10, IL-2) and TNF-alpha. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments show that Gra-b interacts with Bid, PARP, and caspase-3 in ischemic samples. Immunofluorescence analysis of Gra-b and TUNEL showed that Gra-b is present both in apoptotic and necrotic cells. Triple immunostaining further confirmed that the Gra-b positive degenerating cells were neurons. CTLs in close spatial proximity to degenerating neurons, increased levels of Gra-b, localization in neurons positive for TUNEL, and interaction with other pro-apoptotic proteins indicate that Gra-b and CTLs play a significant role in neuronal death following cerebral ischemia in the rat brain after tMCAO. Based on the above findings we support our hypothesis that Gra-b secreted from activated CTLs might be involved in aggravating post-ischemic damage by mediating neuronal death.
Influenza-associated encephalopathy (IAE) is characterized by severe neurological complications during high-grade fever with high morbidity and mortality in children. The major neurological complications during high-grade fever include convulsive seizures, loss of consciousness, neuropsychiatric behavior (hallucination, meaningless speech, disorientation, laughing alone); high voltage amplitude slow waves and the occurrence of theta oscillation are depicted on the electroencephalogram (EEG) in the IAE patients. At the early phase of the disease, the cytokines levels increase in severe cases. To understand the neuronal properties in the CNS leading to these neurological complications in IAE patients, we recorded EEG signals from the hippocampus and cortex of rats infected with influenza A/WSN/33 H1N1 virus (IAV) strain. Abnormal EEG activities were observed in all infected rats under anesthesia, including high voltage EEG burst amplitude and increased EEG spikes in the early phase (8 h-day 2) of infection, and these increases at the early phase were in parallel with a significant increase level of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in the serum. When the infected rats were heat-stressed by elevating the rat body core temperature to 39-41 degrees C, these abnormal EEG activities were enhanced, and the oscillation pattern shifted in most of rats from slow bursting waves (&lt;1 Hz) to theta oscillation (3-6 Hz). These results indicate that the abnormal EEG activities in IAE patients could be well reproduced in anesthetized IAV infected rats under hyperthermia, hence this animal model will be useful for further understandings the mechanism of neuronal complications in IAE patient during high-grade fever.



Visceral afferents play a key role in neural circuits underlying the physiological function of visceral organs. They are responsible for the detection and transmission of a variety of visceral sensations (e.g. satiety, urge, discomfort and pain) from the viscera to the central nervous system. A comprehensive account of the different functional types of visceral sensory neurons would be invaluable in understanding how sensory dysfunction occurs and how it might be diagnosed and treated. Our aim was to explore the morphology of different nerve endings of visceral afferents within the gastrointestinal tract and urinary bladder and how the morphology of these nerve endings may relate to their functional properties. Morphological studies of mechanosensitive endings of visceral afferents to the gut and bladder correlated with physiological recordings have added a new dimension to our ability to distinguish different functional classes of visceral afferents.
Eribulin mesylate (E7389), a synthetic analogue of the marine natural product halichondrin B, is in phase III clinical trials for the treatment of cancer. Eribulin targets microtubules, suppressing dynamic instability at microtubule plus ends through an inhibition of microtubule growth with little or no effect on shortening [Jordan, M. A., et al. (2005) Mol. Cancer Ther. 4, 1086-1095]. Using [(3)H]eribulin, we found that eribulin binds soluble tubulin at a single site; however, this binding is complex with an overall K(d) of 46 microM, but also showing a real or apparent very high affinity (K(d) = 0.4 microM) for a subset of 25% of the tubulin. Eribulin also binds microtubules with a maximum stoichiometry of 14.7 +/- 1.3 molecules per microtubule (K(d) = 3.5 microM), strongly suggesting the presence of a relatively high-affinity binding site at microtubule ends. At 100 nM, the concentration that inhibits microtubule plus end growth by 50%, we found that one molecule of eribulin is bound per two microtubules, indicating that the binding of a single eribulin molecule at a microtubule end can potently inhibit its growth. Eribulin does not suppress dynamic instability at microtubule minus ends. Preincubation of microtubules with 2 or 4 microM vinblastine induced additional lower-affinity eribulin binding sites, most likely at splayed microtubule ends. Overall, our results indicate that eribulin binds with high affinity to microtubule plus ends and thereby suppresses dynamic instability.
Stress-like symptoms are an integral part of acute and protracted drug withdrawal, and several lines of evidence have shown that dysregulation of brain stress systems, including the extrahypothalamic corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) system, following long-term drug use is of major importance in maintaining drug and alcohol addiction. Recently, two other neuropeptide systems have attracted interest, the nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) and orexin/hypocretin (Orx/Hcrt) systems. N/OFQ participates in a wide range of physiological responses, and the hypothalamic Orx/Hcrt system helps regulate several physiological processes, including feeding, energy metabolism, and arousal. Moreover, these two systems have been suggested to participate in psychiatric disorders, including anxiety and drug addiction. Dysregulation of these systems by chronic drug exposure has been hypothesized to play a role in the maintenance of addiction and dependence. Recent evidence demonstrated that interactions between CRF-N/OFQ and CRF-Orx/Hcrt systems may be functionally relevant for the control of stress-related addictive behavior. The present review discusses recent findings that support the hypotheses of the participation and dysregulation of these systems in drug addiction and evaluates the current understanding of interactions among these stress-regulatory peptides.
The hypocretins (Hcrts), also called orexins, are two neuropeptides secreted by a few thousand neurons restricted to the lateral hypothalamus. The Hcrt peptides bind to two receptors located in nuclei associated with diverse cognitive and physiological functions. Experimental evidence has demonstrated that the physiological roles of hypocretins extend far beyond its initial role in food consumption and has emerged as a key system in the fields of sleep disorders and drug addiction. Here, we discuss recent evidence demonstrating a key role of hypocretin in the motivation for reward seeking in general, and drug taking in particular, and we delineate a physiological framework for this peptidergic system in orchestrating the appropriate levels of alertness required for the elaboration and the execution of goal-oriented behaviors. We propose a general role for hypocretins in mediating arousal, especially when an organism must respond to unexpected stressors and environmental challenges, which serve to shape survival behaviors. We also discuss the limit of the current experimental paradigms to address the question of how a system normally involved in the regulation of vigilance states and hyperarousal may promote a pathological state that elicits compulsive craving and relapse to drug seeking.
Orexins (synonymous with hypocretins) are recently discovered neuropeptides made exclusively in hypothalamus. Behavioral, anatomical, and neurophysiological studies show that a subset of these cells, specifically those in lateral hypothalamus (LH), are involved in reward processing and addictive behaviors. Fos expression in LH orexin neurons varied in proportion to conditioned place preference (CPP) for morphine, cocaine, or food. This relationship occurred both in drug-nave rats and in animals during protracted morphine withdrawal, when drug preference was elevated but food preference was decreased. Inputs to the LH orexin cell field from lateral septum and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis were Fos-activated during cocaine CPP in proportion to the preference expressed in each animal. This implies that these inputs may be involved in driving the conditioned responses in LH orexin neurons. Related studies showed that LH orexin neurons that project to ventral tegmental area (VTA) had greater Fos induction in association with elevated morphine preference during protracted withdrawal than non-VTA-projecting orexin neurons, indicating that the VTA is an important site of action for orexin's role in reward processing. In addition, stimulation of LH orexin neurons, or microinjection of orexin into VTA, reinstated an extinguished morphine preference. In self-administration studies, the orexin 1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 (SB) blocked cocaine-seeking induced by discrete or contextual cues previously associated with cocaine, but not by a priming injection of cocaine. There was no effect of SB on cocaine self-administration itself, indicating that it did not interfere with the drug's reinforcing properties. Neurophysiological studies revealed that locally applied orexin often augmented responses of VTA dopamine (DA) neurons to activation of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), consistent with the view that orexin facilitates activation of VTA DA neurons by stimulus-reward associations. This LH-to-VTA orexin pathway was found to be necessary for learning a morphine place preference. These findings are consistent with results showing that orexin facilitates glutamate-mediated responses, and is necessary for glutamate-dependent long-term potentiation in VTA DA neurons. We surmise from these studies that LH orexin neurons play an important role in reward processing and addiction and that LH orexin cells are an important input to VTA for behavioral effects associated with reward-paired stimuli.
The interaction between the stress axis and endogenous opioid systems has gained substantial clinical attention as it is increasingly recognized that stress predisposes to opiate abuse. For example, stress has been implicated as a risk factor in vulnerability to the initiation and maintenance of opiate abuse and is thought to play an important role in relapse in subjects with a history of abuse. Numerous reports indicating that stress alters individual sensitivity to opiates suggest that prior stress can influence the pharmacodynamics of opiates that are used in clinical settings. Conversely, the effects of opiates on different components of the stress axis can impact on individual responsivity to stressors and potentially predispose individuals to stress-related psychiatric disorders. One site at which opiates and stress substrates may interact to have global effects on behavior is within the locus coeruleus (LC), the major brain norepinephrine (NE)-containing nucleus. This review summarizes our current knowledge regarding the anatomical and neurochemical afferent regulation of the LC. It then presents physiological studies demonstrating opposing interactions between opioids and stress-related neuropeptides in the LC and summarizes results showing that chronic morphine exposure sensitizes the LC-NE system to corticotropin releasing factor and stress. Finally, new evidence for novel presynaptic actions of kappa-opioids on LC afferents is provided that adds another dimension to our model of how this central NE system is co-regulated by opioids and stress-related peptides.
The effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on cocaine-seeking are brain region-specific. Infusion of BDNF into subcortical structures, like the nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area, enhances cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization and cocaine-seeking. Conversely, repeated administration of BDNF antiserum into the nucleus accumbens during chronic cocaine self-administration attenuates cocaine-induced reinstatement. In contrast, BDNF infusion into the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex immediately following a final session of cocaine self-administration attenuates relapse to cocaine-seeking after abstinence, as well as cue- and cocaine prime-induced reinstatement of cocaine-seeking following extinction. BDNF-induced alterations in the ERK-MAP kinase cascade and in prefronto-accumbens glutamatergic transmission are implicated in BDNF's ability to alter cocaine-seeking. Within 22 hours after infusion into the prefrontal cortex, BDNF increases BDNF protein in prefrontal cortical targets, including nucleus accumbens, and restores cocaine-mediated decreases in phospho-ERK expression in the nucleus accumbens. Furthermore, 3 weeks after BDNF infusion in animals with a cocaine self-administration history, suppressed basal levels of glutamate are normalized and a cocaine prime-induced increase in extracellular glutamate levels in the nucleus accumbens is prevented. Thus, BDNF may have local effects at the site of infusion and distal effects in target areas that are critical to mediating or preventing cocaine-induced dysfunctional neuroadaptations.
The basal forebrain cholinergic system (BFCS) plays a role in several aspects of attentional function. Activation of this system by different afferent inputs is likely to influence how attentional resources are allocated. While it has been recognized for some time that the hypothalamus is a significant source of projections to the basal forebrain, the phenotype(s) of these inputs and the conditions under which their regulation of the BFCS becomes functionally relevant are still unclear. The cell bodies of neurons expressing orexin/hypocretin neuropeptides are restricted to the lateral hypothalamus and contiguous perifornical area but have widespread projections, including to the basal forebrain. Orexin fibers and both orexin receptor subtypes are distributed in cholinergic parts of the basal forebrain, where application of orexin peptides increases cell activity and cortical acetylcholine release. Furthermore, disruption of orexin signaling in the basal forebrain impairs the cholinergic response to an appetitive stimulus. In this review, we propose that orexin inputs to the BFCS form an anatomical substrate for links between arousal and attention, and that these interactions might be particularly important as a means by which interoceptive cues bias allocation of attentional resources toward related exteroceptive stimuli. Dysfunction in orexin-acetylcholine interactions may play a role in the arousal and attentional deficits that accompany neurodegenerative conditions as diverse as drug addiction and age-related cognitive decline.
Orexins (hypocretins) are found primarily within a restricted portion of neurons within the hypothalamus, but provide innervation across the neuraxis. Orexin A (hypocretin 1) has been implicated in drug and food reward. Not surprisingly therefore, interest has come to bear on whether orexins are implicated in aspects of alcohol consumption and/or seeking. This mini-review provides a concise, but timely, discussion on this issue. The evidence to date would suggest a role for orexins in alcohol use, and integration of orexin-containing neurons in reward-seeking circuitry. There are however still many unanswered questions, some of which are canvassed herein.



D-aspartic acid is abundant in the developing brain. We have identified and cloned mammalian aspartate racemase (DR), which converts L-aspartate to D-aspartate and colocalizes with D-aspartate in the brain and neuroendocrine tissues. Depletion of DR by retrovirus-mediated expression of short-hairpin RNA in newborn neurons of the adult hippocampus elicits profound defects in the dendritic development and survival of newborn neurons and survival. Because D-aspartate is a potential endogenous ligand for NMDA receptors, the loss of which elicits a phenotype resembling DR depletion, D-aspartate may function as a modulator of adult neurogenesis.
Keap1 is a substrate adaptor of a Cullin 3-based E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that recognizes Nrf2, and also acts as a cellular sensor for xenobiotics and oxidative stresses. Nrf2 is a transcriptional factor regulating the expression of cytoprotective enzyme genes in response to such stresses. Under unstressed conditions Keap1 binds Nrf2 and results in rapid degradation of Nrf2 through the proteasome pathway. In contrast, upon exposure to oxidative and electrophilic stress, reactive cysteine residues in intervening region (IVR) and Broad complex, Tramtrack, and Bric--Brac domains of Keap1 are modified by electrophiles. This modification prevents Nrf2 from rapid degradation and induces Nrf2 activity by repression of Keap1. Here we report the structure of mouse Keap1 homodimer by single particle electron microscopy. Three-dimensional reconstruction at 24-A resolution revealed two large spheres attached by short linker arms to the sides of a small forked-stem structure, resembling a cherry-bob. Each sphere has a tunnel corresponding to the central hole of the beta-propeller domain, as determined by x-ray crystallography. The IVR domain appears to surround the core of the beta-propeller domain. The unexpected proximity of IVR to the beta-propeller domain suggests that any distortions generated during modification of reactive cysteine residues in the IVR domain may send a derepression signal to the beta-propeller domain and thereby stabilize Nrf2. This study thus provides a structural basis for the two-site binding and hinge-latch model of stress sensing by the Nrf2-Keap1 system.
Refractory temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is associated with a dysfunction of inhibitory signaling mediated by GABA(A) receptors. In particular, the use-dependent decrease (run-down) of the currents (I(GABA)) evoked by the repetitive activation of GABA(A) receptors is markedly enhanced in hippocampal and cortical neurons of TLE patients. Understanding the role of I(GABA) run-down in the disease, and its mechanisms, may allow development of medical alternatives to surgical resection, but such mechanistic insights are difficult to pursue in surgical human tissue. Therefore, we have used an animal model (pilocarpine-treated rats) to identify when and where the increase in I(GABA) run-down occurs in the natural history of epilepsy. We found: (i) that the increased run-down occurs in the hippocampus at the time of the first spontaneous seizure (i.e., when the diagnosis of epilepsy is made), and then extends to the neocortex and remains constant in the course of the disease; (ii) that the phenomenon is strictly correlated with the occurrence of spontaneous seizures, because it is not observed in animals that do not become epileptic. Furthermore, initial exploration of the molecular mechanism disclosed a relative increase in alpha4-, relative to alpha1-containing GABA(A) receptors, occurring at the same time when the increased run-down appears, suggesting that alterations in the molecular composition of the GABA receptors may be responsible for the occurrence of the increased run-down. These observations disclose research opportunities in the field of epileptogenesis that may lead to a better understanding of the mechanism whereby a previously normal tissue becomes epileptic.


A pharmacophore model was built, based on known CGRP receptor antagonists, and this was used to aid the identification of novel leads. Analogues were designed, modelled and synthesised which incorporated alternative 'LHS' fragments linked via either an amide or urea to a privileged 'RHS' fragment commonly found in CGRP receptor antagonists. As a result a novel series of oxadiazole CGRP receptor antagonists has been identified and the subsequent optimisation to enhance both potency and bioavailability is presented.
During limb regeneration, anuran tadpoles and urodele amphibians generate pattern-organizing, multipotent, mesenchymal blastema cells, which give rise to a replica of the lost limb including patterning in three dimensions. To facilitate the regeneration of nonregenerative limbs in other vertebrates, it is important to elucidate the molecular differences between blastema cells that can regenerate the pattern of limbs and those that cannot. In Xenopus froglet (soon after metamorphosis), an amputated limb generates blastema cells that do not produce proper patterning, resulting in a patternless regenerate, a spike, regardless of the amputation level. We found that re-expression of hoxa11 and hoxa13 in the froglet blastema is initiated although the subsequent proximal-distal patterning, including separation of the hoxa11 and hoxa13 expression domains, is disrupted. We also observed an absence of EphA4 gene expression in the froglet blastema and a failure of position-dependent cell sorting, which correlated with the altered hoxa11 and hoxa13 expression. Quantitative analysis of hoxa11 and hoxa13 expression revealed that hoxa13 transcript levels were reduced in the froglet blastema compared with the tadpole blastema. Moreover, the expression of sox9, an important regulator of chondrogenic differentiation, was detected earlier in patternless blastemas than in tadpole blastemas. These results suggest that appropriate spatial, temporal, and quantitative gene expression is necessary for pattern regeneration by blastema cells.
Cholesterol and sphingolipids are abundant in neuronal membranes, where they help the organisation of the membrane microdomains involved in major roles such as axonal and dendritic growth, and synapse and spine stability. The aim of this study was to analyse their roles in presynaptic physiology. We first confirmed the presence of proteins of the exocytic machinery (SNARES and Ca(v)2.1 channels) in the lipid microdomains of cultured neurons, and then incubated the neurons with fumonisin B (an inhibitor of sphingolipid synthesis), or with mevastatin or zaragozic acid (two compounds that affect the synthesis of cholesterol by inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase or squalene synthase). The results demonstrate that fumonisin B and zaragozic acid efficiently decrease sphingolipid and cholesterol levels without greatly affecting the viability of neurons or the expression of synaptic proteins. Electron microscopy showed that the morphology and number of synaptic vesicles in the presynaptic boutons of cholesterol-depleted neurons were similar to those observed in control neurons. Zaragozic acid (but not fumonisin B) treatment impaired synaptic vesicle uptake of the lipophilic dye FM1-43 and an antibody directed against the luminal epitope of synaptotagmin-1, effects that depended on the reduction in cholesterol because they were reversed by cholesterol reloading. The time-lapse confocal imaging of neurons transfected with ecliptic SynaptopHluorin showed that cholesterol depletion affects the post-depolarisation increase in fluorescence intensity. Taken together, these findings show that reduced cholesterol levels impair synaptic vesicle exocytosis in cultured neurons.
The birth of small-diameter TrkA+ neurons that mediate pain and thermoreception begins approximately 24 hours after the cessation of neural crest cell migration from progenitors residing in the nascent dorsal root ganglion. Although multiple geographically distinct progenitor pools have been proposed, this study is the first to comprehensively characterize the derivation of small-diameter neurons. In the developing chick embryo we identify novel patterns in neural crest cell migration and colonization that sculpt the incipient ganglion into a postmitotic neuronal core encapsulated by a layer of proliferative progenitor cells. Furthermore, we show that this outer progenitor layer is composed of three spatially, temporally, and molecularly distinct progenitor zones, two of which give rise to distinct populations of TrkA+ neurons.
Despite the key function of the Mauthner cells (M-cells) in initiating escape responses and thereby promoting survival, there are multiple examples of M-cell loss across the teleost phylogeny. Only a few studies have directly considered the behavioral consequences of naturally occurring M-cell variation across species. We chose to examine this issue in pufferfishes, as previous research suggested that there might be variability in M-cell anatomy in this group of fish. We characterized the M-cell anatomy and fast-start responses of two pufferfish species, Tetraodon nigroviridis and Diodon holocanthus. T. nigroviridis showed robust fast-starts to both tactile and acoustic startling stimuli. These fast-starts occurred with a latency typical of M-cell initiation in other fish, and retrograde labeling of spinal-projection neurons revealed that T. nigroviridis does have M-cells. By contrast, D. holocanthus only rarely exhibited fast-start-like behavior, and these responses were at a substantially longer latency and were much less extensive than those of T. nigroviridis. Using three complementary anatomical techniques we were unable to identify obvious M-cell candidates in D. holocanthus. These results provide a clear correlation between M-cell presence or absence and dramatic differences in fast-start behavior. The rich diversity within the pufferfish clade should allow future studies investigating the factors that contribute to this correlated anatomical and behavioral variation.
Regulatory T cells (Tregs) play a vital role in autoimmune disorders. Among several markers, forkhead box p3 (Foxp3) is the most specific with regard to Treg activity. Therefore, understanding mechanisms that regulate Foxp3 expression is a critical step for unraveling the complicacy of autoimmune pathophysiology. The present study was undertaken to investigate the crosstalk between NO and Tregs. Interestingly, after myelin basic protein (MBP) priming, the expression of Foxp3 decreased in MBP-primed T cells. However, blocking NO either by inhibiting inducible NO synthase with l-N(6)-(1-iminoethyl)-lysine hydrochloride or through scavenging with PTIO or by pharmacological drugs, such as pravastatin, sodium benzoate, or gemfibrozil, restored the expression of Foxp3 in MBP-primed T cells. However, this restoration of Foxp3 by pharmacological drugs was reversed by S-nitrosoglutathione, an NO donor. Similarly, NO also decreased the populations of Tregs characterized by CD4(+)CD25(+) and CD25(+)FoxP3(+) phenotypes. We have further confirmed this inverse relationship between NO and Foxp3 by analyzing the mRNA expression of Foxp3 and characterizing CD25(+)FoxP3(+) or CD4(+)Foxp3(+) phenotypes from inducible NO synthase knockout mice. Moreover, this inverse relation between NO and Foxp3 also was observed during priming with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, another target neuroantigen in multiple sclerosis, as well as collagen, a target autoantigen in rheumatoid arthritis. Finally, we demonstrate that NO inhibited the expression of Foxp3 in MBP-primed T cells via soluble guanylyl cyclase-mediated production of cGMP. Taken together, our data imply a novel role of NO in suppressing Foxp3(+) Tregs via the soluble guanylyl cyclase pathway.
The diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD) is still based on the recognition of the cardinal motor features. However, it is now recognized that non-motor manifestations (NMM) may actually precede the emergence of motor manifestations. NMM are very frequently present in the overall population of PD patients and are a major determinant of their quality of life. In this article we discuss the origin of sensory manifestations in PD, particularly focus on pain mechanisms, which is the most frequent and better studied NMM. Analysis of experimental and clinical data reveals that the basal ganglia (BG) indeed have an anatomo-functional organization which sustains sensory functions. In addition, the dopaminergic system is also engaged in the modulation and integration of sensory information and the response to pain. In patients with PD, pain is often related with motor fluctuations and dyskinesias induced by dopaminergic treatments, which suggest some common mechanisms with the origin of motor complications in PD. Clinically, sensory manifestations are often disturbing and poorly treated and may occasionally become a major cause of disability for PD patients. Thus, more clinical and basic studies are warranted to clarify pain mechanisms in PD, with the aim of achieving better treatments.
The occurrence of dementia in genetic Parkinson's disease is heterogeneous. The onset and progression of diverse forms of familial Parkinson's disease might be different than that of sporadic disease. Since dementia is an age related process, its risk increases with advanced disease severity and duration. The onset and progression of dementia is expected to vary between genetic forms, which present at diverse ages with different symptomatologies. It seems that genetic Parkinson's disease variants in which Lewy bodies are the prominent pathological hallmark - such as in PARK1, PARK4 and PARK8 - dementia is part of the phenotype. On the contrary, in PARK2 which is not accompanied by Lewy body accumulation, patients do not show a systematic cognitive decline. This review presents information on dementia in genetic forms of Parkinson's disease.
Hyposmia in Parkinson's disease (PD) was evaluated by using neuroimaging techniques. It is well known that olfactory impairments are one of the cardinal non-motor symptoms in PD. However, all smell tests used in previous studies depend on subjective answers by examinees and on sniffing of odorants, the latter of which may be impaired in PD as a consequence of motor impairments. We developed an fMRI system, which can visualize brain activation by olfactory stimuli during natural breathing. Although 7 age-matched controls demonstrated significant activations in various brain areas including precentral gyrus (BA6/6) and middle temporal gyrus (BA19/39) by the odorant stimuli, 9 patients with PD showed little activations by the same stimuli. These data suggest that the olfactory dysfunction in PD is not a simple reflection of impaired sniffing. Recent epidemiological studies demonstrate that the olfactory impairments may precede the onset of motor symptoms. Moreover, several pathological studies suggest that amygdala is one of the most frequently affected regions and is closely related to hyposmia in PD. Further brain imaging studies of hyposmia will shed light on the early pathological changes in PD.
Assessing directed functional connectivity from time series data is a key challenge in neuroscience. One approach to this problem leverages a combination of Granger causality analysis and network theory. This article describes a freely available MATLAB toolbox--'Granger causal connectivity analysis' (GCCA)--which provides a core set of methods for performing this analysis on a variety of neuroscience data types including neuroelectric, neuromagnetic, functional MRI, and other neural signals. The toolbox includes core functions for Granger causality analysis of multivariate steady-state and event-related data, functions to preprocess data, assess statistical significance and validate results, and to compute and display network-level indices of causal connectivity including 'causal density' and 'causal flow'. The toolbox is deliberately small, enabling its easy assimilation into the repertoire of researchers. It is however readily extensible given proficiency with the MATLAB language.
In analyzing neurophysiologic data, individual experimental trials are usually assumed to be statistically independent. However, many studies employing functional imaging and electrophysiology have shown that brain activity during behavioral tasks includes temporally correlated trial-to-trial fluctuations. This could lead to spurious results in statistical significance tests used to compare data from different interleaved behavioral conditions presented throughout an experiment. We characterize trial-to-trial fluctuations in local field potentials recorded from the frontal cortex of a macaque monkey performing an oculomotor delayed response task. Our analysis identifies slow fluctuations (&lt;0.1 Hz) of spectral power in 22/27 recording sessions. These trial-to-trial fluctuations are non-Gaussian, and call into question the statistical utility of standard trial shuffling. We compare our results with evidence for slow fluctuations in human functional imaging studies and other electrophysiologic studies in nonhuman primates.
Recently, resting state functional connectivity (RSFC) studies based on fMRI and EEG/MEG have provided valuable insight into the intrinsic functional architecture of the human brain. However, whether functional near infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS), a suitable imaging method for infant and patient populations, can be used to examine RSFC remains elusive. Using an ETG-4000 Optical Topography System, the present study measured 29 adult subjects (14 females) over the sensorimotor and auditory cortexes during a resting session and a motor-localizer task session. The RSFC maps were computed by seed-based correlation analysis and data-driven cluster analysis. The results from both analyses showed robust RSFC maps, which were not only consistent with the localizer task-related activation results, but also those of previous fMRI findings. Moreover, the strong consistency between the seed-based correlation analysis and the data-driven cluster analysis further validated the use of fNIRS to assess RSFC. The potential influence of a specific low-frequency filtering range (0.04-0.15 Hz and 0.01-0.08 Hz) and three fNIRS parameters (oxy-Hb, deoxy-Hb, and total-Hb) on RSFC results were also examined.
c-Fos is a member of the activator protein 1 family that regulates transcription of target genes. c-Fos is transiently induced in specific regions of the brain after a variety of external stimuli including learning and memory formation. Analysis of gene expression in c-Fos-expressing cells of the brain may help identify target genes that play important roles in synaptic strength or neuronal morphology. In the present study, we developed a combined method of laser capture microdissection and 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indoly-beta-D-galactopyranosidase (X-Gal) histology to analyze gene expression in stimulus-induced c-Fos-positive cells. Using transgenic mice carrying a c-fos-lacZ fusion gene, c-Fos-positive cells were easily identified by measuring of beta-galactosidase (beta-Gal) activity. To establish the fidelity of the reporter transgene, the time course of endogenous c-Fos and the c-fos-lacZ transgene expression in the amygdala induced by LiCl administration was investigated by immunohistochemistry and X-Gal staining. LiCl increased the numbers of c-Fos- and beta-Gal-positive cells in the central and basolateral amygdala of the transgenic mice. To ensure that RNA was preserved in X-Gal stained tissue sections, different fixations were examined, with the conclusion that ethanol fixation was best for both RNA preservation and X-Gal staining quality. Finally, in combining X-Gal staining, single-cell LCM and RT-PCR, we confirmed mRNA expression of endogenous c-fos and beta-actin genes in LiCl-induced beta-Gal-positive cells in the CeA, cortex and hippocampus. Combining LCM and transgenic reporter genes provides a powerful tool with which to investigate tissue- or cell-specific gene expression.
The use of drugs for recreational purposes, in particular Methamphetamine, is associated with an increased risk of infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1. HIV-1 infection in turn can lead to HIV-associated neurological disorders (HAND) that range from mild cognitive and motor impairment to HIV-associated dementia (HAD). Interestingly, post mortem brain specimens from HAD patients and transgenic (tg) mice expressing the viral envelope protein gp120 in the central nervous system display similar neuropathological signs. In HIV patients, the use of Methamphetamine appears to aggravate neurocognitive alterations. In the present study, we injected HIV/gp120tg mice and non-transgenic littermate control animals with Methamphetamine dissolved in Saline or Saline vehicle and assessed locomotion and stereotyped behaviour. We found that HIVgp120-transgenic mice differ significantly from non-transgenic controls in certain domains of their behavioural response to Methamphetamine. Thus this experimental model system may be useful to further study the mechanistic interaction of both the viral envelope protein and the psychostimulant drug in behavioural alterations and neurodegenerative disease.
Multiple experimental neuroscience techniques rely on the use of general anaesthesia to minimize the discomfort associated to animal restraint and to achieve a more effective control of relevant physiological parameters. In order to minimise potential interference on brain neuronal activity, such studies are typically conducted at low anaesthetic doses. This practice is often coupled to peripheral infiltration of local anaesthetics to provide supplementary analgesia and prevent sub-threshold activation of pain pathways that may confound central measurements of brain function. However, little is known of the effect of peripheral anaesthesia on central measurements of brain activity in small laboratory animal species. In order to begin to address this question, we measured total and free brain exposure of five different local anaesthetics following subcutaneous infiltration of analgesic doses in a surgical protocol widely used in rodent neuroimaging and electrophysiology studies. Notably, all the anaesthetics exhibited detectable total and free brain concentrations at all the time points examined. Lidocaine and mepivacaine showed the highest free brain exposures (&gt;525 ng/g), followed by bupivacaine and ropivacaine (&gt;70 ng/g). The ester-type local anaesthetic tetracaine produced the lowest free brain exposure (&lt;8.6 ng/g). Our data suggest that peripheral administration of local anaesthetics in small laboratory animals could result in pharmacologically active brain exposures that might influence and confound central measurements of brain function. The use of the ester-type anaesthetic tetracaine produced considerably lower brain exposure, and may represent a viable experimental option when local anaesthesia is required.
Nitric oxide (NO) and purinergic ionotropic receptors (P2X) mediate cellular events in the central nervous system (CNS) under physiological conditions as well as during pathological events, and they have been recently proposed to interact in mediating CNS response to injury (Viscomi et al. [2004] Neuroscience 123:393-404; Florenzano et al. [2008] Pflugers Arch. 452:622-644). Trimethyltin (TMT) is an organotin compound that generates neurotoxic effects, and it has been used in a model of neurodegenerative disease and memory dysfunction. TMT causes neuronal death and reactive gliosis primarily in the hippocampus and other limbic regions. In the present study, we examined the degenerative events and the expression of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and P2X receptor subtypes (P2X(1,2,4,7)Rs) that were induced by TMT administration at different time points (3, 7, 14, and 21 days) by conventional and confocal microscopy and Western blotting. Massive glial activation and neuronal death in the CA1 and CA3 regions were observed after TMT treatment. In these areas, astrocytic P2X(2)R and neuronal NOS were temporarily enhanced in association with the progression of neuronal death. In the hippocampus, the physiological expression of P2X(1)R, P2X(4)R, and P2X(7)R was not modified by TMT. The present data demonstrate that, as in other neurodegenerative models, TMT-induced hippocampal degeneration is associated with nitrergic and purinergic activations. Nevertheless, at odds with previous data, in this model the two systems are active in segregated cell populations, namely, P2XR in astrocytes and NOS in neurons. Finally, the temporal relations between P2XR and NOS expression and neuronal degeneration suggest interactions between P2XR/NO signaling and cell survival.
Auditory experience during the postnatal critical period is essential for the normal maturation of auditory function. Previous studies have shown that rearing infant rat pups under conditions of continuous moderate-level noise delayed the emergence of adult-like topographic representational order and the refinement of response selectivity in the primary auditory cortex (A1) beyond normal developmental benchmarks and indefinitely blocked the closure of a brief, critical-period window. To gain insight into the molecular mechanisms of these physiological changes after noise rearing, we studied expression of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR2 and GABA(A) receptor subunit beta3 in the auditory cortex after noise rearing. Our results show that continuous moderate-level noise rearing during the early stages of development decreases the expression levels of GluR2 and GABA(A)beta3. Furthermore, noise rearing also induced a significant decrease in the level of GABA(A) receptors relative to AMPA receptors. However, in adult rats, noise rearing did not have significant effects on GluR2 and GABA(A)beta3 expression or the ratio between the two units. These changes could have a role in the cellular mechanisms involved in the delayed maturation of auditory receptive field structure and topographic organization of A1 after noise rearing.

Kainate receptor subunits can form functional channels as homomers of GluK1, GluK2 or GluK3, or as heteromeric combinations with each other or incorporating GluK4 or GluK5 subunits. However, GluK4 and GluK5 cannot form functional channels by themselves. Incorporation of GluK4 or GluK5 into a heteromeric complex increases glutamate apparent affinity and also enables receptor activation by the agonist AMPA. Utilizing two-electrode voltage clamp of Xenopus oocytes injected with cRNA encoding kainate receptor subunits, we have observed that heteromeric channels composed of GluK2/GluK4 and GluK2/GluK5 have steady state concentration-response curves that were bell-shaped in response to either glutamate or AMPA. By contrast, homomeric GluK2 channels exhibited a monophasic steady state concentration-response curve that simply plateaued at high glutamate concentrations. By fitting several specific Markov models to GluK2/GluK4 heteromeric and GluK2 homomeric concentration-response data, we have determined that: (a) two strikingly different agonist binding affinities exist; (b) the high-affinity binding site leads to channel opening; and (c) the low-affinity agonist binding site leads to strong desensitization after agonist binding. Model parameters also approximate the onset and recovery kinetics of desensitization observed for macroscopic currents measured from HEK-293 cells expressing GluK2 and GluK4 subunits. The GluK2(E738D) mutation lowers the steady state apparent affinity for glutamate by 9000-fold in comparison to GluK2 homomeric wildtype receptors. When this mutant subunit was expressed with GluK4, the rising phase of the glutamate steady state concentration-response curve overlapped with the wildtype curve, whereas the declining phase was right-shifted toward lower affinity. Taken together, these data are consistent with a scheme whereby high-affinity agonist binding to a non-desensitizing GluK4 subunit opens the heteromeric channel, whereas low-affinity agonist binding to GluK2 desensitizes the whole channel complex.
The left and right vestibular organs always transduce the same signal of head movement, and with natural stimuli can only be activated simultaneously. To investigate how signals from the left and right vestibular organs are integrated to control human balance we electrically modulated the firing of vestibular afferents from each labyrinth independently and measured the resulting balance responses. Stimulation of one side at a time (monaural) showed that individual leg muscles receive equal inputs from the two labyrinths even though a single labyrinth appeared capable of signalling 3-D head motion. To deduce principles of left-right integration, balance responses to simultaneous stimulation of both sides (binaural) were compared with responses to monaural stimuli. The binaural whole-body response direction was compatible with vector summation of the left and right monaural responses. The binaural response magnitude, however, was only 64-74% that predicted by the monaural sum. This probably reflects a central non-linearity between vestibular input and motor output because stimulation of just one labyrinth revealed a power law relationship between stimulus current and response size with exponents 0.56 (force) and 0.51 (displacement). Thus, doubling total signal magnitude either by doubling monaural current or by binaural stimulation produced equivalent responses. We conclude that both labyrinths provide independent estimates of head motion that are summed vectorially and transformed non-linearly into motor output. The former process improves signal-to-noise and reduces artifactual common-mode changes, while the latter enhances responses to small signals, all critical for detecting the small head movements needed to control human balance.
Nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh) and 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 (5-HT(3)) receptors are cation-selective ion channels of the pentameric ligand-gated ion channel (pLGIC) superfamily. Multiple lines of evidence adduced over the last 30 years indicate that the lining of the channel of such receptors is formed by the alpha-helical second transmembrane (TM2) domain and flanking sequences contributed by each of the five subunits present within the receptor complex. Specific amino acid residues within, and adjacent to, the TM2 domain influence single channel conductance, ion selectivity, and other aspects of receptor function that include gating and desensitization. However, more recent work has revealed important structural determinants of single channel conductance and ion selectivity that are not associated with the TM2 domain. Direct experimental evidence indicates that the intracellular domain of eukaryotic pLGICs, in particular a region of the loop linking TM3 and TM4 termed the membrane-associated (MA) stretch, exerts a strong influence upon ion channel biophysics. Moreover, recent computational approaches, complemented by experimentation, implicate the extracellular domain as an additional important determinant of ion conduction. This brief review describes how our knowledge of ion conduction and selectivity in cation-selective pLGICs has evolved beyond TM2.
The fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane (exocytosis) is a required step in neurotransmitter release and neuronal communication. The vesicles are then retrieved from the plasma membrane (endocytosis) and grouped together with the general pool of vesicles within the nerve terminal, until they undergo a new exo- and endocytosis cycle (vesicle recycling). These processes have been studied using a variety of techniques such as electron microscopy, electrophysiology recordings, amperometry and capacitance measurements. Importantly, during the last two decades a number of fluorescently labeled markers emerged, allowing optical techniques to track vesicles in their recycling dynamics. One of the most commonly used markers is the styryl or FM dye; structurally, all FM dyes contain a hydrophilic head and a lipophilic tail connected through an aromatic ring and one or more double bonds (Fig. 1B). A classical FM dye experiment to label a pool of vesicles consists in bathing the preparation (Fig. 1Ai) with the dye during the stimulation of the nerve (electrically or with high K(+)). This induces vesicle recycling and the subsequent loading of the dye into recently endocytosed vesicles (Fig. 1A(i-iii;)). After loading the vesicles with dye, a second round of stimulation in a dye-free bath would trigger the FM release through exocytosis (Fig. 1A(iv-v;)), process that can be followed by monitoring the fluorescence intensity decrease (destaining). Although FM dyes have contributed greatly to the field of vesicle recycling, it is not possible to determine the exact localization or morphology of individual vesicles by using conventional fluorescence microscopy. For that reason, we explain here how FM dyes can also be used as endocytic markers using electron microscopy, through photoconversion. The photoconversion technique exploits the property of fluorescent dyes to generate reactive oxygen species under intense illumination. Fluorescently labeled preparations are submerged in a solution containing diaminobenzidine (DAB) and illuminated. Reactive species generated by the dye molecules oxidize the DAB, which forms a stable, insoluble precipitate that has a dark appearance and can be easily distinguished in electron microscopy. As DAB is only oxidized in the immediate vicinity of fluorescent molecules (as the reactive oxygen species are short-lived), the technique ensures that only fluorescently labeled structures are going to contain the electron-dense precipitate. The technique thus allows the study of the exact location and morphology of actively recycling organelles.
Sir Charles Bell is better known among neurologists for his descriptions of the clinical consequences of facial nerve lesions. However, as an accomplished physician, anatomist, and artist, he made many other contributions to the fields of neurology and neuroscience. Among those, his descriptions of patients with what we now know as cervical dystonia have not received much attention. In this report, Bell's depictions of patients presenting with a syndrome consistent with cervical dystonia will be discussed, including the identification of many of the different clinical features we currently use for the diagnosis of this disorder and his thoughts about its pathogenesis.
PET studies with the DOPA decarboxylase substrate 6-[(18)F]fluoro-l-DOPA (FDOPA) reveal the storage of [(18)F]-fluorodopamine within synaptic vesicles, mainly of dopamine fibres. As such, FDOPA PET is a sensitive indicator of the integrity of the nigrostriatal dopamine innervation. Nonetheless, there have been several reports of focal elevations of FDOPA utilization in brain of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), all based on reference tissue methods. To investigate this phenomenon further, we used voxel-wise steady-state kinetic analysis to search for regions of elevated FDOPA utilization (K; ml g(-1) min(-1)) and steady-state trapping (V(d); ml g(-1)) in a group of well-characterized patients with early, asymmetric PD, who were contrasted with an age-matched control group. Subtraction of the population mean parametric maps revealed foci of increased FDOPA utilization K (+25%) in the bilateral medial nucleus accumbens, whereas the expected declines in the trapping of FDOPA were seen in the caudate and putamen. This observation suggests hyperfunction of catecholamine fibres innervating specifically the limbic striatum, which could guide the design of future prospective FDOPA-PET studies of the impulse control disorders occurring in some PD patients under treatment with dopamine agonists. A focus of increased FDOPA influx and also V(d) was detected in the periaqueductal grey, consistent with some earlier reports based on reference tissue analysis. Increased FDOPA trapping in the periaqueductal grey of PD patients seems consistent with recent reports of increased activity of serotonin neurons in a rat model of parkinsonism.
Oscillatory synchronization facilitates communication in neuronal networks and is intimately associated with human cognition. Neuronal activity in the human brain can be non-invasively imaged with magneto- (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG), but the large-scale structure of synchronized cortical networks supporting cognitive processing has remained uncharacterized. We combined simultaneous MEG and EEG (MEEG) recordings with minimum-norm-estimate-based inverse modeling to investigate the structure of oscillatory phase synchronized networks that were active during visual working memory (VWM) maintenance. Inter-areal phase-synchrony was quantified as a function of time and frequency by single-trial phase-difference estimates of cortical patches covering the entire cortical surfaces. The resulting networks were characterized with a number of network metrics that were then compared between delta/theta- (3-6 Hz), alpha- (7-13 Hz), beta- (16-25 Hz), and gamma- (30-80 Hz) frequency bands. We found several salient differences between frequency bands. Alpha- and beta-band networks were more clustered and small-world like but had smaller global efficiency than the networks in the delta/theta and gamma bands. Alpha- and beta-band networks also had truncated-power-law degree distributions and high k-core numbers. The data converge on showing that during the VWM-retention period, human cortical alpha- and beta-band networks have a memory-load dependent, scale-free small-world structure with densely connected core-like structures. These data further show that synchronized dynamic networks underlying a specific cognitive state can exhibit distinct frequency-dependent network structures that could support distinct functional roles.
Ethylene glycol exposure can lead to the development of renal failure due to the metabolic formation of calcium oxalate monohydrate (COM) crystals. The renal damage is closely linked to the degree of COM accumulation in the kidney and most likely results from a COM-induced injury to proximal tubule (PT) cells. The present studies have measured the binding and internalization of COM by primary cultures of normal PT cells from humans and from Wistar and Fischer-344 rats in order to examine the roles of these uptake processes in the resulting cytotoxicity. Internalization was determined by incubation of cells with [(14)C]-COM at 37 degrees C, removal of bound COM with an EDTA incubation, followed by solubilization of cells, as well as by transmission electron microscopy of COM-exposed cells. COM crystals were internalized by PT cells in time- and concentration-dependent manners. COM crystals were bound to and internalized by rat cells about five times more than by human cells. Binding and internalization values were similar between PT cells from Wistar and Fischer-344 rats, indicating that a differential uptake of COM does not explain the known strain difference in sensitivity to ethylene glycol renal toxicity. Internalization of COM correlated highly with the degree of cell death, which is greater in rat cells than in human cells. Thus, surface binding and internalization of COM by cells play critical roles in cytotoxicity and explain why rat cells are more sensitive to COM crystals. At the same level of COM accumulation after ethylene glycol exposure or hyperoxaluria in vivo, rats would be more susceptible than humans to COM-induced damage.
Mental retardation is a heterogeneous condition, affecting 1-3% of general population. In the last few years, several emerging clinical entities have been described, due to the advent of newest genetic techniques, such as array Comparative Genomic Hybridization. The detection of cryptic microdeletion/microduplication abnormalities has allowed genotype-phenotype correlations, delineating recognizable syndromic conditions that are herein reviewed. With the aim to provide to Paediatricians a combined clinical and genetic approach to the child with cognitive impairment, a practical diagnostic algorithm is also illustrated. The use of microarray platforms has further reduced the percentage of &quot;idiopathic&quot; forms of mental retardation, previously accounted for about half of total cases. We discussed the putative pathways at the basis of remaining &quot;pure idiopathic&quot; forms of mental retardation, highlighting possible environmental and epigenetic mechanisms as causes of altered cognition.

We examined the roles of the amygdala and hippocampus in the formation of emotionally relevant memories using an ethological model of conditioned fear termed conditioned defeat (CD). Temporary inactivation of the ventral, but not dorsal hippocampus (VH, DH, respectively) using muscimol disrupted the acquisition of CD, whereas pretraining VH infusions of anisomycin, a protein synthesis inhibitor, failed to block CD. To test for a functional connection between the VH and basolateral amygdala (BLA), we used a classic functional connectivity design wherein injections are made unilaterally in brain areas either on the same or opposite sides of the brain. A functional connection between the BLA and VH necessary for the acquisition of CD could not be found because unilateral inactivation of either BLA alone (but not either VH alone) was sufficient to disrupt CD. This finding suggested instead that there may be a critical functional connection between the left and right BLA. In our final experiment, we infused muscimol unilaterally in the BLA and assessed Fos immunoreactivity on the contralateral side following exposure to social defeat. Inactivation of either BLA significantly reduced defeat-induced Fos immunoreactivity in the contralateral BLA. These experiments demonstrate for the first time that whereas the VH is necessary for the acquisition of CD, it does not appear to mediate the plastic changes underlying CD. There also appears to be a critical interaction between the two BLAs such that bilateral activation of this brain area must occur in order to support fear learning in this model, a finding that is unprecedented to date.
All biological bodies live in a thermal environment, including the human body, where skin is the interface with a protecting function. When the temperature is out of the normal physiological range, skin fails to protect, and the pain sensation is evoked. Furthermore, in medicine, with advances in laser, microwave and similar technologies, various thermal therapeutic methods have been widely used to cure disease/injury involving skin tissue. However, the corresponding problem of pain relief has limited further application and development of these thermal treatments. Skin thermal pain is induced through both direct (i.e. an increase/decrease in temperature) and indirect (e.g. thermomechanical and thermochemical) ways, and is governed by complicated thermomechanical-chemical-neurophysiological responses. However, a complete understanding of the underlying mechanisms is still far from clear. In this article, starting from an engineering perspective, we aim to recast the biological behaviour of skin in engineering system parlance. Then, by coupling the concepts of engineering with established methods in neuroscience, we attempt to establish multi-scale modelling of skin thermal pain through ion channel to pain sensation. The model takes into account skin morphological plausibility, the thermomechanical response of skin tissue and the biophysical and neurological mechanisms of pain sensation.
Human Mental Retardation (MR) is a common and highly heterogeneous pediatric disorder affecting around 3% of the general population; at least 215 X-linked MR (XLMR) conditions have been described, and mutations have been identified in 83 different genes, encoding proteins with a variety of function, such as chromatin remodeling, synaptic function, and intracellular trafficking. The small GTPases of the RAB family, which play an essential role in intracellular vesicular trafficking, have been shown to be involved in MR. We report here the identification of mutations in the small GTPase RAB39B gene in two male patients. One mutation in family X (D-23) introduced a stop codon seven amino acids after the start codon (c.21C &gt; A; p.Y7X). A second mutation, in the MRX72 family, altered the 5' splice site (c.215+1G &gt; A) and normal splicing. Neither instance produced a protein. Mutations segregate with the disease in the families, and in some family members intellectual disabilities were associated with autism spectrum disorder, epileptic seizures, and macrocephaly. We show that RAB39B, a novel RAB GTPase of unknown function, is a neuronal-specific protein that is localized to the Golgi compartment. Its downregulation leads to an alteration in the number and morphology of neurite growth cones and a significant reduction in presynaptic buttons, suggesting that RAB39B is required for synapse formation and maintenance. Our results demonstrate developmental and functional neuronal alteration as a consequence of downregulation of RAB39B and emphasize the critical role of vesicular trafficking in the development of neurons and human intellectual abilities.
Although cognitive ability is a highly heritable complex trait, only a few genes have been identified, explaining relatively low proportions of the observed trait variation. This implies that hundreds of genes of small effect may be of importance for cognitive ability. We applied an innovative method in which we tested for the effect of groups of genes defined according to cellular function (functional gene group analysis). Using an initial sample of 627 subjects, this functional gene group analysis detected that synaptic heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide binding proteins (G proteins) play an important role in cognitive ability (P(EMP) = 1.9 x 10(-4)). The association with heterotrimeric G proteins was validated in an independent population sample of 1507 subjects. Heterotrimeric G proteins are central relay factors between the activation of plasma membrane receptors by extracellular ligands and the cellular responses that these induce, and they can be considered a point of convergence, or a &quot;signaling bottleneck.&quot; Although alterations in synaptic signaling processes may not be the exclusive explanation for the association of heterotrimeric G proteins with cognitive ability, such alterations may prominently affect the properties of neuronal networks in the brain in such a manner that impaired cognitive ability and lower intelligence are observed. The reported association of synaptic heterotrimeric G proteins with cognitive ability clearly points to a new direction in the study of the genetic basis of cognitive ability.
Voltammetric (electrochemical) methodologies such as differential pulse voltammetry and amperometry used together with electrically and chemically treated carbon fibre micro-electrodes (mCFE) allow selective monitoring of nitric oxide (NO). Preliminary in vitro studies have shown that the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant paroxetine inhibits constitutive nitric oxide synthase (cNOS) activity in animals and humans and that another SSRI such as fluoxetine reduced NO release in the media of synovial cells. The aim of this work was to verify by means of amperometry and specifically treated mCFE the capability of fluoxetine to alter the in vivo release of central NO, in the attempt to further clarify such putative antidepressant mechanism of action of this SSRI compound. The in vivo results support the chemical NO related nature of the endogenous amperometric signal evoked by NMDA injection in the striatum of anaesthetised rats, as pre-treatment with NOS inhibitor l-NAME prevented its appearance. Subsequently fluoxetine treatment resulted in decreased striatal NO, further supporting in vitro studies proposing a link between the serotonergic system and the NO system.
Animal models of depression seldom test females, even though women are twice as likely as men to suffer from major depressive disorder. Since female mice are sensitive to social isolation, we tested a separation-based model of depression in three experiments. In experiment 1 female C57BL/6J mice were housed in three conditions: isolated (housed individually from 8 weeks of age), separated (housed in groups and then separated and housed individually at 23 weeks of age) and grouped (housed in groups from 8 weeks of age). At 24 weeks of age, there was a significant increase in weight and in immobility in individually housed mice in the forced swim test (FST) and tail suspension test (TST), a reduction in transitions in the L/D box, a reduced startle response and reduced prepulse inhibition, but no differences in cued or context fear conditioning. Experiment 2 showed that fluoxetine treatment administered via drinking water attenuated depressive-like behaviour in the FST and TST in individually housed female C57BL/6J mice, but had no effect on anxiety-like behaviour. Experiment 3 found that group-housed females had higher baseline corticosterone (CORT) levels than isolated females and fluoxetine had no effect on CORT levels. Thus, separation from group housing is a reliable and valid method for inducing depression-like behaviour in female mice. This procedure is both versatile, allowing for the study of genetic and environmental interactions, and accessible, making it useful for studying depression and testing new drugs for its treatment.
Sibutramine is one of a small number of clinically approved anti-obesity agents while naloxone not only has intrinsic anorectic efficacy but, in low doses, also produces additive/synergistic anorectic effects in combination with other compounds. In view of the potential advantages of drug polytherapy over conventional monotherapy, the present study explored the effects of acute low dose combinations of sibutramine (0.125, 0.25 mg/kg) and naloxone (0.1 mg/kg) on food intake, feeding and non-feeding behaviour, and post-treatment weight gain in male rats. Neither drug, alone or in combination, significantly affected weight gain. Naloxone per se modestly though significantly suppressed both food intake and time spent feeding without disrupting the behavioural satiety sequence (BSS). However, neither dose of sibutramine affected these measures nor did they further enhance the anorectic response to the opioid receptor antagonist. Indeed, the combination of naloxone and 0.25 mg/kg sibutramine produced effects on intake and feeding behaviour that were substantially lower than those predicted on the basis of the sum of the individual drug effects (i.e. an infra-additive profile). These data, which contrast directly with reported positive interactions between opioid receptor antagonists and other anorectic agents (e.g. rimonabant, bupropion), would not support naloxone-sibutramine polytherapy in the clinical management of obesity.
The cerebellum has been demonstrated to be involved in various tasks requiring sensory discrimination, both for temporal and non-temporal events; however, little is known about the characteristic of its involvement. In this study, a visual duration discrimination task with various levels of temporal difficulty was examined to investigate the cerebrocerebellar interaction using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The cerebrocerebellar interaction analysis revealed that the cerebellum increased its activity in response to increasing temporal difficulty whereas the frontal cortex only increased its connective strength with the cerebellum but did not increase activity when the discrimination of temporal events was more difficult. The present findings support the view that better sensory information is provided by the cerebellum, which in turn may boost the efficiency of cortical computation for sensory discrimination.
The aim of this study was to determine if the memory of the association between a step-down response and a foot-shock can be dissociated from the memory of the context in which the shocking experience occurred. To test this, two versions of the step-down inhibitory avoidance task were used: a standard version, in which animals were given one trial with a weak exposure to the context and a new version, in which animals were given a stronger exposure to the context. A retention test was performed with the platform placed either in the same conditioning chamber as during the acquisition phase or in a new context. Our results demonstrate that the step-down inhibitory avoidance can actually be solved without a functional hippocampus. Specifically, the results show that hippocampus-lesioned mice and sham controls can express similar level of memory performance but use two different strategies which were distinguished by assessing retention in a new context. Hippocampus-lesioned mice and mice injected with forskolin (adenylyl cyclase activator) 3h after acquisition use a memory strategy which is independent of the context of acquisition. In addition, our results confirm that the cAMP signaling pathway is a key step in memory consolidation processing.
Zebrafish has been gaining increasing amount of interest in behavioral neuroscience as this species may represent a good compromise between system complexity and practical simplicity. Particularly successful have been those studies that utilized zebrafish as a screening tool. Given the complexity of the mechanisms of learning, for example, forward genetic screens with zebrafish could potentially reveal previously unknown genes and molecular pathways that subserve this function. These screens, however, require appropriate phenotypical (e.g. behavioral) paradigms. A step in this direction is the characterization of learning abilities of zebrafish. Here we employ two classical learning tasks in a plus maze. In the first, zebrafish are required to associate a visible cue with food reward irrespective of the location of this pairing. In the second, zebrafish are required to associate the spatial location of food reward irrespective of intra-maze cues. Our results demonstrate that zebrafish perform well in both tasks and show significant acquisition of the association between cue and reward as well as between location and reward. We conclude that zebrafish, similar to classical laboratory rodents, may have utility in the biological analysis of simple as well as complex forms of associative learning.
Exposures to predator odors are very effective methods to evoke a variety of stress responses in rodents. We have previously found that ferret odor exposure leads to changes in endocrine hormones (corticosterone and ACTH) and behavior. To distinguish the contributions of the main and accessory olfactory systems in these responses, studies were designed to interfere with these two systems either independently, or simultaneously. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated with 10% zinc sulfate (ZnSO(4)), which renders rodents anosmic (unable to smell) while leaving the accessory olfactory areas intact, or saline, in Experiment 1. In Experiment 2, the vomeronasal organs of rats were surgically removed (VNX) to block accessory olfactory processing, while leaving the main olfactory system intact. And in the third experiment both the main and accessory olfactory areas were disrupted by combining the two procedures in the same rats. Neither ZnSO(4) treatment nor VNX alone reliably reduced the increased corticosterone response to ferret odor compared to strawberry odor, but in combination, they did. This suggests that processing through the main or the accessory olfactory system can elicit the endocrine stress response to ferret odor. VNX alone also did not affect the behavioral responses to the ferret odor. ZnSO(4) treatment, alone and in combination with VNX, led to changes in behavior in response to both ferret and strawberry odor, making the behavioral results less clearly interpretable. Overall these studies suggest that both the main and accessory olfactory systems mediate the neuroendocrine response to predator odor.
The experience of peer play during the juvenile phase in rats is known to be important for the development of adult social competence. Adult social competence is also compromised by damage to the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), an area known to be involved in social behavior. We therefore hypothesized that the functioning of the OFC in social behavior is facilitated through the experience of peer play during the juvenile period. Further, because the OFC and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) are known to be reciprocally responsive to a variety of manipulations, we suspected that the functioning of the mPFC is also responsive to the experience of peer play during development. Female Long-Evans rats were raised in conditions that varied with respect to the experience of peer play, and Golgi techniques were used to examine the neuronal morphology of the OFC and mPFC. The results indicated that the neurons of the OFC responded to the number of peers present, not whether those peers engaged in play or not, whereas the neurons of the mPFC responded specifically to the experience of play.
In oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD), a disease caused by polyalanine expansion in the nuclear protein PABPN1, the genetic inhibition of sirtuins and treatment with sirtuin inhibitors protect from mutant PABPN1 toxicity in transgenic nematodes. Here, we tested the SIRT1/2 inhibitors 1-12, bearing different degrees of inhibition, for protection against mutant PABPN1 toxicity in Caenorhabditis elegans. Compounds 2, 4, and 11 were the most efficient, revealing a potential therapeutic application for muscle cell protection in OPMD.
How instructive cues present on the cell surface have their precise effects on the actin cytoskeleton is poorly understood. Semaphorins are one of the largest families of these instructive cues and are widely studied for their effects on cell movement, navigation, angiogenesis, immunology and cancer. Semaphorins/collapsins were characterized in part on the basis of their ability to drastically alter actin cytoskeletal dynamics in neuronal processes, but despite considerable progress in the identification of semaphorin receptors and their signalling pathways, the molecules linking them to the precise control of cytoskeletal elements remain unknown. Recently, highly unusual proteins of the Mical family of enzymes have been found to associate with the cytoplasmic portion of plexins, which are large cell-surface semaphorin receptors, and to mediate axon guidance, synaptogenesis, dendritic pruning and other cell morphological changes. Mical enzymes perform reduction-oxidation (redox) enzymatic reactions and also contain domains found in proteins that regulate cell morphology. However, nothing is known of the role of Mical or its redox activity in mediating morphological changes. Here we report that Mical directly links semaphorins and their plexin receptors to the precise control of actin filament (F-actin) dynamics. We found that Mical is both necessary and sufficient for semaphorin-plexin-mediated F-actin reorganization in vivo. Likewise, we purified Mical protein and found that it directly binds F-actin and disassembles both individual and bundled actin filaments. We also found that Mical utilizes its redox activity to alter F-actin dynamics in vivo and in vitro, indicating a previously unknown role for specific redox signalling events in actin cytoskeletal regulation. Mical therefore is a novel F-actin-disassembly factor that provides a molecular conduit through which actin reorganization-a hallmark of cell morphological changes including axon navigation-can be precisely achieved spatiotemporally in response to semaphorins.
Benzodiazepines are widely used in clinics and for recreational purposes, but will lead to addiction in vulnerable individuals. Addictive drugs increase the levels of dopamine and also trigger long-lasting synaptic adaptations in the mesolimbic reward system that ultimately may induce the pathological behaviour. The neural basis for the addictive nature of benzodiazepines, however, remains elusive. Here we show that benzodiazepines increase firing of dopamine neurons of the ventral tegmental area through the positive modulation of GABA(A) (gamma-aminobutyric acid type A) receptors in nearby interneurons. Such disinhibition, which relies on alpha1-containing GABA(A) receptors expressed in these cells, triggers drug-evoked synaptic plasticity in excitatory afferents onto dopamine neurons and underlies drug reinforcement. Taken together, our data provide evidence that benzodiazepines share defining pharmacological features of addictive drugs through cell-type-specific expression of alpha1-containing GABA(A) receptors in the ventral tegmental area. The data also indicate that subunit-selective benzodiazepines sparing alpha1 may be devoid of addiction liability.

Neurons in visual, somatosensory, and auditory cortex can respond to the termination as well as the onset of a sensory stimulus. In auditory cortex, these off responses may underlie the ability of the auditory system to use sound offsets as cues for perceptual grouping. Off responses have been widely proposed to arise from postinhibitory rebound, but this hypothesis has never been directly tested. We used in vivo whole-cell recordings to measure the synaptic inhibition evoked by sound onset. We find that inhibition is invariably transient, indicating that off responses are not caused by postinhibitory rebound in auditory cortical neurons. Instead, on and off responses appear to be driven by distinct sets of synapses, because they have distinct frequency tuning and different excitatory-inhibitory balance. Furthermore, an on-on sequence causes complete forward suppression, whereas an off-on sequence causes no suppression at all. We conclude that on and off responses are driven by largely nonoverlapping sets of synaptic inputs.
Regulated protein degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) plays a central role in building synaptic connections, yet little is known about either which specific UPS components are involved or UPS targets in neurons. We report that inhibiting the UPS in developing Xenopus retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) with a dominant-negative ubiquitin mutant decreases terminal branching in the tectum but does not affect long-range navigation to the tectum. We identify Nedd4 as a prominently expressed E3 ligase in RGC axon growth cones and show that disrupting its function severely inhibits terminal branching. We further demonstrate that PTEN, a negative regulator of the PI3K pathway, is a key downstream target of Nedd4: not only does Nedd4 regulate PTEN levels in RGC growth cones, but also, the decrease of PTEN rescues the branching defect caused by Nedd4 inhibition. Together our data suggest that Nedd4-regulated PTEN is a key regulator of terminal arborization in vivo.
In this issue of Neuron, Abraham et al. report a direct connection between inhibitory function and olfactory behavior. Using molecular methods to alter glutamate receptor subunit composition in olfactory bulb granule cells, the authors found a selective modulation in the time required for difficult, but not simple, olfactory discrimination tasks.
Despite significant research efforts aimed at understanding the neurobiological underpinnings of psychiatric disorders, the diagnosis and the evaluation of treatment of these disorders are still based solely on relatively subjective assessment of symptoms. Therefore, biological markers which could improve the current classification of psychiatry disorders, and in perspective stratify patients on a biological basis into more homogeneous clinically distinct subgroups, are highly needed. In order to identify novel candidate biological markers for major depression and schizophrenia, we have applied a focused proteomic approach using plasma samples from a large case-control collection. Patients were diagnosed according to DSM criteria using structured interviews and a number of additional clinical variables and demographic information were assessed. Plasma samples from 245 depressed patients, 229 schizophrenic patients and 254 controls were submitted to multi analyte profiling allowing the evaluation of up to 79 proteins, including a series of cytokines, chemokines and neurotrophins previously suggested to be involved in the pathophysiology of depression and schizophrenia. Univariate data analysis showed more significant p-values than would be expected by chance and highlighted several proteins belonging to pathways or mechanisms previously suspected to be involved in the pathophysiology of major depression or schizophrenia, such as insulin and MMP-9 for depression, and BDNF, EGF and a number of chemokines for schizophrenia. Multivariate analysis was carried out to improve the differentiation of cases from controls and identify the most informative panel of markers. The results illustrate the potential of plasma biomarker profiling for psychiatric disorders, when conducted in large collections. The study highlighted a set of analytes as candidate biomarker signatures for depression and schizophrenia, warranting further investigation in independent collections.

Clinical evaluation of tachykinin NK(3) receptor antagonists has provided support for the therapeutic utility of this target in schizophrenia. However, these studies have not been entirely conclusive, possibly because of the pharmacokinetic limitations of these molecules. In the search for tachykinin NK(3) receptor antagonists with improved properties, we have discovered GSK172981 and GSK256471. Both compounds demonstrated high affinity for recombinant human (pK(i) values 7.7 and 8.9, respectively) and native guinea pig (pK(i) values 7.8 and 8.4, respectively) tachykinin NK(3) receptors. In vitro functional evaluations revealed GSK172981 to be a competitive antagonist (pA(2)=7.2) at cloned human tachykinin NK(3) receptor whereas GSK256471 diminished the neurokinin B-induced E(max) response, indicative of non-surmountable antagonist pharmacology (pA(2)=9.2). GSK172981 also exhibited a competitive profile in antagonizing neurokinin B-stimulated neuronal activity recorded from the guinea pig medial habenula slices (apparent pK(B)=8.1), whilst GSK256471 abolished the agonist-induced response. Central nervous system penetration by GSK172981 and GSK256471 was indicated by dose-dependent ex vivo tachykinin NK(3) receptor occupancy in medial prefrontal cortex (ED(50) values of 0.8 and 0.9 mg/kg, i.p., respectively) and the dose-dependent attenuation of agonist-induced &quot;wet dog shake&quot; behaviours in guinea pigs. Finally, in vivo microdialysis studies demonstrated that acute GSK172981 (30 mg/kg, i.p.) and GSK256471 (1mg/kg, i.p.) attenuated haloperidol-induced increases in extracellular dopamine in the guinea pig nucleus accumbens. Taken together, these in vitro and in vivo characterisations of the tachykinin NK(3) receptor antagonists GSK172981 and GSK256471 support their potential utility in the treatment of schizophrenia.
The coordination of multiple neural oscillators is key for the generation of productive locomotor movements. In the medicinal leech, we determined that activation and coordination of the segmental crawl oscillators, or unit burst generators, are dependent on signals descending from the cephalic ganglion. In nearly intact animals, removing descending input (reversibly with a sucrose block) prevented overt crawling, but not swimming. Cephalic depolarization was sufficient for coordination. To determine whether descending signals were necessary for the generation and maintenance of posterior-directed intersegmental phase delays, we induced fictive crawling in isolated whole nerve cords using dopamine (DA) and blocked descending inputs. After blockade, we observed a significant loss of intersegmental coordination. Appropriate phase delays were also absent in DA-treated chains of ganglia. In chains, when one ganglion was removed from its neighbors, crawling in that ganglion emerged robust and stable, underscoring that these oscillators operate best with either all or none of their intersegmental inputs. To study local oscillator coupling, we induced fictive crawling (with DA) in a single oscillator within a chain. Although appropriate intersegmental phase delays were always absent, when one ganglion was treated with DA, neighboring ganglia began to show crawl-like bursting, with motoneuron spikes/burst greatest in untreated posterior ganglia. We further determined that this local excitatory drive excluded the swim-gating cell, 204. In conclusion, both long-distance descending and local interoscillator coupling contribute to crawling. This dual contribution helps to explain the inherent flexibility of crawling, and provides a foundation for understanding other dynamic locomotor behaviors across animal groups.
Development of skilled movements and the corticospinal tract (CST) begin prenatally and continue postnatally. Because the CST is required for skilled movements in maturity, it is accepted that motor skills cannot occur until the CST develops a mature organization. We recently showed that the CST plays an essential role in postnatal development of interneurons comprising the spinal circuits it engages. We proposed that CST signals are more effectively transmitted to ventral motor circuits after interneuron maturation, thereby enabling expression of CST motor functions, suggesting development of a segmental switch promoting transmission. We tested this by recording CST-evoked focal synaptic potentials, extracellularly, in the cervical enlargement of cats before and after interneuron maturation [postnatal week 5 (PW5) to PW7]. We compared monosynaptic CST amplitude input to segmental circuits with oligosynaptic ventral horn responses, as a measure of CST-evoked segmental response transmission from input to output. The M1 primary motor cortex was unilaterally inactivated between PW5 and PW7 to determine activity dependence. CST interneuron contacts were identified using confocal microscopy. CST terminals contact diverse interneuron classes. CST stimulation strongly activated ventral motor circuits at the ages when both interneurons and CST spinal terminations have developed a mature phenotype, supporting development of segmental transmission of CST signals. CST activity blockade impeded development of effective segmental transmission by the inactivated CST and created a novel path for transmission from the ipsilateral, unaffected, CST. Our findings show that development of segmental CST signal transmission regulates nascent CST motor control functions and provide insight into systems-level mechanisms for protracted motor skill development.
Ecto-5'-nucleotidase (NT5E, CD73) is a membrane-anchored protein that hydrolyzes extracellular adenosine 5'-monophosphate (AMP) to adenosine in diverse tissues but has not been directly studied in nociceptive neurons. We found that NT5E was located on peptidergic and nonpeptidergic nociceptive neurons in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and on axon terminals in lamina II (the substantia gelatinosa) of spinal cord. NT5E was also located on epidermal keratinocytes, cells of the dermis, and on nociceptive axon terminals in the epidermis. Following nerve injury, NT5E protein and AMP histochemical staining were coordinately reduced in lamina II. In addition, AMP hydrolytic activity was reduced in DRG neurons and spinal cord of Nt5e(-/-) mice. The antinociceptive effects of AMP, when combined with the adenosine kinase inhibitor 5-iodotubericidin, were reduced by approximately 50% in Nt5e(-/-) mice and were eliminated in Adenosine A(1) receptor (A(1)R, Adora1) knock-out mice. Additionally, Nt5e(-/-) mice displayed enhanced sensitivity in the tail immersion assay, in the complete Freund's adjuvant model of inflammatory pain and in the spared nerve injury model of neuropathic pain. Collectively, our data indicate that the ectonucleotidase NT5E regulates nociception by hydrolyzing AMP to adenosine in nociceptive circuits and represents a new molecular target for the treatment of chronic pain. Moreover, our data suggest NT5E is well localized to regulate nucleotide signaling between skin cells and sensory axons.
The rivalry between the men's basketball teams of Duke University and the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill (UNC) is one of the most storied traditions in college sports. A subculture of students at each university form social bonds with fellow fans, develop expertise in college basketball rules, team statistics, and individual players, and self-identify as a member of a fan group. The present study capitalized on the high personal investment of these fans and the strong affective tenor of a Duke-UNC basketball game to examine the neural correlates of emotional memory retrieval for a complex sporting event. Male fans watched a competitive, archived game in a social setting. During a subsequent functional magnetic resonance imaging session, participants viewed video clips depicting individual plays of the game that ended with the ball being released toward the basket. For each play, participants recalled whether or not the shot went into the basket. Hemodynamic signal changes time locked to correct memory decisions were analyzed as a function of emotional intensity and valence, according to the fan's perspective. Results showed intensity-modulated retrieval activity in midline cortical structures, sensorimotor cortex, the striatum, and the medial temporal lobe, including the amygdala. Positively valent memories specifically recruited processing in dorsal frontoparietal regions, and additional activity in the insula and medial temporal lobe for positively valent shots recalled with high confidence. This novel paradigm reveals how brain regions implicated in emotion, memory retrieval, visuomotor imagery, and social cognition contribute to the recollection of specific plays in the mind of a sports fan.
Area V2 is a major visual processing stage in mammalian visual cortex, but little is currently known about how V2 encodes information during natural vision. To determine how V2 represents natural images, we used a novel nonlinear system identification approach to obtain quantitative estimates of spatial tuning across a large sample of V2 neurons. We compared these tuning estimates with those obtained in area V1, in which the neural code is relatively well understood. We find two subpopulations of neurons in V2. Approximately one-half of the V2 neurons have tuning that is similar to V1. The other half of the V2 neurons are selective for complex features such as those that occur in natural scenes. These neurons are distinguished from V1 neurons mainly by the presence of stronger suppressive tuning. Selectivity in these neurons therefore reflects a balance between excitatory and suppressive tuning for specific features. These results provide a new perspective on how complex shape selectivity arises, emphasizing the role of suppressive tuning in determining stimulus selectivity in higher visual cortex.
Rats explore environments by sweeping their whiskers across objects and surfaces. Both sensor movement and repetitive sweeping typical for this behavior require that vibrotactile signals are integrated over time. While temporal integration properties of neurons along the whisker somatosensory pathway have been studied extensively, the consequences for behavior are unknown. Here, we investigate the ability of head-fixed rats to integrate information over time for the detection of near-threshold pulsatile deflection sequences applied to a single whisker. Psychometric detection performance was assessed with whisker stimuli composed of different numbers of pulses (1-31) delivered at varying frequencies (10, 20, 100 Hz). Detection performance indeed improved with increasing number and frequency of pulses, albeit this improvement was much lower than predicted by probabilistic combination, suggesting highly sublinear integration of pulses. This behavioral observation was reflected in the firing properties of concomitantly recorded barrel cortex neurons, which showed substantial response adaptation to repetitive whisker deflection. To estimate the integration time with which barrel cortex neuronal activity must be read out to match behavior, we constructed a model monitoring spiking activity of simulated neuronal pools, where spike trains were channeled through a leaky integrator with exponential decay. Detection was accomplished by simple threshold crossings. This simple model gave an excellent match of neurometric and psychometric data at surprisingly small time constants tau of 5-8 ms, thus limiting integration largely to &lt;25 ms. This result carries important implications regarding sensory processing for whisker-mediated perception.
Dentate granule cell (DGC) neurogenesis persists throughout life in the hippocampal dentate gyrus. In rodent temporal lobe epilepsy models, status epilepticus (SE) stimulates neurogenesis, but many newborn DGCs integrate aberrantly and are hyperexcitable, whereas others may integrate normally and restore inhibition. The overall influence of altered neurogenesis on epileptogenesis is therefore unclear. To better understand the role DGC neurogenesis plays in seizure-induced plasticity, we injected retroviral (RV) reporters to label dividing DGC progenitors at specific times before or after SE, or used x-irradiation to suppress neurogenesis. RV injections 7 weeks before SE to mark DGCs that had matured by the time of SE labeled cells with normal placement and morphology 4 weeks after SE. RV injections 2 or 4 weeks before seizure induction to label cells still developing during SE revealed normally located DGCs exhibiting hilar basal dendrites and mossy fiber sprouting (MFS) when observed 4 weeks after SE. Cells labeled by injecting RV after SE displayed hilar basal dendrites and ectopic migration, but not sprouting, at 28 d after SE; when examined 10 weeks after SE, however, these cells showed robust MFS. Eliminating cohorts of newborn DGCs by focal brain irradiation at specific times before or after SE decreased MFS or hilar ectopic DGCs, supporting the RV labeling results. These findings indicate that developing DGCs exhibit maturation-dependent vulnerability to SE, indicating that abnormal DGC plasticity derives exclusively from aberrantly developing DGCs. Treatments that restore normal DGC development after epileptogenic insults may therefore ameliorate epileptogenic network dysfunction and associated morbidities.
Principal neurons of the medial superior olive (MSO) compute azimuthal sound location by integrating phase-locked inputs from each ear. While previous experimental and modeling studies have proposed that voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) play an important role in synaptic integration in the MSO, these studies appear at odds with the unusually weak active backpropagation of action potentials into the soma and dendrites. To understand the spatial localization and biophysical properties of VGSCs, we isolated sodium currents in MSO principal neurons in gerbil brainstem slices. Nucleated and cell-attached patches revealed that VGSC density at the soma is comparable to that of many other neuron types, but channel expression is largely absent from the dendrites. Further, while somatic VGSCs activated with conventional voltage dependence (V(1/2) = -30 mV), they exhibited an unusually negative range of steady-state inactivation (V(1/2) = -77 mV), leaving approximately 92% of VGSCs inactivated at the resting potential (approximately -58 mV). In current-clamp experiments, non-inactivated VGSCs were sufficient to amplify subthreshold EPSPs near action potential threshold, counterbalancing the suppression of EPSP peaks by low voltage-activated potassium channels. EPSP amplification was restricted to the perisomatic region of the neuron, and relatively insensitive to preceding inhibition. Finally, computational modeling showed that the exclusion of VGSCs from the dendrites equalizes somatic EPSP amplification across synaptic locations and lowered the threshold for bilateral versus unilateral excitatory synaptic inputs. Together, these findings suggest that the pattern of sodium channel expression in MSO neurons contributes to these neurons' selectivity for coincident binaural inputs.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) function as retrograde signaling molecules at synapses throughout the brain, regulate axonal growth and guidance during development, and drive adult neurogenesis. There remains a lack of genetic evidence as to the identity of the enzyme(s) responsible for the synthesis of eCBs in the brain. Diacylglycerol lipase-alpha (DAGLalpha) and -beta (DAGLbeta) synthesize 2-arachidonoyl-glycerol (2-AG), the most abundant eCB in the brain. However, their respective contribution to this and to eCB signaling has not been tested. In the present study, we show approximately 80% reductions in 2-AG levels in the brain and spinal cord in DAGLalpha(-/-) mice and a 50% reduction in the brain in DAGLbeta(-/-) mice. In contrast, DAGLbeta plays a more important role than DAGLalpha in regulating 2-AG levels in the liver, with a 90% reduction seen in DAGLbeta(-/-) mice. Levels of arachidonic acid decrease in parallel with 2-AG, suggesting that DAGL activity controls the steady-state levels of both lipids. In the hippocampus, the postsynaptic release of an eCB results in the transient suppression of GABA-mediated transmission at inhibitory synapses; we now show that this form of synaptic plasticity is completely lost in DAGLalpha(-/-) animals and relatively unaffected in DAGLbeta(-/-) animals. Finally, we show that the control of adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus and subventricular zone is compromised in the DAGLalpha(-/-) and/or DAGLbeta(-/-) mice. These findings provide the first evidence that DAGLalpha is the major biosynthetic enzyme for 2-AG in the nervous system and reveal an essential role for this enzyme in regulating retrograde synaptic plasticity and adult neurogenesis.
A fundamental goal of visual neuroscience is to identify the neural pathways representing different image features. It is widely argued that the early stages of these pathways represent linear features of the visual scene and that the nonlinearities necessary to represent complex visual patterns are introduced later in cortex. We tested this by comparing the responses of subcortical and cortical neurons to interference patterns constructed by summing sinusoidal gratings. Although a linear mechanism can detect the component gratings, a nonlinear mechanism is required to detect an interference pattern resulting from their sum. Consistent with in vitro retinal ganglion cell recordings, we found that interference patterns are represented subcortically by cat LGN Y-cells, but not X-cells. Linear and nonlinear tuning properties of LGN Y-cells were then characterized and compared quantitatively with those of cortical area 18 neurons responsive to interference patterns. This comparison revealed a high degree of similarity between the two neural populations, including the following: (1) the representation of similar spatial frequencies in both their linear and nonlinear responses, (2) comparable orientation selectivity for the high spatial frequency carrier of interference patterns, and (3) the same difference in their temporal frequency selectivity for drifting gratings versus the envelope of interference patterns. The present findings demonstrate that the nonlinear subcortical Y-cell pathway represents complex visual patterns and likely underlies cortical responses to interference patterns. We suggest that linear and nonlinear mechanisms important for encoding visual scenes emerge in parallel through distinct pathways originating at the retina.
A new generation of interdisciplinary research seeks to use common functional genetic polymorphisms to model emergent variability in brain chemistry that regulates behaviorally relevant brain structure and function. This genetically mediated variability is then being mapped onto trajectories of risk for psychopathology, especially that precipitated by environmental adversity. This Perspective highlights a recent paper in Science that provides a powerful example of how a common functional genetic polymorphism can serve as a translational bridge between human and mouse research, extending our understanding of biological pathways that mediate individual differences in behavior and in risk for psychopathology.

A new study has found that bonobos take longer to reach adult levels of two behaviors than do chimpanzees, providing empirical support for the 'paedomorphism' hypothesis among our closest relatives.




There is increasing evidence that adolescence, like early life, is a sensitive period in which ongoing brain development can be influenced by environmental factors. This review describes our use of social instability as a model of mild adolescent social stress, its effects on social interactions and on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal function over the course of the procedure and in response to new stressors. The effects of social instability are sex-specific, with qualitative differences between the sexes on HPA function over the course of the stressor procedure, and with greater effects in males on behaviour observed during the social instability and greater effects in females on behavioural responses to drugs of abuse into adulthood, long after the stress exposure. The results from investigations with this model of adolescent social stress are discussed in relation to those of studies using other stressor procedures. Elevated exposure to glucocorticoids over the course of adolescence confers sex-specific changes in behavioural responses to drugs of abuse, which may be of relevance for understanding risk factors in people.
Interrelationships between genetic and biochemical factors underlying ischemic stroke and ischemic heart disease are poorly understood. We: 1) undertook the most comprehensive meta-analysis of genetic polymorphisms in ischemic stroke to date; 2) compared genetic determinants of ischemic stroke with those of ischemic heart disease, and 3) compared effect sizes of gene-stroke associations with those predicted from independent biochemical data using a mendelian randomization strategy. Electronic databases were searched up to January 2009. We identified: 1) 187 ischemic stroke studies (37,481 cases; 95,322 controls) interrogating 43 polymorphisms in 29 genes; 2) 13 meta-analyses testing equivalent polymorphisms in ischemic heart disease; and 3) for the top five gene-stroke associations, 146 studies (65,703 subjects) describing equivalent gene-biochemical relationships, and 28 studies (46,928 subjects) describing biochemical-stroke relationships. Meta-analyses demonstrated positive associations with ischemic stroke for factor V Leiden Gln506, ACE I/D, MTHFR C677T, prothrombin G20210A, PAI-1 5G allele and glycoprotein IIIa Leu33Pro polymorphisms (ORs: 1.11 - 1.60). Most genetic associations show congruent levels of risk comparing ischemic stroke with ischemic heart disease, but three genes--glycoprotein IIIa, PAI-1 and angiotensinogen--show significant dissociations. The magnitudes of stroke risk observed for factor V Leiden, ACE, MTHFR and prothrombin, but not PAI-1, polymorphisms, are consistent with risks associated with equivalent changes in activated protein C resistance, ACE activity, homocysteine, prothrombin, and PAI-1 levels, respectively. Our results demonstrate causal relationships for four of the most robust genes associated with stroke while also showing that PAI-1 4G/5G polymorphism influences cardiovascular risk via a mechanism not simply related to plasma levels of PAI-1 (or tPA) alone.
In the medial prefrontal cortex, the prelimbic area is emerging as a major modulator of fear behavior, but the mechanisms remain unclear. Using a selective neocortical knockout mouse, virally mediated prelimbic cortical-specific gene deletion, and pharmacological rescue with a TrkB agonist, we examined the role of a primary candidate mechanism, BDNF, in conditioned fear. We found consistently robust deficits in consolidation of cued fear but no effects on acquisition, expression of unlearned fear, sensorimotor function, and spatial learning. This deficit in learned fear in the BDNF knockout mice was rescued with systemic administration of a TrkB receptor agonist, 7,8-dihydroxyflavone. These data indicate that prelimbic BDNF is critical for consolidation of learned fear memories, but it is not required for innate fear or extinction of fear. Moreover, use of site-specific, inducible BDNF deletions shows a powerful mechanism that may further our understanding of the pathophysiology of fear-related disorders.
In his Philosophical Investigations, Wittgenstein famously noted that the formation of semantic representations requires more than a simple combination of verbal and nonverbal features to generate conceptually based similarities and differences. Classical and contemporary neuroscience has tended to focus upon how different neocortical regions contribute to conceptualization through the summation of modality-specific information. The additional yet critical step of computing coherent concepts has received little attention. Some computational models of semantic memory are able to generate such concepts by the addition of modality-invariant information coded in a multidimensional semantic space. By studying patients with semantic dementia, we demonstrate that this aspect of semantic memory becomes compromised following atrophy of the anterior temporal lobes and, as a result, the patients become increasingly influenced by superficial rather than conceptual similarities.
Binocular rivalry occurs when conflicting images are presented in corresponding locations of the two eyes. Perception alternates between the images at a rate that is relatively stable within individuals but that varies widely between individuals. The determinants of this variation are unknown. In addition, slow binocular rivalry has been demonstrated in bipolar disorder, a psychiatric condition with high heritability. The present study therefore examined whether there is a genetic contribution to individual variation in binocular rivalry rate. We employed the twin method and studied both monozygotic (MZ) twins (n = 128 pairs) who are genetically identical, and dizygotic (DZ) twins (n = 220 pairs) who share roughly half their genes. MZ and DZ twin correlations for binocular rivalry rate were 0.51 and 0.19, respectively. The best-fitting genetic model showed 52% of the variance in binocular rivalry rate was accounted for by additive genetic factors. In contrast, nonshared environmental influences accounted for 18% of the variance, with the remainder attributed to measurement error. This study therefore demonstrates a substantial genetic contribution to individual variation in binocular rivalry rate. The results support the vigorous pursuit of genetic and molecular studies of binocular rivalry and further characterization of slow binocular rivalry as an endophenotype for bipolar disorder.

The detailed anatomy of the monoamine pathways of the rat by the students of Nils-Ake Hillarp provided the basis for a neurocircuitry targeting pharmacology. Further progress was achieved by the introduction of 6-hydroxydopamine as a tool for performing specific lesions, leading to the first stereotaxic mapping of the monoamine pathways in the rat brain by Urban Ungerstedt at the Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. Unilateral intracerebral injections with 6-hydroxydopamine led to the proposal of 'Rotational Behaviour', as a classical model for screening drugs useful for alleviating Parkinson's disease and other neuropathologies. The direction of the rotational behaviour induced by drugs administrated to lesioned rats reveals their mechanisms of action on dopamine synapses, as demonstrated when rotational behaviour was combined with microdialysis. The model was useful for proposing a role of dopamine receptors in the gating of the flow of information through different efferent pathways of the basal ganglia. It is established now that the coupling of dopamine receptors is regulated by a number of proteins acting as GTPases, the regulators of G-protein signalling (RGS) family. More than 20 RGS proteins have been identified, organised into subfamilies based on structural features and specificity for different G-protein subunits. These protein subfamilies represent alternative pathways gating the flow of information generated in the basal ganglia. Microdialysis has been developed as a general tool for studying tissue and organ chemistry, leading to a truly translational venture as microdialysis is brought into clinical use, monitoring energy metabolism following global or focal ischemia in the neurosurgery and general medicine scenario.
Parkinson's disease was long considered a non-hereditary disorder. Despite extensive research trying to find environmental risk factors for the disease, genetic variants now stand out as the major causative factor. Since a number of genes have been implicated in the pathogenesis it seems likely that several molecular pathways and downstream effectors can affect the trophic support and/or the survival of dopamine neurons, subsequently leading to Parkinson's disease. The present review describes how toxin-based animal models have been valuable tools in trying to find the underlying mechanisms of disease, and how identification of disease-linked genes in humans has led to the development of new transgenic rodent models. The review also describes the current status of the most common genetic susceptibility factors for Parkinson's disease identified up to today.
There are two major secretory pathways in neurons, the regulated pathway and the constitutive pathway. Neuropeptides and other regulated secretory proteins are known to be sorted into large dense-core vesicles of the regulated pathway in the trans-Golgi network and are secreted upon stimulus-induced increases in intracellular Ca(2+). The newly synthesized cell surface receptors are usually sorted into microvesicles of the constitutive pathway and inserted into the plasma membrane by spontaneous exocytosis. Small-diameter sensory neurons in dorsal root ganglia and pheochromocytoma cells express neuropeptides (e.g., substance P) and several neuropeptide receptors including opioid receptors. The mu-opioid receptors are delivered to the cell surface through the constitutive pathway, whereas another type of opioid receptor, the delta-opioid receptor, is often found in the membrane of large dense-core vesicles and can be inserted into the plasma membrane when exocytosis occurs. Recent studies show that sequences with opposite electrical polarity within the prohormones of substance P are essential for their sorting into large dense-core vesicles. Moreover, the delta-opioid receptor is sorted into large dense-core vesicles by its interaction with protachykinin, a prohormone of substance P. These findings provide insight into the molecular mechanisms that determine the sorting and trafficking of neuropeptides and neuropeptide receptors in neurons.
My goals for this perspective are to enumerate what I consider to have been the major discoveries in the investigations of the central catecholamine neuron systems from the synaptic, cellular and systems physiological and neurohistochemical perspectives. To do so, I will emphasize here the synaptic and physiological aspects of the central noradrenergic (NE) system, considering both the past research and what we may expect to witness in the decades ahead.
Parkinson's disease is a neurological disorder which afflicts an increasing number of individuals. If the wider complex of extrapyramidal symptoms referred to as &quot;age-related parkinsonism&quot; is included, the incidence is near 50% of the population above 80 years of age. This review summarizes recent studies from our laboratories as well as other research groups in the quest to explore the multi-faceted etiology of age-related neurodegeneration, in general, and degeneration of the substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons, in particular. Our work during recent years has focused on assessment of potential interactive effects of a reduction in glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and the aging process (intrinsic factors) and early neurotoxin exposure (an extrinsic factor) on dopamine (DA) systems and the behaviors they mediate. The guiding hypothesis directing the research to be described was that a combination of the two factors would exacerbate the decline in the DA transmitter system function that occurs during aging. The results obtained were consistent with the well-established aging-related decline in function and structure of neurons utilizing DA as a transmitter and motor function, and extended knowledge by establishing that the genetic reduction of Gdnf exacerbated these aging related changes. Thus, GDNF reduction appears to increase the vulnerability of the DA neurons to the many different challenges associated with the aging process. Assessment of methamphetamine effects on young Gdnf(+/-) mice indicated that reduced GDNF availability increased the vulnerability of DA systems to this well-established neurotoxin. The work discussed in this review is consistent with earlier work demonstrating the importance of GDNF for maintenance of DA neurons and also provides a novel model for progressive DA degeneration and motor dysfunction.
Grafting of dopamine-rich tissue to counteract the symptoms in Parkinson's disease became a promising tool for future treatment. This article discusses how to improve the functional outcome with respect to graft outgrowth and functions of dopamine release and electrophysiological responses to graft implantation in the host brain striatal target. It has been documented that a subpopulation of the dopamine neurons innervates the host brain in a target-specific manner, while some of the grafted dopamine neurons never project to the host striatum. Neurochemical studies have demonstrated that the graft-induced outgrowth synthesize, store, metabolize and release dopamine and possibly other neurotransmitters such as 5-HT. Furthermore, the released dopamine affects the dopamine-depleted brain in areas that are larger than the graft-derived nerve fibers reach. While stem cells will most likely be the future source of cells to be used in grafting, it is important to find the guiding cues for how to reinnervate the dopamine-depleted striatum in a proper way with respect to the dopamine subpopulations of A9 and A10 to efficiently treat the motor abnormalities seen in Parkinson's disease.
This review article covers the early period of my career. I first summarize research initiated by the late Nils-Ake Hillarp, after his appointment in 1962 as professor in the Department of Histology at Karolinska Institutet. He only lived for three more years, but during this short period he started up a group of ten students who explored various aspects of the three monoamine transmitters, dopamine, noradrenaline and 5-hydroxytryptamine, using the new formaldehyde fluorescence method developed by Bengt Falck and Hillarp in Lund. This method allowed visualization of the cellular localization in the microscope of these monoamines, which introduced a new discipline in neurobiology-chemical neuroanatomy. I then deal with work aiming at localizing the monoamines at the ultrastructural level, as well as attempts to use radioactively labeled aminoacids, especially gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and autoradiography, to identify, in the microscope, neurons using such transmitters. Finally, our immunohistochemical work together with Kjell Fuxe and the late Menek Goldstein, using antibodies to four monoamine-synthesizing enzymes is summarized, including some aspects on the adrenaline neurons, which had escaped detection with the Falck-Hillarp technique.
The dawn of chemical neuroanatomy in the CNS came with the discovery and mapping of the central dopamine, noradrenaline and 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons by means of transmitter histochemistry using the Falck-Hillarp formaldehyde fluorescence technique in the early 1960s. Our mapping of the central monoamine neurons was continued and further established with tyrosine hydroxylase, dopa decarboxylase and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase immunohistochemistry in collaboration with Menek Goldstein and Tomas Hkfelt. During recent years an evolutionary constraint in the nuclear parcellation of the DA, NA and 5-HT neurons was demonstrated in the order Rodentia and other mammals. The abundant existence of global monoamine varicose nerve terminal networks synthesizing, storing and releasing monoamines in various parts of the CNS, including the release of DA by tubero-infundibular DA neurons as a prolactin inhibitory factor from the external layer of the median eminence into the portal vessels and the appearance of extraneuronal DA fluorescence after, e.g., treatment with amphetamine in nialamide pretreated rats (Falck-Hillarp technique) were also remarkable observations. These observations and others like the discovery of transmitter-receptor mismatches opened up the possibility that monoamines were modulating the wired brain, built up mainly by glutamate and GABA neurons, through diffusion and flow in the extracellular fluid of the extracellular space and in the CSF. This transmission also involved long-distance channels along myelinated fibers and blood vessels and was called volume transmission (VT). The extracellular space (ECS), filled with a 3D matrix, plays a fundamental role in this communication. Energy gradients for signal migration in the ECS are produced via concentration, temperature and pressure gradients, the latter two allowing a flow of the ECF and CSF carrying the VT signals. The differential properties of the wiring transmission (WT) and VT circuits and communication channels will be discussed as well as the role of neurosteroids and oxytocin receptors in volume transmission leading to a new understanding of the integrative actions of neuronal-glial networks. The role of tunneling nanotubes with mitochondrial transfer in CNS inter alia as part of neuron-glia interactions will also be introduced representing a novel type of wiring transmission. The impact of the technicolour approach to the connectome for the future characterization of the wired networks of the brain is emphasized.

Both smoking and nicotine can facilitate cognitive efficiency in humans, however the exact mechanism underlying this improvement in cognitive performance is unclear. Nicotine-related improvements in visual task performance may stem from facilitation of the identification and encoding of rare deviant stimuli at early sensory levels. Visual processes at these early levels are thought to be indexed by the visual mismatch negativity (vMMN), an event-related potential (ERP) measure of pre-conscious deviant detection. In order to contribute to our understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying nicotinic modulated cognition, the current study investigated the acute effects of nicotine on vMMN in a non-smoking sample. Twenty-seven volunteers (7 males, 20 females) were treated with nicotine gum (6 mg) in a double-blind randomized, placebo-controlled repeated measures design. ERPs (vMMN; visual N100 and P200) and motor indices of performance were extracted from an intermodal task, requiring participants to attend selectively to auditory targets presented within concurrent, non-overlapping oddball sequences of visual standard and deviant stimuli. Behavioural performance was unaffected by nicotine, however nicotine was found to enhance vMMN and P200 amplitude. The findings are discussed in relation to attentional and neurobiological theories of nicotine dependence and of cognition in general.
The relationship between fiber tract formation and transverse and longitudinal borders of the diencephalon was investigated in Alligator embryos beginning when this structure was a single unit and continuing until internal subgroups were present within individual segments. At all stages of development, distinct bundles of fibers were not restricted to borders between morphological segments nor were they located at the alar/basal plate boundary. With the exception of a few fine fibers that occupied only a part of certain inter-diencephalic boundaries, fiber tracts were present within the parenchyma of respective subdivisions. In the process of this analysis, fiber tract formation was also documented in the telencephalon, secondary prosencephalon, and midbrain during this period of early development. Fiber tracts were classified into three groups based on orientation: transverse; longitudinal; and commissural. At early stages of development, similarities between Alligator and other species suggest that these bundles represent a primary scaffold for all vertebrates with two exceptions. One was the presence of the descending tract of the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus in Alligator and other jawed animals but not in jawless vertebrates. The other was the absence of the dorsoventral diencephalic tract in Alligator which lacks a pineal gland.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) plays an important role in peripheral and central sensitization. CGRP also is a key molecule in the spino-parabrachial-amygdaloid pain pathway. Blockade of CGRP1 receptors in the spinal cord or in the amygdala has antinociceptive effects in different pain models. Here we studied the electrophysiological mechanisms of behavioral effects of CGRP in the amygdala in normal animals without tissue injury.Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of neurons in the latero-capsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeLC) in rat brain slices showed that CGRP (100 nM) increased excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) at the parabrachio-amygdaloid (PB-CeLC) synapse, the exclusive source of CGRP in the amygdala. Consistent with a postsynaptic mechanism of action, CGRP increased amplitude, but not frequency, of miniature EPSCs and did not affect paired-pulse facilitation. CGRP also increased neuronal excitability. CGRP-induced synaptic facilitation was reversed by an NMDA receptor antagonist (AP5, 50 microM) or a PKA inhibitor (KT5720, 1 microM), but not by a PKC inhibitor (GF109203X, 1 microM). Stereotaxic administration of CGRP (10 microM, concentration in microdialysis probe) into the CeLC by microdialysis in awake rats increased audible and ultrasonic vocalizations and decreased hindlimb withdrawal thresholds. Behavioral effects of CGRP were largely blocked by KT5720 (100 microM) but not by GF109203X (100 microM).The results show that CGRP in the amygdala exacerbates nocifensive and affective behavioral responses in normal animals through PKA- and NMDA receptor-dependent postsynaptic facilitation. Thus, increased CGRP levels in the amygdala might trigger pain in the absence of tissue injury.
The HIV/AIDS epidemic has continued to pose significant challenges to countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. Millions of African children and youth have lost parents to HIV/AIDS leaving a generation of orphans to be cared for within extended family systems and communities. The experiences of youth who have lost parents to the HIV/AIDS epidemic provide an important ingress into this complex, evolving, multi-dimensional phenomenon. A fundamental qualitative descriptive study was conducted to develop a culturally relevant and comprehensive description of the experiences of orphanhood from the perspectives of Ugandan youth. A purposeful sample of 13 youth who had lost one or both parents to HIV/AIDS and who were affiliated with a non-governmental organization providing support to orphans were interviewed. Youth orphaned by HIV/AIDS described the experience of orphanhood beginning with parental illness, not death. Several losses were associated with the death of a parent including lost social capitol, educational opportunities and monetary assets. Unique findings revealed that youth experienced culturally specific stigma and conflict which was distinctly related to their HIV/AIDS orphan status. Exploitation within extended cultural family systems was also reported. Results from this study suggest that there is a pressing need to identify and provide culturally appropriate services for these Ugandan youth prior to and after the loss of a parent(s).


The conserved tryptophan in position 13 of TM-VI (Trp-VI:13 or Trp-6.48) of the CWXP motif located at the bottom of the main ligand-binding pocket in TM-VI is believed to function as a rotameric microswitch in the activation process of seven-transmembrane (7TM) receptors. Molecular dynamics simulations in rhodopsin demonstrated that rotation around the chi1 torsion angle of Trp-VI:13 brings its side chain close to the equally highly conserved Phe-V:13 (Phe-5.47) in TM-V. In the ghrelin receptor, engineering of high affinity metal-ion sites between these positions confirmed their close spatial proximity. Mutational analysis was performed in the ghrelin receptor with multiple substitutions and with Ala substitutions in GPR119, GPR39, and the beta(2)-adrenergic receptor as well as the NK1 receptor. In all of these cases, it was found that mutation of the Trp-VI:13 rotameric switch itself eliminated the constitutive signaling and strongly impaired agonist-induced signaling without affecting agonist affinity and potency. Ala substitution of Phe-V:13, the presumed interaction partner for Trp-VI:13, also in all cases impaired both the constitutive and the agonist-induced receptor signaling, but not to the same degree as observed in the constructs where Trp-VI:13 itself was mutated, but again without affecting agonist potency. In a proposed active receptor conformation generated by molecular simulations, where the extracellular segment of TM-VI is tilted inwards in the main ligand-binding pocket, Trp-VI:13 could rotate into a position where it obtained an ideal aromatic-aromatic interaction with Phe-V:13. It is concluded that Phe-V:13 can serve as an aromatic lock for the proposed active conformation of the Trp-VI:13 rotameric switch, being involved in the global movement of TM-V and TM-VI in 7TM receptor activation.
Glucose homeostasis in humans is an important factor for the functioning of nervous system. Hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia is found to be associated with central and peripheral nerve system dysfunction. Changes in acetylcholine receptors have been implicated in the pathophysiology of many major diseases of the central nervous system (CNS). In the present study we showed the effects of insulin induced hypoglycemia and streptozotocin induced diabetes on the cerebellar cholinergic receptors, GLUT3 and muscle cholinergic activity. Results showed enhanced binding parameters and gene expression of Muscarinic M1, M3 receptor subtypes in cerebellum of diabetic (D) and hypoglycemic group (D + IIH and C + IIH). alpha7nAchR gene expression showed a significant upregulation in diabetic group and showed further upregulated expression in both D + IIH and C + IIH group. AchE expression significantly upregulated in hypoglycemic and diabetic group. ChAT showed downregulation and GLUT3 expression showed a significant upregulation in D + IIH and C + IIH and diabetic group. AchE activity enhanced in the muscle of hypoglycemic and diabetic rats. Our studies demonstrated a functional disturbance in the neuronal glucose transporter GLUT3 in the cerebellum during insulin induced hypoglycemia in diabetic rats. Altered expression of muscarinic M1, M3 and alpha7nAchR and increased muscle AchE activity in hypoglycemic rats in cerebellum is suggested to cause cognitive and motor dysfunction. Hypoglycemia induced changes in ChAT and AchE gene expression is suggested to cause impaired acetycholine metabolism in the cerebellum. Cerebellar dysfunction is associated with seizure generation, motor deficits and memory impairment. The results shows that cerebellar cholinergic neurotransmission is impaired during hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia and the hypoglycemia is causing more prominent imbalance in cholinergic neurotransmission which is suggested to be a cause of cerebellar dysfunction associated with hypoglycemia.
Progesterone, acting via the nuclear progesterone receptor (PGR), reduces apoptosis in periovulatory granulosa cells, and is a likely mediator of the anti-atretic actions of LH. The underlying mechanisms, however, have not been clearly defined. In this study, we sought to identify progesterone-mediated transcriptional changes involved in apoptosis regulation. Granulosa cells from immature, gonadotropin-primed female rats were treated in vitro with 100 nM of the PGR antagonist Org 31710. Transcriptional effects were analyzed after 5 and 22 h of incubation using microarrays, and the expression of 85 genes was subsequently measured by quantitative PCR. Follow-up experiments focused on genes related to the functional group &quot;apoptosis&quot;. We have identified novel, early gene targets of PGR that may be involved in the control of apoptosis and other biologically significant functions in periovulatory granulosa cells. This study expands our knowledge of events that occur during the processes of ovulation and luteinization.
Pain in humans constitutes a complex perception that involves peripheral tissues, nerves and the central nervous system. The glia is thought to be involved in the propagation and modulation of painful stimuli, as well as for the neurotransmission and plastic changes. In this work, an intermediate inflammatory nociceptive stimulus was generated after the exposure of the pulp in the left mandibular first molar. We analyzed the relationship between this tooth injury and the S100B expression in the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis. A significant difference of S100B immunoreactivity between the ipsilateral and the contralateral side could be observed at the 4th postoperative day. Besides, S100B positive-astrocytes located in the ipsilateral side showed an increase in their arborization, but not in the level of expression of the S100B protein. Our findings suggest that a unilateral peripheral nociceptive stimulus produces modifications in S100B positive-astrocytes in both sides of the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis.
It has been theorized that sensorimotor processing deficits underlie Parkinson's disease (PD) motor impairments including movement under proprioceptive control. However, it is possible that these sensorimotor processing deficits exclude tactile/proprioception sensorimotor integration: prior studies show improved movement accuracy in PD with endpoint tactile feedback, and good control in tactile-driven precision-grip tasks. To determine whether tactile/proprioceptive integration in particular is affected by PD, nine subjects with PD (off-medication, UPDRS motor=19-42) performed an arm-matching task without visual feedback. In some trials one arm touched a static tactile cue that conflicted with dynamic proprioceptive feedback from biceps brachii muscle vibration. This sensory conflict paradigm has characterized tactile/proprioceptive integration in healthy subjects as specific to the context of tactile cue mobility assumptions and the intention to move the arm. We found that the individuals with PD had poorer arm-matching accuracy than age-matched control subjects. However, PD-group accuracy improved with tactile feedback. Furthermore, sensory conflict conditions were resolved in the same context-dependent fashion by both subject groups. We conclude that the somatosensory integration mechanism for prioritizing tactile and proprioception feedback in this task are not disrupted by PD, and are not related to the observed proprioceptive deficits.
Exposure to stress during critical periods of an organism's maturation can result in permanent behavioral changes and induced hyper-responsive to aversive stimuli as adult. Hippocampus is a plastic and vulnerable brain structure that is susceptible to damage during aging and repeated stress. The present study examines the effect of maternal restraint stress on the level of GAP-43, pGAP-43 and synaptophysin in the hippocampus of rat pups. Prenatal stress (PS) causes a significant increase of GAP-43 and pGAP-43 (p&lt;or=0.001) in the pup's hippocampus during postnatal days 7 and 14, but not at later ages. Up-regulation of GAP-43 and pGAP-43 may alter the pattern of axonal growth and synapses' formation in the pup's brain since the first two postnatal weeks are correlated with peak period of synaptogenesis in the rat brain. We also examined the level of synaptophysin, a synaptic vesicle membrane protein, in the pup's brain. Our finding revealed that, PS causes a significant decrease of synaptophysin in the pup's hippocampus as compared to control (p&lt;or=0.001). These changes are due to the direct effects of maternal stress hormone since repeated injection with corticosterone (CORT, 40 mg/kg) to pregnant rat during gestation days (GDs) 14-21 also gave the same results. Abnormal axonal sprouting and reorganization together with the alterations in synaptic vesicle membrane protein during the critical period of synaptogenesis may lead to a defect in synapse formation and axonal pruning in the hippocampus. These changes may be associated with stress-induced impairment of hippocampal function that occurs in later life of the offspring.
We study how threshold models and neocortical neurons transfer temporal and interneuronal input correlations to correlations of spikes. In both, we find that the low common input regime is governed by firing rate dependent spike correlations which are sensitive to the detailed structure of input correlation functions. In the high common input regime, the spike correlations are largely insensitive to the firing rate and exhibit a universal peak shape. We further show that pairs with different firing rates driven by common inputs in general exhibit asymmetric spike correlations.
Expansion of a stretch of polyglutamine in huntingtin (htt), the protein product of the IT15 gene, causes Huntington's disease (HD). Previous investigations into the role of the polyglutamine stretch (polyQ) in htt function have suggested that its length may modulate a normal htt function involved in regulating energy homeostasis. Here we show that expression of full-length htt lacking its polyglutamine stretch (DeltaQ-htt) in a knockin mouse model for HD (Hdh(140Q/DeltaQ)), reduces significantly neuropil mutant htt aggregates, ameliorates motor/behavioral deficits, and extends lifespan in comparison to the HD model mice (Hdh(140Q/+)). The rescue of HD model phenotypes is accompanied by the normalization of lipofuscin levels in the brain and an increase in the steady-state levels of the mammalian autophagy marker microtubule-associate protein 1 light chain 3-II (LC3-II). We also find that DeltaQ-htt expression in vitro increases autophagosome synthesis and stimulates the Atg5-dependent clearance of truncated N-terminal htt aggregates. DeltaQ-htt's effect on autophagy most likely represents a gain-of-function, as overexpression of full-length wild-type htt in vitro does not increase autophagosome synthesis. Moreover, Hdh(DeltaQ/DeltaQ) mice live significantly longer than wild-type mice, suggesting that autophagy upregulation may be beneficial both in diseases caused by toxic intracellular aggregate-prone proteins and also as a lifespan extender in normal mammals.

Over the past two decades, HIV resistance to antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) has risen to high levels in the wealthier countries of the world, which are able to afford widespread treatment. We have gained insights into the evolution and transmission dynamics of ARV resistance by designing a biologically complex multistrain network model. With this model, we traced the evolutionary history of ARV resistance in San Francisco and predict its future dynamics. By using classification and regression trees, we identified the key immunologic, virologic, and treatment factors that increase ARV resistance. Our modeling shows that 60% of the currently circulating ARV-resistant strains in San Francisco are capable of causing self-sustaining epidemics, because each individual infected with one of these strains can cause, on average, more than one new resistant infection. It is possible that a new wave of ARV-resistant strains that pose a substantial threat to global public health is emerging.
Grid cells in the entorhinal cortex of freely moving rats provide a strikingly periodic representation of self-location which is indicative of very specific computational mechanisms. However, the existence of grid cells in humans and their distribution throughout the brain are unknown. Here we show that the preferred firing directions of directionally modulated grid cells in rat entorhinal cortex are aligned with the grids, and that the spatial organization of grid-cell firing is more strongly apparent at faster than slower running speeds. Because the grids are also aligned with each other, we predicted a macroscopic signal visible to functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in humans. We then looked for this signal as participants explored a virtual reality environment, mimicking the rats' foraging task: fMRI activation and adaptation showing a speed-modulated six-fold rotational symmetry in running direction. The signal was found in a network of entorhinal/subicular, posterior and medial parietal, lateral temporal and medial prefrontal areas. The effect was strongest in right entorhinal cortex, and the coherence of the directional signal across entorhinal cortex correlated with spatial memory performance. Our study illustrates the potential power of combining single-unit electrophysiology with fMRI in systems neuroscience. Our results provide evidence for grid-cell-like representations in humans, and implicate a specific type of neural representation in a network of regions which supports spatial cognition and also autobiographical memory.

Using the substituted-cysteine-accessibility method, we previously showed that a cysteine residue introduced to the Y512 position of CLC-0 was more rapidly modified by a negatively charged methanethiosulfonate (MTS) reagent, 2-sulfonatoethyl MTS (MTSES), than by the positively charged 2-(trimethylammonium)ethyl MTS (MTSET). This result suggests that a positive intrinsic pore potential attracts the negatively charged MTS molecule. In this study, we further test this hypothesis of a positive pore potential in CLC-0 and find that the preference for the negatively charged MTS is diminished significantly in modifying the substituted cysteine at a deeper pore position, E166. To examine this conundrum, we study the rates of MTS inhibitions of the E166C current and those of the control mutant current from E166A. The results suggest that the inhibition of E166C by intracellularly applied MTS reagents is tainted by the modification of an endogenous cysteine, C229, located at the channel's dimer interface. After this endogenous cysteine is mutated, CLC-0 resumes its preference for selecting MTSES in modifying E166C, reconfirming the idea that the pore of CLC-0 is indeed built with a positive intrinsic potential. These experiments also reveal that MTS modification of C229 can inhibit the current of CLC-0 depending on the amino acid placed at position 166.

Voluntary control of behavior implies the ability to select what action is performed. The supplementary motor area (SMA) and pre-SMA are widely considered to be of central importance for this ability because of their role in movement initiation and inhibition. To test this hypothesis, we recorded from neurons in SMA and pre-SMA of monkeys performing an arm countermanding task. Temporal analysis of neural activity and behavior in this task allowed us to test whether neural activity is sufficient to control movement initiation or inhibition. Surprisingly, 99% (242 of 243) of movement-related neurons in SMA and pre-SMA failed to exhibit time-locked activity changes predictive of movement initiation in this task. We also found a second group of neurons that was more active during successful response cancelation. Of these putative inhibitory cells, 18% (7 of 40) responded early enough to be able to influence the cancelation of the movement. Thus, when tested with the countermanding task, the SMA/pre-SMA region may play a role in movement inhibition but does not appear to control movement initiation. However, the activity of 76% (202 of 267) of movement-related neurons was contingent on the expectation of reward and 42% of them reflected the amount of expected reward. These findings suggest that the movement-related activity in pre-SMA and SMA might represent the motivation for a specific action but does not determine whether or not that action is performed. This motivational signal in pre-SMA and SMA could provide an essential link between reward expectation and motor execution.
The contribution of the NMDA receptors (NMDARs) to synaptic plasticity declines during aging, and the decline is thought to contribute to memory deficits. Here, we demonstrate that an age-related shift in intracellular redox state contributes to the decline in NMDAR responses through Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). The oxidizing agent xanthine/xanthine oxidase (X/XO) decreased the NMDAR-mediated synaptic responses at hippocampal CA3-CA1 synapses in slices from young (3-8 months) but not aged (20-25 months) rats. Conversely, the reducing agent dithiothreitol (DTT) selectively enhanced NMDAR response to a greater extent in aged hippocampal slices. The enhancement of NMDAR responses facilitated induction of long-term potentiation in aged but not young animals. The DTT-mediated growth in the NMDAR response was not observed for the AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic responses. A similar increase was observed by intracellular application of the membrane-impermeable reducing agent, L-glutathione (L-GSH), through the intracellular recording pipette, indicating that the increased NMDAR response was dependent on intracellular redox state. DTT enhancement of the NMDAR response was dependent on CaMKII activity and was blocked by the CaMKII inhibitor--myristoylated autocamtide-2-related inhibitory peptide (myr-AIP)--but not by inhibition of the activity of protein phosphatases--PP1 and calcineurin (CaN/PP2B) or protein kinase C. CaMKII activity assays established that DTT increased CaMKII activity in CA1 cytosolic extracts in aged but not in young animals. These findings indicate a link between oxidation of CaMKII during aging, a decline in NMDAR responses, and altered synaptic plasticity.
The cerebellum participates in motor coordination as well as in numerous cerebral processes, including temporal discrimination. Animals can predict daily timing of food availability, as manifested by food-anticipatory activity under restricted feeding. By studying ex vivo clock gene expression by in situ hybridization and recording in vitro Per1-luciferase bioluminescence, we report that the cerebellum contains a circadian oscillator sensitive to feeding cues (i.e., whose clock gene oscillations are shifted in response to restricted feeding). Food-anticipatory activity was markedly reduced in mice injected intracerebroventricularly with an immunotoxin that depletes Purkinje cells (i.e., OX7-saporin). Mice bearing the hotfoot mutation (i.e., Grid2(ho/ho)) have impaired cerebellar circuitry and mild ataxic phenotype. Grid2(ho/ho) mice fed ad libitum showed regular behavioral rhythms and day-night variations of clock gene expression in the hypothalamus and cerebellum. When challenged with restricted feeding, however, Grid2(ho/ho) mice did not show any food-anticipatory rhythms, nor timed feeding-induced changes in cerebellar clock gene expression. In hypothalamic arcuate and dorsomedial nuclei, however, shifts in Per1 expression in response to restricted feeding were similar in cerebellar mutant and wild-type mice. Furthermore, plasma corticosterone and metabolites before mealtime did not differ between cerebellar mutant and wild-type mice. Together, these data define a role for the cerebellum in the circadian timing network and indicate that the cerebellar oscillator is required for anticipation of mealtime.
Frequency modulation (FM) is a prominent feature in animal vocalization and human speech. Although many neurons in the auditory cortex are known to be selective for FM direction, the synaptic mechanisms underlying this selectivity are not well understood. Previous studies of both visual and auditory neurons have suggested two general mechanisms for direction selectivity: (1) differential delays of excitatory inputs across the spatial/spectral receptive field and (2) spatial/spectral offset between excitatory and inhibitory inputs. In this study, we have examined the contributions of both mechanisms to FM direction selectivity in rat primary auditory cortex. The excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs to each cortical neuron were measured by in vivo whole-cell recording. The spectrotemporal receptive field of each type of inputs was mapped with random tone pips and compared with direction selectivity of the neuron measured with FM stimuli. We found that both the differential delay of the excitatory input and the spectral offset between excitation and inhibition are positively correlated with direction selectivity of the neuron. Thus, both synaptic mechanisms are likely to contribute to FM direction selectivity in the auditory cortex. Finally, direction selectivity measured from the spiking output is significantly stronger than that based on the subthreshold membrane potentials, indicating that the selectivity is further sharpened by the spike generation mechanism.
Although anatomical, lesion, and imaging studies of the hippocampus indicate qualitatively different information processing along its septo-temporal axis, physiological mechanisms supporting such distinction are missing. We found fundamental differences between the dorsal (dCA3) and the ventral-most parts (vCA3) of the hippocampus in both environmental representation and temporal dynamics. Discrete place fields of dCA3 neurons evenly covered all parts of the testing environments. In contrast, vCA3 neurons (1) rarely showed continuous two-dimensional place fields, (2) differentiated open and closed arms of a radial maze, and (3) discharged similar firing patterns with respect to the goals, both on multiple arms of a radial maze and during opposite journeys in a zigzag maze. In addition, theta power and the fraction of theta-rhythmic neurons were substantially reduced in the ventral compared with dorsal hippocampus. We hypothesize that the spatial representation in the septo-temporal axis of the hippocampus is progressively decreased. This change is paralleled with a reduction of theta rhythm and an increased representation of nonspatial information.
Peptide:N-glycanases (PNGases) are cytoplasmic de-N-glycosylation enzymes that have been shown in cultured cells to facilitate the degradation of misfolded glycoproteins during endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation and in the processing of major histocompatibility complex class I antigens for proper cell-surface presentation. The gene encoding PNGase activity was initially described in budding yeast (Png1p) and shown to be highly conserved from yeast to humans, but physiological roles in higher organisms have not been elucidated. Here we describe peripheral nervous system defects associated with the first loss-of-function mutations in an animal PNGase. Mutations in png-1, the Caenorhabditis elegans PNGase ortholog, result in an increase in axon branching during morphogenesis of the vulval egg-laying organ and egg-laying behavior changes. Neuronal defects include an increase in the branched morphology of the VC4 and VC5 egg-laying neurons as well as inappropriate branches from axons that run adjacent to the vulva but would normally remain unbranched. We show that png-1 is widely expressed and can act from both neurons and epithelial cells to restrict axon branching. A deletion allele of the DNA repair gene rad-23, orthologs of which are known to physically interact with PNGases in yeast and mammals, displays similar axon branching defects and genetic interactions with png-1. In summary, our analysis reveals a novel developmental role for a PNGase and Rad-23 in the regulation of neuronal branching during organ innervation.
Presynaptic kainate receptors regulate synaptic transmission in several brain areas but are not known to have this action at immature mossy fiber (MF) terminals, which during the first week of postnatal life release GABA, which exerts into targeted cells a depolarizing and excitatory action. Here, we report that, during the first week of postnatal life, endogenous activation of GluK1 receptors by glutamate present in the extracellular space severely depresses MF-mediated GABAergic currents [GABA(A)-mediated postsynaptic currents (GPSCs)]. Activation of GluK1 receptors was prevented by treating the slices with enzymatic glutamate scavengers that enhanced the clearance of glutamate from the extracellular space. The depressant effect of GluK1 on MF-GPSCs was mediated by a metabotropic process sensitive to pertussis toxin. In the presence of U73122 (1-[6-[[(17b)-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-yl]amino]hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione), a selective inhibitor of phospholipase C, along the transduction pathway downstream to G-protein, GluK1 activation increased the probability of GABA release, thus unveiling the ionotropic action of this receptor. In line with this type of action, we found that GluK1 enhanced MF excitability by directly depolarizing MF terminals via calcium-permeable cation channels. Furthermore, GluK1 dynamically regulated the direction of spike time-dependent plasticity occurring by pairing MF stimulation with postsynaptic spiking and switched spike time-dependent potentiation into depression. The GluK1-induced depression of MF-GPSCs would prevent excessive activation of the CA3 associative network by the excitatory action of GABA and the emergence of seizures in the immature brain.
Reward representation in ventral striatum is boosted by perceptual novelty, although the mechanism of this effect remains elusive. Animal studies indicate a functional loop (Lisman and Grace, 2005) that includes hippocampus, ventral striatum, and midbrain as being important in regulating salience attribution within the context of novel stimuli. According to this model, reward responses in ventral striatum or midbrain should be enhanced in the context of novelty even if reward and novelty constitute unrelated, independent events. Using fMRI, we show that trials with reward-predictive cues and subsequent outcomes elicit higher responses in the striatum if preceded by an unrelated novel picture, indicating that reward representation is enhanced in the context of novelty. Notably, this effect was observed solely when reward occurrence, and hence reward-related salience, was low. These findings support a view that contextual novelty enhances neural responses underlying reward representation in the striatum and concur with the effects of novelty processing as predicted by the model of Lisman and Grace (2005).
Moderate release of the major stress hormones, glucocorticoids (GCs), improves hippocampal function and memory. In contrast, excessive or prolonged elevations produce impairments. Enzymatic degradation and reformation of GCs help to maintain optimal levels within target tissues, including the brain. We hypothesized that expressing a GC-degrading enzyme in hippocampal neurons would attenuate the negative impact of an excessive elevation in GC levels on synaptic physiology and spatial memory. We tested this by expressing 11-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (type II) in dentate gyrus granule cells during a 3 d GC treatment followed by examination of synaptic responses in hippocampal slices or spatial performance in the Morris water maze. In adrenalectomized rats with basal GC replacement, additional GC treatments for 3 d reduced synaptic strength and promoted the expression of long-term depression at medial perforant path synapses, increased granule cell and CA1 pyramidal cell excitability, and impaired spatial reference memory (without influencing learning). Expression of 11-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (type II), mostly in mature dentate gyrus granule cells, reversed the effects of high GC levels on granule cell and pyramidal cell excitability, perforant path synaptic plasticity, and spatial memory. These data demonstrate the ability of neuroprotective gene expression limited to a specific cell population to both locally and trans-synaptically offset neurophysiological disruptions produced by prolonged increases in circulating stress hormones. This report supplies the first physiological explanation for previously demonstrated cognitive sparing by anti-stress gene therapy approaches and lends additional insight into the hippocampal processes that are important for memory.
To establish dendritic arbors that integrate properly into a neural circuit, neurons must rely on cues from the local environment. The neurons presynaptic to these arbors, the afferents, are one potential source of these cues, but the particular dendritic features they regulate remain unclear. Retinal bipolar cells can be classified by the type of photoreceptor, cone or rod, forming synaptic contacts with their dendrites, suggesting a potential role of these afferents in shaping the bipolar cell dendritic arbor. In the present investigation, the role of photoreceptors in directing the differentiation of bipolar cells has been studied using two genetically modified &quot;coneless&quot; and &quot;conefull&quot; mice. Single cone (Type 7/CB4a) and rod bipolar cells were labeled with DiI to reveal the entire dendritic arbor and subsequently analyzed for several morphological features. For both cone and rod bipolar cells, the dendritic field area, number of dendritic terminals, and stratification of terminals in the outer plexiform layer were comparable among coneless, conefull, and wild-type retinas, and the overall morphological appearance of each type of cell was essentially conserved, indicating an independence from afferent specification. The presence of normal afferents was, however, found to be critical for the proper spatial distribution of dendritic terminals, exhibiting a clustered distribution for the cone bipolar cells and a dispersed distribution for the rod bipolar cells. These results demonstrate a selectivity in the afferent dependency of bipolar cell differentiation, their basic morphogenetic plan commanded cell intrinsically, and their fine terminal connectivity directed by the afferents themselves.
The transplantation of neural stem/progenitor cells (NPCs) is a promising therapeutic strategy for spinal cord injury (SCI). However, to date NPC transplantation has exhibited only limited success in the treatment of chronic SCI. Here, we show that chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) in the glial scar around the site of chronic SCI negatively influence the long-term survival and integration of transplanted NPCs and their therapeutic potential for promoting functional repair and plasticity. We targeted CSPGs in the chronically injured spinal cord by sustained infusion of chondroitinase ABC (ChABC). One week later, the same rats were treated with transplants of NPCs and transient infusion of growth factors, EGF, bFGF, and PDGF-AA. We demonstrate that perturbing CSPGs dramatically optimizes NPC transplantation in chronic SCI. Engrafted NPCs successfully integrate and extensively migrate within the host spinal cord and principally differentiate into oligodendrocytes. Furthermore, this combined strategy promoted the axonal integrity and plasticity of the corticospinal tract and enhanced the plasticity of descending serotonergic pathways. These neuroanatomical changes were also associated with significantly improved neurobehavioral recovery after chronic SCI. Importantly, this strategy did not enhance the aberrant synaptic connectivity of pain afferents, nor did it exacerbate posttraumatic neuropathic pain. For the first time, we demonstrate key biological and functional benefits for the combined use of ChABC, growth factors, and NPCs to repair the chronically injured spinal cord. These findings could potentially bring us closer to the application of NPCs for patients suffering from chronic SCI or other conditions characterized by the formation of a glial scar.
Na(v)1.7 sodium channels can amplify weak stimuli in neurons and act as threshold channels for firing action potentials. Neurotrophic factors and pro-nociceptive cytokines that are released during development and under pathological conditions activate mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs). Previous studies have shown that MAPKs can transduce developmental or pathological signals by regulating transcription factors that initiate a gene expression response, a long-term effect, and directly modulate neuronal ion channels including sodium channels, thus acutely regulating dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neuron excitability. For example, neurotrophic growth factor activates (phosphorylates) ERK1/2 MAPK (pERK1/2) in DRG neurons, an effect that has been implicated in injury-induced hyperalgesia. However, the acute effects of pERK1/2 on sodium channels are not known. We have shown previously that activated p38 MAPK (pp38) directly phosphorylates Na(v)1.6 and Na(v)1.8 sodium channels and regulates their current densities without altering their gating properties. We now report that acute inhibition of pERK1/2 regulates resting membrane potential and firing properties of DRG neurons. We also show that pERK1 phosphorylates specific residues within L1 of Na(v)1.7, inhibition of pERK1/2 causes a depolarizing shift of activation and fast inactivation of Na(v)1.7 without altering current density, and mutation of these L1 phosphoacceptor sites abrogates the effect of pERK1/2 on this channel. Together, these data are consistent with direct phosphorylation and modulation of Na(v)1.7 by pERK1/2, which unlike the modulation of Na(v)1.6 and Na(v)1.8 by pp38, regulates gating properties of this channel but not its current density and contributes to the effects of MAPKs on DRG neuron excitability.
Three experiments investigated the role in memory processing of dopamine (DA) afferents to the hippocampus (HPC) that arise from the ventral tegmental area. One hypothesis is that D(1)/D(5) receptor activation in HPC is necessary for the encoding of novel, episodic-like information; the other is that DA activation ensures the greater temporal persistence of transient hippocampal memory traces. Rats (n = 35) were trained, in separate experiments using an episodic-like memory task, to learn six paired associates (PAs) in an &quot;event arena&quot; involving a repeated association between specific flavors of food and locations in space. After 6 weeks of training, rats had learned a &quot;schema&quot; such that two new paired associates could be acquired in a single trial in one session (episodic-like memory). We show that encoding of novel PAs is sensitive to intrahippocampal microinfusion of the NMDA antagonist d-AP-5. Experiment 1 established that intrahippocampal infusion of the D(1)/D(5) dopaminergic antagonist SCH23390 [R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride] before encoding of new PAs caused impaired memory 24 h later but that SCH23390 had no effect on the later memory of previously established PAs. Experiment 2 established that SCH23390 modulated the persistence of new memories over time (30 min vs 24 h) rather than affecting initial encoding. Experiment 3 revealed that the impact of SCH23390 was not mediated by state dependence nor had an effect on memory retrieval. These findings support the second hypothesis and establish that persistent, long-term memory of rapid, hippocampal-mediated acquisition of new paired associates requires activation of D(1)/D(5) receptors in HPC at or around the time of encoding.
By combining an inducible genetic fate mapping strategy with electrophysiological analysis, we have systematically characterized the populations of cortical GABAergic interneurons that originate from the caudal ganglionic eminence (CGE). Interestingly, compared with medial ganglionic eminence (MGE)-derived cortical interneuron populations, the initiation [embryonic day 12.5 (E12.5)] and peak production (E16.5) of interneurons from this embryonic structure occurs 3 d later in development. Moreover, unlike either pyramidal cells or MGE-derived cortical interneurons, CGE-derived interneurons do not integrate into the cortex in an inside-out manner but preferentially (75%) occupy superficial cortical layers independent of birthdate. In contrast to previous estimates, CGE-derived interneurons are both considerably greater in number (approximately 30% of all cortical interneurons) and diversity (comprised by at least nine distinct subtypes). Furthermore, we found that a large proportion of CGE-derived interneurons, including the neurogliaform subtype, express the glycoprotein Reelin. In fact, most CGE-derived cortical interneurons express either Reelin or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Thus, in conjunction with previous studies, we have now determined the spatial and temporal origins of the vast majority of cortical interneuron subtypes.


We have previously developed a model in the rat for the transition from acute to chronic pain, hyperalgesic priming, in which a long-lasting neuroplastic change in signaling pathways mediates a prolongation of proinflammatory cytokine-induced nociceptor sensitization and mechanical hyperalgesia, induced at the site of a previous inflammatory insult. Induction of priming is mediated by activation of protein kinase C(epsilon) (PKC(epsilon)) in the peripheral terminal of the primary afferent nociceptor. Given that hyperalgesic mediator-induced PKC(epsilon) translocation occurs in isolectin B4 (IB4)(+)-nonpeptidergic but not in receptor tyrosine kinase (TrkA)(+)-peptidergic nociceptors, we tested the hypothesis that hyperalgesic priming was restricted to the IB4(+) subpopulation of nociceptors. After recovery from nerve growth factor (NGF)- and GDNF-induced hyperalgesia, a proinflammatory cytokine, prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) induced, PKC(epsilon)-dependent, markedly prolonged hyperalgesia, two features that define the development of the primed state. Thus, hyperalgesic priming occurs in both the IB4(+)-nonpeptidergic and TrkA(+)-peptidergic subpopulations of nociceptive afferents. Of note, however, while attenuation of PKC(epsilon) prevented NGF-induced priming, the hyperalgesia induced by NGF is PKC(epsilon) independent. We propose that separate intracellular pools of PKC(epsilon), in the peripheral terminals of nociceptors, mediate nociceptor sensitization and the induction of hyperalgesic priming.
Synaptic depression in the hippocampus at early postnatal stage can be induced by test pulse stimulation (&lt;1 Hz). However, the receptor mechanism for induction of this synaptic depression is unclear. In the present study, we used whole-cell patch clamp recording in vitro to investigate how excitatory and inhibitory synapses onto layer II/III pyramidal neurons of the primary visual cortex adapt to test pulse activation from a previously non-activated (naive) state. We found that excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) of pyramidal neurons were rapidly depressed by 0.1 Hz stimulation in acutely prepared slices from rats at 11-12 postnatal days, while this phenomena disappeared in slices from young adolescent rats (23-24 postnatal days). By contrast, inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were relatively stable following 0.1 Hz stimulation of rat slices at the same early postnatal stage. Moreover, the test pulse depression of EPSCs was associated with a decrease in 1/coefficient of variation (CV)(2) and no change in the paired-pulse ratio. These data imply silencing of synapses and no significant change either in postsynaptic receptor density or presynaptic terminal release probability. This synaptic depression was unaffected by the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist D-APV. Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptor selective antagonists, Naspm or IEM-1460, prevented the induction of the test pulse depression. These data suggest that EPSCs, but not IPSCs, were rapidly depressed by test pulse stimulation in rats at early postnatal stage via a Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptor-dependent mechanism.
The estrogen receptors in the central auditory system of male and female mice were characterized using immunocytochemical methods. Estrogen receptors alpha and beta (ERalpha, ERbeta) were localized predominantly in the ventral cochlear nucleus, nucleus of the trapezoid body, the lateral- and medio-ventral periolivary nuclei, the dorsal lateral lemniscus, and the inferior colliculus. The medial geniculate nucleus was negative for both ERalpha and ERbeta whereas the auditory cortex was positive for ERalpha. The lateral superior olive, the ventral lateral lemniscus and the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus expressed only ERbeta. The differential localization of ERalpha and ERbeta may indicate distinct roles for these two receptors in auditory processing. No major differences in the pattern, number or intensity of receptor expression was found between male and female animals. The comprehensive anatomic map that is constructed for ERalpha and ERbeta in the central auditory pathway will be a useful foundation to elucidate the complexity of estrogen actions in the auditory system.
The intact brain is continuously targeted by a wealth of stimuli with distinct spatio-temporal patterns which modify, since the very beginning of development, the activity and the connectivity of neuronal networks. In this paper, we used dissociated neuronal cultures coupled to microelectrode arrays (MEAs) to study the response of cortical neuron assemblies to low-frequency stimuli constantly delivered over weeks in vitro. We monitored the spontaneous activity of the cultures before and after the stimulation sessions, as well as their evoked response to the stimulus. During in vitro development, the vast majority of the cultures responded to the stimulation by significantly increasing the bursting activity and a widespread stabilization of electrical activity was observed after the third week of age. A similar trend was present between the spontaneous activity of the networks observed over 30 min after the stimulus and the responses evoked by the stimulus itself, although no significant differences in spontaneous activity were detected between stimulated and non-stimulated cultures belonging to the same preparations. The data indicate that the stimulation had a delayed effect modulating responsiveness capability of the network without directly affecting its intrinsic in vitro development.
Previous work has shown an important role for neuroligins in promoting the formation of synaptic connections in cultured cells. Although neuroligins enhance both excitatory and inhibitory synapse formation, individual neuroligin isoforms have been shown to preferentially localize to either glutamatergic or GABAergic synapses. Current evidence points to an important role for both the extracellular and intracellular domains of neuroligins in their synaptic localization. Although postsynaptic density protein 95 (PSD-95) has been shown to be involved in the recruitment of neuroligin 1 to excitatory synapses, the localization of neuroligin 2 (NL2) and neuroligin 3 (NL3) to excitatory and inhibitory synapses is less well defined. We assessed the roles of gephyrin and PSD-95, postsynaptic scaffolding molecules exclusively localized to inhibitory and excitatory synapses, respectively, in localizing NL2 and NL3 in primary neuronal cultures. We demonstrate that knockdown of gephyrin results in a significant shift of NL2 from inhibitory to excitatory synaptic contacts, while knockdown of PSD-95 leads to a partial shift of NL2 and NL3 from excitatory to inhibitory contacts. Furthermore, analysis of specific domain deletions within the C-terminal, intracellular domain of NL2 reveals that the region between amino acids 716 and 782 is required for the normal synaptic clustering of this protein. Together, these data suggest that intracellular mechanisms are involved in the targeting of different neuroligin family members to synapses (216).
Soluble guanylyl cyclases (sGCs) are traditionally recognized as the main molecular receptor for nitric oxide (NO), a gaseous transmitter involved in many functions of the nervous system. Some sGCs are however insensitive to NO and therefore are known as atypical. Although atypical sGCs have been shown to exist in both vertebrate and invertebrate nervous systems, our understanding of their functional role is incomplete. Here we report on the cloning, sequencing and localization of an atypical sGC named Lym-sGCbeta3 from the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. We found that Lym-sGCbeta3 shares a number of structural characteristics with some previously characterized atypical sGCs including the presence of Tyr140 in the regulatory domain. This residue is thought to be of a critical importance in determining sensitivity of atypical sGCs to oxygen. These findings raise the possibility that Lym-sGCbeta3 is an oxygen receptor. The results of our in situ hybridization and RT-PCR experiments support this idea further by showing that Lym-sGCbeta3 is expressed in the osphradium, a peripheral sense organ in which oxygen-sensing neurons are located. Also of interest are our observations that many neurons in Lymnaea CNS co-express conventional and atypical sGC subunits. These data are consistent with a possible dominant negative regulatory role of atypical sGC subunits through the formation of heterodimers exhibiting low enzymatic activity.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is a nucleus of the forebrain highly sensitive to sex steroids and containing vasopressin neurons implicated in several social- and reproduction-related behaviours such as scent-marking, aggression, pair bonding and parental behaviour. Sexually dimorphic vasopressin expression in BNST neurons has been reported in almost all rodents, with the notable exception of the Syrian hamster. In this species, vasopressin expression is completely absent in the BNST. Because almost all Syrian hamsters used in research are derived from a very small breeding stock captured in 1930, we compared commercially available Syrian hamsters with a recently captured, wild-derived breeding stock. We checked for vasopressin expression using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. Vasopressin expression in BNST neurons was completely absent in both breeding stocks, confirming the absence of BNST vasopressin expression in Mesocricetus auratus and ruling out a breeding artefact. Because vasopressin expression in BNST neurons appears to be strictly dependent on circulating sex steroids, the absence of vasopressin expression in Syrian hamster BNST neurons might be due to an insensitivity of these neurons to sex steroids. BNST vasopressin neurons also express galanin. Although galanin expression in the BNST is not sexually dimorphic in the Syrian hamster, it appears to be regulated by sex steroids. In the Djungarian hamster, photoperiodically driven seasonal variations of circulating sex steroids result in a seasonal rhythm of galanin expression in BNST neurons. We analysed the sex steroid dependence of galanin expression in the Syrian hamster. Castration and short photoperiod-induced sexual quiescence both resulted in downregulation of galanin mRNA in cell bodies (BNST) and immunoreactivity in the fibres (lateral septum). Testosterone supplementation of short photoperiod-adapted animals was able to restore galanin expression. Thus Syrian hamster BNST neurons respond to circulating sex steroids and their seasonal variations as observed in other rodent species.
Sex differences and gonadal hormone influences are well known for diverse aspects of forebrain amine and indolamine neurotransmitter systems, the cognitive and affective functions they govern and their malfunction in mental illness. This study explored whether hormone regulation/dysregulation of these systems could be related to gonadal steroid effects on catechol-O-methyltransferase and monoamine oxidase which are principal enzymatic controllers of forebrain dopamine, serotonin and norepinephrine levels. Driven by male over female differences in cortical enzyme activities, by male-specific associations between monoamine oxidase and catechol-O-methyltransferase gene polymorphisms and cognitive and dysfunction in disease and by male-specific consequences of gene knockouts in mice, the question of hormone sensitivity was addressed here using a male rat model where prefrontal dopamine levels and related behaviors are also known to be affected. Specifically, quantitative O-methylation and oxidative deamination assays were used to compare the activities of catechol-O-methyltransferase's soluble and membrane-bound isoforms and of monoamine oxidase's A and B isoforms in the pregenual medial prefrontal cortex and dorsal striatum of male rats that were sham operated, gonadectomized or gonadectomized and supplemented with testosterone propionate or with estradiol for 28 days. These studies revealed significant effects of hormone replacement but not gonadectomy on the soluble but not the membrane-bound isorfom of catechol-O-methyltransferase in both striatum and cortex. A significant, cortex-specific testosterone-but not estradiol-attenuated effect (increase) of gonadectomy on monoamine oxidase's A but not B isoform was also observed. Although none of these actions suggest potential roles in the regulation/dysregulation of prefrontal dopamine, the suppressive effects of testosterone on cortical monoamine oxidase-A that were observed could have bearing on the increased incidence of cognitive deficits and symptoms of depression and anxiety that are repeatedly observed in males in conditions of hypogonadalism related to aging, other biological factors or in prostate cancer where androgen deprivation is used as a neoadjuvant treatment.
The lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN) and the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) are important areas for the control of sodium appetite. In the present study we investigated the effects of bilateral lesions of the CeA on the facilitation of water and 0.3 M NaCl intake produced by the blockade of serotonergic mechanisms or activation of alpha(2)-adrenoceptors with bilateral injections of methysergide or moxonidine, respectively, into the LPBN. Male Holtzman rats (n=5-8) with bilateral sham or electrolytic lesions of the CeA (2 mA; 10 s) and stainless steel cannulas implanted bilaterally in the LPBN were used. In sham rats treated with the diuretic furosemide (10 mg/kg b.w.) combined with the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor captopril (5 mg/kg b.w) subcutaneously, bilateral injections of moxonidine (0.5 nmol) or methysergide (4 microg) into the LPBN increased 0.3 M NaCl intake (29.8+/-5.1 and 19.5+/-3.7 ml/2 h, respectively, versus vehicle: 8.3+/-1.4 ml/2 h) and water intake (17.9+/-3.7 and 23.3+/-2.8 ml/2 h, respectively, versus vehicle: 11.5+/-1.6 ml/2 h). Lesions of the CeA (5-18 days) abolished the increase in 0.3 M NaCl and water intake produced by bilateral injections of moxonidine (10.3+/-2.8 and 6.8+/-2.3 ml/2 h, respectively) and reduced the increase produced by methysergide (13.6+/-2.5 and 14.5+/-3.2 ml/2 h, respectively) into the LPBN. The present results show that the increase in water and 0.3 M NaCl intake produced by serotonergic blockade and alpha(2)-adrenergic activation in the LPBN depends on the integrity of the CeA, suggesting that facilitatory mechanisms present in the CeA are essential for the increase of water and hypertonic NaCl intake produced by the blockade of the inhibitory mechanisms of the LPBN.
A number of in vitro and in vivo studies using selective agonists have indicated a neuroprotective role for group-II metabotropic glutamate (mGlu2/3) receptors in various models of neuronal injury. Although an interplay among neurotrophic factors and mGlu2/3 receptors signalling system has been suggested as possible mechanism involved on neuroprotection, at present poor information are available concerning the in vivo regulation by mGlu2/3 receptors activation of specific neurotrophic factors. By using in situ hybridization and western blotting methods the aim of present study was to analyse the potential regulatory role of selective mGluR2/3 agonist LY379268 treatment on brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in the mouse brain. The treatment with LY379268 evidenced a significant upregulation of BDNF mRNA levels in the cerebral cortex and in the hippocampal formation with a peak at 3 h from treatment and its disappearance already at 6 h from treatment. An analysis of dose-effect curve revealed that LY379268 may significantly enhance BDNF mRNA expression already at dose of 0.250 mg/kg b.w. The upregulation of BDNF mRNA expression was followed by a significant increase of BDNF protein levels at 24 h from LY379268 treatment. These effects of LY379268 treatment on BDNF expression were restricted to neuronal cells and were blocked by the new selective mGlu2/3 receptor antagonist LY341495, suggesting a receptor specificity. Taken together these findings suggest that several previous observed neuroprotective and trophic actions of mGluR2/3 agonists treatment may be mediated, at least in the cerebral cortex and hippocampal formation, by upregulation of BDNF expression.
Ischemia/hypoxia is known to induce the neural stem cells proliferation and neural differentiation in rodent and human brain; however its mechanisms remain largely unknown. In this study we investigated the effect of hypoxia on neural stem cells (NSCs) proliferation with the expression of cyclin D1 and the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) signaling molecules. NSCs were cultured from cortex of fetal Sprague-Dawley rats on embryonic day 5.5. The hypoxia was made using a microaerophilic incubation system. The NSCs proliferation was evaluated by 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, diameter measurement of neurospheres, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation assay and cell cycle analysis. The cell death of NSCs was evaluated by terminal dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay. The expression of cyclin D1, phosphorylated extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK), c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK) and p38 were analyzed by immunoblotting assay. The results showed that hypoxia increased NSCs proliferation in cell amount, diameter of neurospheres, BrdU incorporation and cell division, and the highest proliferation of the NSCs was observed with 12 h hypoxic treatment; hypoxia did not decrease cell death of NSCs; after hypoxic treatment, the expression of cyclin D1 increased, meanwhile P-JNK2 level increased, P-p38 decreased, and no significant change in P-ERK2 level compared to normoxic cultures. JNK inhibitor SP600125 attenuated the increase of cyclin D1 induced by hypoxia. These findings propose that hypoxia increases cyclin D1 expression through activation of JNK in NSCs of rat in vitro, suggesting a novel possible mechanism for hypoxia-induced proliferation of NSCs.
The chemoanatomical organization of the visual sector of the cat's thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN)-that is at the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) and at the pulvinar nucleus (Pul)-was investigated with two novel cytoarchitectonic markers. The Wisteria floribunda agglutinin (WFA) binding reaction visualized the extracellular perineuronal net (PN) and the SMI 32 immunoreaction stained intracellular neurofilaments. Two distinct layers of the TRN could be detected, particularly by WFA- but also by SMI 32-staining. The outer tier outlined a canopy of labeling placed a bit detached from the diencephalon dorsolaterally, while the inner TRN tier is very tightly attached to the thalamic lamina limitans externa. The labeled neurons showed typically fusiform morphology with dendrites orienting in the plane of TRN. Additionally, these chemoarchitectural reactions identified a chain of structures in the ventral diencephalon connected to the TRN tiers. One stained string is formed by the subthalamic nucleus bound laterally to the peripeduncular nucleus extending further dorsolateral into the outer TRN tier. The other chain laced up the field of Forel, the zona incerta, the ventral LGN, the perigeniculate nucleus (PGN) and the previously-overlooked peripulvinar nucleus (PPulN) and so formed the inner TRN tier. In the third most distanced TRN tier, in the perireticular nucleus, a very few WFA-binding presenting neuron were found. In addition to the PN possessing TRN neurons, WFA-reactive presumable interneurons were also labeled within the visual thalamus. Following tracer injections into the feline Pul, two stripes of cells were retrogradely labeled in the neighboring visual TRN sector. The location of these reticular neurons coincided precisely with the chemoanatomically identified inner and outer TRN tiers. On the analogy of the PGN-TRN duality at the dLGN, the chemoanatomical and tract tracing findings strongly suggest a similar dual organization in the pulvinoprojecting TRN portion.
To define whether cortical glutamatergic and GABAergic release machineries can be differentiated on the basis of the nature and amount of proteins they express, we studied the degree of co-localization of synaptogyrin (SGYR) 1 and 3, vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP) 1 and 2, syntaxin (STX) 1A and 1B in vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT)1-, VGLUT2- and vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT)-positive (+) puncta and synaptic vesicles in the rat cerebral cortex. Co-localization studies showed that SGYR1 and 3 were expressed in about 90% of VGLUT1+, 70% of VGLUT2+ and 80% of VGAT+ puncta; VAMP1 was expressed in approximately 45% of VGLUT1+, 55% of VGLUT2+, and 80% of VGAT+ puncta; VAMP2 in about 95% of VGLUT1+, 75% of VGLUT2+, and 80% of VGAT+ puncta; STX1A in about 65% of VGLUT1+, 30% of VGLUT2+, and 3% of VGAT+ puncta, and STX1B in approximately 45% of VGLUT1+, 35% of VGLUT2+, and 70% of VGAT+ puncta. Immunoisolation studies showed that while STX1A was completely segregated and virtually absent from VGAT synaptic vesicles, STX1B, VAMP1/VAMP2, SGYR1/SGYR3 showed a similar pattern with the highest expression in VGLUT1 immunoisolated vesicles and the lowest in VGAT immunoisolated vesicles. Moreover, we studied the localization of STX1B at the electron microscope and found that a population of axon terminals forming symmetric synapses were STX1B-positive.These results extend our previous observations on the differential expression of presynaptic proteins involved in neurotransmitter release in GABAergic and glutamatergic terminals and indicate that heterogeneity of glutamatergic and GABAergic release machinery can be contributed by both the presence or absence of a given protein in a nerve terminal and the amount of protein expressed by synaptic vesicles.
Neurotransmitter release from the basolateral surface of auditory and vestibular hair cells is mediated by Ca(2+) influx through voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. Co-localization of large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK) channels at the active zones of these cells affords them with an optimal location to act as reporters of the Ca(2+) concentration changes at active zones of transmitter release. In this report we use BK channels in frog (Rana pipiens) hair cells to monitor dynamic changes in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration during transient influxes of Ca(2+), showing that BK current magnitude and delay to onset are correlated with the rate and duration of Ca(2+) entry through Ca(2+) channels. We also show that BK channels exhibit a much higher Ca(2+) binding affinity in the open state than in the closed state.
A functional connection between theta rhythms, information processing, learning and memory formation is well documented by studies focusing on the impact of theta waves on motor activity, global context or phase coding in spatial learning. In the present study we analyzed theta oscillations during a spatial learning task and assessed which specific behavioral contexts were connected to changes in theta power and to the formation of memory. Therefore, we measured hippocampal dentate gyrus theta modulations in male rats that were allowed to establish a long-term spatial reference memory in a holeboard (fixed pattern of baited holes) in comparison to rats that underwent similar training conditions but could not form a reference memory (randomly baited holes). The first group established a pattern specific learning strategy, while the second developed an arbitrary search strategy, visiting increasingly more holes during training. Theta power was equally influenced during the training course in both groups, but was significantly higher when compared to untrained controls. A detailed behavioral analysis, however, revealed behavior- and context-specific differences within the experimental groups. In spatially trained animals theta power correlated with the amounts of reference memory errors in the context of the inspection of unbaited holes and exploration in which, as suggested by time frequency analyses, also slow wave (delta) power was increased. In contrast, in randomly trained animals positive correlations with working memory errors were found in the context of rearing behavior. These findings indicate a contribution of theta/delta to long-lasting memory formation in spatially trained animals, whereas in pseudo trained animals theta seems to be related to attention in order to establish trial specific short-term working memory. Implications for differences in neuronal plasticity found in earlier studies are discussed.
Noradrenaline (NA) microinjected into the rostromedial preoptic area (POA) elicits heat loss responses and opposes prostaglandin E(2)-induced fever. Here, I tested the hypothesis that local synthesis and release of nitric oxide (NO) mediates the NA-induced effects. The unilateral microinjection of the NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 8.4 nmol), but not that of saline solution, into the NA-sensitive site elicited an increase in tail skin temperature and decreases in the whole-body O(2) consumption rate, heart rate, and colonic temperature simultaneously in urethane-chloralose-anesthetized rats. Pretreatment with SNP greatly attenuated the thermogenic, tachycardic, and hyperthermic effects of prostaglandin E(2) (140 fmol) microinjected into the same site. Furthermore, the NA-induced hypothermic responses were largely blocked by a prior microinjection of an NO synthase inhibitor N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA, 5 nmol), but not by that of its inactive enantiomer, N(G)-monomethyl-D-arginine (D-NMMA, 5 nmol), at the same site. These results suggest that the hypothermic and antipyretic effects of NA are mediated by NO in the rostromedial POA.
Hypoglossal (XII) motoneurons innervate extrinsic and intrinsic muscles of the tongue and control behaviors such as suckling, swallowing, breathing or chewing. In young rats, XII motoneurons express V1a vasopressin and oxytocin receptors. Previous studies have shown that activation of these receptors induces direct powerful excitation in XII motoneurons. In addition, by activating V1a receptors vasopressin can also enhance inhibitory synaptic transmission in the XII nucleus. In the present work, we have further characterized the effect of these neuropeptides on synaptic transmission in the XII nucleus. We have used brainstem slices of young rats and whole-cell patch clamp recordings. Oxytocin enhanced the frequency of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents by a factor of two and a half. GABAergic and glycinergic events were both affected. The oxytocin effect was mediated by uterine-type oxytocin receptors. Vasopressin and oxytocin also increased the frequency of excitatory synaptic currents, the enhancement being sixfold for the former and twofold for the latter compound. These effects were mediated by V1a and oxytocin receptors, respectively. Miniature synaptic events were unaffected by either vasopressin or oxytocin. This indicates that the peptide-dependent facilitation of synaptic currents was mediated by receptors located on the somatodendritic membrane of interneurons or premotor neurons, and not by receptors sited on axon terminals contacting XII motoneurons. Accordingly, recordings obtained from non-motoneurons located near the border of the XII nucleus showed that part of these cells possess functional V1a and oxytocin receptors whose activation leads to excitation. Some of these neurons could be antidromically activated following electrical stimulation of the XII nucleus, suggesting that they may act as premotor neurons. We propose that in young rats, oxytocin and vasopressin may function as neuromodulators in brainstem motor circuits responsible of tongue movements.
Many neurological diseases result in a severe inability to reach for which there is no proven therapy. Promising new interventions to address reaching rehabilitation using robotic training devices are currently under investigation in clinical trials but the neural mechanisms that underlie these interventions are not understood. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) may be used to probe such mechanisms quickly and non-invasively, by mapping muscle and movement representations in the primary motor cortex (M1). Here we investigate movement maps in healthy young subjects at rest using TMS in the robotic environment, with the goal of determining the range of TMS accessible movements, as a starting point for the study of cortical plasticity in combination with robotic therapy. We systematically stimulated the left motor cortex of 14 normal volunteers while the right hand and forearm rested in the cradle of a two degree-of-freedom planar rehabilitation robot (IMT). Maps were created by applying 10 stimuli at each of nine locations (3x3 cm(2) grid) centered on the M1 movement hotspot for each subject, defined as the stimulation location that elicited robot cradle movements of the greatest distance. TMS-evoked movement kinematics were measured by the robotic encoders and ranged in magnitude from 0 to 3 cm. Movement maps varied by subject and by location within a subject. However, movements were very consistent within a single stimulation location for a given subject. Movement vectors remained relatively constant (limited to &lt;90 degrees section of the planar field) within some subjects across the entire map, while others covered a wider range of directions. This may be due to individual differences in cortical physiology or anatomy, resulting in a practical limit to the areas that are TMS-accessible. This study provides a baseline inventory of possible TMS-evoked arm movements in the robotic reaching trainer, and thus may provide a real-time, non-invasive platform for neurophysiology based evaluation and therapy in motor rehabilitation settings.
Xenon preconditioning induces tolerance to the consequences of an injurious stimulus such as cerebral ischaemia. There have been surprisingly few studies investigating gender difference in the efficacy of pharmacological preconditioning, despite the known ability of oestradiol to exert neuroprotectant activity. We explored this paradigm using a mouse model of transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. C57BL/6 mice both male and female received either 2 h of 70% xenon (preconditioning) or 70% nitrogen (control) balanced with oxygen. Twenty-four hours later animals underwent 1 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion and then allowed to recover. After a further 24 h, functional neurological outcome and cerebral infarct size were evaluated. Western blotting was used to detect activity of signalling pathways involving hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha and phospho-Akt for the preconditioning effect. Both xenon preconditioned male and females showed improved functional outcome on focal deficit scales (P&lt;0.05). Cerebral infarct volumes were significantly reduced in both xenon treated male and females (P&lt;0.01). There was no significant difference between the male and female cohorts. HIF-1alpha and phospho-Akt were quantitatively upregulated in both sexes. Our data suggested that xenon preconditioning improved histological and neurological functional outcome in both gender in a stroke model of mice.
Treatment to block the pathophysiological processes triggered by acute spinal injury remains unsatisfactory as the underlying mechanisms are incompletely understood. Using as a model the in vitro spinal cord of the neonatal rat, we investigated the feasibility of neuroprotection of lumbar locomotor networks by the glutamate antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione (CNQX) and aminophosphonovalerate (APV) against acute lesions induced by either a toxic solution (pathological medium (PM) to mimic the spinal injury hypoxic-dysmetabolic perturbation) or excitotoxicity with kainate. The study outcome was presence of fictive locomotion 24 h after the insult and its correlation with network histology. Inhibition of fictive locomotion by PM was contrasted by simultaneous and even delayed (1 h later) co-application of CNQX and APV with increased survival of ventral horn premotoneurons and lateral column white matter. Neither CNQX nor APV alone provided neuroprotection. Kainate-mediated excitotoxicity always led to loss of fictive locomotion and extensive neuronal damage. CNQX and APV co-applied with kainate protected one-third of preparations with improved motoneuron and dorsal horn neuronal counts, although they failed with delayed application. Our data suggest that locomotor network neuroprotection was possible when introduced very early during the pathological process of spinal injury, but also showed how the borderline between presence or loss of locomotor activity was a very narrow one that depended on the survival of a certain number of neurons or white matter elements. The present report provides a model not only for preclinical testing of novel neuroprotective agents, but also for estimating the minimal network membership compatible with functional locomotor output.
Putative sympathetic premotor neurons controlling cutaneous vasomotion are contained within the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVMM) between levels corresponding, rostrally, to the rostral portion of the nucleus of the facial nerve (RVMM(fn)) and, caudally, to the rostral pole of the inferior olive (RVMM(io)). Cutaneous vasoconstrictor premotor neurons in the RVMM(fn) play a major role in mediating thermoregulatory changes in cutaneous vasomotion that regulate heat loss. To determine the role of neurons in the RVMM(io) in regulating cutaneous blood flow, we examined the changes in the tail and paw skin temperature of free-behaving rats following chemically-evoked changes in the activity of neurons in the RVMM(io). Microinjection of the GABA(A) agonist, muscimol, within either the RVMM(fn) or the RVMM(io) induced a massive peripheral vasodilation; microinjection of the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline methiodide within the RVMM(fn) reversed the increase in cutaneous blood flow induced by warm exposure and, unexpectedly, disinhibition of RVMM(io) neurons produced a rapid cutaneous vasodilation. We conclude that the tonically-active neurons driving cutaneous vasoconstriction, likely sympathetic premotor neurons previously described in the RVMM(fn), are also located in the RVMM(io). However, in the RVMM(io), these are accompanied by a population of neurons that receives a tonically-active GABAergic inhibition in the conscious animal and that promotes a cutaneous vasodilation upon relief of this inhibition. Whether the vasodilator neurons located in the RVMM(io) play a role in thermoregulation remains to be determined.
Neuronal processing of sensory information requires that rapidly changing synaptic inputs are continuously transformed into action potentials. Variability of spike firing is generally considered as noise and might therefore interfere with the reliability of synaptic transmission in sensory systems. In a system in which the number of spikes is a variable that determines the quality of neuronal transmission, variability of spike counts is a paradoxical attribute. In contrast, in a system in which precisely correlated spike firing can influence synaptic integration, response variability might be used as an additional mechanism for coding information. As acetylcholine has been shown to reduce spike-frequency adaptation and enhance gamma frequency (21-70 Hz) oscillations, we set out to study the influence of cholinergic modulation on the variability of spike counts and gamma oscillations. Iontophoretic application of carbachol, a cholinergic agonist, in cat primary visual cortex or electrical stimulation of the mesencephalic reticular formation reduced the spike count variability and stabilized gamma frequency oscillations of visually induced responses. Response stabilization was correlated with enhancement of gamma-frequency oscillations but not with averaged firing rates. Lowering variability of sensory responses might be a mechanism to stabilize and improve reliability of neuronal transmission. Cholinergic activation may therefore influence the efficacy of neuronal transmission by modulating the precise timing of neuronal responses.
It has been suggested that hyperpolarization-activated cyclic-nucleotide-gated cation non-selective channel (HCN) 1 is primarily expressed in the hippocampus and can be regulated in many pathological settings. However, little is known about its change under ischemic conditions. In the present study, we performed neurophysiological recordings of sham-operated and chronic ischemic rats with hypoperfusion during the resolution of the neurological deficits respectively. In situ hybridization methods and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assays were used to investigate whether and how HCN1 mRNA may be altered in global incomplete chronic cerebral ischemic rat model. Our results suggested that attenuated spatial learning and memory function of rats shown by longer escape latency, shorter time spent in the target quadrant and impaired long-term potentiation (LTP) after chronic cerebral ischemia. In the in situ hybridization cytochemistry experiment, HCN1 mRNA declined to 52.00% and 46.00% of the control values in the cornus ammon 1 (CA1) regions of hippocampus and neocortex separately after chronic cerebral ischemia. HCN1 mRNA in the hippocampal CA1 region and neocortex was markedly down regulated by ischemia, reaching 48.90% and 45.80% of the control values respectively in the semi-quantitative RT-PCR experiment. The phenomenon opened new insights for further investigation of the physiological and pathological significances of HCN1 in chronic incomplete global cerebral ischemia.
The rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), a central relay in the bulbospinal pathways that modulate nociception, contains high concentrations of substance P (Sub P) and neurokinin-1 (NK1) receptors. However, the function of Sub P in the RVM is poorly understood. This study characterized the actions of Sub P in the RVM in the absence of injury and then used two NK1 receptor antagonists, L-733,060 and L-703, 606, to probe the role of endogenously released Sub P in the development and maintenance of persistent inflammatory nociception of immune or neurogenic origin. In uninjured rats, microinjection of Sub P in the RVM produced a transient thermal antinociception that was attenuated by pretreatment with L-733,060 or L-703,606. It did not alter threshold to withdrawal from tactile stimulation with von Frey filaments. Microinjection of the antagonists alone did not alter paw withdrawal latency (PWL) or threshold suggesting that Sub P is not tonically released in the RVM in the absence of injury. However, microinjection of either antagonist in the RVM was sufficient to reverse heat hyperalgesia 4 h, 4 days or 2 weeks after intraplantar (ipl) injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). Antagonism of NK1 receptors in the RVM did not prevent or reverse tactile hypersensitivity induced by CFA, but did attenuate that produced by capsaicin. NK1 receptor antagonism did not prevent the development of thermal hyperalgesia, tactile hypersensitivity or spontaneous pain behaviors induced by mustard oil (MO). The results suggest that Sub P has bimodal actions in the RVM and that following inflammatory injury, it can play a critical role as a pronociceptive agent in the development and maintenance of hyperalgesia and tactile hypersensitivity. However, its actions are highly dependent on the stimulus modality and the type of injury, and this may be an additional basis for the poor efficacy of NK1 receptor antagonists in clinical trials.
N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors (NMDARs) are highly expressed in the CNS and mediate the slow component of excitatory transmission. The present study was aimed at characterizing the temperature dependence of the kinetic properties of native NMDARs, with special emphasis on the deactivation of synaptic NMDARs. We used patch-clamp recordings to study synaptic NMDARs at layer II/III pyramidal neurons of the rat cortex, recombinant GluN1/GluN2B receptors expressed in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells, and NMDARs in cultured hippocampal neurons. We found that time constants characterizing the deactivation of NMDAR-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were similar to those of the deactivation of responses to a brief application of glutamate recorded under conditions of low NMDAR desensitization (whole-cell recording from cultured hippocampal neurons). In contrast, the deactivation of NMDAR-mediated responses exhibiting a high degree of desensitization (outside-out recording) was substantially faster than that of synaptic NMDA receptors. The time constants characterizing the deactivation of synaptic NMDARs and native NMDARs activated by exogenous glutamate application were only weakly temperature sensitive (Q(10)=1.7-2.2), in contrast to those of recombinant GluN1/GluN2B receptors, which are highly temperature sensitive (Q(10)=2.7-3.7). Ifenprodil reduced the amplitude of NMDAR-mediated EPSCs by approximately 50% but had no effect on the time course of deactivation. Analysis of GluN1/GluN2B responses indicated that the double exponential time course of deactivation reflects mainly agonist dissociation and receptor desensitization. We conclude that the temperature dependences of native and recombinant NMDAR are different; in addition, we contribute to a better understanding of the molecular mechanism that controls the time course of NMDAR-mediated EPSCs.
The recently discovered exchange protein directly activated by cAMP (Epac), a guanine exchange factor for the G-protein RAP-1, is directly activated by cAMP independently of protein kinase A (PKA). While cAMP is known to be an important second messenger in the retina, the presence of Epac has not been investigated in this tissue. The goal of the present study was to determine if the Epac1 and Epac2 genes are present and to characterize their location within the retina. Western blot analysis revealed that Epac1 and Epac2 proteins are expressed within the retina, and the presence of mRNA was demonstrated with the aid of reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Additionally, we used immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy to demonstrate that Epac1 and Epac2 have overlapping as well as unique distributions within the retina. Both are present within horizontal cells, rod and cone bipolar cells, cholinergic amacrine cells, retrograde labeled retinal ganglion cells, and Mller cells. Uniquely, Epac2 was expressed by cone photoreceptor inner and outer segments, cell bodies, and synaptic terminals. In contrast, Epac1 was expressed in vesicular glutamate transporter 1 (VGlut1) and C-terminal binding protein 2 (CtBP2) positive photoreceptor synaptic terminals. Together, these results provide evidence that Epac1 and Epac2 are differentially expressed within the retina and provide the framework for further functional studies of cAMP pathways within the retina.
We used a new computer-assisted method to precisely localize and efficiently quantify increases in neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity (NPY-ir) along the mediolateral axis of the L4 dorsal horn (DH) following transection of either the tibial and common peroneal nerves (thus sparing the sural branch, spared nerve injury (SNI)), the tibial nerve, or the common peroneal and sural nerves. Two weeks after SNI, NPY-ir increased within the tibial and peroneal innervation territories; however, NPY-ir in the central-lateral region (innervated by the spared sural nerve) was indistinguishable from that of sham. Conversely, transection of the sural and common peroneal nerves induced an increase in NPY-ir in the central-lateral region, while leaving the medial region (innervated by the tibial nerve) unaffected. All nerve injuries increased NPY-ir in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and nucleus gracilis (NG). By 24 weeks, both NPY-ir upregulation in the DH and hyper-responsivity to cold and noxious mechanical stimuli had resolved. Conversely, NPY-ir in DRG and NG, and hypersensitivity to non-noxious static mechanical stimuli, did not resolve within 24 weeks. Over this time course, the average cross-sectional area of NPY-immunoreactive DRG neurons increased by 151 mum(2). We conclude that the upregulation of NPY after SNI is restricted to medial zones of the DH, and therefore cannot act directly upon synapses within the more lateral (sural) zones to control sural nerve hypersensitivity. Instead, we suggest that NPY in the medial DH tonically inhibits hypersensitivity by interrupting mechanisms of central sensitization and integration of sensory signals at the spinal and supraspinal levels.
We previously detailed how intrahippocampal inoculation of C57BL/6J mice with murine modified scrapie (ME7) leads to chronic neurodegeneration (Cunningham C, Deacon R, Wells H, Boche D, Waters S, Diniz CP, Scott H, Rawlins JN, Perry VH (2003) Eur J Neurosci 17:2147-2155.). Our characterization of the ME7-model is based on inoculation of this murine modified scrapie agent into C57BL/6J mice from Harlan laboratories. This agent in the C57BL/6J host generates a disease that spans a 24-week time course. The hippocampal pathology shows progressive misfolded prion (PrP(Sc)) deposition, astrogliosis and leads to behavioural dysfunction underpinned by the early synaptic loss that precedes neuronal death. The Harlan C57BL/6J, although widely used as a wild type mouse, are a sub-strain harbouring a spontaneous deletion of alpha-synuclein with the full description C57BL/6JOlaHsd. Recently alpha-synuclein has been shown to ameliorate the synaptic loss in a mouse model lacking the synaptic chaperone CSP-alpha. This opens a potential confound of the ME7-model, particularly with respect to the signature synaptic loss that underpin the physiological and behavioural dysfunction. To investigate if this strain-selective loss of a candidate disease modifier impacts on signature ME7 pathology, we compared cohorts of C57BL/6JOlaHsd (alpha-synuclein negative) with the founder strain from Charles Rivers (C57BL/6JCrl, alpha-synuclein positive). There were subtle changes in behaviour when comparing control animals from the two sub-strains indicating potentially significant consequences for studies assuming neurobiogical identity of both strains. However, there was no evidence that the absence of alpha-synuclein modifies disease. Indeed, accumulation of PrP(Sc), synaptic loss and the behavioural dysfunction associated with the ME7-agent was the same in both genetic backgrounds. Our data suggest that alpha-synuclein deficiency does not contribute to the compartment specific processes that give rise to prion disease mediated synaptotoxicity and neurodegeneration.
The calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin, calbindin D-28k, calretinin and calcineurin are present in subsets of GABAergic gigantic calyciform presynaptic terminals of the reticular thalamic nucleus (RTN). Previously it was hypothesized that GABA and calcium-binding proteins including parvalbumin are not only colocalized in the same neuron subpopulation, but that GABA synthesis and parvalbumin expression could be also genetically regulated by a common mechanism. Moreover, parvalbumin expression levels could influence GABA synthesis. For this, we analyzed GABA immunoreactivity in RTN gigantic calyciform presynaptic terminals of parvalbumin-deficient (PV-/-) mice. With respect to GABA immunoreactivity we found no differences compared to wild-type animals. However, using a polyclonal parvalbumin antibody raised against full-length rat muscle parvalbumin on brain sections of PV-/- mice, we observed paradoxical parvalbumin immunoreactivity in partly varicose axons in the diencephalon, mainly in the lamina medullaris externa surrounding the thalamus. A detailed immunohistochemical, biochemical and molecular biological analysis revealed this immunoreactivity to be the result of an upregulation of oncomodulin (OM), the mammalian beta isoform of parvalbumin in PV-/- mice. In addition, OM was present in a sparse subpopulation of neurons in the thalamus and in the dentate gyrus. OM expression has not been observed before in neurons of the mammalian brain; its expression was restricted to outer hair cells in the organ of Corti. Our results indicate that the absence of parvalbumin has no major effect on the GABA-synthesizing system in RTN presynaptic terminals excluding a direct effect of parvalbumin on this regulation. However, a likely homeostatic mechanism is induced resulting in the upregulation of OM in selected axons and neuronal perikarya. Our results warrant further detailed investigations on the putative role of OM in the brain.
Platelet aggregates are present in parenchymal vessels as early as 10 min after experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). Structural injury to parenchymal vessel walls and depletion of collagen-IV (the major protein of basal lamina) occur in a similar time frame. Since platelets upon activation release enzymes which can digest collagen-IV, we investigated the topographic relationship between platelet aggregates, endothelium, and basal lamina after SAH produced by endovascular perforation, using triple immunofluorescence and confocal microscopy with deconvolution. The location of platelet aggregates in relation to zymography-detected active collagenase was also examined. As reported previously, most cerebral vessels profiles contained platelets aggregates at 10 min after SAH. High-resolution three-dimensional image analysis placed many platelets at the ab-luminal (basal) side of endothelium at 10 min, and others either within the vascular basal lamina or in nearby parenchyma. By 24 h post hemorrhage, large numbers of platelets had entered the brain parenchyma. The vascular sites of platelet movement were devoid of endothelium and collagen-IV. Collagenase activity colocalized with vascular platelet aggregates. Our data demonstrate that parenchymal entry of platelets into brain parenchyma begins within minutes after hemorrhage. Three-dimensional analysis suggests that platelet aggregates initiate or stimulate local disruption of endothelium and destruction of adjacent basal lamina after SAH.
We have studied brain stem cells in the ewe brain that project to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and determined if these cells are activated by estradiol-17beta. This would predicate an indirect role in the estradiol-17beta regulation of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) cells, since these receive input from the BNST. Ovariectomized ewes received 50 mug estradiol-17beta benzoate (i.m.) 1 h prior to brain collection, so that activated cells could be identified by Fos immunohistochemistry. Retrograde tracer (FluoroGold; FG), was injected into the three divisions of the BNST and labeled cells were mapped to the A1 and A2 regions and the parabrachial nucleus (PBN) of the brain stem. With FG injection into the dorsal and lateral BNST, all FG-containing cells in the caudal A1 and 45% of those in A2 stained for dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH), indicating noradrenergic type. No FG-labelled cells in the PBN were DBH-positive. In A1 and A2 respectively, 42% and 46% of FG-labelled cells were Fos-positive, with no double-labeling in cells of the PBN. In ewes receiving FG injections into the ventral BNST, estrogen receptor (ER)alpha-immunoreactive nuclei were found in 82% of A1-FG labeled and 38% of A2-FG labeled cells. No FG-labelled cells of the PBN were ERalpha-positive. Anterograde tracing from A1 with microruby injection identified projections to the PBN, BNST and preoptic area (POA). Thus, A1 and A2 noradrenergic neurons project to the BNST in the ewe brain, express ERalpha and are activated by estradiol-17beta. These noradrenergic, estrogen-responsive cells may provide indirect input to GnRH cells, via the BNST.
We previously identified KEPI as a morphine-regulated gene using subtractive hybridization and differential display PCR. Upon phosphorylation by protein kinase C, KEPI becomes a powerful inhibitor of protein phosphatase 1. To gain insights into KEPI functions, we created KEPI knockout (KO) mice on mixed 129S6xC57BL/6 genetic backgrounds. KEPI maps onto mouse chromosome 10 close to the locus that contains the mu-opioid receptor (Oprm1) and provides a major quantitative trait locus for morphine effects. Analysis of single nucleotide polymorphisms in and near the Oprm1 locus identified a doubly-recombinant mouse with C57BL/6 markers within 1 Mb on either side of the KEPI deletion. This strategy minimized the amount of 129S6 DNA surrounding the transgene and documented the C57BL/6 origin of the Oprm1 gene in this founder and its offspring. Recombinant KEPIKO mice displayed (a) normal analgesic responses and normal locomotion after initial morphine treatments, (b) accelerated development of tolerance to analgesic effects of morphine, (c) elevated activity of protein phosphatase 1 in thalamus, (d) attenuated morphine reward as assessed by conditioned place preference. These data support roles for KEPI action in adaptive responses to repeated administration of morphine that include analgesic tolerance and drug reward.
The prefrontal cortex plays a key role in the perception of painful stimuli, including those emerging from the viscera. Colorectal distension is a non-invasive stimulus used to study visceral pain processing in the nervous system. Visceral hypersensitivity is one of the main characteristics of the functional bowel disorder irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Moreover, recent human neuroimaging studies have emphasized the importance of altered brain activity and circuitry in the manifestation of IBS symptom severity and reaction to visceral stimuli. It is unclear whether animal models of visceral hypersensitivity display a similar response. Therefore, in the present study, we have used c-Fos protein immunoreactivity as an indicator of cell activation, to compare the response of the viscerally hypersensitive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rat and control Sprague-Dawley (SD) rat strains to colorectal distension (CRD), a noxious visceral stimulus. Several corticolimbic structures were analysed including the prelimbic cortex, infralimbic cortex and the rostral and caudal anterior cingulate cortices. Moreover, visceral hypersensitivity was also assessed behaviourally in both strains. As previously described WKY rats had a lower pain threshold than SD controls in response to CRD. In all brain regions analysed, exposure to CRD induced an increase in c-Fos activation in both the WKY and SD rats. However, an exaggerated cell activation was found in the prelimbic, infralimbic and rostral anterior cingulate cortices of the WKY rat compared to SD animals. No significant difference was found in caudal anterior cingulate cortex activation when the strains were compared. These results demonstrate, to our knowledge, for the first time an augmented colorectal distension-induced prefrontal cortex activity in WKY rats similar to that seen in IBS patients, further supporting the use of this strain as a model in which to study brain-gut axis dysregulation observed in IBS.
The Madagascan tenrecs (Afrotheria), an ancient mammalian clade, are characterized by unique brain anatomy. Striking features are an expanded paleocortex but a small and poorly differentiated neocortex devoid of a distinct granular layer IV. To investigate the organization of cortical areas we analyzed extracellular matrix components in perineuronal nets (PNs) using antibodies to aggrecan, lectin staining and hyaluronan-binding protein. Selected subcortical regions were studied to correlate the cortical patterns with features in evolutionary conserved systems. In the neocortex, paleocortex and hippocampus PNs were associated with nonpyramidal neurons. Quantitative analysis in the cerebral cortex revealed area-specific proportions and laminar distribution patterns of neurons ensheathed by PNs. Cortical PNs showed divergent structural phenotypes. Diffuse PNs forming a cotton wool-like perisomatic rim were characteristic of the paleocortex. These PNs were associated with a dense pericellular plexus of calretinin-immunoreactive fibres. Clearly contoured PNs were devoid of a calretinin-positive plexus and predominated in the neocortex and hippocampus. The organization of the extracellular matrix in subcortical nuclei followed the widely distributed mammalian type. We conclude that molecular properties of the aggrecan-based extracellular matrix are conserved during evolution of mammals; however, the matrix scaffold is adapted to specific wiring patterns of cortical and subcortical neuronal networks.



In ill-structured tasks, the problem to be solved is poorly specified and there is no unique correct solution. Most evidence on brain mechanisms involved in dealing with such tasks comes from neuropsychology. Here, we developed an ill-structured design task suitable for testing in a functional neuroimaging environment and compared it with a matched well-structured problem-solving task using fMRI. Consistent with prior neuropsychological results, the design task was associated with greater activity in right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex compared with problem solving. This differential activity was specific to the problem studying phase rather than performance. Furthermore, the design and problem-solving tasks differed not only in overall levels of brain activity but also in patterns of functional interactions between brain regions. These results provide new evidence on the role of right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in ill-structured situations, such as those involved in design cognition. Additionally, these results confirm the suitability of functional neuroimaging for studying such situations.
The locus coeruleus (LC)-norepinephrine system is a target of both cannabinoid and opioid actions. The present study investigated the anatomical distribution of cannabinoid-1 receptor (CB1r) in the LC and its association with mu-opioid receptor (MOR). Immunoreactivity for CB1r was localized to pre- and postsynaptic cellular profiles in the LC, 82% of which were dual-labeled for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Of the CB1r-immunoreactive structures, 66% were somatodendritic profiles, 22% were axon terminals, and the remaining 12% were associated with glial and small unmyelinated axon-like structures. CB1r immunoreactivity (-ir) in somatodendritic profiles was more often localized to the cytoplasm, whereas CB1r-ir located in axon terminals was more commonly localized on the plasma membrane. Somatodendritic profiles with CB1r-ir typically received input from axon terminals forming asymmetric-type synapses. In contrast, presynaptic profiles with CB1r-ir typically formed symmetric synaptic specializations. Anatomical studies confirmed the co-existence of MOR and CB1r-ir in common somatodendritic compartments of catecholaminergic neurons in the LC, and also revealed CB1r-positive axon terminals forming synaptic contact with MOR-containing dendrites. Our results provide evidence for a heterogeneous distribution of CB1r in the LC and demonstrate that CB1r and MOR co-exist in cellular profiles in this region. These data suggest important potential interactions between cannabinoid and opioid systems in LC neuronal profiles that may impact noradrenergic tone.

Neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by a number of features including the formation of inclusions, early synaptic degeneration and the selective loss of neurons. Molecules serving as links between these shared features have yet to be identified. Identifying candidates within the diseased microenvironment will open up novel avenues for therapeutic intervention. The transcription factor Elk-1 resides within multiple brain areas both in nuclear and extranuclear neuronal compartments. Interestingly, its de novo expression within a single dendrite initiates neuronal death. Given this novel regionalized function, we assessed whether extranuclear Elk-1 and/or phospho-Elk-1 (pElk-1) protein might be associated with a spectrum of human neurodegenerative disease cases including Lewy body Disease (e.g. Parkinson's), Alzheimer's disease, and Huntington's Disease. We first determined the importance of Elk-1 post-translational modifications on its ability to initiate regionalized cell death. We next screened human cases from three major neurodegenerative diseases to look for remarkable levels of Elk-1 and/or pElk-1 protein as well as their association with inclusions characteristic of these diseases. We compared our findings to age-matched control cases. We find that the ability of Elk-1 to initiate regionalized neuronal death depends on a specific phosphosite, T417. Furthermore, we find that T417(+) Elk-1 uniquely associates with several types of inclusions present in cases of human Lewy body Disease, Alzheimer's disease, and Huntington's Disease. These results suggest a molecular link between the presence of inclusions and neuronal loss that is shared across a spectrum of neurodegenerative disease.
Increasing evidence suggests that regular exercise improves brain health and promotes synaptic plasticity and hippocampal neurogenesis. Exercise improves learning, but specific mechanisms of information processing influenced by physical activity are unknown. Here, we report that voluntary running enhanced the ability of adult (3 months old) male C57BL/6 mice to discriminate between the locations of two adjacent identical stimuli. Improved spatial pattern separation in adult runners was tightly correlated with increased neurogenesis. In contrast, very aged (22 months old) mice had impaired spatial discrimination and low basal cell genesis that was refractory to running. These findings suggest that the addition of newly born neurons may bolster dentate gyrus-mediated encoding of fine spatial distinctions.
Inability to form new memories is an early clinical sign of Alzheimer's disease (AD). There is ample evidence that the amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide plays a key role in the pathogenesis of this disorder. Soluble, bio-derived oligomers of Abeta are proposed as the key mediators of synaptic and cognitive dysfunction, but more tractable models of Abeta-mediated cognitive impairment are needed. Here we report that, in mice, acute intracerebroventricular injections of synthetic Abeta(1-42) oligomers impaired consolidation of the long-term recognition memory, whereas mature Abeta(1-42) fibrils and freshly dissolved peptide did not. The deficit induced by oligomers was reversible and was prevented by an anti-Abeta antibody. It has been suggested that the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) mediates the impairment of synaptic plasticity induced by Abeta. We confirmed that Abeta(1-42) oligomers interact with PrP(C), with nanomolar affinity. However, PrP-expressing and PrP knock-out mice were equally susceptible to this impairment. These data suggest that Abeta(1-42) oligomers are responsible for cognitive impairment in AD and that PrP(C) is not required.
Neural stem cell self-renewal and differentiation is orchestrated by precise control of gene expression involving nuclear receptor TLX. Let-7b, a member of the let-7 microRNA family, is expressed in mammalian brains and exhibits increased expression during neural differentiation. However, the role of let-7b in neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation remains unknown. Here we show that let-7b regulates neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation by targeting the stem cell regulator TLX and the cell cycle regulator cyclin D1. Overexpression of let-7b led to reduced neural stem cell proliferation and increased neural differentiation, whereas antisense knockdown of let-7b resulted in enhanced proliferation of neural stem cells. Moreover, in utero electroporation of let-7b to embryonic mouse brains led to reduced cell cycle progression in neural stem cells. Introducing an expression vector of Tlx or cyclin D1 that lacks the let-7b recognition site rescued let-7b-induced proliferation deficiency, suggesting that both TLX and cyclin D1 are important targets for let-7b-mediated regulation of neural stem cell proliferation. Let-7b, by targeting TLX and cyclin D1, establishes an efficient strategy to control neural stem cell proliferation and differentiation.
The initial synapses of the auditory system, which connect hair cells to afferent nerve fibers, display two unusual features. First, synaptic transmission occurs in a multiquantal fashion: the contents of multiple synaptic vesicles are discharged simultaneously. Second, synaptic transmission may be tuned to specific frequencies of stimulation. We developed a minimal theoretical model to explore the possibility that hair-cell synapses achieve both multiquantal release and frequency selectivity through a cooperative mechanism for the exocytotic release of neurotransmitter. We first characterized vesicle release as a four-step cycle at each release site, then generalized the result to an arbitrary number of steps. The cyclic process itself induces some degree of resonance, and may display a stable, underdamped fixed point of the release dynamics associated with a pair of complex eigenvalues. Cooperativity greatly enhances the frequency selectivity by moving the eigenvalues toward the imaginary axis; spontaneously oscillatory release can arise beyond a Hopf bifurcation. These phenomena occur both in the macroscopic limit, when the number of release sites involved is very large, and in the more realistic stochastic regime, when only a limited number of release sites participate at each synapse. It is thus possible to connect multiquantal release with frequency selectivity through the mechanism of cooperativity.




Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by pathological lesions such as amyloid-beta (Abeta) plaques and cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Both these lesions consist mainly of aggregated Abeta protein and this aggregation is affected by macromolecules such as heparan sulfate (HS) proteoglycans. Previous studies demonstrated that HS enhances fibrillogenesis of Abeta and that this enhancement is dependent on the degree of sulfation of HS. In addition, it has been reported that these sulfation epitopes do not occur randomly but have a defined tissue distribution. Until now, the distribution of sulfation epitopes of HS has not yet been studied in human brain. We investigated whether a specific HS epitope is associated with Abeta plaques by performing immunohistochemistry on occipital neocortical and hippocampal tissue sections from AD patients using five HS epitope-specific phage display antibodies. Antibodies recognizing highly N-sulfated HS demonstrated the highest level of staining in both fibrillar Abeta plaques and non-fibrillar Abeta plaques, whereas antibodies recognizing HS regions with a lower degree of N-sulfate modifications were only immunoreactive with fibrillar Abeta plaques. Thus, our results suggest that a larger variety of HS epitopes is associated with fibrillar Abeta plaques, but the HS epitopes associated with non-fibrillar Abeta plaques seem to be more restricted, selectively consisting of highly N-sulfated epitopes.



Bupropion is an efficacious non-nicotine medication for smoking cessation; however, its cessation-mediating mechanism is unclear. This randomized, placebo-controlled trial examined the effect of bupropion SR (300 mg/day for 6 weeks) on plasma cotinine and on the subjective effects of smoking in 24 current daily smokers who were not trying to quit or reduce smoking. Subjective effects of smoking, as well as cue-elicited responses were assessed at bi-weekly experimental sessions using validated scales. Several indices of cigarette consumption were measured. Plasma cotinine decreased from 280 (+/-133) microg/l at baseline to 205 (+/-108) microg/l at end of treatment in the bupropion group (p=0.036), but no significant change was found in the placebo group. Daily cigarette count and puff topography did not significantly change in either group. In contrast to placebo, bupropion increased post-smoking satiety (p=0.045). Both groups reported higher craving (p=0.025) and withdrawal (p=0.014) after exposure to smoking-related pictures, compared to neutral pictures. This biased reactivity was not significantly affected by treatment condition (p&gt;0.1). Therefore, bupropion does not appear to impact the smokers' response to conditioned smoking-related cues but influences the unconditioned subjective effects of smoking in unmotivated smokers. This study is among the first to systematically investigate the effect of chronic bupropion administration, free from the confounding effect of the smoker's motivation to quit smoking.
Cannabis is the most widely used illicit drug in the United States, yet the role of genetics in individual symptoms associated with cannabis use disorders has not been evaluated. The purpose of the present set of analyses was to describe the symptomatology and estimate the heritability of DSM-IV criteria/symptoms of cannabis dependence in a large sample of families. Participants were 2524 adults, participating in the University of California San Francisco (UCSF) Family Study of alcoholism. Seventy percent of the sample had ever used cannabis and 13.9% met DSM-IV criteria for cannabis dependence. Younger age at first cannabis use was found to be significantly associated with a shortened survival to becoming cannabis dependent. Although a greater percentage of men met criteria for cannabis dependence, women were found to demonstrate &quot;telescoping&quot; as indexed by a shorter survival time from initial use to dependence as compared to men. A cannabis withdrawal syndrome was identified in users, the primary symptoms of which were nervousness, appetite change, and sleep disturbance. Cannabis use (h(2)=0.31) and dependence (h(2)=0.20), age at first use, individual DSM-IV criteria for dependence, and cannabis-use associated symptoms of depression, trouble concentrating and paranoia were all found to be heritable. These findings suggest that within this population that cannabis use and dependence, as well as individual cannabis dependence symptoms have a significant heritable component, that cannabis dependence is more likely to occur when use begins during adolescence, and that the cannabis dependence syndrome includes a number of heritable untoward psychiatric side effects including withdrawal.
Cdk5 dysregulation is a major event in the neurodegenerative process of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In vitro studies using differentiated neurons exposed to Abeta exhibit Cdk5-mediated tau hyperphosphorylation, cell cycle re-entry and neuronal loss. In this study we aimed to determine the role of Cdk5 in neuronal injury occurring in an AD mouse model obtained through the intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of the Abeta(1-40) synthetic peptide. In mice icv-injected with Abeta, Cdk5 activator p35 is cleaved by calpains, leading to p25 formation and Cdk5 overactivation. Subsequently, there was an increase in tau hyperphosphorylation, as well as decreased levels of synaptic markers. Cell cycle reactivation and a significant neuronal loss were also observed. These neurotoxic events in Abeta-injected mice were prevented by blocking calpain activation with MDL28170, which was administered intraperitoneally (ip). As MDL prevents p35 cleavage and subsequent Cdk5 overactivation, it is likely that this kinase is involved in tau hyperphosphorylation, cell cycle re-entry, synaptic loss and neuronal death triggered by Abeta. Altogether, these data demonstrate that Cdk5 plays a pivotal role in tau phosphorylation, cell cycle induction, synaptotoxicity, and apoptotic death in postmitotic neurons exposed to Abeta peptides in vivo, acting as a link between diverse neurotoxic pathways of AD.

