Although it is accepted that extracellular fields generated by neuronal activity can influence the excitability of neighboring cells, whether this form of neurotransmission has a functional role remains open. In vivo field effects occur in the teleost Mauthner (M)-cell system, where a combination of structural features support the concept of inhibitory electrical synapses. A single spike in one M-cell evoked within as little as 2.2 ms of the onset of an abrupt sound, simulating a predatory strike, initiates a startle-escape behavior [Zottoli SJ (1977) J Exp Biol 66:243-254]. We show that such sounds produce synchronized action potentials in as many as 20 or more interneurons that mediate feed-forward electrical inhibition of the M-cell. The resulting action currents produce an electrical inhibition that coincides with the electrotonic excitatory drive to the M-cell; the amplitude of the peak of the inhibition is approximately 40% of that of the excitation. When electrical inhibition is neutralized with an extracellular cathodal current pulse, subthreshold auditory stimuli are converted into ones that produce an M-spike. Because the timing of electrical inhibition is often the same as the latency of M-cell firing in freely swimming fish, we conclude that electrical inhibition participates in regulating the threshold of the acoustic startle-escape behavior. Therefore, a field effect is likely to be essential to the normal functioning of the neural network.
The axon initial segment (AIS) functions as both a physiological and physical bridge between somatodendritic and axonal domains. Given its unique molecular composition, location, and physiology, the AIS is thought to maintain neuronal polarity. To identify the molecular basis of this AIS property, we used adenovirus-mediated RNA interference to silence AIS protein expression in polarized neurons. Some AIS proteins are remarkably stable with half-lives of at least 2 wk. However, silencing the expression of the cytoskeletal scaffold ankyrinG (ankG) dismantles the AIS and causes axons to acquire the molecular characteristics of dendrites. Both cytoplasmic- and membrane-associated proteins, which are normally restricted to somatodendritic domains, redistribute into the former axon. Furthermore, spines and postsynaptic densities of excitatory synapses assemble on former axons. Our results demonstrate that the loss of ankG causes axons to acquire the molecular characteristics of dendrites; thus, ankG is required for the maintenance of neuronal polarity and molecular organization of the AIS.
Kennerknecht et al. [Kennerknecht et al. (2008); Am J Med Genet Part A 146A] estimate that 1.9% of the Chinese population are hereditary prosopagnosics. I discuss concerns about their assumption that the great majority of prosopagnosia resulting from developmental problems are heritable and present data from my laboratory that suggests that a considerable proportion of developmental prosopagnosics do not have relatives who share their face recognition deficits.
Iontophoresis is the movement of charged molecules in solution under applied current using pulled multibarrel glass capillaries drawn to a sharp tip. The technique is generally nonquantitative, and to address this, we have characterized the ejection of charged and neutral species using carbon-fiber electrodes attached to iontophoretic barrels. Our results show that observed ejections are due to the sum of iontophoretic and electroosmotic forces. With the use of the neutral, electroactive molecule 2-(4-nitrophenoxy) ethanol (NPE), which is only transported by electroosmotic flow (EOF), a positive correlation between the amount ejected and the diameter of each barrel's tip was found. In addition, using various charged and neutral electroactive compounds we found that, when each compound is paired with the EOF marker, the percentage of the ejection due to EOF remains constant. This percentage varies for each pair of compounds, and the differences in mobility are positively correlated to differences in electrophoretic mobility. Overall, the results show that capillary electrophoresis (CE) can be used to predict the percentage of ejection that will be due to EOF. With this information, quantitative iontophoresis is possible for electrochemically inactive drugs by using NPE as a marker for EOF.


The CLC family of chloride channels and transporters is a functionally diverse group of proteins important in a wide range of physiological processes. ClC-4 and ClC-5 are localized to endosomes and seem to play roles in the acidification of these compartments. These proteins were recently shown to function as Cl(-)/H(+) antiporters. However, relatively little is known about the detailed mechanism of CLC-mediated Cl(-)/H(+) antiport, especially for mammalian isoforms. We attempted to identify molecular tools that might be useful in probing structure-function relationships in these proteins. Here, we record currents from human ClC-4 (hClC-4) expressed in Xenopus oocytes, and find that Zn(2+) inhibits these currents, with an apparent affinity of approximately 50 microM. Although Cd(2+) has a similar effect, Co(2+) and Mn(2+) do not inhibit hClC-4 currents. In contrast, the effect of Zn(2+) on the ClC-0 channel, Zn(2+)-mediated inhibition of hClC-4 is minimally voltage-dependent, suggesting an extracellular binding site for the ion. Nine candidate external residues were tested; only mutations of three consecutive histidine residues, located in a single extracellular loop, significantly reduced the effect of Zn(2+), with one of these making a larger contribution than the other two. An analogous tri-His sequence is absent from ClC-0, suggesting a fundamentally different inhibitory mechanism for the ion on hClC-4. Manipulations that alter transport properties of hClC-4, varying permeant ions as well as mutating the &quot;gating glutamate&quot;, dramatically affect Zn(2+) inhibition, suggesting the involvement of a heretofore unexplored part of the protein in the transport process.
MicroRNAs (miR) show characteristic expression signatures in various cancers and can profoundly affect cancer cell behavior. We carried out miR expression profiling of human glioblastoma specimens versus adjacent brain devoid of tumor. This revealed several significant alterations, including a pronounced reduction of miR-128 in tumor samples. miR-128 expression significantly reduced glioma cell proliferation in vitro and glioma xenograft growth in vivo. miR-128 caused a striking decrease in expression of the Bmi-1 oncogene, by direct regulation of the Bmi-1 mRNA 3'-untranslated region, through a single miR-128 binding site. In a panel of patient glioblastoma specimens, Bmi-1 expression was significantly up-regulated and miR-128 was down-regulated compared with normal brain. Bmi-1 functions in epigenetic silencing of certain genes through epigenetic chromatin modification. We found that miR-128 expression caused a decrease in histone methylation (H3K27me(3)) and Akt phosphorylation, and up-regulation of p21(CIP1) levels, consistent with Bmi-1 down-regulation. Bmi-1 has also been shown to promote stem cell self-renewal; therefore, we investigated the effects of miR-128 overexpression in human glioma neurosphere cultures, possessing features of glioma &quot;stem-like&quot; cells. This showed that miR-128 specifically blocked glioma self-renewal consistent with Bmi-1 down-regulation. This is the first example of specific regulation by a miR of a neural stem cell self-renewal factor, implicating miRs that may normally regulate brain development as important biological and therapeutic targets against the &quot;stem cell-like&quot; characteristics of glioma.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a nontraditional Cdk that is primarily active in postmitotic neurons. An important core function of Cdk5 involves regulating the migration and maturation of embryonic post-mitotic neurons. These developmental roles are dependent on its kinase activity. Initially, there was little evidence indicating a role for Cdk5 in normal cell cycle regulation. Recent data from our lab, however, suggest that Cdk5 plays a crucial role as a cell cycle suppressor in normal post-mitotic neurons and neuronal cell lines. It performs this foundation in a kinase independent manner. Cdk5 normally found in both nucleus and cytoplasm, but it exits the nucleus in neurons risk to death in an AD patient's brain. The shift in sub-cellular location is accompanied by cell cycle re-entry and neuronal death. This &quot;new&quot; function of Cdk5 raises cautions in the design of Cdk5-directed drugs for the therapy of neurodegenerative diseases.

The compactness of the Fugu rubripes (Fugu) genome has supported its use in comparative genome analysis. Nevertheless, as Fugu is distinct evolution-wise from humans, it is essential to determine the similarity between a Fugu gene and its human counterpart to confirm its potential for comparative genome analysis. We cloned and analyzed the Fugu survival motor neuron gene (fsmn) for similarities with human SMN gene (huSMN). The Fugu genome has a single fsmn that is 13.4 times smaller than huSMN. fsmn and huSMN are highly similar in their genome organization and tissue expression patterns. The functional domains of the Fugu smn and human SMN molecules are also highly conserved. In human MCF-7 cells, expression of fsmn protein resulted in the formation of &quot;gems&quot; in the cytoplasm and nucleus, similar to observations reported for huSMN protein. In these cells, fsmn RNA was also processed correctly and produced alternatively spliced transcripts like huSMN2. These findings indicate close structural and functional similarities between fsmn and huSMN, suggesting that regulation of the two genes may also be similar and supporting the use of fsmn in comparative genome studies for the identification of functional regulatory elements of huSMN.
The growth-cone plasma membrane constantly reconfigures during axon navigation and upon target recognition. The identity and regulation of the membrane pathway(s) participating in remodeling of the growth-cone surface remain elusive. Here, we identify a constitutive, high-capacity plasma-membrane-recycling activity in the axonal growth cones, which is mediated by a novel bulk endocytic pathway that is mechanistically related to macropinocytosis. This pathway generates large compartments at sites of intense actin-based membrane ruffling through the actions of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, the small GTPase Rac1 and the pinocytic chaperone Pincher. At early developmental stages, bulk endocytosis is the primary endocytic pathway for rapid retrieval of the growth-cone plasma membrane. At later stages, during the onset of synaptogenesis, an intrinsic program of maturation leads to downregulation of basal bulk endocytosis and the emergence of depolarization-induced synaptic-vesicle exo-endocytosis. We propose that the control of bulk membrane retrieval contributes to the homeostatic regulation of the axonal plasma membrane and to growth-cone remodeling during axonal outgrowth. In addition, we suggest that the downregulation of bulk endocytosis during synaptogenesis might contribute to the preservation of synaptic-vesicle specificity.
B lymphocytes play a central role in the pathogenesis of autoimmunity, so that B cell suppression is considered a potential treatment option for immune-mediated diseases. Rituximab, a chimeric anti-human CD20 antibody, is the only anti-B cell biological agent presently under study for the treatment of autoimmune neuromuscular diseases. Isolated case histories and series, pilot and retrospective studies report on the experimental administration of rituximab as treatment of a variety of immune-mediated neuropathy syndromes, treatment-refractory myasthenia gravis and inflammatory myopathies. Rituximab was used as monotherapy or in combination with other types of immunomodulation, and was well tolerated. The mechanism whereby B cell depletion shows benefit is uncertain and may vary depending on the inherent differences in the pathogenesis of various autoimmune neuromuscular disorders.
Axon degeneration is a major contributor to non-remitting deficits in multiple sclerosis (MS). Thus the development of therapies to provide protection of axons has elicited considerable interest. Voltage-gated sodium channels have been implicated in the injury cascade leading to axonal damage, and sodium-channel blockers have shown efficacy in ameliorating axonal damage in disease models following anoxia, trauma and damaging levels of nitric oxide (NO). Here we discuss studies in our laboratory that examined the protective effects of phenytoin, a well-characterized sodium-channel blocker, in the inflammatory/demyelinating disorder experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a model of MS. Administration of phenytoin to C57/Bl6 mice inoculated with rat myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) provides improved clinical status, preservation of axons, enhanced action potential conduction and reduced immune infiltrates compared to untreated mice with EAE. Moreover, continuous treatment with phenytoin provides these protective actions for at least 180 days post-MOG injection. The withdrawal of phenytoin from mice inoculated with MOG, however, is accompanied by acute exacerbation of EAE, with significant mortality and infiltration of immune cells in the CNS. Our studies demonstrate the efficacy of phenytoin as a neuroprotectant in EAE. Our results also, however, indicate that we need to learn more about the long-term effects of sodium-channel blockers, and of their withdrawal, in neuroinflammatory disorders.
Simultaneous recording of electrophysiology and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a technique of growing importance in neuroscience. Rapidly evolving clinical and scientific requirements have created a need for hardware and software that can be customized for specific applications. Hardware may require customization to enable a variety of recording types (e.g., electroencephalogram, local field potentials, or multi-unit activity) while meeting the stringent and costly requirements of MRI safety and compatibility. Real-time signal processing tools are an enabling technology for studies of learning, attention, sleep, epilepsy, neurofeedback, and neuropharmacology, yet real-time signal processing tools are difficult to develop. We describe an open-source system for simultaneous electrophysiology and fMRI featuring low-noise (&lt;0.6microV p-p input noise), electromagnetic compatibility for MRI (tested up to 7T), and user-programmable real-time signal processing. The hardware distribution provides the complete specifications required to build an MRI-compatible electrophysiological data acquisition system, including circuit schematics, print circuit board (PCB) layouts, Gerber files for PCB fabrication and robotic assembly, a bill of materials with part numbers, data sheets, and vendor information, and test procedures. The software facilitates rapid implementation of real-time signal processing algorithms. This system has been used in human EEG/fMRI studies at 3 and 7T examining the auditory system, visual system, sleep physiology, and anesthesia, as well as in intracranial electrophysiological studies of the non-human primate visual system during 3T fMRI, and in human hyperbaric physiology studies at depths of up to 300 feet below sea level.
Voltage-gated sodium channels play critical roles in the excitability of the brain. A decreased level of Na(v)1.1 has been identified as the cause of severe myoclonic epilepsy in infancy. In the present study, we identified the transcription start site and three 5'-untranslated exons of SCN1A by using 5'-full RACE. The 2.5-kb region upstream of the transcription start site was targeted as a potential location of the promoter. The 2.5-kb genomic fragment (P(2.5), from +26 to -2,500) and the 2.7-kb fragment (P(2.7), P(2.5) combined with the 227-bp 5'-untranslated exons) were cloned to produce luciferase constructs. The P(2.5) and the P(2.7) drove luciferase gene expression in the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y but not in the human embryonic kidney cell line HEK-293. The 5'-untranslated exons could greatly enhance gene expression in SH-SY5Y cells. The P(2.7) could be used as a functional unit to study the role of SCN1A noncoding sequences in gene expression. These findings will also help in exploring the possibility of promoter mutant-induced diseases and revealing the mechanism underlying the regulation of SCN1A expression in the normal brain.
Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) is a mitochondrial disease characterized by visual loss resulting from retinal ganglion cell degeneration. Despite the important role of respiratory chain deficiency and oxidative stress induced by mtDNA point mutations affecting complex I, excitotoxic injury has been postulated as a concurrent pathogenic factor. We used transmitochondrial cybrid cell lines constructed using enucleated fibroblasts from three LHON probands carrying the most severe 3460/ND1 mutation and three controls as mitochondria donors, and the osteosarcoma-derived mtDNA-less cells, to study the possible efficacy of two selected antioxidant compounds in preventing glutamate uptake reduction previously observed in LHON cybrids. We demonstrated that two antioxidants, Trolox and decylubiquinone, partially restore glutamate transport impairment occurring in LHON cybrids. Rotenone, a classic complex I inhibitor, did not worsen the glutamate uptake defect present in LHON cybrids under basal conditions but significantly reduced glutamate transport in control cybrids. Furthermore, we observed that LHON cybrids showed an increased protein carbonylation under basal conditions, not further affected by rotenone and partially counteracted by antioxidants. Our findings strengthen the hypothesis that the complex I defect associated with LHON causes free radical overproduction, which is responsible for glutamate transport inhibition. We suggest that selected antioxidants may be clinically tested in LHON patients and relatives to restore glutamate uptake defect caused by LHON-associated free radical overproduction.
Animal and in vitro studies have shown that the sympathetic nervous system modulates the contractility of skeletal muscle fibres, which may require adjustments in the motor drive to the muscle in voluntary contractions. In this study, these mechanisms were investigated in the tibialis anterior muscle of humans during sympathetic activation induced by the cold pressor test (CPT; left hand immersed in water at 4 degrees C). In the first experiment, 11 healthy men performed 20 s isometric contractions at 10% of the maximal torque, before, during and after the CPT. In the second experiment, 12 healthy men activated a target motor unit at the minimum stable discharge rate for 5 min in the same conditions as in experiment 1. Intramuscular electromyographic (EMG) signals and torque were recorded and used to assess the motor unit discharge characteristics (experiment 1) and spike-triggered average twitch torque (experiment 2). CPT increased the diastolic blood pressure and heart rate by (mean +/- S.D.) 18 +/- 9 mmHg and 4.7 +/- 6.5 beats min(-1) (P &lt; 0.01), respectively. In experiment 1, motor unit discharge rate increased from 10.4 +/- 1.0 pulses s(-1) before to 11.1 +/- 1.4 pulses s(-1) (P &lt; 0.05) during the CPT. In experiment 2, the twitch half-relaxation time decreased by 15.8 +/- 9.3% (P &lt; 0.05) during the CPT with respect to baseline. These results provide the first evidence of an adrenergic modulation of contractility of muscle fibres in individual motor units in humans, under physiological sympathetic activation.
Early in development, network activity in the hippocampus is characterized by recurrent synchronous bursts, whose cellular correlates are giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs). The propensity for generating GDPs is attributed to GABAergic synaptic transmission being depolarizing and excitatory in neonatal neurons. However, developmental regulation of intrinsic conductances may also influence GDPs generation. A likely candidate is the non-inactivating, low-threshold, muscarinic-sensitive K(+) current (M current; I(m)), which down-regulates intrinsic bursting activity in adult hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Western blot analysis of homogenates of the CA3 hippocampal region showed that expression of the Kv7.2 subunit, one of the constituents of neuronal M channels, is weak in neonatal neurons, and markedly increases after the first postnatal week. Likewise, the density of I(m) was very low in neonatal CA3 pyramidal cells and increased later on. Spontaneously occurring intrinsic bursts in neonatal neurons were longer and more robust, and recurred more regularly, than in juvenile neurons. The I(m) blocker linopirdine only mildly affected intrinsic bursting in neonatal neurons, but strongly facilitated and regularized it in juvenile neurons. We conclude that the low expression of Kv7/M channels and the depolarizing action of GABA early after birth enhance intrinsic bursting and neuronal synchronization leading to generation of GDPs within the hippocampal network.
We recorded ganzfeld scotopic ERGs to examine the responses of human rod bipolar cells in vivo, during dark adaptation recovery following bleaching exposures, as well as during adaptation to steady background lights. In order to be able to record responses at relatively early times in recovery, we utilized a 'criterion response amplitude' protocol in which the test flash strength was adjusted to elicit responses of nearly constant amplitude. In order to provide accurate and unbiased measures of response kinetics, we utilized a curve-fitting procedure to fit a smooth function to the measured responses in the vicinity of the peak, thereby extracting both the time-to-peak and the amplitude of the responses. Following bleaching exposures, the responses exhibited both desensitization and accelerated kinetics. During early post-bleach recovery, the flash sensitivity and time-to-peak varied according to a power-law expression (with an exponent of 6), as found in the presence of steady background light. This light-like phenomenon, however, appeared to be set against the backdrop of a second, more slowly recovering 'pure' desensitization, most clearly evident at late post-bleach times. The post-bleach 'equivalent background intensity' derived from measurements of flash sensitivity faded initially with an S2 slope of approximately 0.24 decades min(-1), and later as a gentle S3 tail. When calculated from kinetics, the results displayed only the S2 slope. While the recovery of rod bipolar cell response kinetics can be described accurately by a declining level of opsin in the rods, the sensitivity of these cells is reduced further than expected by this mechanism alone.
The brain is a complex dynamic system of functionally connected regions. Graph theory has been successfully used to describe the organization of such dynamic systems. Recent resting-state fMRI studies have suggested that inter-regional functional connectivity shows a small-world topology, indicating an organization of the brain in highly clustered sub-networks, combined with a high level of global connectivity. In addition, a few studies have investigated a possible scale-free topology of the human brain, but the results of these studies have been inconclusive. These studies have mainly focused on inter-regional connectivity, representing the brain as a network of brain regions, requiring an arbitrary definition of such regions. However, using a voxel-wise approach allows for the model-free examination of both inter-regional as well as intra-regional connectivity and might reveal new information on network organization. Especially, a voxel-based study could give information about a possible scale-free organization of functional connectivity in the human brain. Resting-state 3 Tesla fMRI recordings of 28 healthy subjects were acquired and individual connectivity graphs were formed out of all cortical and sub-cortical voxels with connections reflecting inter-voxel functional connectivity. Graph characteristics from these connectivity networks were computed. The clustering-coefficient of these networks turned out to be much higher than the clustering-coefficient of comparable random graphs, together with a short average path length, indicating a small-world organization. Furthermore, the connectivity distribution of the number of inter-voxel connections followed a power-law scaling with an exponent close to 2, suggesting a scale-free network topology. Our findings suggest a combined small-world and scale-free organization of the functionally connected human brain. The results are interpreted as evidence for a highly efficient organization of the functionally connected brain, in which voxels are mostly connected with their direct neighbors forming clustered sub-networks, which are held together by a small number of highly connected hub-voxels that ensure a high level of overall connectivity.
Synesthesia is a condition where stimulation of a single sensory modality or processing stream elicits an idiosyncratic, yet reliable perception in one or more other modalities or streams. Various models have been proposed to explain synesthesia, which have in common aberrant cross-activation of one cortical area by another. This has been observed directly in cases of linguistic-color synesthesia as cross-activation of the 'color area', V4, by stimulation of the grapheme area. The underlying neural substrates that mediate cross-activations in synesthesia are not well understood, however. In addition, the overall integrity of the visual system has never been assessed and it is not known whether wider differences in sensory-perceptual processing are associated with the condition. To assess whether fundamental differences in perceptual processing exist in synesthesia, we utilised high-density 128-channel electroencephalography (EEG) to measure sensory-perceptual processing using stimuli that differentially bias activation of the magnocellular and parvocellular pathways of the visual system. High and low spatial frequency gratings and luminance-contrast squares were presented to 15 synesthetes and 15 controls. We report, for the first time, early sensory-perceptual differences in synesthetes relative to non-synesthete controls in response to simple stimuli that do not elicit synesthetic color experiences. The differences are manifested in the early sensory components of the visual evoked potential (VEP) to stimuli that bias both magnocellular and parvocellular responses, but are opposite in direction, suggesting a differential effect on these two pathways. We discuss our results with reference to widespread connectivity differences as a broader phenotype of synesthesia.
How do human listeners differentiate one language from another? In this study we examine the contributions of acoustic and linguistic cues to successful language discrimination. In particular, we report findings that reveal patterns of cortical competition as a function of the competition between prosodic, phonological, and lexical semantic information during language discrimination. We manipulated four types of stimuli in the listening environment: synthesized speech with rhythmic information, synthesized speech with rhythmic plus intonational information, natural speech from Japanese and Italian, and natural speech from Chinese and English. Our study shows that, depending on the amount and the kind of cues available, the listener recruits different areas of the brain for the same language task. Furthermore, brain activations do not monotonically multiply as a function of the complexity of the cues available, but are the outcomes of cue competition as a function of cue validity for the discrimination task. These findings show how acoustic and linguistic cues lead to cortical competition and how cortical activities adapt to the task demand for successful information processing.
In one of the largest brain MRI studies to date, we used tensor-based morphometry (TBM) to create 3D maps of structural atrophy in 676 subjects with Alzheimer's disease (AD), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and healthy elderly controls, scanned as part of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). Using inverse-consistent 3D non-linear elastic image registration, we warped 676 individual brain MRI volumes to a population mean geometric template. Jacobian determinant maps were created, revealing the 3D profile of local volumetric expansion and compression. We compared the anatomical distribution of atrophy in 165 AD patients (age: 75.6+/-7.6 years), 330 MCI subjects (74.8+/-7.5), and 181 controls (75.9+/-5.1). Brain atrophy in selected regions-of-interest was correlated with clinical measurements--the sum-of-boxes clinical dementia rating (CDR-SB), mini-mental state examination (MMSE), and the logical memory test scores - at voxel level followed by correction for multiple comparisons. Baseline temporal lobe atrophy correlated with current cognitive performance, future cognitive decline, and conversion from MCI to AD over the following year; it predicted future decline even in healthy subjects. Over half of the AD and MCI subjects carried the ApoE4 (apolipoprotein E4) gene, which increases risk for AD; they showed greater hippocampal and temporal lobe deficits than non-carriers. ApoE2 gene carriers--1/6 of the normal group--showed reduced ventricular expansion, suggesting a protective effect. As an automated image analysis technique, TBM reveals 3D correlations between neuroimaging markers, genes, and future clinical changes, and is highly efficient for large-scale MRI studies.
Comparisons of measurement characteristics were made for three types of electronic pain scales: (a) visual analogue scale (VAS), (b) VAS combined with an electronic number box (VAS-N; 0-100), and (c) electronic number box scale (NUM). The three scales were capable of discriminating pain sensations from very small (0.5 degrees C) temperature steps in 13 healthy males, 26 healthy females, and 16 female fibromyalgia (FM) patients. All scales provided monotonic functions when used by subjects to rate pain from 5s nociceptive temperatures (45-49 degrees C), thereby demonstrating the generality of these results across different demographic groups. As expected, FM patients rated heat pain sensations higher on all scales in comparison to healthy females, demonstrating the capacity of these scales to detect well-established group differences in pain sensitivity that exist across these two groups. However, in comparison to male subjects, healthy females gave higher NUM but not VAS or VAS-N ratings to the range of nociceptive presented temperatures. We interpret this difference as a selective scaling bias of female subjects for NUM. Finally, all three groups (total of 55 subjects) found the scales easy to use after brief instructions, though subjects strongly preferred the use of VAS-N or VAS in comparison to NUM scale.

Body weight homeostasis is regulated by central and peripheral mechanisms, in which cytokines appear to have an important role.The circulating levels of the cytokines interleukin 1 (IL-1) and interleukin 18 (IL-18), and of inflammatory mediators such as prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), amongst others, are elevated in obese individuals. The low-grade inflammation associated with obesity may contribute to the development of insulin resistance, impaired glucose tolerance and type 2 diabetes. This review highlights results of studies in mice which indicate important roles for these proinflammatory cytokines during the development of obesity and insulin resistance, and in the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
The cellular heterogeneity of the brain confounds efforts to elucidate the biological properties of distinct neuronal populations. Using bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic mice that express EGFP-tagged ribosomal protein L10a in defined cell populations, we have developed a methodology for affinity purification of polysomal mRNAs from genetically defined cell populations in the brain. The utility of this approach is illustrated by the comparative analysis of four types of neurons, revealing hundreds of genes that distinguish these four cell populations. We find that even two morphologically indistinguishable, intermixed subclasses of medium spiny neurons display vastly different translational profiles and present examples of the physiological significance of such differences. This genetically targeted translating ribosome affinity purification (TRAP) methodology is a generalizable method useful for the identification of molecular changes in any genetically defined cell type in response to genetic alterations, disease, or pharmacological perturbations.

Human brains retain discrete populations of micro RNA (miRNA) species that support homeostatic brain gene expression functions; however, specific miRNA abundance is significantly altered in neurological disorders such as Alzheimer disease (AD) when compared with age-matched controls. Here we provide evidence in AD brains of a specific up-regulation of an NF-kappaB-sensitive miRNA-146a highly complementary to the 3'-untranslated region of complement factor H (CFH), an important repressor of the inflammatory response of the brain. Up-regulation of miRNA-146a coupled to down-regulation of CFH was observed in AD brain and in interleukin-1beta, Abeta42, and/or oxidatively stressed human neural (HN) cells in primary culture. Transfection of HN cells using an NF-kappaB-containing pre-miRNA-146a promoter-luciferase reporter construct in stressed HN cells showed significant up-regulation of luciferase activity that paralleled decreases in CFH gene expression. Treatment of stressed HN cells with the NF-kappaB inhibitor pyrollidine dithiocarbamate or the resveratrol analog CAY10512 abrogated this response. Incubation of an antisense oligonucleotide to miRNA-146a (anti-miRNA-146a; AM-146a) was found to restore CFH expression levels. These data indicate that NF-kappaB-sensitive miRNA-146a-mediated modulation of CFH gene expression may in part regulate an inflammatory response in AD brain and in stressed HN cell models of AD and illustrate the potential for anti-miRNAs as an effective therapeutic strategy against pathogenic inflammatory signaling.
Age at onset of bipolar disorder might represent the penetrance of the system for specific genetic liability involved in the genesis of the illness. Genetic factors influencing age at onset have been shown to play a role in shaping core characteristics of the illness, such as severity and pattern of recurrence. Genetic variants of genes regulating the circadian clock could contribute to define endophenotypes of bipolar disorder, and have been associated with clinical features of the disease. The coding region of Per3 gene contains a variable-number tandem-repeat (VNTR) polymorphism which has been associated with diurnal preference, sleep structure and sleep homeostasis in healthy subjects. In a homogeneous sample of 99 patients affected by bipolar disorder type I we observed that Per3 VNTR influenced age at onset of illness: earlier age at onset in homozygote carriers of Per35 variant, later in homozygotes for Per34, and intermediate in heterozygotes. Allele frequencies were not significantly different from those reported in healthy subjects. Results need to be confirmed in larger samples, but warrant interest for the variants of molecular clock genes as possible endophenotypes of bipolar disorder.
Neurite outgrowth is one of the crucial events in the formation of neural circuits. The majority of studies on neurite outgrowth have focused on signal transduction processes based on phosphorylation and acetylation; a few studies have suggested the involvement of other molecular mechanisms. Recent progress in understanding the nature of protein arginine N-methyltransferases (PRMTs) raises the possibility of the involvement of protein methylation accompanied by cell shape changes during neuronal differentiation. Here, we show that PRMT1 play a pivotal role in the neurite outgrowth of Neuro2a cells. Our results revealed that PRMT1 depletion specifically affected neurite outgrowth but not the physiological processes involved in cell growth and differentiation. Furthermore, we demonstrated that Btg2, one of the PRMT1 binding partner, depletion down-regulated arginine methylation in the nucleus and inhibited neurite outgrowth. These results indicate that protein arginine methylation by PRMT1 in the nucleus is an important step in neuritogenesis.

Two rat lines bred for kindling susceptibility were previously observed to engage in different behavioral strategies in tests of emotionality. In order to extend past research on defensive behaviors in these strains which largely used males, Fast- and Slow-kindling females were assessed for anxiety-like behaviors in a number of aversive paradigms. Fast rats entered and spent more time in the open arms and spent less time in the closed arms of the elevated plus-maze (EPM) compared to Slow animals. Fast rats had higher conditioned suppression ratios across testing days, defecated less often during conditioning, and successfully disinhibited suppression during extinction in the conditioned emotional response (CER) paradigm compared to Slow-kindlers. In order to pursue these differences in emotional reactivity between the strains and differentiate negative affect from motivational, learning, and impulsive explanations, a separate group of animals were assessed in the light-enhanced acoustic startle chamber, a test of anxiety. When initially exposed to a bright-light, Slow rats significantly increased their startle response while this was not observed in the Fast strain. In combination with previous research on these strains, the present data tentatively suggest that Fast and Slow animals utilize different neural systems in tests of fear and anxiety which may have been co-selected with the direct selection of amygdala-kindling susceptibility.
HIV can rapidly evolve when placed under selective pressure, including immune surveillance or the administration of antiretroviral drugs. Typically, a variant protein allows HIV to directly evade the selective pressure. Similarly, HIV has escaped suppression by RNA interference (RNAi) directed against viral RNAs by acquiring mutations at the target region that circumvent RNAi-mediated inhibition while conserving necessary viral functions. However, when we directed RNAi against the viral TAR hairpin, which plays an indispensable role in viral transcription, resistant strains were recovered, but none carried a mutation at the target site. Instead, we isolated several strains carrying promoter mutations that indirectly compensated for the RNAi by upregulating viral transcription. Combining RNAi with the application of an antiviral drug blocked replication of such mutants. Evolutionary tuning of viral transcriptional regulation may serve as a general evasion mechanism that may be targeted to improve the efficacy of antiviral therapy.
Abnormalities and changes in myelination in the brain are seen in many neurodegenerative disorders such as multiple sclerosis (MS). Direct detection and quantification of myelin content in vivo is desired to facilitate diagnosis and therapeutic treatments of myelin-related diseases. The imaging studies require use of myelin-imaging agents that readily enter the brain and selectively bind to myelinated regions. For this purpose, we have systematically evaluated a series of stilbene derivatives as myelin imaging agents. Spectrophotometry-based and radioligand-based binding assays showed that these stilbene derivatives exhibited relatively high myelin-binding affinities. In vitro myelin staining exhibited that the compounds selectively stained intact myelinated regions in wild type mouse brain. In situ tissue staining demonstrated that the compounds readily entered the mouse brain and selectively labeled myelinated white matter regions. These studies suggested that these stilbene derivatives can be used as myelin-imaging probes to monitor myelin pathology in vivo.
Novel compounds combining a 5-HT 1A moiety (3-aminochroman scaffold) and a 5-HT transporter (indole analogues) linked through a common basic nitrogen via an alkyl chain attached at the 1- or 3-position of the indole were evaluated for dual affinity at both the 5-HT reuptake site and the 5-HT 1A receptor. Compounds of most interest were found to have a 5-carbamoyl-8-fluoro-3-amino-3,4-dihydro-2 H-1-benzopyran linked to a 3-alkylindole (straight chain), more specifically substituted with a 5-fluoro (( R)-(-)- 35c), 5-cyano ((-)- 52a), or 5,7-difluoro ((-)- 52g). Several factors contributed to 5-HT 1A affinity, serotonin rat transporter affinity, and functional antagonism in vitro. Although most of our analogues showed good to excellent affinities at both targets, specific features such as cyclobutyl substitution on the basic nitrogen and stereochemistry at the 3-position of the chroman moiety seemed necessary for antagonism at the 5-HT 1A receptor. Branched linkers seemed to impart antagonism even as racemates; however, the potency of these analogues in the functional assay was not desirable enough to further pursue these compounds.
We use functional brain imaging (fMRI) to study neural circuits that underlie decision-making. To understand how outcomes affect decision processes, simple perceptual tasks are combined with appetitive and aversive reinforcement. However, the use of reinforcers such as juice and airpuffs can create challenges for fMRI. Reinforcer delivery can cause head movement, which creates artifacts in the fMRI signal. Reinforcement can also lead to changes in heart rate and respiration that are mediated by autonomic pathways. Changes in heart rate and respiration can directly affect the fMRI (BOLD) signal in the brain and can be confounded with signal changes that are due to neural activity. In this presentation, we demonstrate methods for administering reinforcers in a controlled manner, for stabilizing the head, and for measuring pulse and respiration.
Voltage-activated sodium (Na(v)) channels are crucial for the generation and propagation of nerve impulses, and as such are widely targeted by toxins and drugs. The four voltage sensors in Na(v) channels have distinct amino acid sequences, raising fundamental questions about their relative contributions to the function and pharmacology of the channel. Here we use four-fold symmetric voltage-activated potassium (K(v)) channels as reporters to examine the contributions of individual S3b-S4 paddle motifs within Na(v) channel voltage sensors to the kinetics of voltage sensor activation and to forming toxin receptors. Our results uncover binding sites for toxins from tarantula and scorpion venom on each of the four paddle motifs in Na(v) channels, and reveal how paddle-specific interactions can be used to reshape Na(v) channel activity. One paddle motif is unique in that it slows voltage sensor activation, and toxins selectively targeting this motif impede Na(v) channel inactivation. This reporter approach and the principles that emerge will be useful in developing new drugs for treating pain and Na(v) channelopathies.





Solute carriers (SLCs) is the largest group of transporters, embracing transporters for inorganic ions, amino acids, neurotransmitters, sugars, purines and fatty acids among other substrates. We mined the finished assembly of the human genome using Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) obtaining a total of 384 unique SLC sequences. Detailed clustering and phylogenetic analysis of the entire SLC family showed that 15 of the families place into four large phylogenetic clusters with the largest containing eight SLC families, suggesting that many of the distinct families of SLCs have a common evolutionary origin. This study represents the first overall genomic roadmap of the SLCs providing large sequence sets and clarifies the phylogenetic relationships among the families of the second largest group of membrane proteins.
It is generally believed that only the actin cytoskeleton resides in dendritic spines and controls spine morphology and plasticity. Here, we report that microtubules (MTs) are present in spines and that shRNA knockdown of the MT plus-end-binding protein EB3 significantly reduces spine formation. Furthermore, stabilization and inhibition of MTs by low doses of taxol and nocodazole enhance and impair spine formation elicited by BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor), respectively. Therefore, MTs play an important role in the control and regulation of dendritic spine development and plasticity.
To intercept a fast target at destination, hand movements must be centrally triggered ahead of target arrival to compensate for neuromechanical delays. The role of visual-motion cortical areas is unclear. They likely feed downstream parietofrontal networks with signals reflecting target motion, but do they also contribute internal timing signals to trigger the motor response? We disrupted the activity of human temporoparietal junction (TPJ) and middle temporal area (hMT/V5+) by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) while subjects pressed a button to intercept targets accelerated or decelerated in the vertical or horizontal direction. Target speed was randomized, making arrival time unpredictable across trials. We used either repetitive TMS (rTMS) before task execution or double-pulse TMS (dpTMS) during target motion. We found that after rTMS and dpTMS at 100-200 ms from motion onset, but not after dpTMS at 300-400 ms, the button-press responses occurred earlier than in the control, with time shifts independent of target speed. This suggests that activity in TPJ and hMT/V5+ can feed downstream regions not only with visual-motion information, but also with internal timing signals used for interception at destination. Moreover, we found that TMS of hMT/V5+ affected interception of all tested motion types, whereas TMS of TPJ significantly affected only interception of motion coherent with natural gravity. TPJ might specifically gate visual-motion information according to an internal model of the effects of gravity.
In anthropoid primates, cells in the magnocellular and parvocellular layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) are distinguished by unique retinal inputs, receptive field properties, and laminar terminations of their axons in visual cortex. To identify genes underlying these phenotypic differences, we screened RNA from magnocellular and parvocellular layers of adult macaque dLGN for layer-specific differences in gene expression. Real-time quantitative reverse transcription-PCR and in situ hybridization were used to confirm gene expression in adult and fetal macaque. Cellular localization of gene expression revealed 11 new layer-specific markers, of which 10 were enriched in magnocellular layers (BRD4, CAV1, EEF1A2, FAM108A1, INalpha, KCNA1, NEFH, NEFL, PPP2R2C, and SFRP2) and one was enriched in parvocellular and koniocellular layers (TCF7L2). These markers relate to functions involved in development, transcription, and cell signaling, with Wnt/beta-catenin and neurofilament pathways figuring prominently. A subset of markers was differentially expressed in the fetal dLGN during a developmental epoch critical for magnocellular and parvocellular pathway formation. These results provide new evidence for the molecular differentiation of magnocellular and parvocellular streams through the primate dLGN.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is an effective tool for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease. The mechanism by which STN DBS elicits its beneficial effect, however, remains unclear. We previously reported STN stimulation increased the rate and produced a more regular and periodic pattern of neuronal activity in the internal segment of the globus pallidus (GPi). Here we extend our observations to neurons in the pallidal [ventralis lateralis pars oralis (VLo) and ventralis anterior (VA)] and cerebellar [ventralis lateralis posterior pars oralis (VPLo)] receiving areas of the motor thalamus during STN DBS. Stimulation parameters that produced improvement in rigidity and bradykinesia resulted in changes in the pattern and power of oscillatory activity of neuronal activity that were similar in both regions of the motor thalamus. Neurons in both VA/VLo and VPLo tended to become more periodic and regular with a shift in oscillatory activity from low to high frequencies. Burst activity was reduced in VA/VLo, but was not significantly changed in VPLo. There was also a significant shift in the population of VA/VLo neurons that were inhibited during STN DBS, whereas VPLo neurons tended to be activated. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that STN DBS increases output from the nucleus and produces a change in the pattern and periodicity of neuronal activity in the basal ganglia thalamic network, and that these changes include cerebellar pathways likely via activation of adjacent cerebello-thalamic fiber bundles.
We investigated whether auditory deprivation and/or sign language exposure during development alters the macroscopic neuroanatomy of the human insula. Volumetric analyses were based on MRI data from 25 congenitally deaf subjects who were native users of American Sign Language (ASL), 25 hearing subjects with no knowledge of ASL, and 16 hearing subjects who grew up in deaf families and were native ASL signers. Significant variation in insula volume was associated with both hearing status and sign language experience. Compared with both hearing groups, deaf subjects exhibited a significant increase in the amount of gray matter in the left posterior insular lobule, which we hypothesize may be related to the dependence on lip-reading and articulatory-based (rather than auditory-based) representations of speech for deaf individuals. Both deaf and hearing signers exhibited an increased volume of white matter in the right insula compared with hearing nonsigners. We hypothesize that the distinct morphology of the right insula for ASL signers may arise from enhanced connectivity resulting from an increased reliance on cross-modal sensory integration in sign language compared with spoken language.
The consolidation of long-lasting sensory memories requires the activation of gene expression programs in the brain. Despite considerable knowledge about the early components of this response, little is known about late components (i.e., genes regulated 2-6 h after stimulation) and the relationship between early and late genes. Birdsong represents one of the best natural behaviors to study sensory-induced gene expression in awake, freely behaving animals. Here we show that the expression of several isoforms of synapsins, a group of phosphoproteins thought to regulate the dynamics of synaptic vesicle storage and release, is induced by auditory stimulation with birdsong in the caudomedial nidopallium (NCM) of the zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) brain. This induction occurs mainly in excitatory (non-GABAergic) neurons and is modulated (suppressed) by early song-inducible proteins. We also show that ZENK, an early song-inducible transcription factor, interacts with the syn3 promoter in vivo, consistent with a direct regulatory effect and an emerging novel view of ZENK action. These results demonstrate that synapsins are a late component of the genomic response to neuronal activation and that their expression depends on a complex set of regulatory interactions between early and late regulated genes.
Paralysis is a major consequence of spinal cord injury (SCI). After cervical SCI, respiratory deficits can result through interruption of descending presynaptic inputs to respiratory motor neurons in the spinal cord. Expression of channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) and photostimulation in neurons affects neuronal excitability and produces action potentials without any kind of presynaptic inputs. We hypothesized that after transducing spinal neurons in and around the phrenic motor pool to express ChR2, photostimulation would restore respiratory motor function in cervical SCI adult animals. Here we show that light activation of ChR2-expressing animals was sufficient to bring about recovery of respiratory diaphragmatic motor activity. Furthermore, robust rhythmic activity persisted long after photostimulation had ceased. This recovery was accomplished through a form of respiratory plasticity and spinal adaptation which is NMDA receptor dependent. These data suggest a novel, minimally invasive therapeutic avenue to exercise denervated circuitry and/or restore motor function after SCI.
Understanding the mechanisms that underlie the control of sleep and wakefulness is a major research area in neuroscience. This mini-symposium review highlights some recent developments at the gene, molecular, cellular, and systems levels that have advanced this field. The studies discussed below use organisms ranging from flies to humans and focus on the interaction between the sleep homeostatic and circadian systems, the consequences of mutations in genes involved in the circadian clock on sleep timing, the effects of sleep deprivation on brain gene expression, the discovery of &quot;sleep active&quot; neurons in the cerebral cortex, the role of the hypocretin/orexin system in the maintenance of sleep and wakefulness, and the interaction between sleep and learning.
At the 2008 Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience, a Mini-Symposium entitled &quot;Contributions to TRP Channels to Neurological Disease&quot; included talks from six heads of newly established laboratories, each with a unique research focus, model system, and set of experimental tools. Some of the questions addressed in these talks include the following. What is the role of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels in pain perception? How do normally functioning TRP channels contribute to cell death pathways? What are the characteristics of TRPpathies, disease states that result from overactive or underactive TRP channels? How are TRP channels regulated by signal transduction cascades? This review summarizes recent results from those laboratories and provides six perspectives on the subject of TRP channels and disease.

In this study, we test the hypothesis that there are differential splicing patterns between the expressed oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (VP) genes in the rat supraoptic nucleus (SON). We quantify the low abundance, intron-containing heteronuclear RNAs (hnRNAs) and the higher abundance mRNAs in the SON using two-step, quantitative SYBR Green real-time reverse transcription (RT)-PCR and external standard curves constructed using synthetic 90 nt sense-strand oligonucleotides. The levels of OT and VP mRNA in the SON were found to be similar, approximately 10(8) copies/SON pair, whereas the copy numbers of VP hnRNAs containing intron 1 or 2 and the OT hnRNA containing intron 1 are much lower, i.e., approximately 10(2)-10(3) copies/rat SON pair. However, the estimated copy number of the intron 2-containing OT hnRNA is much larger, approximately 10(6) copies/SON pair. The relative distributions of all the OT and VP RNA species were invariant and independent of the physiological status of the rats (e.g., osmotically stimulated or lactating rats). Using intron-specific riboprobes against hnRNAs, we demonstrate by fluorescence in situ hybridization strong signals of OT hnRNA containing intron 2 predominantly in the cytoplasm, in contrast to the localization of the VP hnRNA found only in the nuclei. Taken together, these data support the view that the splicing patterns between OT and VP gene transcripts are different and show that there is a selective cytoplasmic retention of OT intron 2.
In the mammalian brain, the primary visual cortex forms a systematic spatial map of the visual field. A new study suggests that the representations on this map are affected by visual illusions that alter perceived size. Spatial patterns of activity may thus reflect perceived size.
We tested the binding-by-synchrony hypothesis which proposes that object representations are formed by synchronizing spike activity between neurons that code features of the same object. We studied responses of 32 pairs of neurons recorded with microelectrodes 3 mm apart in the visual cortex of macaques performing a fixation task. Upon mapping the receptive fields of the neurons, a quadrilateral was generated so that two of its sides were centered in the receptive fields at the optimal orientations. This one-figure condition was compared with a two-figure condition in which the neurons were stimulated by two separate figures, keeping the local edges in the receptive fields identical. For each neuron, we also determined its border ownership selectivity (H. Zhou, H. S. Friedman, &amp; R. von der Heydt, 2000). We examined both synchronization and correlation at nonzero time lag. After correcting for effects of the firing rate, we found that synchrony did not depend on the binding condition. However, finding synchrony in a pair of neurons was correlated with finding border-ownership selectivity in both members of the pair. This suggests that the synchrony reflected the connectivity in the network that generates border ownership assignment. Thus, we have not found evidence to support the binding-by-synchrony hypothesis.

The avian brainstem serves as a useful model system to address the question of how afferent activity influences viability of target neurons. Approximately 20-30% of neurons in the chick cochlear nucleus, nucleus magnocellularis (NM) die following deafferentation (i.e. deafness produced by cochlea removal). Previous studies have identified cellular events that occur within hours following cochlea removal, which are thought to lead to the ultimate death of NM neurons. We have recently shown that chronic lithium treatment increases neuronal survival following deafferentation. To assess where in the cell death cascade lithium is having its effect, we evaluated some of the early deafferentation-induced cellular changes in NM neurons. Lithium did not affect deafferentation-induced changes that occur across the entire population of NM neurons. There were still deafferentation-induced increases in intracellular calcium concentrations and early changes in the ribosomes, as indicated by Y10b immunolabeling. Lithium did, however, affect changes that are believed to be indicative of the subpopulation of NM neurons that will eventually die. Ribosomes recovered in all of the deafferented NM neurons (as assessed by Y10b labeling) by 10 h following cochlea removal in subjects pretreated with lithium, while a subpopulation of the NM neurons in saline-treated subjects showed dramatic reduction in Y10b labeling at that time. Lithium treatment also prevented the robust upregulation of b cell leukemia/lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) mRNA that is observed in a subpopulation of deafferented NM neurons 6 h following cochlea removal.
Individuals with fragile X syndrome (FXS) are cognitively impaired and have marked speech delays and deficits. Our goal was to characterize expression of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), encoded by Fmr1 fragile X mental retardation 1 gene or transcript (FMR1), in an animal model that learns to vocalize, namely the zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata (Tgu). We cloned and sequenced the zebra finch ortholog of FMR1 (TguFmr1) and developed an antibody that recognizes TguFmrp specifically. TguFmrp has structural features similar to its human ortholog FMRP. Because FXS patients exhibit sensorimotor deficits, we examined TguFmrp expression prior to, during, and after sensorimotor song learning in zebra finches. We found that TguFmrp is expressed throughout the brain and in four major song nuclei of the male zebra finch brain, primarily in neurons. Additionally, prior to sensorimotor learning, we observed elevated TguFmrp expression in the robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA) of post-hatch day 30 males, compared with the surrounding telencephalon, suggesting a preparation for this stage of song learning. Finally, we observed variable TguFmrp expression in the RA of adolescent and adult males: in some males it was elevated and in others it was comparable to the surrounding telencephalon. In summary, we have characterized the zebra finch ortholog of FMRP and found elevated levels in the premotor nucleus RA at a key developmental stage for vocal learning.
In this paper we examined the neuronal activities of external cuneate nucleus, spinocerebellar Purkinje cells and interpositus nucleus during passive forelimb movements in anesthetized rats with the aim of identifying common or different patterns of activation across structures. By means of principal components analysis, we identified two main patterns of discharge which explained most of the dataset variance. One component characterized the movement-related activity of external cuneate and spinocerebellar cortical neurons, while the other reflected neuronal activity of the interpositus nucleus. We also found that both principal components were related to global forelimb kinematics but, while most of the variance of the activity of external cuneate cells and spinocerebellar Purkinje cells was explained by the limb axis orientation and orientation velocity, interpositus neurons' firing was best related to length and length velocity. This difference in the forelimb kinematics representation observed in external cuneate nucleus and spinocerebellar cortex compared with the interpositus nucleus is discussed with respect to the specific role that these structures may play also during active control of limb movements.
Opiate addiction is a chronic medical disorder characterized by drug tolerance and dependence, behavioral sensitization, vulnerability to compulsive relapse, and high mortality. In laboratory animals, the potential effect of opiate drugs to induce cell death by apoptosis is a controversial topic. This postmortem human brain study examined the status of the extrinsic and intrinsic apoptotic pathways in the prefrontal cortex of a large group of well-characterized heroin or methadone abusers. In these subjects (n=36), the immunocontent of apoptosis-1 protein (Fas) death receptor did not differ from that in age-, gender-, and postmortem delay-matched controls. In contrast, Fas-associated protein with death domain (FADD), the mediator of the death signal, was significantly decreased in the same brain samples (all addicts: 30%, n=36; short-term abuse (ST): 31%, n=15; long-term abuse (LT): 29%, n=21). The initiator caspase-8 was not altered, but FLIP(L) (Fas-associated protein with death domain-like interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme-inhibitory protein), a dominant inhibitor of caspase-8, was increased in LT addicts (19%). In the intrinsic pathway, the pro-apoptotic mitochondrial proteins Bax (Bcl-2-associated X protein) and AIF (apoptosis-inducing factor) remained unchanged, but cytochrome c was decreased (all addicts: 25%; ST: 31%; LT: 20%) and anti-apoptotic B-cell leukemia 2 (Bcl-2) increased in LT addicts (24%). The content of executioner caspase-3 and the pattern of cleavage of the nuclear enzyme poly-(ADP-ribose)-polymerase-1 (PARP-1) were similar in opiate addicts and control subjects. Taken together, the data revealed that the extrinsic and intrinsic canonical apoptotic pathways are not abnormally activated in the prefrontal cortex of opiate abusers. Instead, the chronic modulation of some of their components (downregulation of FADD and cytochrome c; upregulation of FLIP(L) and Bcl-2) suggests the induction of non-apoptotic actions by opiate drugs related to phenomena of synaptic plasticity in the brain. These neurochemical adaptations could play a major role in the development of opiate tolerance, sensitization and relapse in human addicts.
Opiates, such as morphine, decrease neurogenesis in the adult hippocampal subgranular zone (SGZ), raising the possibility that decreased neurogenesis contributes to opiate-induced cognitive deficits. However, there is an incomplete understanding of how alterations in cell cycle progression and progenitor maturation contribute to this decrease. The present study examined how morphine regulates progenitor cell cycle, cell death and immature SGZ neurons (experiment 1) as well as the progression of SGZ progenitors through key stages of maturation (experiment 2). In experiment 1, mice received sham or morphine pellets (s.c., 0 and 48 h) and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) 2 h prior to sacrifice (24, 72 or 96 h). Morphine decreased both the number of S phase and total cycling cells, as there were fewer cells immunoreactive (IR) for the S phase marker BrdU and the cell cycle marker Ki67. The percentage of Ki67-IR cells that were BrdU-IR was decreased after 24 but not 96 h of morphine, suggesting a disproportionate effect on S phase cells relative to all cycling cells at this time point. Cell death (activated caspase-3 counts) was increased after 24 but not 96 h. In experiment 2, nestin-green fluorescent protein (GFP) mice given BrdU 1 day prior to morphine or sham surgery (0 and 48 h, sacrifice 96 h) had fewer Ki67-IR cells, but no change in BrdU-IR cell number, suggesting that this population of BrdU-IR cells was less sensitive to morphine. Interestingly, examination of key stages of progenitor cell maturation revealed that morphine increased the percent of BrdU-IR cells that were type 2b and decreased the percent that were immature neurons. These data suggest that chronic morphine decreases SGZ neurogenesis by inhibiting dividing cells, particularly those in S phase, and progenitor cell progression to a more mature neuronal stage.
The cerebellum is organized into parasagittal zones with respect to the topography of climbing fiber (CF) afferents and the expression of molecular markers such as zebrin II. Zebrin is expressed by a subset of Purkinje cells that are distributed as a parasagittal array of immunopositive and immunonegative stripes. Several studies in rodents suggest that, in general, CFs to the zebrin negative stripes convey somatosensory information, whereas CFs to the zebrin positive stripes convey information from visual and other sensory systems. The pigeon flocculus consists of four pairs of zebrin+/- stripes (P4 +/- through P7 +/-), however the CF input consists entirely of visual inputs. Thus, because the correspondence of zebrin expression and CF information must be different from that proposed for rodents, we investigated this relationship in the pigeon flocculus. Floccular Purkinje cells respond to patterns of optic flow resulting from self-rotation about one of two axes: either the vertical axis (zones 0 and 2), or a horizontal axis (zones 1 and 3). Visual CF afferents projecting to the flocculus arise from the medial column of the inferior olive (mcIO). Zones 0 and 2 receive input from the caudal mcIO, whereas zones 1 and 3 receive input from the rostral mcIO. We injected a fluorescent anterograde tracer into the rostral and/or caudal mcIO and visualized zebrin expression. There was a strict concordance between CF organization and zebrin labeling: caudal mcIO injections resulted in CFs in zebrin bands P4 +/- and P6 +/-, whereas rostral mcIO injections resulted in CFs in zebrin bands P5 +/- and P7 +/-. Thus, zebrin stripes P4 +/- and P6 +/- correspond to the vertical axis zones 0 and 2, whereas P5 +/- and P7 +/- correspond to the horizontal axis zones 1 and 3. This is the first explicit demonstration that a series of zebrin stripes corresponds with functional zones in the cerebellum.
GPR103 is known as an orphan G protein-coupled receptor. 26RFa and QRFP are endogenous ligands of GPR103. GPR103 mRNA has been reported to be highly expressed in the superficial layers of the entire spinal cord and a high density of 26RFa binding sites was observed in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn. In the present study, the effects of spinally applied 26RFa were tested in the rat. Intrathecal injection of 26RFa significantly decreased the frequency of agitation behaviors induced by paw formalin injection, and attenuated the level of mechanical allodynia induced by paw carrageenan injection, in a dose dependent manner at doses between 0.01 and 10 microg. Intrathecal injection of 26RFa had no effect in both the 52.5 degrees C hotplate test and the mechanical nociceptive test at doses between 0.1 and 10 microg. An immunohistochemical study revealed that GPR103-like immunoreactivity (LI) was observed in the superficial layers of spinal dorsal horn, that QRFP-LI was observed in the dorsal root ganglion and that intrathecal 26RFa suppressed the expression of Fos-LI induced by paw formalin injection in the superficial layers of the spinal dorsal horn. These data suggested that spinally applied 26RFa may modulate spinal sensitization induced by paw formalin injection or paw carrageenan injection.
The pathophysiology of idiopathic dystonia is still unknown, but it is regarded as a basal ganglia disorder. Previous studies indicated an involvement of a striatal GABAergic disinhibition and a cortico-striatal glutamatergic overactivity in the manifestation of stress-inducible dystonic episodes in the dt(sz) hamster, a model of idiopathic paroxysmal dystonia. These investigations were carried out postmortem or in anesthetized animals. In the present study, in vivo microdialysis in conscious, freely-moving dt(sz) and non-dystonic control hamsters was used to examine the levels of GABA, aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine and taurine in each animal during following conditions: (1) at baseline in the absence of dystonia, (2) during an episode of paroxysmal dystonia precipitated by stressful stimuli, (3) during a recovery period and (4) at baseline after complete recovery. In comparison to non-dystonic controls, which were treated in the same manner as the dystonic animals, no differences could be detected under basal conditions. The induction of a dystonic episode in mutant hamsters led to higher contents of glycine in these animals in comparison to stressed but non-dystonic controls. Significant changes of glycine levels within the animal groups were not detected. The levels of the excitatory amino acids glutamate, glutamine and aspartate as well as the levels of the inhibitory amino acids GABA and taurine did not differ between the animal groups or between the periods of measurement. The higher levels of glycine might contribute to the manifestation of paroxysmal dystonia in dt(sz) hamsters, although unaltered glutamate, glutamine and aspartate levels do not support the hypothesis of a critical involvement of a cortico-striatal overactivity. It seems that a deficiency of GABAergic interneurons, found by previous immunohistochemical examinations, does not lead to reduced extracellular GABA levels in the striatum.
Hippocampal place cells encode location of animals in the environment. However, it remains unknown whether the hippocampal place cells encode a continuously moving object in the environment. To investigate this topic, we analyzed the place cell activity of freely moving rats when a toy car was introduced into an arena. First, in a freely moving task without the car, the rats freely navigated inside the arena to earn an intracranial stimulation (ICS) reward for each 150 cm traveled. Second, they were divided into two groups and tested using two different tasks. In the car-dependent navigation (CDN) task, the car was placed inside the arena, and the rat received ICS if it chased and came within 20 cm of the car. In the car-independent navigation (CIN) task, the rat acquired ICS rewards if it traveled 150 cm regardless of its relation to the car. Place fields remapped more frequently in the CDN than the CIN tasks. In both the CDN and CIN tasks, the place cell activity inside the place fields displayed moderate tuning to the movement parameters of the rats and car, and the distance between the car and rats. However, tuning of the place cells to movement variables of the car was more selective in the CDN than the CIN tasks, while information regarding movement variables of the car represented by the place cell activity was larger in the CDN than the CIN task. These results indicated that place cell activity within the place fields represents not only an animal's own location but also the movement variables of another moving object if that object is associated with rewards. The present results provide new evidence that place cell activity conveys relevant information in a task even if this information is derived from other moving objects.
Physical injury to a nerve is the most common cause of acquired peripheral neuropathy. Identification of molecules involved in degenerative and regenerative processes is a key step toward development of therapeutic tools in order to accelerate motor, sensory and/or autonomic function recovery. We have studied the role of nitric oxide (NO) using as a model the severe crushing of a motor nerve in adult rats. This type of injury up-regulates the three isoforms of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in the affected nerve. Chronic systemic inhibition of NOS accelerated the onset of functional muscle reinnervation evaluated by the recording of compound muscle action potential evoked by electrical stimulation of the injured nerve. Besides, it increased the number of back-labeled motoneurons by application, 2 days after injury, of a retrograde marker 10 mm distal to the crushing site. These effects were mimicked by chronic specific inhibition of the endothelial isoform of nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), but not by specific inhibitors of the neuronal or inducible isoform. Next, we intraneurally injected a replication-deficient adenoviral vector directing the expression of a dominant negative mutant of eNOS (Ad-TeNOS). A single injection of Ad-TeNOS on the day of crushing significantly accelerated functional recovery of neuromuscular junction and increased axonal regeneration. Moreover, Ad-TeNOS did not compromise motoneuron viability or stability of reestablished neuromuscular junctions. Taken together, these results suggest that NO of endothelial origin slows down muscle reinnervation by means of detrimental actions on axonal regeneration after peripheral nerve injury. These experiments identify eNOS as a potential therapeutic target for treatment of traumatic nerve injuries and highlight the potential of gene therapy in treating injuries of this type using viral vectors to suppress the activity of eNOS.
We evaluated the effects of intranasal administration of progesterone (PROG) on the activity of dopaminergic neurons in the brain of anesthetized rats by means of microdialysis. Male Wistar rats were implanted with guide cannulae in the basolateral amygdala and neostriatum. Three to 5 days later, they were anesthetized with urethane, and dialysis probes were inserted. After a stabilization period of 2 h, four 30-min samples were collected. Thereafter, the treatment (0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 mg/kg of PROG dissolved in a viscous castor oil mixture, or vehicle) was applied into the nose in a volume of 10 microl (5 microl in each nostril). In other animals, an s.c. injection of PROG (1.0, 2.0 or 4.0 mg/kg) or vehicle was given. Samples of both application ways were collected at 30-min interval for 4 h after the treatment and immediately analyzed with high performance liquid chromatography and electrochemical detection. Intranasal administration of 2 mg/kg of PROG led to an immediate (within 30 min after the treatment) significant increase in the basolateral amygdala dopamine levels. In the neostriatum, the 2 mg/kg dose led to a delayed significant increase in dopamine. S.c. administration of 4 mg/kg of PROG was followed by a delayed significant increase in dopamine, both, in the basolateral amygdala and neostriatum, but smaller in magnitude in comparison to the intranasal treatment. This is the first study to demonstrate dopamine-enhancing effects of PROG, not only in the neostriatum, but also in the basolateral amygdala. Our results indicate that the intranasal route of administration of PROG is a more efficacious way for targeting the brain than the s.c. route.
The acquisition, production and maintenance of song by oscine birds is a form of audition-dependent learning that, in many ways, resembles the process by which humans learn to speak. In songbirds, the generation of structured song is determined by the activity of two interconnected neuronal pathways (the anterior forebrain pathway and the vocal motor pathway), each of which contains a number of discrete nuclei that together form the song system. It is becoming increasingly evident that inhibitory GABAergic mechanisms are indispensable in counterbalancing the excitatory actions of glutamate and, thus, likely shape the neuronal firing patterns of neurons within this network. Furthermore, there is compelling evidence for the involvement of GABA(A) receptors, although the molecular composition of these has, to date, remained elusive. Here we describe the isolation of a complementary DNA for the zebra finch GABA(A) receptor gamma4 subunit, and map the expression pattern of the corresponding gene within the zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) brain. Our findings show, remarkably, that the gamma4-subunit transcript is highly enriched in the major nuclei of the song system, including the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium (LMAN), the medial magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium (MMAN), Area X, the robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA) and the HVC (used as the proper name), as well as Field L, which innervates the area surrounding HVC. In summary, we have demonstrated the presence of the mRNA for the gamma4 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor, the major inhibitory receptor in brain, in most of the nuclei of the two neural circuits that mediate song production in the zebra finch. This not only marks the beginning of the characterization of the GABA(A) receptor subtype(s) that mediates the actions of GABA in the song system but it also provides a robust molecular marker with which to distinguish song system-specific brain structures.
The sexually dimorphic vasopressin system of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is the most sensitive neurotransmitter system regulated by sex steroids in rats and mice. In addition to vasopressin, the BNST neurons also express a second neuropeptide, galanin, whose expression also appears to be regulated by testosterone in laboratory rodents. Seasonal fluctuations of sex steroids in photoperiodic rodents feed back on the brain to regulate the expression of sex steroid sensitive genes. The seasonal rhythm of circulating sex steroids is generated by photoperiod-controlled melatonin secretion, resulting in a seasonal stimulation and involution of the gonads. We have studied the seasonal expression of vasopressin and galanin in BNST neurons and their target areas in the Djungarian hamster (Phodopus sungorus). Furthermore, we analyzed the effect of testosterone on vasopressin and galanin by testosterone supplementation in animals where reproduction was inhibited by exposure to a short photoperiod. Exposure to short photoperiod induced a major reduction in the expression of vasopressin in BNST neurons, as well as in their target areas, the lateral septum (LS) and the lateral habenula (LHb). Galanin expression in the BNST and its target areas was also strongly reduced, although this reduction did not result in an almost complete disappearance of the neuropeptide as observed for vasopressin. Testosterone was able to reverse this reduction for both vasopressin and galanin. However, while the mRNA expression in BNST neurons recovered within 2-4 days, recovery of the neuropeptide immunoreactivity in the target areas, LS and LHb, required more than 3 weeks. The photoperiod-driven testosterone rhythm thus appears to be a major regulator of extra-hypothalamic vasopressin and galanin in the Djungarian hamster. The long delay between mRNA recovery in the cell body and the neuropeptide recovery in the target areas may be due to progressive filling up of the axon terminals. Alternatively, this delay might be indicative of a seasonal structural plasticity.
Stress-induced hypoalgesia (SIH) is an adaptive behavioral phenomenon mediated in part by the amygdala. Acute stress increases amygdalar noradrenaline levels and focal application of alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonists in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) is antinociceptive. We hypothesized that alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist administration into the CeA may block SIH. Bilateral microinjections of drug or saline via chronically implanted CeA cannulae were followed by either a period of restraint stress or rest. The nocifensive paw-withdrawal latency (PWL) to a focused beam of light was measured. PWLs were longer in restrained rats, constituting SIH. Microinjection of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan into the CeA prior to restraint blocked SIH. Idazoxan administration in unrestrained rats had no effect. Microinjection of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine in unrestrained rats caused dose dependent hypoalgesia, mimicking the effects of environmental stress. alpha(2)-Adrenoceptor function in the CeA is necessary for restraint-induced SIH.
Endogenous cannabinoids or endocannabinoids are lipid molecules that have a variety of biological actions, most notably via activation of the cannabinoid receptors. The family of endocannabinoids includes arachidonoylethanolamide (ANA) which modulates different behaviors, such as sleep. However, it is unknown whether pharmacological elevation of ANA endogenous levels might induce sleep. VDM 11 [(5 Z,8 Z,11 Z,14 Z)-N-(4-hydroxy-2-methylphenyl)-5,8,11,14-eicosatetraenamide] is commonly used as an inhibitor of ANA cellular uptake, and thereby to potentiate its actions. In this study we have examined whether VDM-11 exerts any effect on the sleep-wake cycle and c-Fos expression in brain areas. When assayed alone in rats, VDM-11 (10 or 20 microg/5 microL, i.c.v.) at the beginning of the lights-off period, reduced wakefulness and increased sleep. The CB(1) cannabinoid receptor antagonist, SR141716A, partially reversed the effects of VDM-11 on sleep. Additionally, VDM-11 enhanced c-Fos expression in sleep-related brain areas such as the anterior hypothalamic area, paraventricular thalamic nucleus, and pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. It is concluded that VDM-11 displays sleep-inducing properties and these effects slightly, albeit significantly, are reversed using SR141716A. Furthermore, c-Fos data suggest a possible underlying neuroanatomical substrate of the sleep-inducing properties of VDM-11. We report evidence suggesting that VDM-11 might be considered for the development of new pharmacological and pharmaceutical approaches to treat sleep disorders such as insomnia.
Mole-rat species within the family Bathyergidae exhibit a wide range of reproductive strategies and social systems. Various forms of reproductive suppression are displayed within this family: in the solitary species, breeding is suspended for part of the year and in the social species, reproduction is suppressed in subordinate animals. This study investigated the gonadotrophin-releasing hormone 1 (GnHR-1) systems of breeding and non-breeding solitary Cape mole-rats and social Natal mole-rats for possible inter- and/or intra-species differences. In both species, GnRH-1 cell bodies are predominantly in the medial septum region of the diagonal band or the preoptic area, with relatively few in the mediobasal hypothalamus; a dense concentration of GnRH-1-immunoreactive (ir) processes is present in the region of the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis. In Cape mole-rats, GnRH-1-ir processes are particularly dense within the lateral margins of the median eminence, which is enfolded by a large pars tuberalis of the pituitary gland. Natal mole-rats display GnRH-1-ir processes across the breadth of the median eminence, which is abutted by a relatively small pars tuberalis. There are more GnRH-1-ir cell bodies in Natal mole-rats than in Cape mole-rats ( approximately 720 vs. approximately 420). No significant differences were found in the number, distribution or size of GnRH-1-ir cell bodies according to season in Cape mole-rats or according to reproductive status or sex in Natal mole-rats. In female and male Natal mole-rats, GnRH-1-immunoreactivity in the median eminence is less dense in the reproductive animals; no such difference was found in Cape mole-rats between the breeding and non-breeding seasons. These immunohistochemical results are discussed in the light of earlier studies which identified no functional neuroendocrine impediments underlying regulated reproduction in either Cape or Natal mole-rats. The cumulative findings suggest that the principal factors determining seasonal or socially induced suppression of reproduction in these species are behavioral rather than neuroendocrine.
Feeding schedules that limit food availability to a set time of day are powerful synchronizers of the rhythms of expression of the circadian clock protein Period 2 (PER2) in the limbic forebrain in rats. Little is known, however, about the mechanisms that mediate the effect of such timed restricted feeding (TRF) schedules on the expression of PER2. Adrenal glucocorticoids have been implicated in the circadian regulation of clock genes expression in peripheral tissues as well as in the control of the rhythms of expression of PER2 in certain limbic forebrain regions, such as the oval nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNSTov) and central nucleus of the amygdala (CEA) in rats. To study the possible involvement of glucocorticoids in the regulation of PER2 expression by TRF, we assessed the effect of adrenalectomy on TRF-entrained PER2 rhythms in the limbic forebrain in rats. Adrenalectomy selectively abolished the rhythms of PER2 in the BNSTov and CEA in normally fed rats, as previously shown, but had no effect on TRF-entrained PER2 rhythms in the same structures. These findings show that the effect of TRF on PER2 rhythms in the limbic forebrain is independent of adrenal glucocorticoids and demonstrate that the involvement of glucocorticoids in the regulation PER2 rhythms in the limbic forebrain is not only region specific, as previously shown, but also state dependent.
Many epidemiological studies support the notion that people who drink alcohol also smoke cigarettes and vice versa thereby suggesting a possible functional interaction between these two most widely used psychoactive substances. We have earlier demonstrated that direct intracerebellar (ICB) microinfusion of nicotine dose-dependently antagonizes ethanol-induced ataxia and further that this antagonism occurs in a glutamate-nitric oxide-cyclic guanylyl monophosphate (cGMP) sensitive manner. The present study was designed to determine the possible involvement of specific nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtype alpha(4)beta(2) in nicotine-induced attenuation of ethanol ataxia. Using the Rotorod test and direct ICB microinfusion technique in stereotaxically cannulated CD-1 male mice, we performed the Rotorod test following ICB administration of the alpha(4)beta(2)-selective agonist, (E)-N-methyl-4-(3-pyridinyl)-3-buten-1-amine (RJR-2403; 31.25, 62.5, 125 ng) on ethanol (2 g/kg; i.p.) ataxia at 15, 30, 45, 60 min post-ethanol injection. RJR-2403 dose-dependently attenuated ethanol ataxia suggesting a role of alpha(4)beta(2) subtype in ameliorating ethanol-induced ataxia. Pretreatment with ICB dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE: 125, 250, 500, 750 ng), a potent alpha(4)beta(2)-selective antagonist, significantly reduced RJR-2403's effect further supporting the alpha(4)beta(2) involvement. DHbetaE (ICB) also antagonized ICB nicotine-induced attenuation of ethanol ataxia again reinforcing the role of alpha(4)beta(2) subtype. Additional evidence for the role of alpha(4)beta(2) subtype was provided when ICB alpha(4)beta(2) antisense oligodeoxynucleotide treatment markedly antagonized RJR 2403-induced attenuation of ethanol ataxia compared with missense-treated animals. This was confirmed with an associated decrease in the expression of alpha(4)beta(2) subtypes indicated by immunoblot experiments. In conclusion, the results of the present investigation support an important role of alpha(4)beta(2) nAChR subtype in the expression of nicotine-induced attenuation of ethanol ataxia.
The relative distribution of the excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2) between synaptic terminals and astroglia, and the importance of EAAT2 for the uptake into terminals is still unresolved. Here we have used antibodies to glutaraldehyde-fixed d-aspartate to identify electron microscopically the sites of d-aspartate accumulation in hippocampal slices. About 3/4 of all terminals in the stratum radiatum CA1 accumulated d-aspartate-immunoreactivity by an active dihydrokainate-sensitive mechanism which was absent in EAAT2 glutamate transporter knockout mice. These terminals were responsible for more than half of all d-aspartate uptake of external substrate in the slices. This is unexpected as EAAT2-immunoreactivity observed in intact brain tissue is mainly associated with astroglia. However, when examining synaptosomes and slice preparations where the extracellular space is larger than in perfusion fixed tissue, it was confirmed that most EAAT2 is in astroglia (about 80%). Neither d-aspartate uptake nor EAAT2 protein was detected in dendritic spines. About 6% of the EAAT2-immunoreactivity was detected in the plasma membrane of synaptic terminals (both within and outside of the synaptic cleft). Most of the remaining immunoreactivity (8%) was found in axons where it was distributed in a plasma membrane surface area several times larger than that of astroglia. This explains why the densities of neuronal EAAT2 are low despite high levels of mRNA in CA3 pyramidal cell bodies, but not why EAAT2 in terminals account for more than half of the uptake of exogenous substrate by hippocampal slice preparations. This and the relative amount of terminal versus glial uptake in the intact brain remain to be discovered.
Huntington's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder, caused by an elongation of CAG repeats in the huntingtin gene. Mice with an insertion of an expanded polyglutamine repeat in the mouse huntingtin gene (knock-in mice) most closely model the disease because the mutation is expressed in the proper genomic and protein context. However, few knock-in mouse lines have been extensively characterized and available data suggest marked differences in the extent and time course of their behavioral and pathological phenotype. We have previously described behavioral anomalies in the open field as early as 1 month of age, followed by the appearance at 2 months of progressive huntingtin neuropathology, in a mouse carrying a portion of human exon 1 with approximately 140 CAG repeats inserted into the mouse huntingtin gene. Here we extend these observations by showing that early behavioral anomalies exist in a wide range of motor (climbing, vertical pole, rotarod, and running wheel performance) and non-motor functions (fear conditioning and anxiety) starting at 1-4 months of age, and are followed by progressive gliosis and decrease in dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein with molecular weight 32 kDa (DARPP32) (12 months) and a loss of striatal neurons at 2 years. At this age, mice also present striking spontaneous behavioral deficits in their home cage. The data show that this line of knock-in mice reproduces canonical characteristics of Huntington's disease, preceded by deficits which may correspond to the protracted pre-manifest phase of the disease in humans. Accordingly, they provide a useful model to elucidate early mechanisms of pathophysiology and the progression to overt neurodegeneration.
A topic of high current interest and controversy is the basis of the homeostatic sleep response, the increase in non-rapid-eye-movement (NREM) sleep and NREM-delta activity following sleep deprivation (SD). Adenosine, which accumulates in the cholinergic basal forebrain (BF) during SD, has been proposed as one of the important homeostatic sleep factors. It is suggested that sleep-inducing effects of adenosine are mediated by inhibiting the wake-active neurons of the BF, including cholinergic neurons. Here we examined the association between SD-induced adenosine release, the homeostatic sleep response and the survival of cholinergic neurons in the BF after injections of the immunotoxin 192 immunoglobulin G (IgG)-saporin (saporin) in rats. We correlated SD-induced adenosine level in the BF and the homeostatic sleep response with the cholinergic cell loss 2 weeks after local saporin injections into the BF, as well as 2 and 3 weeks after i.c.v. saporin injections. Two weeks after local saporin injection there was an 88% cholinergic cell loss, coupled with nearly complete abolition of the SD-induced adenosine increase in the BF, the homeostatic sleep response, and the sleep-inducing effects of BF adenosine infusion. Two weeks after i.c.v. saporin injection there was a 59% cholinergic cell loss, correlated with significant increase in SD-induced adenosine level in the BF and an intact sleep response. Three weeks after i.c.v. saporin injection there was an 87% cholinergic cell loss, nearly complete abolition of the SD-induced adenosine increase in the BF and the homeostatic response, implying that the time course of i.c.v. saporin lesions is a key variable in interpreting experimental results. Taken together, these results strongly suggest that cholinergic neurons in the BF are important for the SD-induced increase in adenosine as well as for its sleep-inducing effects and play a major, although not exclusive, role in sleep homeostasis.
One week oral flurazepam (FZP) administration in rats results in reduced GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission in CA1 pyramidal neurons associated with benzodiazepine tolerance in vivo and in vitro. Since voltage-gated calcium channel (VGCC) current density is enhanced twofold during chronic FZP treatment, the role of L-type VGCCs in regulating benzodiazepine-induced changes in CA1 neuron GABA(A) receptor-mediated function was evaluated. Nimodipine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) or vehicle (0.5% Tween 80, 2 ml/kg) was injected 1 day after ending FZP treatment and 24 h prior to hippocampal slice preparation for measurement of mIPSC characteristics and in vitro tolerance to zolpidem. The reduction in GABA(A) receptor-mediated mIPSC amplitude and estimated unitary channel conductance measured 2 days after drug removal was no longer observed following prior nimodipine injection. However, the single nimodipine injection failed to prevent in vitro tolerance to zolpidem's ability to prolong mIPSC decay in FZP-treated neurons, suggesting multiple mechanisms may be involved in regulating GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission following chronic FZP administration. As reported previously in recombinant receptors, nimodipine inhibited synaptic GABA(A) receptor currents only at high concentrations (&gt;30 muM), significantly greater than attained in vivo (1 muM) 45 min after a single antagonist injection. Thus, the effects of nimodipine were unlikely to be related to direct effects on GABA(A) receptors. As with nimodipine injection, buffering intracellular free [Ca(2+)] with BAPTA similarly prevented the effects on GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission, suggesting intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis is important to maintain GABA(A) receptor function. The findings further support a role for activation of L-type VGCCs, and perhaps other Ca(2+)-mediated signaling pathways, in the modulation of GABA(A) receptor synaptic function following chronic benzodiazepine administration, independent of modulation of the allosteric interactions between benzodiazepine and GABA binding sites.
In humans and nonhuman primates, the structure and function of frontal cortical regions of the brain are not completely developed until early adulthood. How this cortical development affects cognitive function continues to be elucidated. To that end, this experiment tested the ability of juvenile and adult rhesus monkeys to perform a cognitive task that is dependent upon intact frontal cortical function for optimal performance. Twenty-four juvenile (mean age 2.3 years) and 16 adult (mean age 10.3 years) rhesus monkeys were tested on the Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery intradimensional/extradimensional set-shifting (ID/ED) task. Performance on the ID/ED task has been shown to be dependent upon frontal cortical function in both humans and nonhuman primates. Compared with adults, juveniles were impaired on the reversal of simple discrimination, intradimensional shift, reversal of intradimensional shift, and the extradimensional shift stages of the task. These results indicate juveniles committed more perseverative errors and more errors on the set-formation and set-shifting components of the ID/ED task. The developmental stage of the juvenile monkeys corresponds to roughly 5 to 6-year-old children, and these results are consistent with performance of human children and adults on similar ID/ED tests and on several other tests of attentional set-shifting or attentional flexibility. Furthermore, these results are consistent with the ongoing development of frontal cortical structures relating to ongoing cognitive development in nonhuman primates.
Our main purpose was to evaluate the influence of cancer pain on the rewarding properties of morphine. Opioids are very addictive when used by healthy persons, conversely the occurrence of an opioid addiction seems very low when patients suffering from cancer are treated with morphine. We investigated the reinforcing properties of morphine in the place preference paradigm on a new model of mice suffering from a cancer pain induced by syngenic melanoma cells injected in the hind paw. These data were compared with mice suffering either from a short-term- or a chronic-inflammatory pain induced respectively by injection of carrageenan or complete Freund's adjuvant. Remarkably, mice suffering from cancer pain or chronic inflammatory pain did not develop any preference for the environment associated with the injection of morphine. In mice injected with melanoma cells, the specific binding of [(125)I]EYWSLAAPQRF-NH(2), an agonist of neuropeptide FF(2) receptors, was increased in several brain areas involved in the rewarding properties of opiates, including the shell of the nucleus accumbens, the major islands of Calleja, the ventral endopiriform nucleus and the amygdaloid area. Our study is the first to reveal a modification of morphine rewarding properties under cancer pain in rodents. We postulate that anti-opioid neuropeptides might contribute to the suppression of morphine rewarding effects in this murine model of cancer pain.
Recently evidence has accumulated that schizophrenia can arise from primary synaptic defects involving structural proteins particularly, microtubule associated proteins. Previous experiments have demonstrated that a STOP (stable tubule only peptide) gene deletion in mice leads to a phenotype mimicking some aspects of positive symptoms classically observed in schizophrenic patients. In the current study, we determined if STOP null mice demonstrate behavioral abnormalities related to the social and cognitive impairments of schizophrenia. Compared with wild-type mice, STOP null mice exhibited deficits in the non-aggressive component of social recognition, short term working memory and social and spatial learning. As described in humans, learning deficits in STOP null mice were poorly sensitive to long term treatment with typical neuroleptics. Since social and cognitive dysfunction have consistently been considered as central features of schizophrenia, we propose that STOP null mice may provide a useful model to understand the neurobiological correlates of social and cognitive defects in schizophrenia and to develop treatments that better target these symptoms.
The resting brain shows high neural activity in various regions, the default-mode network, chief among them the cortical midline structures (CMS). The psychological correlate of high resting state neural activity in CMS remains however unclear though speculatively it has been associated with processing of internally-oriented self-relatedness. We used functional MRI to examine internally-oriented self-relatedness during the resting state period. This was indirectly done by letting subjects perceive emotional pictures followed by a fixation cross; the very same pictures were then rated subjectively according to their degree of self-relatedness in a postscanning session. This allowed us to correlate the picture ratings of self-relatedness with signal changes in the subsequent resting state period, i.e. fixation period. The emotional pictures' degree of self-relatedness parametrically modulated subsequent resting state signal changes in various CMS, including ventro- and dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and posterior cingulate cortex. This modulation could be distinguished from effects of emotion dimensions (e.g. valence, intensity) and evoked effects of self-relatedness during the stimulus period itself the latter being observed rather in subcortical regions, e.g. amygdala, ventral striatum, and tectum. In sum, our findings suggest that resting state neural activity in CMS is parametrically and specifically modulated by the preceding stimulus's degree of self-relatedness. This lends further support to the presumed involvement of these regions in processing internally-oriented self-relatedness as distinguished from externally-oriented self-relatedness.
Nicotine, the addictive component of cigarette smoke has profound effects on the brain. Activation of its receptors by nicotine has complex consequences for network activity throughout the brain, potentially contributing to the addictive property of the drug. Nicotinic receptors have been implicated in psychiatric illnesses like schizophrenia and are also neuroprotective, potentially beneficial for neurodegenerative diseases. These effects of nicotine serve to emphasize the multifarious roles the drug, acting through multiple nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtypes. The findings also remind us of the complexity of signaling mechanisms and stress the risks of unintended consequences of drugs designed to combat nicotine addiction.
Hippocampal inhibitory interneurons are a diverse population of cells widely scattered in the hippocampus, where they regulate hippocampal circuit activity. The hippocampus receives cholinergic projections from the basal forebrain, and functional studies have suggested the presence of different subtypes of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic interneurons. Single-cell polymerase chain reaction analysis had confirmed that several nAChR subunit mRNAs are co-expressed with glutamate decarboxylase 67 (GAD67), the marker for GABAergic interneurons. In this anatomical study, we systematically investigated the co-expression of GAD67 with different nAChR subunits by using double in situ hybridization with a digoxigenin-labeled GAD67 probe and (35)S-labeled probes for nAChR subunits (alpha2, alpha3, alpha4, alpha5, alpha6, alpha7, beta2, beta3, and beta4). The results revealed that most GAD67-positive interneurons expressed beta2, and 67 % also expressed alpha7 mRNA. In contrast, mRNA expression of other subunits was limited; only 13 % of GAD67-positive neurons co-expressed alpha4, and less than 10% expressed transcripts for alpha2, alpha3, alpha5, or beta4. Most GAD67/alpha2 co-expression was located in CA1/CA3 stratum oriens, and GAD67/alpha5 co-expression was predominantly detected in CA1/CA3 stratum radiatum/lacunosum moleculare and the dentate gyrus. Expression of alpha6 and beta3 mRNAs was rarely detected in the hippocampus, and mRNAs were not co-expressed with GAD67. These findings suggest that the majority of nicotinic responses in GABAergic interneurons should be mediated by a homomeric alpha7 or heteromeric alpha7*-containing nAChRs. Other possible combinations such as alpha2beta2*, alpha4beta2*, or alpha5beta2* heteromeric nAChRs could contribute to functional nicotinic response in subsets of GABAergic interneurons but overall would have a minor role.

The aim of the study was to evaluate the activity of the antiangiogenic agent SU-11248 (sunitinib malate, Sutent), alone or in combination with docetaxel. To this end, animals bearing DU-145 human hormone-refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) xenografts were treated with sunitinib (40 mg/kg daily, p.o.), docetaxel (10 or 30 mg/kg/week, i.v.), a combination of sunitinib (40 mg/kg daily) and docetaxel (10 mg/kg/week) or vehicle alone. At the end of the 3-week dosing schedule, single-agent treatment induced a tumor regression of 59%, 49% and 75% for sunitinib, docetaxel 10mg/kg, and docetaxel 30 mg/kg, respectively. The combination of sunitinib with low-dose (10mg/kg) docetaxel produced a tumor regression comparable to that obtained with high-dose (30 mg/kg) docetaxel, but tolerability was higher as indicated by mice weight. Both sunitinib and docetaxel inhibited tumor regrowth after initial treatment with the alternate drug. These results suggest that sunitinib alone or in combination with low-dose docetaxel may have a role in the treatment of HRPC.
The Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) belongs to a family of isoenzymes that are able to dismutate the oxygen superoxide in hydrogen peroxide and molecular oxygen. This enzyme is secreted by many cellular lines and it is also released trough a calcium-dependent depolarization mechanism involving SNARE protein SNAP 25. Using rat pituitary GH3 cells that express muscarinic receptors we found that SOD1 inhibits P-ERK1/2 pathway trough an interaction with muscarinic M1 receptor. This effect is strengthened by oxotremorine, a muscarinic M agonist and partially reverted by pyrenzepine, an antagonist of M1 receptor; moreover this effect is independent from increased intracellular calcium concentration induced by SOD1. Finally, P-ERK1/2 inhibition was accompanied by the reduction of GH3 cell proliferation. These data indicate that SOD1 beside the well studied antioxidant properties can be considered as a neuromodulator able to affect mitogen-activated protein kinase in rat pituitary cells trough a M1 muscarinic receptor.
Amino acid esters 5-11 as tyrosine mimics have been synthesized in excellent enantioselectivity (up to 99.6% ee) and in good overall chemical yields. The key step in the sequence was the Burk's [Rh(COD)(2R,5R)-Et-DuPhos]BF4-catalyzed asymmetric hydrogenation of enamides with a variety of reactive functional groups.
Although the role of surface-level processes has been demonstrated, visual interpolation models often emphasize contour relationships. We report two experiments on geometric constraints governing 3D interpolation between surface patches without visible edges. Observers were asked to classify pairs of planar patches specified by random dot disparities and visible through circular apertures (aligned or misaligned) in a frontoparallel occluder. On each trial, surfaces appeared in parallel or converging planes with vertical (in Experiment 1) or horizontal (in Experiment 2) tilt and variable amounts of slant. We expected the classification task to be facilitated when patches were perceived as connected. We found enhanced sensitivity and speed for 3D relatable vs. nonrelatable patches. Here 3D relatability does not involve oriented edges but rather inducing patches' orientations computed from stereoscopic information. Performance was markedly affected by slant anisotropy: both sensitivity and speed were worse for patches with horizontal tilt. We found nearly identical advantages of 3D relatability on performance, suggesting an isotropic unit formation process. Results are interpreted as evidence that inducing slant constrains surface interpolation in the absence of explicit edge information: 3D contour and surface interpolation processes share common geometric constraints as formalized by 3D relatability.
The neural mechanisms responsible for unifying noncontiguous regions of a visual image into a percept of a single surface remain largely unknown. To investigate these mechanisms, we used a novel stimulus in which local luminance was the only cue for surface segmentation. Subjects viewed an array of small adjoining elements that were randomly assigned as either surface or noise every 100 ms. On each trial, the luminance of surface elements was fixed to a single value and the luminance of noise elements was randomly assigned. As the ratio of surface to noise elements changed, subjects perceived either a surface embedded in noise or noise alone. In three functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments, early visual area V1 responded most strongly during trials with a low surface-to-noise ratio while later areas responded most strongly during trials with a high ratio. Furthermore, even at identical surface-to-noise ratios, responses in area V4 were higher during trials in which the subject perceived a surface than during trials in which the subject did not. Early visual areas did not show this pattern. These results suggest that visual area V4 contains neurons critical for the representation of surfaces.
The influence of oscillatory activity in the motor system on the generation of voluntary movement has been previously studied by revealing temporal coupling between voluntary movements and associated physiological or pathological tremor. The present study aims to investigate whether there is any temporal correlation between the onset of a rapid reactive movement and the action tremor at the wrist in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). In 13 MS patients, their reactive wrist movements and tremor were simultaneously recorded during a visually cued simple reaction time task. Significant correlation was found between the tremor-related and non-tremor-related measurements of the wrist movement. The onset of reactive movement was unevenly distributed over the tremor cycle peaking at 177 degrees in the direction opposite to the reactive movement, suggesting a temporal coupling between the reactive movements and tremor. No significant difference in reaction time was found between voluntary flexion and extension movements, and no significant differences in the mean values or the standard deviations of the reaction time between the movements in-phase and out-of-phase with tremor were detected, suggesting that entrainment of the spinal motor neurons is not influenced by tremor activity. In conclusion, in MS action tremor, the timing of the initiation of a rapid voluntary movement may be influenced by the pathological oscillator at a supra-spinal level.
Synphilin-1 represents a cytoplasmic protein that interacts with alpha-synuclein and localizes close to synaptic vesicles. The interaction of synphilin-1 with several proteins involved in Parkinson's disease suggests that it might be involved in the pathogenesis of the disease. Nonetheless, the function of synphilin-1 remains unclear. In the present study, we generated transgenic mice expressing human synphilin-1 under the prion protein promoter. Synphilin-1 was widely expressed in neurons in the brain including the substantia nigra, where massive loss of dopamine neurons was not observed. In the transgenic mouse brain, synphilin-1 protein was polyubiquitinated, and partially insoluble. Although modified-SHIRPA revealed no significant difference in behavior and morphology, the reduced rotarod performance and step length were observed in transgenic mice as compared with non-transgenic littermates. Synphilin-1 might be involved in motor function, and its accumulation in the central nervous system can cause motor impairments.
Can we decipher speech content (&quot;what&quot; is being said) and speaker identity (&quot;who&quot; is saying it) from observations of brain activity of a listener? Here, we combine functional magnetic resonance imaging with a data-mining algorithm and retrieve what and whom a person is listening to from the neural fingerprints that speech and voice signals elicit in the listener's auditory cortex. These cortical fingerprints are spatially distributed and insensitive to acoustic variations of the input so as to permit the brain-based recognition of learned speech from unknown speakers and of learned voices from previously unheard utterances. Our findings unravel the detailed cortical layout and computational properties of the neural populations at the basis of human speech recognition and speaker identification.
There is growing evidence that the neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin modulate complex social behavior and social cognition. These ancient neuropeptides display a marked conservation in gene structure and expression, yet diversity in the genetic regulation of their receptors seems to underlie natural variation in social behavior, both between and within species. Human studies are beginning to explore the roles of these neuropeptides in social cognition and behavior and suggest that variation in the genes encoding their receptors may contribute to variation in human social behavior by altering brain function. Understanding the neurobiology and neurogenetics of social cognition and behavior has important implications, both clinically and for society.




Glioblastoma is the most malignant brain tumor in humans and an average survival of glioblastoma patients hardly exceeds 12 months. Taxol is a plant-derived anti-cancer agent, which has been used in the treatments of many solid tumors. Deletion or mutation of phosphatase and tension homolog located on chromosome ten (PTEN) occurs in more than 80% of glioblastomas. We examined the sensitivity of human glioblastoma LN18 (PTEN-positive) and A172 (PTEN-negative) cells to Taxol for induction of apoptosis. Wright staining showed morphological features of apoptosis after treatment with different doses of Taxol for 24 h. Significant amount of apoptosis occurred in LN18 cells after treatment with 25 nM Taxol, while in A172 cells only after treatment with 50 nM Taxol. Western blotting with an antibody that could specifically detect activation or phosphorylation of Akt (p-Akt) did not show any p-Akt in LN18 cells but an increase in p-Akt in A172 cells. Activation of Akt in A172 cells could be reversed by pre-treatment of the cells with the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor LY294002, indicating involvement of PI3K activity in this process. Apoptosis occurred with an increase in Bax:Bcl-2 and mitochondrial release of cytochrome c into the cytosol leading to activation of mitochondria-dependent caspase cascade. Taxol did not cause upregulation of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a key mediator of angiogenesis, in LN18 cells but substantial upregulation of VEGF in A172 cells. After treatment with Taxol, increases in p-Akt and VEGF could maintain survival and angiogenesis, respectively, in PTEN-negative glioblastoma. As a single chemotherapy, Taxol might be more efficacious in PTEN-positive glioblastoma than in PTEN-negative glioblastoma. Thus, our study showed differential sensitivity of PTEN-positive and PTEN-negative glioblastoma cells to Taxol.
We previously reported a G&gt;C point mutation located at position -48 within the calreticulin gene core promoter in one individual suffering from paranoid schizophrenia that has also been diagnosed with affective disorder. However, a putative bona fide functional link between this mutation in the calreticulin gene and schizoaffective disorder has remained speculative. We have carried out calreticulin genotyping and psychiatric examination of all available members of the family of the proband and found that three more members carry the -48G&gt;C mutation. Remarkably, two of them develop the disease with an onset and progression that are virtually identical. The third person, too young to have developed fully the disease, nevertheless displays the same symptoms as her affected relatives had at the same early age. Furthermore, transcriptional analysis of the calreticulin promoter in rat cortical neurons shows aberrant increase in transcription in the presence of the -48G&gt;C mutation, both at basal levels and in the presence of valproate and lithium. Our results point to a previously unknown causal role for dysregulation of calreticulin homeostasis in schizoaffective disorder by both genetic and functional analyses, and shed new light on the possible mechanisms of action of valproate and lithium in the treatment of the disease.
Recreating developmental structures in vitro has been a primary challenge for stem cell biologists. Recent studies in Cell Stem Cell (Eiraku et al., 2008) and Nature (Gaspard et al., 2008) demonstrate that embryonic stem cells can recapitulate early cortical development, enabling them to generate specific cortical subtypes.
In a new mouse model for generalized pain syndrome, including fibromyalgia, which used intermittent cold stress (ICS), bilateral allodynia in the hindpaw was observed that lasted more than 12 days; thermal hyperalgesia lasted 15 days. During constant cold stress (CCS), mice showed only a transient allodynia. A female prevalence in ICS-induced allodynia was observed in gonadectomized but not in gonad intact mice. Systemic gabapentin showed complete anti-allodynic effects in the ICS model at the one-tenth dose for injury-induced neuropathic pain model, and central gabapentin showed long-lasting analgesia for 4 days in ICS, but not the injury model. These results suggest that the ICS model is useful for the study of generalized pain syndrome.
The ability to process temporal information is fundamental to sensory perception, cognitive processing and motor behaviour of all living organisms, from amoebae to humans. Neural circuit mechanisms based on neuronal and synaptic properties have been shown to process temporal information over the range of tens of microseconds to hundreds of milliseconds. How neural circuits process temporal information in the range of seconds to minutes is much less understood. Studies of working memory in monkeys and rats have shown that neurons in the prefrontal cortex, the parietal cortex and the thalamus exhibit ramping activities that linearly correlate with the lapse of time until the end of a specific time interval of several seconds that the animal is trained to memorize. Many organisms can also memorize the time interval of rhythmic sensory stimuli in the timescale of seconds and can coordinate motor behaviour accordingly, for example, by keeping the rhythm after exposure to the beat of music. Here we report a form of rhythmic activity among specific neuronal ensembles in the zebrafish optic tectum, which retains the memory of the time interval (in the order of seconds) of repetitive sensory stimuli for a duration of up to approximately 20 s. After repetitive visual conditioning stimulation (CS) of zebrafish larvae, we observed rhythmic post-CS activities among specific tectal neuronal ensembles, with a regular interval that closely matched the CS. Visuomotor behaviour of the zebrafish larvae also showed regular post-CS repetitions at the entrained time interval that correlated with rhythmic neuronal ensemble activities in the tectum. Thus, rhythmic activities among specific neuronal ensembles may act as an adjustable 'metronome' for time intervals in the order of seconds, and serve as a mechanism for the short-term perceptual memory of rhythmic sensory experience.
Neural interface (NI) systems hold the potential to return lost functions to persons with paralysis. Impressive progress has been made, including evaluation of neural control signals, sensor testing in humans, signal decoding advances, and proof-of-concept validation. Most importantly, the field has demonstrated that persons with paralysis can use prototype systems for spelling, &quot;point and click,&quot; and robot control. Human and animal NI research is advancing knowledge about neural information processing and plasticity in healthy, diseased, and injured nervous systems. This emerging field promises a range of neurotechnologies able to return communication, independence, and control to people with movement limitations.
In this review we consider research on social cognition in which implicit processes can be compared and contrasted with explicit, conscious processes. In each case, their function is distinct, sometimes complementary and sometimes oppositional. We argue that implicit processes in social interaction are automatic and are often opposed to conscious strategies. While we are aware of explicit processes in social interaction, we cannot always use them to override implicit processes. Many studies show that implicit processes facilitate the sharing of knowledge, feelings, and actions, and hence, perhaps surprisingly, serve altruism rather than selfishness. On the other hand, higher-level conscious processes are as likely to be selfish as prosocial.
Neuroimaging, particularly that based upon functional magnetic resonance (fMRI), has become a dominant tool in cognitive neuroscience. This review provides a personal and selective perspective on its past, present, and future. Two trends currently characterize the field that broadly reflect a pursuit of &quot;where&quot;- and &quot;how&quot;-type questions. The latter addresses basic mechanisms related to the expression of task-induced neural activity and is likely to be an increasingly important theme in the future. This trend entails an enhanced symbiosis among investigators pursuing similar questions in fields such as computational and theoretical neuroscience as well as through the detailed analysis of microcircuitry.
Theoretical neuroscience has experienced explosive growth over the past 20 years. In addition to bringing new researchers into the field with backgrounds in physics, mathematics, computer science, and engineering, theoretical approaches have helped to introduce new ideas and shape directions of neuroscience research. This review presents some of the developments that have occurred and the lessons they have taught us.
Much of the work in systems neuroscience thus far has focused on the brain's parts studied individually. The past 20 years has seen the advent, rise, and application of multiple-electrode technology. This allows the study of the activity of many neurons simultaneously, which in turn has provided insight into how different neuron populations interact and collaborate to produce thought and action.
Classical physiological work by Katz, Eccles, and others revealed the central importance of synapses in brain function, and characterized the mechanisms involved in synaptic transmission. Building on this work, major advances in the past two decades have elucidated how synapses work molecularly. In the present perspective, we provide a short description of our personal view of these advances, suggest a series of important future questions about synapses, and discuss ideas about how best to achieve further progress in the field.
A central goal of cellular and molecular neuroscience is to explain the development and function of the nervous system in terms of the function of genes and proteins. Models of gene regulation have evolved from being focused on transcriptional and translational control to include a variety of regulatory mechanisms such as epigenetic control, mRNA splicing, microRNAs, and local translation. Here we discuss how developments in molecular biology influenced the study of neuronal gene expression, and how this has shaped our understanding of neuronal development and function.
The long-run goal of neuroeconomics is to create a theory of economic choice and exchange that is neurally detailed, mathematically accurate, and behaviorally relevant. This theory will result from collaborations between neuroscientists and economists and will benefit from input from other fields, including computer science and psychology.
Some of the implications for law of recent discoveries in neuroscience are considered in a new program established by the MacArthur Foundation. A group of neuroscientists, lawyers, philosophers, and jurists are examining issues in criminal law and, in particular, problems in responsibility and prediction and problems in legal decision making.
In the last two decades, neuroscience has profoundly transformed how we understand learning, decision making, self, and social attachment. Consequently, traditional philosophical questions about mind and morality have been steered in new directions.
The Institute of Medicine's Forum on Neuroscience and Nervous System Disorders established a &quot;Grand Challenges Initiative.&quot; The goal is to help frame a broad, integrated research program that would attract substantial funding and generate additional resources to support large-scale efforts to tackle some of the most daunting but important neuroscience questions.


Recent progress in neuroscience revealed diverse regions of the CNS which moderate autonomic and affective responses. The ventro-medial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) plays a key role in these regulations. There is evidence that vmPFC activity is associated with cardiovascular changes during a motor task that are mediated by parasympathetic activity. Moreover, vmPFC activity makes important contributions to regulations of affective and stressful situations.This review selectively summarizes literature in which vmPFC activation was studied in healthy subjects as well as in patients with affective disorders. The reviewed literature suggests that vmPFC activity plays a pivotal role in biopsychosocial processes of disease. Activity in the vmPFC might link affective disorders, stressful environmental conditions, and immune function.
In this communication we present a fluorescent based method to measure the encapsulation efficiency in single small unilamellar vesicles. The single small unilamellar vesicles are loaded with a dye in the membrane and a dye in the lumen. They are immobilized on a surface and then imaged with a fluorescent microscope. The dye in the membrane is used to determine the vesicle size, and the lumen dye is used to determine the absolute amount of encapsulant. The correlation of the two signals allows us to calculate the encapsulation efficiency in a single vesicle as a function of size. We discovered that the encapsulation efficiency is inversely proportional to the vesicle radius and that a significant number of vesicles are empty. Both observations would be averaged out in bulk experiments. They pertain for vesicles prepared through the rehydration technique but may be relevant for other formulations as well.
Reward probability crucially determines the value of outcomes. A basic phenomenon, defying explanation by traditional decision theories, is that people often overweigh small and underweigh large probabilities in choices under uncertainty. However, the neuronal basis of such reward probability distortions and their position in the decision process are largely unknown. We assessed individual probability distortions with behavioral pleasantness ratings and brain imaging in the absence of choice. Dorsolateral frontal cortex regions showed experience dependent overweighting of small, and underweighting of large, probabilities whereas ventral frontal regions showed the opposite pattern. These results demonstrate distorted neuronal coding of reward probabilities in the absence of choice, stress the importance of experience with probabilistic outcomes and contrast with linear probability coding in the striatum. Input of the distorted probability estimations to decision-making mechanisms are likely to contribute to well known inconsistencies in preferences formalized in theories of behavioral economics.
The time course of currents mediated by native and recombinant glycine receptors was examined with a combination of rapid agonist applications to outside-out patches and single-channel recording. The deactivation time constant of currents evoked by brief, saturating pulses of glycine is profoundly affected by the chloride concentration on the intracellular side of the cell membrane. Deactivation was threefold slower when intracellular chloride was increased from a low level (10 mm), similar to that observed in living mature neurons, to 131 mm (&quot;symmetrical&quot; chloride, often used in pipette internal solutions). Single-channel analysis revealed that high chloride has its greatest effect on the channel closing rate, slowing it by a factor of 2 compared with the value we estimated in the cell-attached mode (in which the channels are at physiological intracellular chloride concentrations). The same effect of chloride was observed when glycinergic evoked synaptic currents were recorded from juvenile rat spinal motoneurons in vitro, because the decay time constant was reduced from approximately 7 ms to approximately 3 ms when cells were dialyzed with 10 mm chloride intracellular recording solution. Our results indicate that the time course of glycinergic synaptic inhibition in intact neurons is much faster than is estimated by measurements in symmetrical chloride and can be modulated by changes in intracellular chloride concentration in the range that can occur in physiological or pathological conditions.
Inheritance of the apoE4 allele (epsilon4) increases the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease; however, the mechanisms underlying this association remain elusive. Recent data suggest that inheritance of epsilon4 may lead to reduced apoE protein levels in the CNS. We therefore examined apoE protein levels in the brains, CSF and plasma of epsilon2/2, epsilon3/3, and epsilon4/4 targeted replacement mice. These apoE mice showed a genotype-dependent decrease in apoE levels; epsilon2/2 &gt;epsilon3/3 &gt;epsilon4/4. Next, we sought to examine the relative contributions of apoE4 and apoE3 in the epsilon3/4 mouse brains. ApoE4 represented 30-40% of the total apoE. Moreover, the absolute amount of apoE3 per allele was similar between epsilon3/3 and epsilon3/4 mice, implying that the reduced levels of total apoE in epsilon3/4 mice can be explained by the reduction in apoE4 levels. In culture medium from epsilon3/4 human astrocytoma or epsilon3/3, epsilon4/4 and epsilon3/4 primary astrocytes, apoE4 levels were consistently lower than apoE3. Secreted cholesterol levels were also lower from epsilon4/4 astrocytes. Pulse-chase experiments showed an enhanced degradation and reduced half-life of newly synthesized apoE4 compared with apoE3. Together, these data suggest that astrocytes preferentially degrade apoE4, leading to reduced apoE4 secretion and ultimately to reduced brain apoE levels. Moreover, the genotype-dependent decrease in CNS apoE levels, mirror the relative risk of developing AD, and suggest that low levels of total apoE exhibited by epsilon4 carriers may directly contribute to the disease progression, perhaps by reducing the capacity of apoE to promote synaptic repair and/or Abeta clearance.
The anatomical connectivity of ventrolateral frontal areas 44 and 45, which in the human brain constitute Broca's region, has been revisited on the basis of experimental anatomical tracer evidence in the nonhuman primate that the homologues of areas 44 and 45 have distinct bidirectional corticocortical connections. Here we show, using high angular resolution diffusion imaging in the living human brain, a dissociation between the specific projections from the pars opercularis (area 44) and the pars triangularis (area 45) in the ventrolateral frontal lobe. As in the macaque monkey, area 44 has distinct connections with the rostral inferior parietal lobule via the third branch of the superior longitudinal fasciculus. In contrast, area 45 connects with the superior temporal gyrus, anterior to Heschl's gyrus, via the extreme capsule fiber system. These results highlight the differences in connectivity between areas 44 and 45 which had previously been thought to be uniformly connected with the posterior temporal region via the arcuate fasciculus. We also provide evidence in the human brain that the arcuate fasciculus, as in the macaque monkey brain, connects the posterior superior temporal region with dorsolateral frontal areas 8 and rostral 6 that lie above areas 44 and 45. Thus, monkey and human evidence suggests that the connections of areas 44 and 45 are much more differentiated than had previously been thought and provide the basis for studies searching for their differential contribution in function.
A key step in angiogenesis is the upregulation of growth factor receptors on endothelial cells. Here, we demonstrate that a small regulatory microRNA, miR-296, has a major role in this process. Glioma cells and angiogenic growth factors elevate the level of miR-296 in primary human brain microvascular endothelial cells in culture. The miR-296 level is also elevated in primary tumor endothelial cells isolated from human brain tumors compared to normal brain endothelial cells. Growth factor-induced miR-296 contributes significantly to angiogenesis by directly targeting the hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate (HGS) mRNA, leading to decreased levels of HGS and thereby reducing HGS-mediated degradation of the growth factor receptors VEGFR2 and PDGFRbeta. Furthermore, inhibition of miR-296 with antagomirs reduces angiogenesis in tumor xenografts in vivo.



Dendrite morphogenesis is regulated by neuronal activity or neurotrophins, which may function by activating intrinsic signaling proteins, including Rho family GTPases. Here we report that activity- and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-dependent dendritic morphogenesis requires activation of geranylgeranyltransferase I (GGT), a prenyltransferase that mediates lipid modification of Rho GTPases. Dendritic arborization in cultured hippocampal neurons was promoted by over-expression of GGT, and reduced by inhibition or down-regulation of GGT. Furthermore, GGT was activated by neuronal depolarization or BDNF, both of which promote dendritic arborization, in cultured hippocampal neurons. Moreover, exploration of a novel environment caused activation of GGT in the mice hippocampus, suggesting that neural activity activates GGT in vivo. Interestingly, GGT was physically associated with tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB), the receptor for BDNF, and this association was enhanced by depolarization. Disrupting the GGT-TrkB interaction or down-regulating GGT activity attenuated depolarization- or BDNF-induced dendrite development. Finally, the GGT effect on dendrite arborization was prevented by over-expressing Rac1 with the prenylation site deleted or mutated. Thus depolarization- or BDNF-dependent dendrite development may be mediated by GGT-induced prenylation of Rho GTPases.
Disrupted ERK1/2 (MAPK3/MAPK1) MAPK signaling has been associated with several developmental syndromes in humans; however, mutations in ERK1 or ERK2 have not been described. We demonstrate haplo-insufficient ERK2 expression in patients with a novel approximately 1 Mb micro-deletion in distal 22q11.2, a region that includes ERK2. These patients exhibit conotruncal and craniofacial anomalies that arise from perturbation of neural crest development and exhibit defects comparable to the DiGeorge syndrome spectrum. Remarkably, these defects are replicated in mice by conditional inactivation of ERK2 in the developing neural crest. Inactivation of upstream elements of the ERK cascade (B-Raf and C-Raf, MEK1 and MEK2) or a downstream effector, the transcription factor serum response factor resulted in analogous developmental defects. Our findings demonstrate that mammalian neural crest development is critically dependent on a RAF/MEK/ERK/serum response factor signaling pathway and suggest that the craniofacial and cardiac outflow tract defects observed in patients with a distal 22q11.2 micro-deletion are explained by deficiencies in neural crest autonomous ERK2 signaling.


We investigated which brain areas show error-related activity during online motor control while errors occur independently from decision making. During motor tasks, error is a deviation from accuracy or correctness. The effect of the accuracy level on error-related brain activity is unclear. Using functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI), we investigated how error-related brain activity, especially in fronto-medial wall areas, depended on motor accuracy (MA). Subjects performed a force tracking task with the thumb-index grip: to continuously follow a moving target on a monitor with a cursor which position was controlled by the force amount produced by the fingers. Task difficulty varied with changes in the cursor size (the smaller the cursor, the more difficult the task). We measured the motor accuracy (mean distance between the cursor center and the target) and the error amount (cursor out of the target). Errors were produced when motor accuracy was low and also when motor accuracy was high. For fMRI data processing, we defined a model based on both the error amount and the motor accuracy. The results showed that supplementary motor area (SMA) and dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) activation increased with error and task difficulty independent of the accuracy of motor control. Interestingly, activity in the rostral part of left ACC only increased with error when the motor accuracy was low, independently from task difficulty. These results suggest a clear functional dissociation between dorsal and rostral ACC in error processing which depends on the amount of attentional resources allocated to motor accuracy.
Tobacco smoking is a leading preventable cause of death in the United States and produces a major health and economic burden. Although the majority of smokers want to quit, few are successful. These data highlight the need for additional research into the neurobiology of tobacco dependence. Addiction to nicotine, the main psychoactive component of tobacco, is influenced by multiple factors that include individual differences in genetic makeup. Twin studies have demonstrated that genetic factors can influence vulnerability to nicotine addiction, and subsequent research has identified genes that may alter sensitivity to nicotine. In humans, genome-wide and candidate gene association studies have demonstrated that genes encoding nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) proteins are associated with multiple smoking phenotypes. Similarly, research in mice has provided evidence that naturally occurring variability in nAChR genes is associated with changes in nicotine sensitivity. Furthermore, the use of genetic knockout mice has allowed researchers to determine the nAChR genes that mediate the effects of nicotine, whereas research with knockin mice has demonstrated that changes to nAChR genes can dramatically alter nicotine sensitivity. This review will examine the genetic factors that alter susceptibility to nicotine addiction, with an emphasis on the genes that encode nAChR proteins.
Research investigating how control over stressors affects behavior often utilizes freezing and shuttle escape learning as the behavioral endpoints. These endpoints have been argued to reflect anxious or depressed states, but these descriptions are problematic. The present study sought to determine the impact of stressor controllability and the dorsal raph nucleus (DRN) on sucrose preference and juvenile social exploration, putative measures of anhedonia and anxiety that are commonly used in studies of stress per se. In Experiment 1 rats were exposed to escapable stress (ES) or yoked-inescapable stress (IS) tailshocks. In Experiment 2 ES or IS was given 7 days before all rats received IS. In Experiment 3 the DRN was inactivated during IS by microinjection of 8-OH-DPAT. Sucrose preference and social exploration were tested for several days after stress. A fourth experiment confirmed that juvenile social exploration is sensitive to traditional beta-carboline and benzodiazepine manipulations. Both ES and IS reduced sucrose preference, but only IS reduced social exploration. Prior treatment with ES prevented the effect of IS on social exploration but did not prevent the effect of IS on sucrose preference and inactivation of the DRN prevented the effect of IS on social exploration but did not change sucrose preference. The present results indicate that social exploration but not sucrose preference is sensitive to prior stressor controllability, and that DRN activation mediates the effect of IS on social exploration. We argue that DRN-5-HT activation mediates a state of generalized anxiety produced by uncontrollable stress and that juvenile social exploration is a useful behavioral endpoint in stressor controllability studies.
Like enucleation, lateral hypothalamic (LH) lesions sever the connection between the retina and the pineal thereby simulating ambient exposure to constant darkness. While LH lesions have been employed to study either circadian function or Parkinson's disease (PD) independently, the application of such lesions to study circadian involvement specifically in this disease has never been attempted. In the present study, unilateral lesions of the LH, which compromise nigro-striatal dopamine (NSD) function, were combined with enucleation ipsilateral or contralateral to the hemisphere where 6-hydroxydopamine was applied. In addition to the observation that hemi-enucleation produced patterns of motor function that were grossly atypical compared to visually intact rats, hemi-enucleation ipsilateral to the side of NSD system denervation produced impairment of horizontal movement, limb retraction, ambulation and spontaneous or l-dopa induced turning. This impairment was more severe than that seen in rats with unilateral 6-OHDA lesions alone. Furthermore, hemi-enucleation contralateral to the side of unilateral NSD system denervation resulted in significantly improved performance on several parameters. While the rate of mortality in rats receiving unilateral 6-OHDA plus ipsilateral enucleation was similar to that occurring after bilateral lesions, it was not accompanied by severe weight loss and wasting that typically occurs in the acute stages of experimental PD. These results demonstrate the importance of the visual and circadian systems in PD and are consistent with reports that identify impaired circadian involvement as a major component in a wide range of neurological and neuropsychiatric conditions.
Myelin abnormalities that reflect damage to developing and mature brains are often found in neurological diseases with evidence of inflammatory infiltration and microglial activation. Many cytokines are virtually undetectable in the uninflamed central nervous system (CNS), so that their rapid induction and sustained elevation in immune and glial cells contributes to dysregulation of the inflammatory response and neural cell homeostasis. This results in aberrant neural cell development, cytotoxicity, and loss of the primary myelin-producing cells of the CNS, the oligodendrocytes. This article provides an overview of cytokine and chemokine activity in the CNS with relevance to clinical conditions of neonatal and adult demyelinating disease, brain trauma, and mental disorders with observed white matter defects. Experimental models that mimic human disease have been developed in order to study pathogenic and therapeutic mechanisms, but have shown mixed success in clinical application. However, genetically altered animals, and models of CNS inflammation and demyelination, have offered great insight into the complexities of neuroimmune interactions that impact oligodendrocyte function. The intracellular signaling pathways of selected cytokines have also been highlighted to illustrate current knowledge of receptor-mediated events. By learning to interpret the actions of cytokines and by improving methods to target appropriate predictors of disease risk selectively, a more comprehensive understanding of altered immunoregulation will aid in the development of advanced treatment options for patients with inflammatory white matter disorders.

A moving base driving simulator experiment was carried out in order to investigate the effects of milled rumble strips on driver fatigue. There were rumble strips both at the edge line and centre line. Four different physical designs of milled rumble strips (yielding noise values from 1.5 to 16 dBA) and two placements on shoulder were used in the experiment. Sound and vibrations from real milled rumble strips were reproduced in the simulator. In total 35 regular shift workers drove during the morning hours after a full night shift. The main results showed an increase in sleepiness indicators (EEG alpha/theta activity, eye closure duration, standard deviation of lateral position, subjective sleepiness) from start to before hitting the rumble strip, an alerting effect in most parameters (not subjective sleepiness) after hitting the strip. The alertness enhancing effect was, however, short and the sleepiness signs returned 5 min after the rumble strip hit. Essentially no effects were seen due to type of strip. It was concluded that various aspects of sleepiness are increased before hitting a rumble strip and that the effect is very short-lived. Type of strip, as used in the present study did not have any effect.



In recent years, we have used a variety of tau immunological markers combined with the dye thiazin red (TR), an accurate marker to differentiate the fibrillar from the nonfibrillar state of both amyloid-beta and tau in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we used TR as a potential diagnostic marker of AD in frozen-thawed (F-T) brain tissue and imprint cytology. Control experiments included the use of Thioflavin-S staining, fixed tissue, and some double-labeled material with TR and selected tau markers, including AT100, MC1, Alz-50, TG-3, Tau-C3, and S396. Our results indicate that TR retains its strong affinity for both tangles and plaques in unfixed F-T tissue and imprint cytology. This information provides a potential use of TR as an accurate diagnostic tool for the rapid postmortem diagnosis of AD neuropathology. This study shows the advantages of TR on cytology mainly because tools for the fast postmortem diagnosis of AD are practically nonexistent. In addition, we observed Tau-C3 immunoreactivity in extracellular tangles, suggesting that the Tau-C3 epitope is characteristically stable. Moreover, this study demonstrates that chemical fixation is not necessarily required for tau immunoreactivity on histological sections.



We report a case of diffuse arteriovenous malformation (AVM) in basal ganglia and an internal capsule associated with venous aneurysms. The patient was treated by embolization guided by CT angiography to target the basal ganglionic portion of the AVM while sparing the internal capsule. Our case demonstrates that it is possible to obtain good quality intranidal angiograms by using CT angiography, which can be useful for exact localization of the catheterized part of the nidus.
We have previously reported that a 30s ethanol (10 and 100mM) pre-exposure significantly enhanced EtOH inhibition of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA-induced currents)-induced peak currents in primary cultured cerebellar granule cells (CGCs). The purpose of this study was to determine if intracellular factors play a role in ethanol pre-exposure-enhanced inhibition of NMDA-induced currents and if so, to identify the intracellular target(s) mediating this effect. Ethanol pre-exposure-enhanced inhibition was reduced when ethanol was present intracellularly prior to the initiation of the pretreatment protocol. Similar to results acquired with the whole-cell configuration, ethanol pre-exposure-enhanced inhibition of NMDA-induced currents was also observed in the perforated patch-clamp mode. Collectively, these results suggest an intracellular target not easily dialyzed from the cell. Perturbation of the actin cytoskeleton was responsible for the ethanol pre-exposure-enhanced inhibition of NMDA-induced currents was supported by the observation that the intracellular presence of the actin stabilizer phalloidin prevented ethanol pre-exposure-enhanced inhibition. Similar to the effects of ethanol, the depolymerizing agent latrunculin A inhibited NMDA-induced currents after a 30s pretreatment exposure with full recovery of receptor function after washout of the drug. Furthermore, latrunculin A occluded the enhanced inhibition of NMDA-induced currents by ethanol pre-exposure for both 10 and 100mM ethanol. The microtubule depolymerizing agent taxol had no affect on ethanol pretreatment-enhanced inhibition of NMDA-induced currents. Confocal microscopy with phalloidin-FITC indicated that F-actin filaments in neurites were depolymerized after a 30s treatment of either latrunculin A or 100mM ethanol. Our observations indicate that ethanol inhibition of NMDAR function may involve perturbation of the actin cytoskeleton.
Acute hyperglycemia has profound effects on vagally mediated gastrointestinal functions. We have reported recently that the release of glutamate from the central terminals of vagal afferent neurons is correlated directly with the extracellular glucose concentration. The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that 5-HT(3) receptors present on vagal afferent nerve terminals are involved in this glucose-dependent modulation of glutamatergic synaptic transmission. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) in thin rat brainstem slices. Spontaneous and evoked glutamate release was decreased in a concentration-dependent manner by the 5-HT(3) receptor selective antagonist, ondansetron. Alterations in the extracellular glucose concentration induced parallel shifts in the ondansetron-mediated inhibition of glutamate release. The changes in excitatory synaptic transmission induced by extracellular glucose concentration were mimicked by the serotonin uptake inhibitor, fenfluramine. These data suggest that glucose alters excitatory synaptic transmission within the rat brainstem via actions on tonically active 5-HT(3) receptors, and the number of 5-HT(3) receptors on vagal afferent nerve terminals is positively correlated with the extracellular glucose concentration. These data indicate that the 5-HT(3) receptors present on synaptic connections between vagal afferent nerve terminals and NTS neurons are a strong candidate for consideration as one of the sites where glucose acts to modulate vagovagal reflexes.
This study investigated the effects of rosuvastatin on plaque progression and in vivo coronary artery function in apolipoprotein E-knockout (ApoE-KO) mice, using noninvasive high-resolution ultrasound techniques. Eight-week-old male ApoE-KO mice (n = 20) were fed a high-fat diet with or without rosuvastatin (10 micromol.kg(-1).day(-1)) for 16 wk. When compared with control, rosuvastatin reduced total cholesterol levels (P &lt; 0.05) and caused significant retardation of lesion progression in the brachiocephalic artery, as visualized in vivo using an ultrasound biomicroscope (P &lt; 0.05). Histological analysis confirmed the reduction of brachiocephalic atherosclerosis and also revealed an increase in collagen content in the statin-treated group (P &lt; 0.05). Coronary volumetric flow was measured by simultaneous recording of Doppler velocity signals and left coronary artery morphology before and during adenosine infusion. The hyperemic flow in response to adenosine was significantly greater in left coronary artery following 16 wk of rosuvastatin treatment (P &lt; 0.001), whereas the baseline flow was similar in both groups. In conclusion, rosuvastatin reduced brachiocephalic artery atherosclerotic plaques in ApoE-KO mice. Coronary artery function assessed using recently developed in vivo ultrasound-based protocols, also improved.
We examined the pattern of temperature fluctuations in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), temporal muscle, and skin, along with locomotion in food-deprived and nondeprived rats following the presentation of an open or closed food container and during subsequent eating or food-seeking behavior without eating. Although rats in food-deprived, quiet resting conditions had more than twofold lower spontaneous locomotion and lower temperature values than in nondeprived conditions, after presentation of a container, they consistently displayed food-seeking behavior, showing much larger and longer temperature changes. When the container was open, rats rapidly retrieved food and consumed it. Food consumption was preceded and accompanied by gradual increases in brain and muscle temperatures ( approximately 1.5 degrees C) and a weaker, delayed increase in skin temperature ( approximately 0.8 degrees C). All temperatures began to rapidly fall immediately after eating was completed, but NAcc and muscle temperatures returned to baseline after approximately 35 min. When the container was closed and rats were unable to obtain food, they continued food-seeking activity during the entire period of presentation. Similar to eating, this activity was preceded and accompanied by gradual temperature increases in the brain and muscle, which were somewhat smaller than those during eating ( approximately 1.2 degrees C), with no changes in skin temperature. In contrast to trials with eating, NAcc and muscle temperatures continued to increase for approximately 10 min after the container was removed from the cage and the rat continued food-seeking behavior, with a return to baselines after approximately 50 min. These temperature fluctuations are discussed with respect to alterations in metabolic brain activity associated with feeding behavior, depending upon deprivation state and food availability.






CNS drug candidates fail approval in over 90% of the cases due to poor targeting, lack of efficacy, and/or unacceptable side effects. In vivo imaging offers a pathway to derisk drug molecules at each stage of development, but more research and development is needed to fully realize this potential. The greatest activity is in the use of target biomarkers, but those for disease mechanism, efficacy, and toxicological effects are under study and urgently needed. Many of the biomarker tracers can later be developed as new diagnostic imaging agents and then used to guide individual molecular therapy. Realization of this goal will require ongoing collaborative research and development among universities, pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology, the contract research organization (CRO) industry, diagnostic companies, and producers and distributors of radiopharmaceuticals. During the past decade there has been a progressive merger of the interests of the pharmaceutical industry and academia in the area of molecular biomarker imaging in human brain disease. Historically, academia has been more focused on disease mechanisms, etiology, diagnosis, and treatment monitoring. The pharmaceutical industry has concentrated more on medication development, drug pharmacokinetics, and surrogate treatment end points. In the era of personalized medicine, these interests have evolved to a continuum where the knowledge of diagnosis and molecular mechanism of disease from imaging not only guides new medication development but also is beginning to direct individualized drug choice and dosage.
Glutamate's role as a neurotransmitter at synapses has been known for 40 years, but glutamate has since been shown to regulate neurogenesis, neurite outgrowth, synaptogenesis, and neuron survival in the developing and adult mammalian nervous system. Cell-surface glutamate receptors are coupled to Ca(2+) influx and release from endoplasmic reticulum stores, which causes rapid (kinase- and protease-mediated) and delayed (transcription-dependent) responses that change the structure and function of neurons. Neurotrophic factors and glutamate interact to regulate developmental and adult neuroplasticity. For example, glutamate stimulates the production of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which, in turn, modifies neuronal glutamate sensitivity, Ca(2+) homeostasis, and plasticity. Neurotrophic factors may modify glutamate signaling directly, by changing the expression of glutamate receptor subunits and Ca(2+)-regulating proteins, and also indirectly by inducing the production of antioxidant enzymes, energy-regulating proteins, and antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family members. Excessive activation of glutamate receptors, under conditions of oxidative and metabolic stress, may contribute to neuronal dysfunction and degeneration in diseases ranging from stroke and Alzheimer's disease to psychiatric disorders. By enhancing neurotrophic factor signaling, environmental factors such as exercise and dietary energy restriction, and chemicals such as antidepressants may optimize glutamatergic signaling and protect against neurological disorders.
In signal transduction of metazoan cells, ion channels of the family of transient receptor potential (TRP) have been identified to respond to diverse external and internal stimuli, among them osmotic stimuli. This review highlights a specific member of the TRPV subfamily, the TRPV4 channel, initially named vanilloid-receptor related osmotically activated channel (VR-OAC) or OTRPC4. In a striking example of evolutionary conservation of function, mammalian TRPV4 has been found to rescue osmo- and mechanosensory deficits of the TRPV mutant strain osm-9 in Caenorhabditis elegans. This is an astounding finding given the &lt;26% orthology between OSM-9 and TRPV4 proteins. Here, recent findings pertaining to TRPV4's mechano- and osmosensory function in endothelia, in the alveolar unit of the lung, and in intestinal sensory innervation are reviewed, namely, transduction of mechanical shear stress in endothelia, maintenance of alveolar integrity on the endothelial side, and intestinal mechanosensation of noxious stimuli by dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons, which can be potently sensitized to mechanical stimuli by activation of the proteinase-activated receptor 2 (PAR-2), in a strictly TRPV4-dependent manner.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is an evolutionarily well conserved neuropeptide with multiple functions in the nervous, endocrine, and immune systems. PACAP provides neuroprotection from ischemia and toxin exposure, is anti-inflammatory in gastric inflammatory disease and sepsis, controls proliferative signaling pathways involved in neural cell transformation, and modulates glucohomeostasis. PACAP-based, disease-targeted therapeutics might thus be both effective and benign, enhancing homeostatic responses to behavioral, metabolic, oncogenic, and inflammatory stressors. PACAP signal transduction employs synergistic regulation of calcium and cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), and noncanonical activation of both calcium- and cAMP-dependent processes. Pharmacological activation of PACAP signaling should consequently have highly specific effects even in vivo. Here, a combined cellular biochemical, pharmacologic, transcriptomic, and bioinformatic approach to understanding PACAP signal transduction by identifying PACAP target genes with oligonucleotide- and cDNA-based microarray is described. Calcium- and cAMP-dependent PACAP signaling pathways for regulation of genes encoding proteins required for neuritogenesis, changes in cell morphology, and cell survival have been traced in PC12 cells. Pharmacological experiments have linked gene expression to cell physiological responses in this system, in which gene silencing can also be employed to confirm the functional significance of induction of specific transcripts. Differential transcriptional responses to metabolic, ischemic, and other stressors in wild type compared to PACAP-deficient mice establish in principle which PACAP-responsive transcripts in culture are PACAP-dependent in vivo. Bioinformatic approaches aid in creating a pipeline for identifying neuropeptide-regulated genes, validating their cellular functions, and defining their expression in the context of neuropeptide signaling physiology, required for discovery of new targets for drug action.

As reviewed by [Cooper, S. J. (2008). From Claude Bernard to Walter Cannon: emergence of the concept of homeostasis. Appetite 51, 419-27.] Claude Bernard's idea of stabilisation of bodily states, as realised in Walter B. Cannon's conception of homeostasis, took mathematical form during the 1940s in the principle that externally originating disturbance of a physiological parameter can feed an informative signal around the brain to trigger counteractive processes--a corrective mechanism known as negative feedback, in practice reliant on feedforward. Three decades later, enough was known of the physiology and psychology of eating and drinking for calculations to show how experimentally demonstrated mechanisms of feedforward that had been learnt from negative feedback combine to regulate exchanges of water and energy between the body and the surroundings. Subsequent systemic physiology, molecular neuroscience and experimental psychology, however, have been traduced by a misconception that learnt controls of intake are 'non-homeostatic', the myth of biological 'set points' and an historic failure to address evidence for the ingestion-adapting information-processing mechanisms on which an operationally integrative theory of eating and drinking relies.
The aim of this study was to study attentional bias when viewing one's own and a control body, and to relate this bias to body-weight and attractiveness ratings. Participants were 51 normal-weight female students with an unrestrained eating style. They were successively shown pictures of their own and a control body for 30s each, while their eye movements (overt attention) were being measured. Afterwards, participants were asked to identify the most attractive and most unattractive body part of both their own and a control body. The results show that with increasing BMI and where an individual has given a relatively low rating of attractiveness to their own body, participants attended relatively more to their self-identified most unattractive body part and the control body's most attractive body part. This increasingly negative bias in visual attention for bodies may maintain and/or exacerbate body dissatisfaction.
Several ergonomic studies have estimated computer work duration using registration software. In these studies, an arbitrary pause definition (Pd; the minimal time between two computer events to constitute a pause) is chosen and the resulting duration of computer work is estimated. In order to uncover the relationship between the used pause definition and the computer work duration (PWT), we used registration software to record usage patterns of 571 computer users across almost 60,000 working days. For a large range of Pds (1-120 s), we found a shallow, log-linear relationship between PWT and Pds. For keyboard and mouse use, a second-order function fitted the data best. We found that these relationships were dependent on the amount of computer work and subject characteristics. Comparison of exposure duration from studies using different pause definitions should take this into account, since it could lead to misclassification. Software manufacturers and ergonomists assessing computer work duration could use the found relationships for software design and study comparison.
It is often assumed that neuropsychological measures are ecologically valid in 'normal' people, but this assumption has not yet been thoroughly evaluated. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the cross-sectional and longitudinal ecological validity of individual neuropsychological test scores and their composites in a large sample of neurologically intact people. Three neuropsychological composite measures were established, i.e. a &quot;Memory Quotient&quot;, an &quot;Executive functioning and Speed Quotient&quot;, and a &quot;General Cognitive Quotient&quot;. The ecological validity of the individual neuropsychological measures and their composites was low to moderate. Multivariate models that included both neuropsychological and non-cognitive variables (i.e. demographic variables, depressive symptoms and anxiety) accounted for 4.6-21.4% of the variance in daily life functioning. The General Cognitive Quotient was the neuropsychological measure that was the most consistently related to daily life functioning.
The purpose of this study was to investigate social participation in home-living patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) and to identify predictors for low social participation. The study was based on baseline data from 330 home-living patients with mild AD who participated in The Danish Alzheimer Intervention Study (DAISY). Proxy-obtained information from primary caregiver assessed patients' social participation. The result showed that low social participation was present in mild AD. Significant independent predictors of low social participation were impairment in activities of daily living (ADL) and neuropsychiatric symptoms. The findings from this study add to the literature that social impairment is present even in the mild stage of AD. The findings underscore the importance of assessing social participation in mild AD as soon as few ADL skills are lost.

Consciousness takes two forms, transitive and intransitive. Transitive consciousness is a matter of being conscious of something or other whereas intransitive consciousness has no object, as being conscious or awake. Of the different forms of transitive consciousness, perceptual, somatic, kinaesthetic and so on, cognitive neuroscience has concentrated on determining the neural concomitants of perceptual consciousness. To be conscious of a percept is to be aware of it and this requires attending to it. This work sets out a hypothesis as to what brain areas are involved in a schizophrenia subject attending and becoming aware of hallucinations. First, the different areas of cortex that support different visual and auditory illusions of percepts are considered. Next it is argued that endogenous activity in these areas of cortex give rise to hallucinations of percepts that are similar to the percepts that these same areas support during illusions. The basis of such endogenous activity, it is suggested, is to be found in the paucity of afferent synapses to these cortical areas. This may occur as a consequence of loss and regression of synapses due to a degenerative disease or because of abnormal synapse formation and regression during childhood and adolescence, as is likely to be the case in schizophrenia. Finally the neural basis of attention and awareness of these hallucinations are considered for subjects suffering from schizophrenia, and a set of important questions posed that await elucidation through future experimental studies.
A wide range of physiological and behavioral alterations occur in response to sickness. Sickness behaviors, rather than incidental by-products or side-effects of acute illness, serve as adaptive functional responses that allow animals to cope with a pathogenic challenge. Among the more salient sickness behaviors is a reduction in food intake; virtually all sick animals display marked decreases in this behavior. Food intake, however, is only one component of the food-related behavioral repertoire. For many mammalian species, food hoarding represents a substantial portion of the total energetic budget. Here we tested the effects of experimental sickness on food hoarding and food intake in a naturally food hoarding species, Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus). Adult male and female hamsters received injections of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce sickness or control injections. LPS-induced sickness resulted in a marked decrease in food intake in both males and females, but did not decrease hoarding in either sex. These results support previous findings suggesting that food hoarding and food intake appear to be differentially regulated at the physiological level.
CK2 (casein kinase 2) is a very pleiotropic serine/threonine protein kinase whose abnormally high constitutive activity has often been correlated to pathological conditions with special reference to neoplasia. The two most widely used cell permeable CK2 inhibitors, TBB (4,5,6,7-tetrabromo-1H-benzotriazole) and DMAT (2-dimethylamino-4,5,6,7-tetrabromo-1H-benzimidazole), are marketed as quite specific CK2 blockers. In the present study we show, by using a panel of approx. 80 protein kinases, that DMAT and its parent compound TBI (or TBBz; 4,5,6,7-tetrabromo-1H-benzimidazole) are potent inhibitors of several other kinases, with special reference to PIM (provirus integration site for Moloney murine leukaemia virus)1, PIM2, PIM3, PKD1 (protein kinase D1), HIPK2 (homeodomain-interacting protein kinase 2) and DYRK1a (dual-specificity tyrosine-phosphorylated and -regulated kinase 1a). In contrast, TBB is significantly more selective toward CK2, although it also inhibits PIM1 and PIM3. In an attempt to improve selectivity towards CK2 a library of 68 TBB/TBI-related compounds have been tested for their ability to discriminate between CK2, PIM1, HIPK2 and DYRK1a, ending up with seven compounds whose efficacy toward CK2 is markedly higher than that toward the second most inhibited kinase. Two of these, K64 (3,4,5,6,7-pentabromo-1H-indazole) and K66 (1-carboxymethyl-2-dimethylamino-4,5,6,7-tetrabromo-benzimidazole), display an overall selectivity much higher than TBB and DMAT when tested on a panel of 80 kinases and display similar efficacy as inducers of apoptosis.
Phosphatidate phosphatases, PAPs, are key enzymes in lipid biosynthesis and signaling. Type I PAP enzymes participate in de-novo phospholipid biosynthesis, whereas type II PAP enzymes have an established role in lipid signaling. To identify novel human type II PAPs potentially involved in de-novo phospholipid synthesis we used bioinformatics to screen for enzymes with an active site exposed to the cytosolic side of membranes. Two related enzymes, a novel lipid phosphatase related protein (LPRP-A) and a presqualene diphosphate phosphatase (PA-PSP) met this criterion. PA-PSP and LPRP-A have differential tissue and subcellular distribution, and novel yet differential roles in lipid metabolism. Specifically, PA-PSP, but not LPRP-A, was a potent Mg(2+)-independent, NEM-insensitive type II PAP. Subcellular fractionation detection indicated that both proteins were associated with membranes, while immunofluorescent deconvolution imaging revealed that these membranes were exclusively from the nuclear envelope and the endoplasmic reticulum. PA-PSP overexpression, but not LPRP-A, accelerated the synthesis of phosphatidylcholine and caused accumulation of triacylglycerol with concomitant decrease in the rate of phosphatidylinositol synthesis. Coexpression of human CTP:phosphocholine cytidylyltransferase-alpha with PA-PSP enhanced the effect of PA-PSP on phosphatidylcholine levels, yet attenuated its effect on triacylglycerol. Taken together, our studies provide the first evidence that the eukaryotic, ER-resident PA-PSP is a bifunctional enzyme with specific type II PAP activity, and regulates, in addition to type I PAPs, the de-novo biosynthesis of phospholipids and triacylglycerols.
Patch-clamp experiments on swollen mitochondria of human, mouse and rat origins have revealed activity by an approximately 400 pS (in 150 mM KCl), voltage-dependent and anion-selective channel. This channel is located in the inner membrane, as shown by experiments with mitochondria from cells expressing a fluorescent mitochondrial tag protein and by the co-presence of the 107 pS channel and of the permeability transition pore (PTP). The frequency of appearance was inversely related to the presence of the PTP. This and the comparison of its electrophysiological characteristics with those of the PTP indicate that it is closely related to the latter, possibly corresponding to a monomeric unit whose dimer constitutes the full PTP. The channel is similar but not identical to isolated-and-reconstituted mitochondrial porin, and it is present also in mitochondria from cells lacking porin isoforms. Its identification with porin is therefore to be excluded. It most likely coincides instead with the &quot;maxi-chloride channel&quot; characterized in the plasma membrane of various cell types.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an imaging technique with a rapidly expanding application range. This methodology, which relies on quantum physics and substance magnetic properties, is now being routinely used in the clinics and medical research. With the advent of measuring functional brain activity with MRI (functional MRI), this methodology has reached a larger section of the neuroscience community (e.g. psychologists, neurobiologists). In the past, the use of MRI as a biomarker or as an assay to probe tissue pathophysiological condition was limited. However, with the new applications of MRI: molecular imaging, contrast-enhanced imaging and diffusion imaging, MRI is turning into a powerful tool for in vivo characterization of tissue pathophysiology. This review focuses on the diffusion MRI. Although it only measures the averaged Brownian translational motion of water molecules, using different analysis schemes, one can extract a wide range of quantitative indices that represent tissue morphology and compartmentalization. Statistical and visualization routines help to relate these indices to biologically relevant measures such as cell density, water content and size distribution. The aim of this review is to shed light on the potential of this methodology to be used in biological research. To that end, this review is intended for the non-MRI specialists who wish to pursue biological research with this methodology. We will overview the current applications of diffusion MRI and its relation to cellular biology of brain tissue.
New genetic technologies promise to generate valuable insights into the aetiology of several psychiatric conditions, as well as a wider range of human and animal behaviours. Advances in the neurosciences and the application of new brain imaging techniques offer a way of integrating DNA analysis with studies that are looking at other biological markers of behaviour. While candidate 'genes for' certain conditions, including schizophrenia and bipolar disorders, are said to be 'un-discovered' at a faster rate than they are discovered, many studies are being conducted on personality traits such as aggressiveness and anti-social traits. The clinical applicability and implications of these studies are often discussed within the scientific community. However, little attention has so far been paid to their possible policy implications in relation to criminality management and to Criminal Law itself. Similarly, the related ethical issues arising in the field of crime control, and the tensions between enhancing security for society and protecting civil liberties, are currently under-explored. This paper investigates these ethical issues by focusing on the views of those professionals - including judges, lawyers, probation officers and social workers - who work with individuals 'deemed at risk' of violent and aggressive behaviours. It also discusses and problematizes mainstream rhetoric and arguments around the notion of 'risky individuals'.
We review here the development of Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) type models of cerebral cortex and thalamic neurons for network simulations. The intrinsic electrophysiological properties of cortical neurons were analyzed from several preparations, and we selected the four most prominent electrophysiological classes of neurons. These four classes are &quot;fast spiking&quot;, &quot;regular spiking&quot;, &quot;intrinsically bursting&quot; and &quot;low-threshold spike&quot; cells. For each class, we fit &quot;minimal&quot; HH type models to experimental data. The models contain the minimal set of voltage-dependent currents to account for the data. To obtain models as generic as possible, we used data from different preparations in vivo and in vitro, such as rat somatosensory cortex and thalamus, guinea-pig visual and frontal cortex, ferret visual cortex, cat visual cortex and cat association cortex. For two cell classes, we used automatic fitting procedures applied to several cells, which revealed substantial cell-to-cell variability within each class. The selection of such cellular models constitutes a necessary step towards building network simulations of the thalamocortical system with realistic cellular dynamical properties.
As large-scale, detailed network modeling projects are flourishing in the field of computational neuroscience, it is more and more important to design single neuron models that not only capture qualitative features of real neurons but are quantitatively accurate in silico representations of those. Recent years have seen substantial effort being put in the development of algorithms for the systematic evaluation and optimization of neuron models with respect to electrophysiological data. It is however difficult to compare these methods because of the lack of appropriate benchmark tests. Here, we describe one such effort of providing the community with a standardized set of tests to quantify the performances of single neuron models. Our effort takes the form of a yearly challenge similar to the ones which have been present in the machine learning community for some time. This paper gives an account of the first two challenges which took place in 2007 and 2008 and discusses future directions. The results of the competition suggest that best performance on data obtained from single or double electrode current or conductance injection is achieved by models that combine features of standard leaky integrate-and-fire models with a second variable reflecting adaptation, refractoriness, or a dynamic threshold.
The dynamic I-V curve method was recently introduced for the efficient experimental generation of reduced neuron models. The method extracts the response properties of a neuron while it is subject to a naturalistic stimulus that mimics in vivo-like fluctuating synaptic drive. The resulting history-dependent, transmembrane current is then projected onto a one-dimensional current-voltage relation that provides the basis for a tractable non-linear integrate-and-fire model. An attractive feature of the method is that it can be used in spike-triggered mode to quantify the distinct patterns of post-spike refractoriness seen in different classes of cortical neuron. The method is first illustrated using a conductance-based model and is then applied experimentally to generate reduced models of cortical layer-5 pyramidal cells and interneurons, in injected-current and injected- conductance protocols. The resulting low-dimensional neuron models-of the refractory exponential integrate-and-fire type-provide highly accurate predictions for spike-times. The method therefore provides a useful tool for the construction of tractable models and rapid experimental classification of cortical neurons.
The increase in complexity of computational neuron models makes the hand tuning of model parameters more difficult than ever. Fortunately, the parallel increase in computer power allows scientists to automate this tuning. Optimization algorithms need two essential components. The first one is a function that measures the difference between the output of the model with a given set of parameter and the data. This error function or fitness function makes the ranking of different parameter sets possible. The second component is a search algorithm that explores the parameter space to find the best parameter set in a minimal amount of time. In this review we distinguish three types of error functions: feature-based ones, point-by-point comparison of voltage traces and multi-objective functions. We then detail several popular search algorithms, including brute-force methods, simulated annealing, genetic algorithms, evolution strategies, differential evolution and particle-swarm optimization. Last, we shortly describe Neurofitter, a free software package that combines a phase-plane trajectory density fitness function with several search algorithms.
Periodic neural activity not locked to the stimulus or to motor responses is usually ignored. Here, we present new tools for modeling and quantifying the information transmission based on periodic neural activity that occurs with quasi-random phase relative to the stimulus. We propose a model to reproduce characteristic features of oscillatory spike trains, such as histograms of inter-spike intervals and phase locking of spikes to an oscillatory influence. The proposed model is based on an inhomogeneous Gamma process governed by a density function that is a product of the usual stimulus-dependent rate and a quasi-periodic function. Further, we present an analysis method generalizing the direct method (Rieke et al. in Spikes: exploring the neural code. MIT Press, Cambridge, 1999; Brenner et al. in Neural Comput 12(7):1531-1552, 2000) to assess the information content in such data. We demonstrate these tools on recordings from relay cells in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the cat.
The mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier (AAC), which has six transmembrane regions (TM) with cytosolic N- and C-termini, exchanges matrix ATP for cytosolic ADP in the mitochondrial inner membrane. Structural aspects of the bovine type 1 AAC (bAAC1) and the yeast type 2 AAC (yAAC2) are quite similar, whereas the molecular activity of yAAC2 is four times higher than that of bAAC1. To examine the relationship between the structure and the functional difference, substrate transport activities of serial chimeric proteins having N-terminal bAAC1 and C-terminal yAAC2 were estimated from growth activities of their yeast transformants on a medium containing non-fermentable glycerol. The chimera having the boundary of bAAC1 and yAAC2 between a TM and its C-terminal adjoining loop had activity, but chimera having the boundary between a TM and its N-sided loop did not. These results indicate that a set of a TM and its C-sided loop is important to the AAC function. In addition, the mutant, in which the first TM and its C-sided loop (the first matrix loop) in yAAC2 are replaced with those of bAAC1, exhibited a change in reactivity for a SH cross-linking reagent copper-o-phenanthroline, suggesting that the interaction of these regions is also involved in the structural feature of AAC. Because the mutant had similar transport activities to bAAC1, the structural property provided by the interaction between the first TM and the first matrix loop is probably involved in activity of AAC.
There is now general consensus that at least some of the cognitive deficits in schizophrenia are related to dysfunctions in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) dopamine (DA) system. At the cellular and synaptic level, the effects of DA in PFC via D1- and D2-class receptors are highly complex, often apparently opposing, and hence difficult to understand with regard to their functional implications. Biophysically realistic computational models have provided valuable insights into how the effects of DA on PFC neurons and synaptic currents as measured in vitro link up to the neural network and cognitive levels. They suggest the existence of two discrete dynamical regimes, a D1-dominated state characterized by a high energy barrier among different network patterns that favors robust online maintenance of information and a D2-dominated state characterized by a low energy barrier that is beneficial for flexible and fast switching among representational states. These predictions are consistent with a variety of electrophysiological, neuroimaging, and behavioral results in humans and nonhuman species. Moreover, these biophysically based models predict that imbalanced D1:D2 receptor activation causing extremely low or extremely high energy barriers among activity states could lead to the emergence of cognitive, positive, and negative symptoms observed in schizophrenia. Thus, combined experimental and computational approaches hold the promise of allowing a detailed mechanistic understanding of how DA alters information processing in normal and pathological conditions, thereby potentially providing new routes for the development of pharmacological treatments for schizophrenia.


In a recent publication in Biological Reviews, Manger (2006) made the controversial claim that the large brains of cetaceans evolved to generate heat during oceanic cooling in the Oligocene epoch and not, as is the currently accepted view, as a basis for an increase in cognitive or information-processing capabilities in response to ecological or social pressures. Manger further argued that dolphins and other cetaceans are considerably less intelligent than generally thought. In this review we challenge Manger's arguments and provide abundant evidence that modern cetacean brains are large in order to support complex cognitive abilities driven by social and ecological forces.
Although biochemical signals that modulate stem cell self-renewal and differentiation were extensively studied, only recently were the mechanical properties of a stem cell's microenvironment shown to regulate its behavior. It would be desirable to have independent control over biochemical and mechanical cues, to analyze their relative and combined effects on stem-cell function. We developed a synthetic, interfacial hydrogel culture system, termed variable moduli interpenetrating polymer networks (vmIPNs), to assess the effects of soluble signals, adhesion ligand presentation, and material moduli from 10-10,000 Pa on adult neural stem-cell (aNSC) behavior. The aNSCs proliferated when cultured in serum-free growth media on peptide-modified vmIPNs with moduli of &gt;/=100 Pa. In serum-free neuronal differentiation media, a peak level of the neuronal marker, beta-tubulin III, was observed on vmIPNs of 500 Pa, near the physiological stiffness of brain tissue. Furthermore, under mixed differentiation conditions with serum, softer gels ( approximately 100-500 Pa) greatly favored neurons, whereas harder gels ( approximately 1,000-10,000 Pa) promoted glial cultures. In contrast, cell spreading, self-renewal, and differentiation were inhibited on substrata with moduli of approximately 10 Pa. This work demonstrates that the mechanical and biochemical properties of an aNSC microenvironment can be tuned to regulate the self-renewal and differentiation of aNSCs.
Adequate levels of vitamins and minerals are essential for optimal neural functioning. A high proportion of individuals, including children, suffer from deficiencies in one or more vitamins or minerals. This study investigated whether daily supplementation with vitamins/minerals could modulate cognitive performance and mood in healthy children. In this randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel groups investigation, eighty-one healthy children aged from 8 to 14 years underwent laboratory assessments of their cognitive performance and mood pre-dose and at 1 and 3 h post-dose on the first and last days of 12 weeks' supplementation with a commercially available vitamins/mineral product (Pharmaton Kiddi). Interim assessments were also completed at home after 4 and 8 weeks at 3 h post-dose. Each assessment comprised completion of a cognitive battery, delivered over the Internet, which included tasks assessing mood and the speed and accuracy of attention and aspects of memory (secondary, semantic and spatial working memory). The vitamin/mineral group performed more accurately on two attention tasks: 'Arrows' choice reaction time task at 4 and 8 weeks; 'Arrow Flankers' choice reaction time task at 4, 8 and 12 weeks. A single task outcome (Picture Recognition errors) evinced significant decrements at 12 weeks. Mood was not modulated in any interpretable manner. Whilst it is possible that the significant improvements following treatment were due to non-significant numerical differences in performance at baseline, these results would seem to suggest that vitamin/mineral supplementation has the potential to improve brain function in healthy children. This proposition requires further investigation.
Injury to the CNS elicits a host defense reaction that utilizes astrocytes, microglia, neurons and oligodendrocytes. Neuroinflammation is a major host defense mechanism designed to restore normal structure and function after CNS insult, but like other forms of inflammation, chronic neuroinflammation may contribute to pathogenesis. The inducible haeme oxygenase isoform, haeme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), is a phase 2 enzyme upregulated in response to electrophilic xenobiotics, oxidative stress, cellular injury and disease. There is emerging evidence that HO-1 expression helps mediate the resolution of inflammation, including neuroinflammation. Whether this is solely because of the catabolism of haeme or includes additional mechanisms is unclear. This review provides a brief background on the molecular biology and biochemistry of haeme oxygenases and the actions of haeme, bilirubin, iron and carbon monoxide in the CNS. It then presents our current state of knowledge regarding HO-1 expression in the CNS, regulation of HO-1 induction in neural cells and discusses the prospect of pharmacological manipulation of HO-1 as therapy for CNS disorders. Because of recognized species and cellular differences in HO-1 regulation, a major objective of this review is to draw attention to areas where gaps exist in the experimental record regarding regulation of HO-1 in neural cells. The results indicate the HO-1 system to be an important therapeutic target in CNS disorders, but our understanding of HO-1 expression in human neural cells is severely lacking.
To investigate whether genetic and/or disease-related factors are involved in progressive structural brain changes in schizophrenia, magnetic resonance imaging scans with a 5-year scan interval were acquired in patients, their same-gender siblings and matched healthy controls. Structural equation modelling was applied to assess disease and familial effects. Whole brain and cerebral grey matter volumes decreased excessively in patients compared with their siblings and the controls, suggesting that the progressive brain loss in schizophrenia may be related to the disease process.

Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is a severe inflammatory CNS disorder of putative autoimmune aetiology, which predominantly affects the spinal cord and optic nerves. Recently, a highly specific serum reactivity to CNS microvessels, subpia and Virchow-Robin spaces was described in patients with NMO [called NMO-IgG (NMO-immunoglobulin G)]. Subsequently, aquaporin-4 (AQP4), the most abundant water channel in the CNS, was identified as its target antigen. Strong support for a pathogenic role of the antibody would come from studies demonstrating a correlation between AQP4-Ab (AQP4-antibody) titres and the clinical course of disease. In this study, we determined AQP4-Ab serum levels in 96 samples from eight NMO-IgG positive patients (median follow-up 62 months) in a newly developed fluorescence-based immunoprecipitation assay employing recombinant human AQP4. We found that AQP4-Ab serum levels correlate with clinical disease activity, with relapses being preceded by an up to 3-fold increase in AQP4-Ab titres, which was not paralleled by a rise in other serum autoantibodies in one patient. Moreover, AQP4-Ab titres were found to correlate with CD19 cell counts during therapy with rituximab. Treatment with immunosuppressants such as rituximab, azathioprine and cyclophosphamide resulted in a marked reduction in antibody levels and relapse rates. Our results demonstrate a strong relationship between AQP4-Abs and clinical state, and support the hypothesis that these antibodies are involved in the pathogenesis of NMO.
In patients with idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (INPH), the changes in brain function that take place in conjunction with improved behavioural performance after CSF drainage is still unknown. In this study, we use functional MRI (fMRI) to investigate the changes in cortical activity that accompany improved motor and cognitive performance after long-term external lumbar drainage (ELD) of CSF in patients with INPH. Eighteen INPH patients were initially included together with age- and sex-matched controls. Data from 11 INPH patients were analysed both before and after ELD. The average drain volume for these 11 patients was 400 ml/3 days. Brain activation was investigated by fMRI before and after the procedure on a 1.5T Philips scanner using protocols taxing motor performance (finger tapping and reaction time) and cognitive functioning (memory and attention). Behavioural data were compared using non-parametric tests at a significance level of 0.05, whereas fMRI data were analysed by statistical parametric mapping including conjunction analysis of areas with enhanced activity after drainage in patients and areas activated in controls (P &lt; 0.005, uncorrected). Improved regions were defined as areas in the INPH brain that increased in activity after ELD with the requirement that the same areas were activated in control subjects. Following ELD, right-hand finger tapping improved from 104 +/- 38 to 117 +/- 25 (mean +/- SD) (P = 0.02). Left-hand finger tapping showed a tendency to improve, the number of keystrokes increasing from 91 +/- 40 to 105 +/- 20 (P = 0.12). Right-hand reaction time improved from 1630 +/- 566 ms to 1409 +/- 442 ms, whereas left-hand reaction time improved from 1760 +/- 600 ms to 1467 +/- 420 ms (both P-values = 0.01). Significant improvements in motor performance were accompanied by bilateral increased activation in the supplementary motor area. No improvement was found in cognitive functioning. The results suggest that motor function recovery in INPH patients after CSF removal is related to enhanced activity in medial parts of frontal motor areas considered crucial for motor planning; a finding consistent with INPH being a syndrome related to a reversible suppression of frontal periventricular cortico-basal ganglia-thalamo-cortical pathways.
Recent studies have shown alterations in metabolism, sleep and circadian rhythms as well as in several neuropeptides derived from the hypothalamic-pituitary axis in Huntington's disease patients; however, the pathology underlying these abnormalities is not known. Our aim was to assess in vivo D(2) receptor's loss/dysfunction and increases in microglial activation in the hypothalamus of symptomatic Huntington's disease patients and premanifest Huntington's disease gene carriers using PET with (11)C-raclopride (RAC), a specific D(2) receptor ligand and (11)C-(R)-PK11195 (PK), a marker of microglial activation. We have studied 9 symptomatic Huntington's disease patients (age = 46.8 +/- 4.7 years; mean +/- SD) and 10 premanifest Huntington's disease gene carriers (age = 41.9 +/- 8.2 years; mean +/- SD). RAC and PK findings for these subjects were compared with those of a group of normal controls (RAC, n = 9; PK, n = 10). In the symptomatic Huntington's disease group, we found a significant decrease (P = 0.0012) in mean hypothalamic RAC binding potential (BP) and a significant increase in mean hypothalamic PK BP (P = 0.0008). Similarly, a significant decrease (P = 0.0143) in mean hypothalamic RAC BP and a significant increase in mean hypothalamic PK BP (P = 0.0057) were observed in the premanifest Huntington's disease group. Hypothalamic RAC and PK BP values correlated with each other in combined Huntington's disease groups (r = -0.6180, P = 0.0048) but not with striatal RAC and PK BP values. Our data demonstrate, for the first time, significant D(2) receptor loss and microglia activation in the hypothalamus of Huntington's disease. These pathological changes occur very early in the course of the disease and may partly explain the development of commonly reported symptoms in Huntington's disease including progressive weight loss, alterations in sexual behaviour and disturbances in the wake-sleep cycle.
Microglial cells are activated during excitotoxin-induced neurodegeneration. However, the in vivo role of microglia activation in neurodegeneration has not yet been fully elucidated. To this end, we used Ikkbeta conditional knockout mice (LysM-Cre/Ikkbeta(F/F)) in which the Ikkbeta gene is specifically deleted in cells of myeloid lineage, including microglia, in the CNS. This deletion reduced IkappaB kinase (IKK) activity in cultured primary microglia by up to 40% compared with wild-type (Ikkbeta(F/F)), and lipopolysaccharide-induced proinflammatory gene expression was also compromised. Kainic acid (KA)-induced hippocampal neuronal cell death was reduced by 30% in LysM-Cre/Ikkbeta(F/F) mice compared with wild-type mice. Reduced neuronal cell death was accompanied by decreased KA-induced glial cell activation and subsequent expression of proinflammatory genes such as tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-1beta. Similarly, neurons in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHSCs) from LysM-Cre/Ikkbeta(F/F) mouse brain were less susceptible to KA-induced excitotoxicity compared with wild-type OHSCs, due in part to decreased TNF-alpha and IL-1beta expression. Based on these data, we concluded that IKK/nuclear factor-kappaB dependent microglia activation contributes to KA-induced hippocampal neuronal cell death in vivo through induction of inflammatory mediators.
The developing brain has the capacity for a great deal of plasticity. A number of investigators have demonstrated that intellectual and language skills may be in the normal range in children following unilateral perinatal stroke. Questions have been raised, however, about whether these skills can be maintained at the same level as the brain matures. This study aimed to examine the stability of intellectual, academic and language functioning during development in children with perinatal stroke, and to resolve the inconsistencies raised in previous studies. Participants were 29 pre-school to school-age children with documented unilateral ischaemic perinatal stroke and 24 controls. Longitudinal testing of intellectual and cognitive abilities was conducted at two time points. Study 1 examined IQ, academic skills and language functions using the same test version over the test-retest interval. Study 2 examined IQ over a longer test-retest interval (pre-school to school-age), and utilized different test versions. This study has resulted in important new findings. There is no evidence of decline in cognitive function over time in children with perinatal unilateral brain damage. These results indicate that there is sufficient ongoing plasticity in the developing brain following early focal damage to result in the stability of cognitive functions over time. Also, the presence of seizures limits plasticity such that there is not only significantly lower performance on intellectual and language measures in the seizure group (Study 1), but the course of cognitive development is significantly altered (as shown in Study 2). This study provides information to support the notion of functional plasticity in the developing brain; yields much-needed clarification in the literature of prognosis in children with early ischaemic perinatal stroke; provides evidence that seizures limit plasticity during development; and avoids many of the confounds in prior studies. A greater understanding of how children with ischaemic perinatal stroke fare over time is particularly important, as there has been conflicting information regarding prognosis for this population. It appears that when damage is sustained very early in brain development, cerebral functional reorganization acts to sustain a stable rate of development over time.
Spinal lesions produce plastic changes in motoneuron properties. We have documented the excitability of motor axons in the median nerve of 12 patients with multiple sclerosis and 50 normal subjects, hypothesizing that plastic changes in the properties of spinal motoneurons might be reflected in the properties of peripheral motor axons and be demonstrable in vivo. In the patients, there were changes in physiological measures of axonal excitability attributable to increased slow K(+) channel activity. Other measures were within control limits. These changes could be modelled by an 11% increase in slow K(+) current, with compensatory changes in membrane potential, suggesting increased expression of the responsible channels. The changes cannot be explained solely by changes in membrane potential and are not those expected if peripheral nerve axons were involved in the inflammatory process of multiple sclerosis. They probably represent a transcriptional channelopathy, due to up-regulation of channel expression. The abnormalities do not imply that peripheral nerve function has been significantly compromised, but they do suggest that the properties of the parent motoneurons have changed. This study thus provides evidence for plasticity in motoneuronal properties at a molecular level, the first such evidence for intact human subjects.

Recent data suggest that opioids can activate immune-like cells of the central nervous system (glia). This opioid-induced glial activation is associated with decreased analgesia, owing to the release of proinflammatory mediators. Here, we examine in rats whether the putative microglial inhibitor, minocycline, may affect morphine-induced respiratory depression and/or morphine-induced reward (conditioned place preference). Systemic co-administration of minocycline significantly attenuated morphine-induced reductions in tidal volume, minute volume, inspiratory force, and expiratory force, but did not affect morphine-induced reductions in respiratory rate. Minocycline attenuation of respiratory depression was also paralleled with significant attenuation by minocycline of morphine-induced reductions in blood oxygen saturation. Minocycline also attenuated morphine conditioned place preference. Minocycline did not simply reduce all actions of morphine, as morphine analgesia was significantly potentiated by minocycline co-administration. Lastly, morphine dose-dependently increased cyclooxygenase-1 gene expression in a rat microglial cell line, an effect that was dose-dependently blocked by minocycline. Together, these data support that morphine can directly activate microglia in a minocycline-suppressible manner and suggest a pivotal role for minocycline-sensitive processes in the mechanisms of morphine-induced respiration depression, reward, and pain modulation.
It has been widely described that immune activation, such as that induced by bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS) or by interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) causes deficits in learning and memory. These studies have been performed in a limited number of paradigms and have often failed in their experimental design to account for features of sickness behaviour and have thus introduced potential confounding factors. As such, this literature provides an oversimplified view of the issues. A detailed reading of the literature reveals that rodents treated with LPS or IL-1beta, whether systemically or centrally, do not reproducibly show clear impairments in spatial reference memory in the Morris Water Maze. Latency to find the platform is almost invariably increased, consistent with sickness and reduced locomotor speed in these animals. In studies where distance travelled or route to the platform have been examined there have been either very modest or no differences between treated groups, or stress-induced, thigmotaxic, strategies employed by the sick animals. This suggests that emotional and performance changes are more significant than cognitive impairments. There is better evidence for a deficit in contextual fear conditioning experiments induced by LPS and IL-1beta and these effects are clearly dose-dependent, with facilitation at low doses and impairment at higher doses. We propose that the field should be more cautious and more specific in its description of these cognitive effects and that new tasks be employed in these studies, that are not susceptible to confounding factors such as locomotor speed and elevated stress responses. Emerging data suggests that systemic insults induce more robust memory impairments in aged rodents or those with pre-exisiting neurodegenerative disease and these effects are consistent with the mild effects of infection on cognitive processes in young or healthy adults and the more severe effects, such as delirium, in the elderly and demented population.
Converging evidence from basic and clinical studies suggests a role for proinflammatory cytokines in cancer-related fatigue, although the etiology of elevated inflammatory processes is unclear. We examined single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the promoters of cytokine genes as genetic risk factors for cytokine-related fatigue in 33 fatigued and 14 non-fatigued breast cancer survivors, focusing on promoter sequence polymorphisms in IL1B and IL6 associated with differential expression of proinflammatory cytokines. Predictors of fatigue included presence of at least one cytosine at IL1B -511 (95%CI=0.91-16.6, p=.007) and homozygosity for either variant of the IL6 -174 genotype (G/G or C/C; 95%CI=1.12-17.9, p=.027). Associations between fatigue status and IL1B genotype remained significant after covariate adjustment for demographic, biobehavioral and treatment-related factors. These findings provide preliminary evidence that polymorphisms in IL1B may serve as a potential risk factor for persistent fatigue in the aftermath of cancer.
Spinal proinflammatory cytokines are powerful pain-enhancing signals that contribute to pain following peripheral nerve injury (neuropathic pain). Recently, one proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1, was also implicated in the loss of analgesia upon repeated morphine exposure (tolerance). In contrast to prior literature, we demonstrate that the action of several spinal proinflammatory cytokines oppose systemic and intrathecal opioid analgesia, causing reduced pain suppression. In vitro morphine exposure of lumbar dorsal spinal cord caused significant increases in proinflammatory cytokine and chemokine release. Opposition of analgesia by proinflammatory cytokines is rapid, occurring &lt; or =5 min after intrathecal (perispinal) opioid administration. We document that opposition of analgesia by proinflammatory cytokines cannot be accounted for by an alteration in spinal morphine concentrations. The acute anti-analgesic effects of proinflammatory cytokines occur in a p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase and nitric oxide dependent fashion. Chronic intrathecal morphine or methadone significantly increased spinal glial activation (toll-like receptor 4 mRNA and protein) and the expression of multiple chemokines and cytokines, combined with development of analgesic tolerance and pain enhancement (hyperalgesia, allodynia). Statistical analysis demonstrated that a cluster of cytokines and chemokines was linked with pain-related behavioral changes. Moreover, blockade of spinal proinflammatory cytokines during a stringent morphine regimen previously associated with altered neuronal function also attenuated enhanced pain, supportive that proinflammatory cytokines are importantly involved in tolerance induced by such regimens. These data implicate multiple opioid-induced spinal proinflammatory cytokines in opposing both acute and chronic opioid analgesia, and provide a novel mechanism for the opposition of acute opioid analgesia.

Auditory word comprehension was assessed in a series of 289 acute left hemisphere stroke patients. Participants decided whether an auditorily presented word matched a picture. On different trials, words were presented with a matching picture, a semantic foil, or a phonemic foil. Participants had significantly more trouble with semantic foils across all levels of impairment.
The adequate integration of reward- and decision-related information provided by the environment is critical for behavioral success and subjective well being in everyday life. Functional neuroimaging research has already presented a comprehensive picture on affective and motivational processing in the healthy human brain and has recently also turned its interest to the assessment of impaired brain function in psychiatric patients. This article presents an overview on neuroimaging studies dealing with reward processing and decision-making by combining most recent findings from fundamental and clinical research. It provides an outline on the neural mechanisms guiding context-adequate reward processing and decision-making processes in the healthy brain, and also addresses pathophysiological alterations in the brain's reward system that have been observed in substance abuse and mood disorders, two highly prevalent classes of psychiatric disorders. The overall goal is to critically evaluate the specificity of neurophysiological alterations identified in these psychiatric disorders and associated symptoms, and to make suggestions concerning future research.
One of the central questions in neuroscience is how refined patterns of connectivity in the brain generate and monitor behavior. Genetic mutations can influence neural circuits by disrupting differentiation or maintenance of component neuronal cells or by altering functional patterns of nervous system connectivity. Mutagenesis screens therefore have the potential to reveal not only the molecular underpinnings of brain development and function, but to illuminate the cellular basis of behavior. Practical considerations make the zebrafish an organism of choice for undertaking forward genetic analysis of behavior. The powerful array of experimental tools at the disposal of the zebrafish researcher makes it possible to link molecular function to neuronal properties that underlie behavior. This review focuses on specific challenges to isolating and analyzing behavioral mutants in zebrafish.
The timed secretion of the luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) from pituitary gonadotrophs during the estrous cycle is crucial for normal reproductive functioning. The release of LH and FSH is stimulated by gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) secreted by hypothalamic GnRH neurons. It is controlled by the frequency of the GnRH signal that varies during the estrous cycle. Curiously, the secretion of LH and FSH is differentially regulated by the frequency of GnRH pulses. LH secretion increases as the frequency increases within a physiological range, and FSH secretion shows a biphasic response, with a peak at a lower frequency. There is considerable experimental evidence that one key factor in these differential responses is the autocrine/paracrine actions of the pituitary polypeptides activin and follistatin. Based on these data, we develop a mathematical model that incorporates the dynamics of these polypeptides. We show that a model that incorporates the actions of activin and follistatin is sufficient to generate the differential responses of LH and FSH secretion to changes in the frequency of GnRH pulses. In addition, it shows that the actions of these polypeptides, along with the ovarian polypeptide inhibin and the estrogen-mediated variations in the frequency of GnRH pulses, are sufficient to account for the time courses of LH and FSH plasma levels during the rat estrous cycle. That is, a single peak of LH on the afternoon of proestrus and a double peak of FSH on proestrus and early estrus. We also use the model to identify which regulation pathways are indispensable for the differential regulation of LH and FSH and their time courses during the estrous cycle. We conclude that the actions of activin, inhibin, and follistatin are consistent with LH/FSH secretion patterns, and likely complement other factors in the production of the characteristic secretion patterns in female rats.




Meningiomas are usually cured by surgical resection. However, approximately 10% are characterized by more aggressive clinical behavior and higher risk of recurrence. Typically, recurrent meningiomas require further surgical resection followed, in some cases, by radiotherapy. To date, no chemotherapeutic agent has proven to be effective in either preventing or treating recurrence. The alkylating chemotherapeutic agent, Temozolomide (TMZ) has shown to increase overall survival in patients with glioblastoma (GBM) but its effectiveness for other types of brain tumor is less known. The clinical benefit of TMZ seems to be limited to those GBM tumors with promoter methylation of the MGMT gene. In this study, we assessed if a biologic rationale exists to support the use of TMZ as a treatment for meningiomas by assessing the MGMT promoter methylation status in these tumors using methylation specific PCR. We investigated the MGMT promoter methylation status in 36 tumors (32 newly diagnosed; 4 recurrent). Histologically, the majority were grade I. Patients were primarily female (64%) with a mean age of 52. None of the meningiomas in our series showed MGMT gene promoter methylation. Based on these data, we conclude that there is no biological rational to suggest that TMZ might have significant anti-meningioma activity.
Today, treatment recommendations for patients with all types of gliomas are based on light microscopic evaluation of tumor tissue with no allowance for genetic variability. Oligodendrogliomas are treated in a uniform manner with, as yet, no unique therapeutic approach or targeted therapy for those harboring a codeletion of chromosomes 1p and 19q. Surgical resection and radiotherapy are the standards-of-care for patients with oligodendrogliomas. Surgery improves symptoms, especially headache or seizures, and radiotherapy controls tumor growth for most patients. By extrapolation from randomized trials of glioblastoma, radiotherapy likely prolongs survival. Uncertainties persist about the timing of radiotherapy in the management of patients with low-grade oligodendrogliomas, but a superior antitumor treatment has yet to emerge. That said, the recognition that oligodendrogliomas with 1p/19q loss are sensitive to current therapies and slowly growing is already influencing our management of patients with this type of glioma, spawning trials in which patients are selected by molecular signature.
Presenilin-1 (PS1) and presenilin-2 (PS2) form the catalytic core in gamma-secretase complexes and mutations in these proteins result in aberrant cleavage of amyloid precursor protein leading to accumulation of the beta-amyloid in the brain of familial Alzheimer Disease patients. PS2 possesses a hydrophilic cytoplasmic N-terminal domain (PS2 NTF1-87) dispensable for gamma-secretase activity with physiological functions yet to be determined. The effects of this soluble 87 amino acid fragment of mouse PS2 on single channel activity of mouse brain ryanodine receptors (RyR) were determined. PS2 NTF1-87 application to the cytoplasmic side of the RyR significantly increased single channel activity by favoring higher sublevel openings. The Ca(2+) activation and desensitization ranges for RyRs were unchanged. We demonstrate facilitation of RyR gating by PS2 NTF1-87, which might represent a general mechanism of RyR regulation by presenilins potentially prone to be affected by mutations or external stimuli contributing to the development of neurodegenerative diseases.
Distinguishing telomeres from DNA double strand breaks is critical for genome stability. In S. cerevisiae, the Cdc13 single-strand telomere binding protein is critical for protecting chromosome ends. The C-rich telomere strand is lost at high temperatures in cdc13-1 strains, leading to activation of the DNA damage checkpoint and cell inviability. Through a screen performed to identify activities involved in telomere C-strand loss, we identified two new rad24 alleles. Rad24 is an alternate Rfc1 subunit, functioning to load the 9-1-1 checkpoint clamp. In each rad24 allele, a transposon inserted within the RAD24 coding region leads to expression of different carboxyl-terminal portions of Rad24, deleting or truncating the amino-terminus. We show that an intact Rad24 amino-terminus is necessary for its checkpoint function. Interestingly, the initial cdc13-1 rad24-2 strains grew at 36 degrees C, but the extent of suppression associated with rad24-2 weakened in serial backcrosses, and cdc13-1 segregants from these crosses showed a modest increase in temperature resistance. Moreover, while a RAD24 plasmid suppressed the checkpoint defect in the initial cdc13-1 rad24-2 strain, the temperature resistance was only partially suppressed. These data suggest that the TG(1-3) amplification observed in this strain contributes to the suppression phenotype. By recreating the rad24-2 allele in a strain with normal telomeres, we find that, relative to the rad24-delta allele, rad24-2 increases the frequency of obtaining cdc13-1 cells capable of growth at high temperatures. Our hypothesis is that the Rad24-2 truncation protein affects telomere structure or recombination in a manner distinct from rad24-delta.

Human prostacyclin receptor (hIP) stimulates STAT3 via pertussis toxin-insensitive G proteins in human erythroleukemia (HEL) cells. Since hIP can utilize G(s) and G(q) proteins for signal transduction and that both G proteins can induce STAT3 phosphorylation and activation via complex signaling networks, we sought to determine if one of them is predominant in mediating the hIP signal. Stimulation of STAT3 Tyr(705) and Ser(727) phosphorylations by the IP-specific agonist, cicaprost, was sensitive to inhibition of protein kinase A, phospholipase Cbeta, protein kinase C, calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II and Janus kinase 2/3. Unlike Galpha(16)-mediated regulation of STAT3 in the same cells, cicaprost-induced STAT3 Tyr(705) phosphorylation was resistant to inhibition of Src and MEK while STAT3 Ser(727) phosphorylation distinctly required phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase. This unique inhibitor-sensitivity pattern of STAT3 phosphorylation was reproduced in HEL cells by stimulating the G(16)-coupled C5a receptor in the presence of dibutyryl-cAMP, suggesting that the change in inhibitor-sensitivity was due to activation of the G(s) pathway. This postulation was confirmed by expressing constitutively active Galpha(16)QL and Galpha(s)QL in human embryonic kidney 293 cells and the inhibitor-sensitivity of Galpha(16)QL-induced STAT3 phosphorylations could be converted by the mere presence of Galpha(s)QL to resemble that obtained with cicaprost in HEL cells. In addition, the restoration of the Galpha(16)-mediated inhibitor-sensitivity upon cicaprost induction in Galpha(s)-knocked down HEL cells again verified the pivotal role of G(s) signal. Taken together, our observations illustrate that co-stimulation of G(s) and G(q) can result in the fine-tuning of STAT3 activation status, and this may provide the basis for cell type-specific responses following activation of hIP.
Transcripts for the PDE4A10 cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase isoform are present in a wide variety of rat tissues including the heart. Sequence comparisons between the putative human and mouse promoters revealed a number of conserved regions including both an Sp1 and a CREB-binding site. The putative mouse PDE4A10 promoter was amplified from genomic DNA and sub-cloned into a luciferase reporter vector for investigation of activity in neonatal cardiac myocytes. Transfection with this construct identified a high level of luciferase expression in neonatal cardiac myocytes. Surprisingly, this activity was down-regulated by elevation of intracellular cAMP through a process involving PKA, but not EPAC, signalling. Such inhibition of the rodent PDE4A10 promoter activity in response to elevated cAMP levels is in contrast to the PDE4 promoters so far described. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed that the Sp1 binding site at promoter position -348 to -336 is responsible for the basal constitutive expression of murine PDE4A10. The conserved CREB-binding motif at position -370 to -363 also contributes to basal promoter activity but does not in itself confer cAMP inhibition upon the PDE4A10 promoter. EMSA analysis confirmed the authenticity of CREB and Sp1 binding sites. The transcriptional start site was identified to be an adenine residue at position -55 in the mouse PDE4A10 promoter. We present evidence that this novel down-regulation of PDE4A10 is mediated by the transcription factor ICER in a PKA dependent manner. The pool of cAMP in cardiac myocytes that down-regulates PDE4A10 is regulated by beta-adrenoceptor coupled adenylyl cyclase activity and via hydrolysis determined predominantly by the action of PDE4 (cAMP phosphodiesterase-4) and not PDE3 (cAMP phosphodiesterase-3). We suggest that increased cAMP may remodel cAMP-mediated signalling events by not only increasing the expression of specific PDE4 cAMP phosphodiesterases but also by down-regulating specific isoforms, such as is shown here for PDE4A10 in cardiac myocytes.
The definition of the nerve cell types of the myenteric plexus of the mouse small intestine has become important, as more researchers turn to the use of mice with genetic mutations to analyze roles of specific genes and their products in enteric nervous system function and to investigate animal models of disease. We have used a suite of antibodies to define neurons by their shapes, sizes, and neurochemistry in the myenteric plexus. Anti-Hu antibodies were used to reveal all nerve cells, and the major subpopulations were defined in relation to the Hu-positive neurons. Morphological Type II neurons, revealed by anti-neurofilament and anti-calcitonin gene-related peptide antibodies, represented 26% of neurons. The axons of the Type II neurons projected through the circular muscle and submucosa to the mucosa. The cell bodies were immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), and their terminals were immunoreactive for vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). Nitric oxide synthase (NOS) occurred in 29% of nerve cells. Most were also immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal peptide, but they were not tachykinin (TK)-immunoreactive, and only 10% were ChAT-immunoreactive. Numerous NOS terminals occurred in the circular muscle. We deduced that 90% of NOS neurons were inhibitory motor neurons to the muscle (26% of all neurons) and 10% (3% of all neurons) were interneurons. Calretinin immunoreactivity was found in a high proportion of neurons (52%). Many of these had TK immunoreactivity. Small calretinin neurons were identified as excitatory neurons to the longitudinal muscle (about 20% of neurons, with ChAT/calretinin/+/- TK chemical coding). Excitatory neurons to the circular muscle (about 10% of neurons) had the same coding. Calretinin immunoreactivity also occurred in a proportion of Type II neurons. Thus, over 90% of neurons in the myenteric plexus of the mouse small intestine can be currently identified by their neurochemistry and shape.
The membrane transporter multi-drug resistance 1 (MDR1, P-gp) regulates the bioavailability of endogenous and exogenous compounds and has been implicated in disorders such as Parkinson's disease, cancer, epilepsy, human immunodeficiency virus disease, and inflammatory bowel disease. To promote further understanding of the role of MDR1 in disease, we have characterized cellular MDR1 mRNA expression in post-mortem human and fresh-frozen Sprague-Dawley rat tissues by using radioactive oligonucleotide probe in situ hybridization. We report MDR1 mRNA in human and rat endothelial cells of small vessels in the brain and pia mater. Mdr1 mRNA is also expressed in the blood vessel walls of rat sensory dorsal root and sympathetic ganglia. In peripheral tissues, we have observed MDR1 mRNA in human and rat liver and renal tubules and in human adrenal cortex and the epithelial lining of rat intestine. In female and male reproductive tissues of rat, strong gene activity has been found in steroid-hormone-synthesizing cells. Quantification of MDR1 mRNA in human striatum has revealed reduced levels in Parkinson patients compared with control individuals. The high expression of MDR1 mRNA in blood vessels of the nervous system, in tissues involved in absorption and excretion, and in tissues forming barriers to the environment support the physiological role of MDR1 as a regulator of intracellular levels of endogenous and exogenous compounds.
Nucleotides comprise a major class of signaling molecules in the nervous system. They can be released from nerve cells, glial cells, and vascular cells where they exert their function via ionotropic (P2X) or metabotropic (P2Y) receptors. Signaling via extracellular nucleotides and also adenosine is controlled and modulated by cell-surface-located enzymes (ectonucleotidases) that hydrolyze the nucleotide to the respective nucleoside. Extracellular hydrolysis of nucleotide ligands involves a considerable number of enzymes with differing catalytic properties differentially affecting the nucleotide signaling pathway. It is therefore important to investigate which type of ectonucleotidase(s) contributes to the control of nucleotide signaling in distinct cellular and physiological settings. By using a classical enzyme histochemical approach and employing various substrates, inhibitors, and knockout animals, we provide, for the first time, a comparative analysis of the overall distribution of catalytic activities reflecting four ectonucleotidase families: ecto-5'-nucleotidase, alkaline phosphatases, ectonucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolases (E-NTPDases), and ectonucleotide pyrophyphatases/phosphodiesterases (E-NPPs). We place into perspective the earlier literature and provide novel evidence for a parenchymal localization of tissue non-specific alkaline phosphatase, E-NPPs, and E-NTPDases in the mouse brain. In addition, we specify the location of ectonucleotidases within the brain vasculature. Most notably, brain vessels do not express ecto-5'-nucleotidase. The preponderance of individual enzymes differs considerably between brain locations. The contribution of all types of ectonucleotidases thus needs to be considered in physiological and pharmacological studies of purinergic signaling in the brain.

We carried out a population-based case-control study to evaluate the association between multiple sclerosis (MS) and headache. We had previously determined the incidence of MS during 1990-1999 in Catania, Sicily, identifying 155 incident MS patients; these subjects underwent a telephone interview using a standardized questionnaire for headache. Diagnosis and classification of headaches were made according to International Headache Society criteria (1988). A control group was selected from the general population through random digit dialling. One hundred and one (65.2%) MS patients, of the 155 identified, and 101 controls were screened for headaches. Fifty-eight (57.4%) MS patients and 38 (37.2%) controls fulfilled the diagnostic criteria of headache. A significant association between MS and headache was found with an adjusted odds ratio, estimated by logistic regression, of 2.18 (95% confidence interval 1.27, 3.93). Frequency of headaches in our MS population is higher than in the general population, supporting the hypothesis of a possible association between these two conditions.
According to the consolidation hypothesis, enhanced memory for emotional information reflects the modulatory effect of the amygdala on the medial temporal lobe (MTL) memory system during consolidation. Although there is evidence that amygdala-MTL connectivity enhances memory for emotional stimuli, it remains unclear whether this enhancement increases over time, as consolidation processes unfold. To investigate this, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure encoding activity predicting memory for emotionally negative and neutral pictures after short (20-min) versus long (1-week) delays. Memory measures distinguished between vivid remembering (recollection) and feelings of knowing (familiarity). Consistent with the consolidation hypothesis, the persistence of recollection over time (long divided by short) was greater for emotional than neutral pictures. Activity in the amygdala predicted subsequent memory to a greater extent for emotional than neutral pictures. Although this advantage did not vary with delay, the contribution of amygdala-MTL connectivity to subsequent memory for emotional items increased over time. Moreover, both this increase in connectivity and amygdala activity itself were correlated with individual differences in recollection persistence for emotional but not neutral pictures. These results suggest that the amygdala and its connectivity with the MTL are critical to sustaining emotional memories over time, consistent with the consolidation hypothesis.
It is well established that spatially directed attention enhances visual perceptual processing. However, the earliest level at which processing can be affected remains unknown. To date, there has been no report of modulation of the earliest visual event-related potential component &quot;C1&quot; in humans, which indexes initial afference in primary visual cortex (V1). Thus it has been suggested that initial V1 activity is impenetrable, and that the earliest modulations occur in extrastriate cortex. However, the C1 is highly variable across individuals, to the extent that uniform measurement across a group may poorly reflect the dynamics of V1 activity. In the present study we employed an individualized mapping procedure to control for such variability. Parameters for optimal C1 measurement were determined in an independent, preliminary &quot;probe&quot; session and later applied in a follow-up session involving a spatial cueing task. In the spatial task, subjects were cued on each trial to direct attention toward 1 of 2 locations in anticipation of an imperative Gabor stimulus and were required to detect a region of lower luminance appearing within the Gabor pattern 30% of the time at the cued location only. Our data show robust spatial attentional enhancement of the C1, beginning as early as its point of onset (57 ms). Source analysis of the attentional modulations points to generation in striate cortex. This finding demonstrates that at the very moment that visual information first arrives in cortex, it is already being shaped by the brain's attentional biases.
Word comprehension engages the left ventrolateral prefrontal (lVLPFC) and posterior lateral-temporal cortices (PLTC). The contributions of these brain regions to comprehension remain controversial. We hypothesized that the PLTC activates meanings, whereas the lVLPFC resolves competition between representations. To test this hypothesis, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to assess the independent effects of adaptation and competition on neural activity. Participants judged the relatedness of word pairs. Some consecutive pairs contained a common ambiguous word. The same or different meanings of this word were primed (e.g., SUMMER-FAN, CEILING-FAN; ADMIRER-FAN, CEILING-FAN). Based on the logic of fMRI adaptation, trials with more semantic overlap should produce more adaptation (less activation) in regions that activate meaning. In contrast, trials with more semantic ambiguity should produce more activation in regions that resolve competition. We observed a double dissociation between activity in the PLTC and lVLPFC. LPLTC activity depended on the amount of semantic overlap, irrespective of the amount of semantic ambiguity. In contrast, lVLPFC activity depended on the amount of semantic ambiguity. Moreover, across participants the size of the competition effect as measured by errors was correlated with the size of the competition effect in the lVLPFC. We conclude that the lVLPFC is an executive mechanism within language processing.
Long-term familiarity facilitates recognition of visual stimuli. To better understand the neural basis for this effect, we measured the local field potential (LFP) and multiunit spiking activity (MUA) from the inferior temporal (IT) lobe of behaving monkeys in response to novel and familiar images. In general, familiar images evoked larger amplitude LFPs whereas MUA responses were greater for novel images. Familiarity effects were attenuated by image rotations in the picture plane of 45 degrees. Decreasing image contrast led to more pronounced decreases in LFP response magnitude for novel, compared with familiar images, and resulted in more selective MUA response profiles for familiar images. The shape of individual LFP traces could be used for stimulus classification, and classification performance was better for the familiar image category. Recording the visual and auditory evoked LFP at multiple depths showed significant alterations in LFP morphology with distance changes of 2 mm. In summary, IT cortex shows local processing differences for familiar and novel images at a time scale and in a manner consistent with the observed behavioral advantage for classifying familiar images and rapidly detecting novel stimuli.
The effects of interrupting an event-based prospective memory (PM) task and its associated ongoing task were compared for two groups of children: 8- to 9-year-olds (n = 35) and 12- to 13-year-olds (n = 28). Additionally, PM performance was examined as a function of attainment on a battery of tests of executive functioning (viz., Controlled Oral Word Association Test, Letter Number Sequencing Test, Stroop Color and Word Test, and Trail Making Test). A significant main effect of age indicated that the older children correctly carried out intended actions more often than the younger children. Consistent with the prefrontal model of PM, interruption had no impact on PM accuracy in the older group but produced reliable decrements to the accuracy of the younger group. Whereas IQ showed no association with PM performance, reliable relations between PM skills and aspects of their executive functioning were found.


1. It is known that inflammation influences peripheral and central mu-opioid receptor expression. Previous studies have indicated that glucocorticoids may influence the density of mu-opioid receptors. In the present study, we investigated the fluctuations of spinal mu-opioid receptor expression and hyperalgesia induced by complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) under long-term administration of dexamethasone. 2. Adjuvant arthritis (AA) was induced by subcutaneous injection of CFA in the right hindpaw of male Wistar rats. Spinal mu-opioid receptor expression was detected by semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction on Days 6 and 21 following AA induction. Dexamethasone (0.1 mg/kg) was administered intraperitoneally for 21 days. Variations in thermal hyperalgesia were checked by radiant heat on the same days as mu-opioid receptor expression was determined. 3. The results indicated a significant increase in spinal mu-opioid receptor expression on Days 6 and 21 after AA induction compared with the control group. Spinal mu-opioid receptor expression decreased significantly only on Day 21 in the AA + dexamethasone group compared with the AA alone group. Thermal hyperalgesia on Day 6 after AA induction showed a significant increase compared with the control group. Hyperalgesia decreased significantly on Day 21 after AA compared with Day 6. The AA + dexamethasone group showed a significant decrease in hyperalgesia on Day 6 compared with the AA group, but hyperalgesia increased significantly on Day 21 in the AA + dexamethasone group compared with the AA group. 4. The effects of long-term dexamethasone on both spinal mu-opioid receptor expression and hyperalgesia during persistent AA inflammation are time dependent. In addition, the effect of long-term dexamethasone administration on hyperalgesia during persistent arthritis inflammation needs to be investigated further.


Postural instability and falls are common and devastating features of ageing and many neurological, visual, vestibular or orthopedic disorders. Current management of these problems is hampered by the subjective and variable nature of the available clinical balance measures. In this narrative review, we discuss the clinical utility of posturography as a more objective and quantitative measure of balance and postural instability, focusing on several areas where clinicians presently experience the greatest difficulties in managing their patients: (a) to make an appropriate differential diagnosis in patients presenting with falls or balance impairment; (b) to reliably identify those subjects who are at risk of falling; (c) to objectively and quantitatively document the outcome of therapeutic interventions; and (d) to gain a better pathophysiological understanding of postural instability and falls, as a basis for the development of improved treatment strategies to prevent falling. In each of these fields, posturography offers several theoretical advantages and, when applied correctly, provides a useful tool to gain a better understanding of pathophysiological mechanisms in patients with balance disorders, at the group level. However, based on the available evidence, none of the existing techniques is currently able to significantly influence the clinical decision making in individual patients. We critically review the shortcomings of posturography as it is presently used, and conclude with several recommendations for future research.
This study was designed to clarify whether transplantation of fetal olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) would affect the clinical course of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Thirty-five patients with probable or definite ALS were enrolled from December 2004 to September 2006; 15 patients received OECs transplantation and 20 patients did not receive OECs transplantation. OECs were cultured and injected into the bilateral corona radiata involving the pyramidal tracts of the frontal lobes. The primary end point used to indicate effectiveness was the rate of change according to the ALS Functional Rating Scale (ALS-FRS) total score. All patients were tested five times at baseline and monthly intervals during a four-month follow-up period using assessment of ALS-FRS. Thirty-one patients (14 in the OECs treated group and 17 in the controls) completed the four-month study; the remaining four patients were lost to follow-up. Patients' data were analyzed four months after OECs transplantation and at the end of the controlled period. There was no significant difference in the rate of progression as measured by the ALS-FRS total score during the first two months (p &gt; 0.05). The functional deterioration, however, was significantly slower in the treated group than in the control group during the last two months (p &lt; 0.05). The mean (+/-SD) change for the ALS-FRS total score was 0.07 +/- 4.18 for the treated group and 6.12 +/- 5.49 for the control group (p = 0.002) during the four months. Of the 14 patients in the treatment group, seven experienced neurological functional improvements, two were stable compared with their clinical status at entry, and the ALS-FRS scores in the other five decreased by a mean of 4.4. Of the 17 patients in the control group, only one patient's condition remained stable while the ALS-FRS scores in the other 16 decreased by a mean of 6.5. The result indicates OECs transplantation appears to be able to slow the rate of clinical progression of ALS in the first four months posttransplantation.
Considerable research into the neurobiology of cocaine addiction has shed light on the role of glutamate. Findings from models of relapse to cocaine-seeking indicate that the glutamatergic system is critically involved, as glutamate levels in the nucleus accumbens increase during reinstatement and glutamate receptor activation is necessary for reinstatement to drug-seeking. Thus, it would seem beneficial to block the increased glutamate release, but full antagonists of ionotropic glutamate receptors produce undesirable side effects. Therefore, modulation of glutamatergic transmission would be advantageous and provide novel pharmacotherapeutic avenues. Pharmacotherapies have been developed that have the potential to modulate excessive glutamatergic transmission through ionotropic and metabotropic (mGluR) glutamate receptors. Compounds that modulate glutamatergic transmission through ionotropic glutamate receptors include the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartic acid antagonists, amantadine and memantine, and the partial N-methyl-D-aspartic acid agonist d-cycloserine. They have shown promise in preclinical models of cocaine addiction. The mGluR2/3 agonist LY379268 is effective in inhibiting cocaine seeking in preclinical animal models and could decrease stress-induced relapse due to its anxiolytic effects. Similarly, the mGluR1/5 antagonists, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine and 3-[2-methyl-4-thiazolyl)ethynyl]pyridine, have shown to be effective in preclinical models of cocaine addiction. The cysteine pro-drug, N-acetylcysteine, restores the inhibitory tone on presynaptic glutamate receptors and has been effective in reducing cue-induced craving and cocaine use in humans. Furthermore, anticonvulsants, such as topiramate or lamotrigine, have shown efficacy in treating cocaine dependence or reducing relapse in humans. Future pharmacotherapy may focus on manipulating signal transduction proteins and pathways, which include Homer/N-methyl-D-aspartic acid complexes, to provide effective treatment for cocaine addiction.
Tobacco addiction is one of the leading preventable causes of mortality in the world and nicotine appears to be the main critical psychoactive component in establishing and maintaining tobacco dependence. Several lines of evidence suggest that the rewarding effects of nicotine, which underlie its abuse potential, can be modulated by manipulating the endocannabinoid system. For example, pharmacological blockade or genetic deletion of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors reduces or eliminates many behavioral and neurochemical effects of nicotine that are related to its addictive potential. This review will focus on the recently published literature about the role of the endocannabinoid system in nicotine addiction and on the endocannabinoid system as a novel molecular target for the discovery of medications for tobacco dependence.
Drug addiction is a chronic, relapsing disorder that is characterized by a compulsion to take drug regardless of the adverse consequences that may ensue. Although the involvement of mesoaccumbal dopamine neurons in the initiation of drug abuse is well-established, neuroadaptations within the limbic cortical- striatopallidal circuit that occur as a consequence of repeated drug use are thought to lead to the behavioral dysregulation that characterizes addiction. Opioid receptors and their endogenous ligands are enriched in brain regions comprising this system and are, thus, strategically located to modulate neurotransmission therein. This article will review data suggesting an important role of mu-opioid receptor (MOPr) and delta opioid receptor (DOPr) systems in mediating the rewarding effects of several classes of abused drugs and that aberrant activity of these opioid systems may not only contribute to the behavioral dysregulation that characterizes addiction but to individual differences in addiction vulnerability.

Evidence from human cognitive neuroscience, animal neurophysiology, and behavioral research demonstrates that human adults, infants, and children share a common nonverbal quantity processing system with nonhuman animals. This system appears to represent both discrete and continuous quantity, but the proper characterization of the relationship between judgments of discrete and continuous quantity remains controversial. Some researchers have suggested that both continuous and discrete quantity may be automatically extracted from a scene and represented internally, and that competition between these representations leads to Stroop interference. Here, four experiments provide evidence for a different explanation of adults' performance on the types of tasks that have been said to demonstrate Stroop interference between representations of discrete and continuous quantity. Our well-established tendency to underestimate individual two-dimensional areas can provide an alternative explanation (introduced here as the &quot;illusory-Stroop&quot; hypothesis). Though these experiments were constructed like Stroop tasks, and they produce patterns of performance that initially appear consistent with Stroop interference, Stroop interference effects are not involved. Implications for models of the construction of cumulative area representations and for theories of discrete and continuous quantity processing in large sets are discussed.
The formation and maintenance of social bonds in adulthood is an essential component of human health. However studies investigating the underlying neurobiology of such behaviors have been scarce. Microtine rodents offer a unique comparative animal model to explore the neural processes responsible for pair bonding and its associated behaviors. Studies using monogamous prairie voles and other related species have recently offered insight into the neuroanatomical, neurobiological, and neurochemical underpinnings of social attachment. In this review, we will discuss the utility of the microtine rodents in comparative studies by exploring their natural history and social behavior in the laboratory. We will then summarize the data implicating vasopressin, oxytocin, and dopamine in the regulation of pair bonding. Finally, we will discuss the ways in which these neurochemical systems may interact to mediate this complex behavior.
We still lack operative and theoretically founded definitions of what a personality disorder (PD) is, as well as empirically validated and feasible instruments to measure the disorder construct. The Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) is the only personality instrument that explicitly distinguishes personality style and disordered functioning. Here, we seek to (1) confirm in a clinical sample that the character dimensions of the TCI capture a general construct of PD across all specific PD subtypes, (2) determine whether such core features can be used to detect the presence of PD, and (3) analyze whether such detection is affected by the presence and severity of Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) Axis I symptoms. Two hundred five anxious/depressed outpatients were evaluated with the Structural Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I and II Disorders. Assessment also included the TCI, the Hamilton rating scales for depression and anxiety, and the Panic and Agoraphobia Scale. Sixty-one patients (29.8%) were diagnosed as having a DSM-IV PD. Self-directedness and Cooperativeness, but no other TCI dimensions, predicted the presence of PD (Nagelkerke R(2) = 0.35-0.45) and had a moderate diagnostic utility (kappa = 0.47-0.58) when Axis I symptoms were absent or mild. However, accuracy decreased in anxious or depressed patients. Our study supports the hypothesis of a disorder construct that is not related to the intensity of any specific PD subtype but which is common to all PDs. This construct relies largely on internal representations of the self revealing ineffectiveness and uncooperativeness.

INTRODUCTIONThe ability to prospectively identify and characterize neural progenitor cells in vivo has been difficult due to a lack of cell-surface markers specific for these cell types. A widely used in vitro culture method, known as the Neurosphere Assay (NSA), has provided a means to retrospectively identify neural progenitor cells as well as to determine both their self-renewal capacity and their ability to generate the three primary cell types of the nervous system: neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. Today, combined with the establishment of multiple transgenic mouse strains expressing fluorescent markers and advances in cell isolation techniques such as fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS), the NSA provides a powerful system to prospectively elucidate neural progenitor characteristics and functions. Here we describe methods for the isolation, culture, and differentiation of neural progenitors from the developing mouse and adult cortex.
This article reviews the current literature investigating the applications and success of immune modulatory oligonucleotides as immunotherapy to treat and prevent allergen-induced eustachian tube dysfunction in animal models. Synthetic DNA-based immunotherapy agents composed of unmethylated cytosine-guanine dinucleotides (CpG ODNs) that bind to Toll-like receptors have been found to have tremendous potential as therapeutic agents and adjuvants. CpG ODNs can induce a shift in the cytokine profile and immune response that favors the T-helper type 1 pathway and suppresses the T-helper type 2 pathway. This makes CpG ODNs promising candidates for treating allergic diseases. Current CpG ODN studies have demonstrated prevention and treatment of acute allergen inflammation of the eustachian tube in an animal model of otitis media. Immune modulatory oligonucleotides in immunotherapy, administered systemically or topically, have been shown to be safe and effective in the animal model.
Cannabis preparations as recreational drugs are the most widely used illicit drugs in the world. Although cannabis derivatives produce clear subjective motivational responses in humans leading to drug-seeking behavior and in a specific proportion in repeated drug use, the reinforcing/rewarding attributes of these subjective effects are difficult to define in experimental animals. This led to the notion of cannabinoids being considered as &quot;atypical&quot; or &quot;anomalous&quot; drugs of abuse. To this end, our knowledge and understanding of the way cannabis and its main psychoactive constituent, Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (Delta(9)-THC), act in the central nervous system to exert their reinforcing/rewarding effects is far from complete. The aim of the present article is to review from a preclinical perspective the current status of what is known about the behavioral pharmacology of cannabinoids including the recently identified cannabinoid neurotransmission modifiers with a particular emphasis on their motivational/reinforcing and dependence-producing properties. We conclude that cannabinoids exhibit reinforcing/rewarding properties in experimental animals mostly under particular experimental conditions, which is not the case for other drugs of abuse, such as opiates, psychostimulants, alcohol and nicotine. The paper will discuss these findings critically and also point to open questions that should be addressed in the future in order to improve our understanding of these specific actions of cannabinoids that will also impact drug discovery and development efforts of related compounds as therapeutics in the clinic.
Each year, smoking-related illnesses are among the leading causes of preventable death in the U.S. and in many other countries. Although recently there have been substantial developments in pharmaceutical and behavioral smoking cessation treatments, these interventions do not work for all individuals, necessitating development of a wider array of treatments. Despite demonstrated efficacy in several studies, contingency management (CM) is a behavioral intervention that is not widely used as a smoking cessation treatment. This review surveys the current research literature on the efficacy of CM for smoking reduction, and identifies some of the most prominent barriers to wider implementation of CM as a stop-smoking treatment. Suggestions are made for future research to design behavioral smoking cessation programs that may be applied as a treatment for smokers in the community.
Testing new compounds for pro-arrhythmic potential has focused in recent years on avoiding activity at the hERG K+ channel, as hERG block is a common feature of many pro-arrhythmic compounds associated with Torsades de Pointes in humans. Blockers of hERG are well known to prolong cardiac action potentials and lead to long QT syndrome, and activators, although rarer, can lead to short QT syndrome. The most reliable assays of hERG utilize stable cell lines, and include ligand binding, Rb+ flux and electrophysiology (both automated and manual). These assays can be followed by measurement of activity at other ion channels contributing to cardiac contractility and detailed action potential/repolarization measurements in cardiac tissue. An integrated risk assessment for pro-arrhythmic potential is ultimately required, as the constellation of ion channel activities and potencies, along with the mechanism/kinetics of ion channel block, may ultimately be the best predictor of cardiac risk in vivo.
Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) is recognized as a central factor in growth, survival and permeability of blood vessels in both physiological and pathological conditions. It is as such of importance for vascular responses in various central nervous system (CNS) disorders. Accumulating evidence suggest that VEGF may also act as a neuroprotective and neurotrophic factor supporting neuronal survival and neuronal regeneration. Findings of neuropilins as shared co-receptors between molecules with such seemingly different functions as the axon guidance molecules semaphorins and VEGF has further boosted the interest in the role of VEGF in neural tissue injury and repair mechanisms. Thus, VEGF most likely act in parallel or concurrent on cells in both the vascular and nervous system. The present review gives a summary of known or potential aspects of the VEGF system in the healthy and diseased nervous system. The potential benefits but also problems and pitfalls in intervening in the actions of such a multifunctional factor as VEGF in the disordered CNS are also covered.








Patients with acute ischemic stroke are at high risk of neurologic and medical complications, such as space-occupying edema formation, hemorrhagic transformation of the infarct, epileptic seizures, depression, and venous thromboembolism. They should therefore be monitored closely for early detection of these complications. Care is best when the patient is admitted to a specialized stroke unit. The multidisciplinary approach provided by stroke units, including specialized medical, nursing, and remedial therapies, reduces the duration of hospitalization and improves functional outcome. For many complications, however, optimal treatment and its effect on functional outcome after stroke has not been established. Therefore, in addition to the ongoing acute intervention trials, well-designed, large randomized trials are needed to address the prevention and treatment of complications and their effect on functional outcome.
The spinal cord contains several distinct classes of neurons but it is still unclear how many of the functional characteristics of these cells are specified. One of the most crucial functional characteristics of a neuron is its neurotransmitter fate. In this paper, we show that in zebrafish most glycinergic and many GABAergic spinal interneurons express Pax2a, Pax2b and Pax8 and that these transcription factors are redundantly required for the neurotransmitter fates of many of these cells. We also demonstrate that the function of these Pax2/8 transcription factors is very specific: in embryos in which Pax2a, Pax2b and Pax8 are simultaneously knocked-down, many neurons lose their glycinergic and/or GABAergic characteristics, but they do not become glutamatergic or cholinergic and their soma morphologies and axon trajectories are unchanged. In mouse, Pax2 is required for correct specification of GABAergic interneurons in the dorsal horn, but it is not required for the neurotransmitter fates of other Pax2-expressing spinal neurons. Our results suggest that this is probably due to redundancy with Pax8 and that the function of Pax2/8 in specifying GABAergic and glycinergic neuronal fates is much broader than was previously appreciated and is highly conserved between different vertebrates.
Multiple Fgfs are expressed during formation and patterning of the telencephalon in vertebrates. Fgf8 has been shown to control the size of the telencephalon and the development of signaling centers in zebrafish and mouse. Next to Fgf8, Fgf3 also influences telencephalic gene expression in the zebrafish. Moreover, Fgf3 and Fgf8 have been shown to have combinatorial functions during forebrain development in this species. Here, we have examined telencephalic development in Fgf3 null mouse mutants and embryos that lack both Fgf3 and Fgf8 in their forebrain. In contrast to zebrafish, Fgf3 mutants show normal forebrain development and expression of telencephalic marker genes. Although double mutants for Fgf3 and Fgf8 show a further reduction of forebrain size no additional changes of telencephalic gene expression are observed compared with Fgf8 mutants. Therefore unlike in zebrafish, Fgf3 is not required for mouse forebrain development whereas Fgf8 has a central role during this process.
The aim of this review was to assess the evidence regarding the effectiveness of aerobic training interventions for children with cerebral palsy (CP). The target population included children with CP of any severity, aged 2 to 17 years. The following databases were searched for English language studies from 1960 to 2006: MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, Pascal, Cochrane Library, CSA Neuroscience Abstracts, The Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro), and Sport Discus. Search terms included 'cerebral palsy', 'athetoid', 'ataxic', 'spastic diplegia', 'hemiplegia', 'quadriplegia', 'aerobic', 'exercise', 'training', 'physical activity', 'aquatic/water/pool therapy', and 'continuous exercise'. The American Academy for Cerebral Palsy and Developmental Medicine systematic review guidelines were used to format the review. One thousand, four hundred and eighty nine articles were identified and examined for the stated inclusion and exclusion criteria. Thirteen articles met the criteria for inclusion. The evidence suggests that aerobic exercise with children with CP can improve physiological outcomes, but the influence of these changes on outcomes representing activity and participation are unknown. Future research needs improved methodological rigour in order to determine a specific set of exercise guidelines and safety considerations.
We review recently published papers that have contributed to our understanding of how the preverbal infant represents number, area and time. We review evidence that infants rely on two distinct systems to represent number nonverbally and highlight the similarities in the ratio-dependent discrimination of number, time and area. Contrary to earlier assertions that continuous dimensions are more salient (and thus more discriminable) to the infant than numerosity, we argue that the opposite conclusion is better supported by the data. The preverbal infant may be better able to extract numerosity than continuous variables from arrays of discrete items.
Neurogenesis in Drosophila and mammals requires the precise integration of spatial and temporal cues. In Drosophila, embryonic neural progenitors (neuroblasts) sequentially express the transcription factors Hunchback, Kruppel, Pdm1/Pdm2 (Pdm) and Castor as they generate a stereotyped sequence of neuronal and glial progeny. Hunchback and Kruppel specify early temporal identity in two posterior neuroblast lineages (NB7-1 and NB7-3), whereas Pdm and Castor specify late neuronal identity in the NB7-1 lineage. Because Pdm and Castor have only been assayed in one lineage, it is unknown whether their function is restricted to neuronal identity in the NB7-1 lineage, or whether they function more broadly as late temporal identity genes in all neuroblast lineages. Here, we identify neuronal birth-order and molecular markers within the NB3-1 cell lineage, and then use this lineage to assay Pdm and Castor function. We show that Hunchback and Kruppel specify first and second temporal identities, respectively. Surprisingly, Pdm does not specify the third temporal identity, but instead acts as a timing factor to close the second temporal identity window. Similarly, Castor closes the third temporal identity window. We conclude that Hunchback and Kruppel specify the first and second temporal identities, an unknown factor specifies the third temporal identity, and Pdm and Castor are timing factors that close the second and third temporal identity windows in the NB3-1 lineage. Our results provide a new neuroblast lineage for investigating temporal identity and reveal the importance of Pdm and Cas as timing factors that close temporal identity windows.
We investigated characteristics of multifocal electroretinograms (mfERG) from in vitro perfused porcine eyes. TTX, NMDA, APB, and PDA were used to identify contributions to the mfERG from inner retinal neurons, ON-pathway, OFF-pathway, and photoreceptors. The cellular contributions of the first-order kernel (K1) in an isolated perfused porcine mfERG came from both inner and outer retina, and were similar to those of in vivo porcine mfERG. In addition, application of isoflurane and propofol caused interference with the mfERG response which resembled inner retinal activities sensitive to TTX + NMDA application. Improved understanding of the cellular origins of the perfused porcine mfERG, in the absence of anesthetic agents, is useful for identifying changes shown in the waveform under anesthesia.
Aerobic exercise can serve as an alternative, non-drug reinforcer in laboratory animals and has been recommended as a potential intervention for substance abusing populations. Unfortunately, relatively little empirical data have been collected that specifically address the possible protective effects of voluntary, long-term exercise on measures of drug self-administration. The purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of chronic exercise on sensitivity to the positive-reinforcing effects of cocaine in the drug self-administration procedure. Female rats were obtained at weaning and immediately divided into two groups. Sedentary rats were housed individually in standard laboratory cages that permitted no exercise beyond normal cage ambulation; exercising rats were housed individually in modified cages equipped with a running wheel. After 6 weeks under these conditions, rats were surgically implanted with venous catheters and trained to self-administer cocaine on a fixed-ratio schedule of reinforcement. Once self-administration was acquired, cocaine was made available on a progressive ratio schedule and breakpoints were obtained for various doses of cocaine. Sedentary and exercising rats did not differ in the time to acquire cocaine self-administration or responding on the fixed-ratio schedule of reinforcement. However, on the progressive ratio schedule, breakpoints were significantly lower in exercising rats than sedentary rats when responding was maintained by both low (0.3mg/kg/infusion) and high (1.0mg/kg/infusion) doses of cocaine. In exercising rats, greater exercise output prior to catheter implantation was associated with lower breakpoints at the high dose of cocaine. These data indicate that chronic exercise decreases the positive-reinforcing effects of cocaine and support the possibility that exercise may be an effective intervention in drug abuse prevention and treatment programs.
Heightened impulsivity and differential sensitivity to a drug's behavioral effects are traits that, individually, have been associated with chronic drug use and dependence. Here, we used an animal model to test whether individual differences in cocaine-induced activity are predictive of impulsive choice behavior. Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats were given cocaine (10mg/kg, i.p.) and classified into low or high cocaine responders (LCRs or HCRs, respectively) based on their locomotor response in an open-field arena. Rats were then trained in a delay-discounting task that offers a choice between immediately delivered, but smaller reinforcements, or larger reinforcements that are delivered after a delay. We also examined the effects of amphetamine (AMPH; 0.3-1.0mg/kg) and the 5-HT1A agonist 8-OH-DPAT (0.3-1.0mg/kg) on delay-discounting. Lastly, all rats were retested in the open-field to determine if phenotypes were stable. We observed baseline differences in choice behavior between the groups, with HCRs behaving more impulsively (i.e., choosing the small reinforcement) compared to LCRs. AMPH decreased choice of the large reinforcement in LCRs, but did not alter choice in HCRs. Impulsive choice was increased in both phenotypes following 8-OH-DPAT, with LCRs exhibiting changes across a wider range of delays. When cocaine-induced open-field behavior was retested, responses in LCRs were similar whereas HCRs showed evidence of tolerance. Our results suggest that differential sensitivity to cocaine-induced locomotion is predictive of impulsivity and the potential neurobiological differences in LCRs and HCRs may provide insight into mechanisms contributing to vulnerability for chronic drug use and/or dependence.
Deficits in verbal short-term memory have been identified as one factor underlying reading and spelling disorders. However, the nature of this deficit is still unclear. It has been proposed that poor readers make less use of phonological coding, especially if the task can be solved through visual strategies. In the framework of Baddeley's phonological loop model, this study examined serial recall performance in German second-grade children with poor vs good reading and spelling abilities. Children were presented with four-item lists of common nouns for immediate serial recall. Word length and phonological similarity as well as presentation modality (visual vs auditory) and type of recall (visual vs verbal) were varied as within-subject factors in a mixed design. Word length and phonological similarity effects did not differ between groups, thus indicating equal use of phonological coding and rehearsal in poor and good readers. However, in all conditions, except the one that combined visual presentation and visual recall, overall performance was significantly lower in poor readers. The results suggest that the poor readers' difficulties do not arise from an avoidance of the phonological loop, but from its inefficient use. An alternative account referring to unstable phonological representations in long-term memory is discussed.


During the female reproductive cycle, the neuroendocrine action of estradiol switches from negative feedback to positive feedback to initiate the preovulatory GnRH and subsequent LH surges. Estrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha) is required for both estradiol negative and positive feedback regulation of LH. ERalpha may signal through estrogen response elements (EREs) in DNA and/or via ERE-independent pathways. Previously, a knock-in mutant allele (ERalpha-/AA) that selectively restores ERE-independent signaling onto the ERalpha-/- background was shown to confer partial negative but not positive estradiol feedback on serum LH. The current study investigated the roles of the ERE-dependent and ERE-independent ERalpha pathways for estradiol feedback at the level of GnRH neuron firing activity. The above ERalpha genetic models were crossed with GnRH-green fluorescent protein mice to enable identification of GnRH neurons in brain slices. Targeted extracellular recordings were used to monitor GnRH neuron firing activity using an ovariectomized, estradiol-treated mouse model that exhibits diurnal switches between negative and positive feedback. In wild-type mice, GnRH neuron firing decreased in response to estradiol during negative feedback and increased during positive feedback. In contrast, both positive and negative responses to estradiol were absent in GnRH neurons from ERalpha-/- and ERalpha-/AA mice. ERE-dependent signaling is thus required to increase GnRH neuron firing to generate a GnRH/LH surge. Furthermore, ERE-dependent and -independent ERalpha signaling pathways both appear necessary to mediate estradiol negative feedback on serum LH levels, suggesting central and pituitary estradiol feedback may use different combinations of ERalpha signaling pathways.
A switch in the balance of estradiol feedback actions from negative to positive initiates the GnRH surge, triggering the LH surge that causes ovulation. Using an ovariectomized, estradiol-treated (OVX+E) mouse model that exhibits daily switches between negative in the morning and positive feedback in the evening, we investigated the roles of fast synaptic transmission in regulating GnRH neuron firing during negative and positive feedback. Targeted extracellular recordings were used to monitor activity of GnRH neurons from OVX+E and OVX mice in control solution or solution with antagonists to both ionotropic glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors (blockade). Blockade had no effect on activity of OVX cells. In contrast, in OVX+E cells in the morning, blockade increased activity compared with control cells, whereas in the evening, blockade decreased activity. In vivo barbiturate sedation of OVX+E mice that blocked LH surge induction prevented the in vitro evening changes in firing rate and response to blockade. These observations suggest at least partial inversion of the negative-to-positive switch in estradiol feedback action and indicate that changes in fast synaptic transmission to GnRH neurons and within the network of cells presynaptic to GnRH neurons are critical for mediating estradiol negative and positive feedback actions on GnRH neurons. Fast synaptic transmission may also affect GnRH neuron activity indirectly through altering release of excitatory and inhibitory neuromodulators onto GnRH neurons at specific times of day. Fast synaptic transmission is thus critical for proper generation and timing of the GnRH surge.
Previous work has implicated the forebrain glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in feedback regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis. The present series of experiments used male mice with a targeted forebrain-specific GR knockout (in which forebrain includes the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and basolateral amygdala) to determine the role of forebrain GR in HPA axis regulation after stress. The data indicate that the forebrain GR is necessary for maintaining basal regulation of corticosterone secretion in the morning, confirming its role in HPA axis regulation. Our data further indicate that the forebrain GR is necessary for negative feedback after both mild and robust acute psychogenic stressors but not hypoxia, a systemic stressor. In contrast, forebrain-specific GR knockout and control mice exhibit equivalent HPA axis hyperactivity and facilitation after chronic variable stress, suggesting that changes in forebrain GR are not essential for chronic stress-induced pathology. These studies provide novel and definitive evidence that the forebrain GR selectively contributes negative feedback regulation of HPA axis responses to psychogenic stressors. Moreover, the data indicate that chronic stress-induced alterations in HPA axis function are mediated by mechanisms independent of the forebrain GR. Overall, the data are consistent with an essential role of the forebrain GR in coordinating endocrine responses to stimuli of a psychological origin.
Tremendous concern has arisen in response to the recent diagnostic outbreak of childhood developmental disorders, particularly involving attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and the autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Interestingly, similarities in clinical presentation across these disorders may suggest common predisposing factors. For instance, though not widely recognized, an increased predisposition toward seizure is a symptom that is very often associated with ADHD and ASD. Accordingly, a rat strain naturally bred to be seizure-prone simultaneously developed behavioral and physical characteristics analogous to those observed in ADHD/ASD patients. These rats also show early signs of aberrant lipid handling, which is another symptom common to human patients with these disorders. As such, this rat strain could serve as an excellent model system through which to identify common pathophysiological events that constitute a&quot;spectrum of vulnerability&quot;toward ADHD/ASD and epilepsy.
The function of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor (GABA(A)R) is maintained by endogenous phosphorylation. We have shown that the corresponding kinase is the glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH), using the locally produced glycolytic ATP. In addition, using cerebral tissue obtained during curative surgery for epilepsy, we showed that both the endogenous phosphorylation and the GABA(A)R function are significantly reduced in the &quot;epileptogenic&quot; cerebral cortex when compared to &quot;control&quot; tissue. This dysfunction likely contributes to seizure generation and/or transition from the interictal to the ictal state. Glucose utilization is decreased in the epileptogenic cortex of patients with partial epilepsy in the interictal state, but the relationship to the disorder remains unclear. We propose that this hypometabolism is related to the deficiency in the endogenous phosphorylation of GABA(A)R and the resulting greater lability of GABAergic inhibition. Several lines of evidences indeed suggest that GABAergic inhibition is costly in terms of metabolic consumption. The deficiency of this glycolysis-dependent mechanism may thus link epileptogenicity to glucose hypometabolism. The antiepileptic effect of ketogenic diets may be mediated by the subsequent rise in the NADH/NAD(+) index, which favors GABA(A)R endogenous phosphorylation and should contribute to restoration of GABAergic inhibition in the epileptogenic zone.
Animal models of human disease have been enormously important in improving our understanding of the pathophysiological basis and the development of novel therapies. In epilepsy, modeling using both in vivo and in vitro preparations has provided insight into fundamental neuronal mechanisms. Indeed, much of our understanding of seizure mechanisms comes from animal studies. The conceptual advances in understanding basic mechanisms of epilepsies have been largely validated in humans, attesting to the validity of the rationale and providing a basis for bridging the gaps between experimental and human data. While the ketogenic diet is clearly efficacious in a wide variety of seizure types and syndromes, the mechanism of action of the diet has not been established. Animal models will continue to be enormously important in furthering our understanding of how dietary therapy can help individuals with epilepsy.
The aim of this study was to determine if volumes of frontotemporal regions associated with language were related to thought disorder in 42 children, aged 5-16 years, with cryptogenic epilepsy, all of whom had complex partial seizures (CPS). The children with CPS and 41 age- and gender-matched healthy children underwent brain MRI scans at 1.5 T. Tissue was segmented, and total brain, frontal lobe, and temporal lobe volumes were computed. Thought disorder measures, IQ, and seizure information were collected for each patient. The subjects with CPS had more thought disorder, smaller total gray matter and orbital frontal gray matter volumes, as well as larger temporal lobe white matter volumes than the control group. In the CPS group, thought disorder was significantly related to smaller orbital frontal and inferior frontal gray matter volumes, increased Heschl's gyrus gray matter volumes, and smaller superior temporal gyrus white matter volumes. However, significantly larger orbital frontal gyrus, superior temporal gyrus, and temporal lobe gray matter volumes and decreased Heschl's gyrus white matter volumes were associated with thought disorder in the control group. These findings suggest that thought disorder might represent a developmental disability involving frontotemporal regions associated with language in pediatric CPS.
Neuroexcitatory effects of isoflurane during or following anesthesia are controversial, particularly in epileptic patients. In contrast, halothane is generally considered to be highly anticonvulsant. Kindling is an animal model of epilepsy suitable for studying the effects of anesthetic agents on the epileptic brain. Fully kindled, Sprague-Dawley rats were either untreated or received a 5 min exposure to isoflurane or halothane 30 min prior to a seizure and compared to seizures in the absence of prior anesthesia. Afterdischarge duration was assessed via electroencephalographs recorded from electrodes implanted in the basolateral amygdala and behavioral seizure stereotypy (stages I-V) was simultaneously recorded and analyzed using digital video for all seizures. Total seizure duration and clonus duration were significantly (P&lt;0.05) increased 30 min after isoflurane but not halothane exposure relative to pre-treatment control. These results are the first to demonstrate that isoflurane exacerbates electrically evoked secondarily generalized seizures in fully kindled animals during recovery. These results also show that the kindling paradigm is useful for evaluating the mechanism of anesthetic agents that may be proconvulsant in epileptic subjects.
Psychotic symptoms are supposed to be expression of highest order brain functions such as symbolic thinking, language, planning, empathy or complex emotional reactions. However, due to its historical roots, current psychiatric symptomatology is based on descriptions of disturbed behavior, which refer to metaphysic concepts rather than to brain function. Therefore, modern biological research suffers from an important gap between psychiatric semiology and contemporary knowledge in systems neurophysiology. The authors argue for a redefinition of psychiatric symptoms in a neurobiologically meaningful way. Based on recent empirical studies, this strategy is exemplified for auditory verbal hallucinations and formal thought disorder. In these examples, characteristic psychiatric symptoms can be related to circumscribed structural and functional alterations in the language system, allowing the description of clinical phenomena in terms of neurobiological events. This strategy is also applicable to other psychotic symptoms like emotional dysregulation and catatonia, where disturbances of the functional circuits of mood and motor regulation, respectively, are predicted. This approach to psychiatric symptoms is based on contemporary evidence concerning systems neurophysiology and is expected to provide meaningful and testable hypotheses for future research aimed to a better understanding of the pathogenesis of psychiatric disorders, to more accurate prognosis and to better targeted therapeutic strategies.
We propose to use modules representing functional subunits of the brain as the substrates of pathogenetic factors in mental disorders. This approach is based on scientific evidence from neurophysiology and cognitive psychology regarding the organisation of the human brain in functionally discernible, not necessarily temporally or spatially stable subunits, which are interconnected in complex, often multilayered networks of neuronal circuits. Such a definition would reconcile modern network theories of brain function with localizationist models. Module-based diagnosis and therapy of mental disorders will be the goal of a modular psychiatry, which has the advantage that it is founded in neuroscientific evidence and does not rely on arbitrary definitions of mental disorders based mainly on clinical empiricism.
In this review, current neurochemical dementia diagnostics (NDD) procedures are presented with a focus on biomarkers in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood: amyloid beta peptides, tau protein, and its phosphorylated form (pTau). CSF analysis is an increasingly important tool for early and differential diagnosis of dementia syndromes. Although lumbar puncture is a mildly invasive procedure with a low incidence of complications, establishing blood assays capable of reliably measuring NDD biomarkers is an aim of several studies worldwide.




A common nonsynonymous single nucleotide polymorphism leading to a serine-to-cysteine substitution at amino acid 704 (Ser(704)Cys) in the DISC1 protein sequence has been recently associated with schizophrenia and with specific hippocampal abnormalities. Here, we used multimodal neuroimaging to investigate in a large sample of healthy subjects the putative association of the Ser(704)Cys DISC1 polymorphism with in vivo brain phenotypes including hippocampal formation (HF) gray matter volume and function (as assessed with functional MRI) as well as HF functional coupling with the neural network engaged during encoding of recognition memory. Individuals homozygous for DISC1 Ser allele relative to carriers of the Cys allele showed greater gray matter volume in the HF. Further, Ser/Ser subjects exhibited greater engagement of the HF together with greater HF-dorsolateral prefrontal cortex functional coupling during memory encoding, in spite of similar behavioral performance. These findings consistently support the notion that Ser(704)Cys DISC1 polymorphism is physiologically relevant. Moreover, they support the hypothesis that genetic variation in DISC1 may affect the risk for schizophrenia by modifying hippocampal gray matter and function.
We show in a unifying computational approach that representations of spatial scenes can be formed by adding an additional self-organizing layer of processing beyond the inferior temporal visual cortex in the ventral visual stream without the introduction of new computational principles. The invariant representations of objects by neurons in the inferior temporal visual cortex can be modelled by a multilayer feature hierarchy network with feedforward convergence from stage to stage, and an associative learning rule with a short-term memory trace to capture the invariant statistical properties of objects as they transform over short time periods in the world. If an additional layer is added to this architecture, training now with whole scenes that consist of a set of objects in a given fixed spatial relation to each other results in neurons in the added layer that respond to one of the trained whole scenes but do not respond if the objects in the scene are rearranged to make a new scene from the same objects. The formation of these scene-specific representations in the added layer is related to the fact that in the inferior temporal cortex and, we show, in the VisNet model, the receptive fields of inferior temporal cortex neurons shrink and become asymmetric when multiple objects are present simultaneously in a natural scene. This reduced size and asymmetry of the receptive fields of inferior temporal cortex neurons also provides a solution to the representation of multiple objects, and their relative spatial positions, in complex natural scenes.
The response of the brain to addictive substances such as nicotine includes the rapid induction of genes that influence synaptic events. This response is different in adolescent brain, which continues to undergo synaptic remodeling in regions that include reward-associated corticolimbic areas. We report here that acute nicotine (0.4 mg/kg), but not cocaine or exposure to a novel environment, induces the expression of the dendritically targeted, corticolimbic mRNA Dendrin in specific regions of adolescent brain. Acute nicotine resulted in an increase in Dendrin mRNA levels in the adolescent prefrontal cortex that was not evident in adult animals. The induction in Dendrin mRNA was a rapid, short-lived transcriptional event that resulted in changes in Dendrin protein. For example, an increase in Dendrin protein levels following nicotine treatment paralleled enhanced Dendrin immunoreactivity in the dendrites of pyramidal neurons of somatosensory cortex. As Dendrin is an important component of cytoskeletal modifications at the synapse, these results suggest that nicotine influences unique plasticity-related changes in the adolescent forebrain that differ from the adult.
Transgenic and disease model mice have been used to investigate the molecular mechanisms of demyelinating diseases. However, less attention has been given to elucidating changes in nerve conduction in these mice. We established an experimental system to measure the response latency of cortical neurons and examined changes in nerve conduction in cuprizone-induced demyelinating mice and in myelin basic protein-deficient shiverer mice. Stimulating and recording electrodes were placed in the right and left sensori-motor cortices, respectively. Electrical stimulation of the right cortex evoked antidromic responses in left cortical neurons with a latency of 9.38 +/- 0.31 ms (n = 107; mean +/- SEM). While response latency was longer in mice at 7 days and 4 weeks of cuprizone treatment (12.35 +/- 0.35 ms, n = 102; 11.72 +/- 0.29 ms, n = 103, respectively), response latency at 7 days and 4 weeks after removal of cuprizone was partially restored (10.72 +/- 0.45 ms, n = 106; 10.27 +/- 0.34 ms, n = 107, respectively). Likewise, electron microscopy showed cuprizone-induced demyelination in the corpus callosum and nearly complete remyelination after cuprizone removal. We also examined whether the myelin abnormalities in shiverer mice affected their response latencies. But there were no significant differences in response latencies in shiverer (9.83 +/- 0.24 ms, n = 103) and wild-type (9.33 +/- 0.22 ms, n = 112) mice. The results of these electrophysiological assessments imply that different demyelinating mechanisms, differentially affecting axon conduction, are present in the cuprizone-treated and shiverer mice, and may provide new insights to understanding the pathophysiology of demyelination in animal models in the CNS.
In adults, evidence is accumulating that migraine is associated with altered central processing of pain stimuli and, possibly, changes in the allocation of attentional resources to such stimuli. In pediatric migraine, however, little is known about altered pain processing. We examined 15 children with migraine and 15 controls (age 10-15) in an oddball standards task. Children had to respond to rare targets (tones) and ignore frequent painful (pain threshold) or non-painful mechanical standard stimuli while evoked potentials were obtained. Painful as compared to non-painful stimuli elicited significantly larger N150, P260 and P300 components of the somatosensory evoked potential in all children. The pain-evoked N150 and P260 components did not differ significantly between groups. However, in children with migraine, both painful and non-painful standard stimuli were associated with significantly larger P300 amplitudes at significantly shorter latencies. Perceived intensity of the painful and non-painful stimuli was comparable in both groups. The evoked potentials and reaction times to the target tones did not differ significantly between groups. Habituation across trials was similar in both groups. Hence, children with migraine may display an automatic attentional bias towards painful and potentially painful somatosensory stimuli. Consistent with the psychobiological perspective of chronic pain, such an attentional bias could constitute an important mechanism for migraine becoming a chronic problem.
Antidepressant drugs act mainly by blocking the noradrenaline and/or serotonin uptake sites and require a chronic treatment. Tricyclic antidepressants are among the first line treatments clinically recommended against neuropathic pain. As observed against depression, a chronic treatment is required for a therapeutic effect. However, both in depression-related and pain-related research in rodents, it is difficult to design models that reproduce the clinical conditions and are sensitive to chronic but not to acute treatment by antidepressant drugs. In this study, we used a murine neuropathic pain model induced by the unilateral insertion of a polyethylene cuff around the main branch of the sciatic nerve. This model induced a long-lasting ipsilateral mechanical allodynia. We evidenced that chronic, but not acute, treatment with the tricyclic antidepressants nortriptyline or amitriptyline suppressed the cuff-induced mechanical allodynia. On the contrary, fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, remained ineffective. To understand which mechanism is recruited downstream in order to alleviate the allodynia, we tested the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone, the delta-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole and the kappa-opioid receptor antagonist nor-BNI. We show that the therapeutic effect of notriptyline implicates the endogenous opioid system, in particular the delta- and the kappa-opioid receptors. For comparison, we tested the anticonvulsant gabapentin and showed that it alleviates neuropathic allodynia after 3 days of treatment. Naloxone had no effect on gabapentin therapeutic benefit, showing that antidepressants and anticonvulsants alleviate neuropathic allodynia through independent mechanisms. Our work provides a clinically relevant model to understand the mechanism by which chronic antidepressant treatment can alleviate neuropathic pain.
The middle cingulate cortex (MCC) has been implicated in pain processing by studies of cingulotomy for chronic pain and imaging studies documenting increased MCC blood flow in response to acute pain. The only previous report of quantitative sensory testing following cingulotomy described increased intensity and unpleasantness ratings of painful hot and cold stimuli in a single patient with psychiatric disease. We now report a case in which perception of pain and temperature was assessed before and after cingulotomy for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Positron emission tomographic (PET) studies of the blood flow response to acute pain were carried out using a single subject design which allowed for statistical evaluation of postoperative blood flow changes in this case. Postoperatively, the patient demonstrated increased intensity and unpleasantness ratings of painful thermal waterbath stimuli. The PET studies demonstrated preoperative contact heat pain-evoked activation of the bilateral MCC/SMA (supplementary motor area) and the left (contralateral) fronto-parietal operculum. Postoperative pain-evoked activation was demonstrated in the right (ipsilateral) parasylvian cortex but not of the MCC/SMA. Prior studies of forebrain lesions, and of cortical synchrony during the application of painful stimuli suggest the presence of functional connectivity between components of the MCC/SMA and the fronto-parietal opercula. Therefore present results suggest that cingulate lesions disinhibit ipsilateral parasylvian cortex and so are independent evidence of functional connectivity between these cortical areas, the defining characteristic of modules in a pain network.
The aim of this study was to examine the school functioning of 8- to 18-year-old children born after in vitro fertilization (IVF). We compared 233 children born after IVF to 233 matched control children born spontaneously from parents with fertility problems on measures of education level, general cognitive ability, school performance (need for extra help, repeating a grade, special education), and rates of learning and developmental disorders. No differences were found between IVF and control children on these measures of school functioning. More than 60% of adolescents at secondary school attended high academic levels (with access to high school or university). We conclude that children and adolescents born after IVF show good academic achievement and general cognitive ability. They do not experience any more educational limitations than the naturally conceived children and adolescents of the control group. The tendency of reassuring school functioning already found in younger IVF children has been shown to continue at secondary school age.
Adolescence is a critical phase of active brain development often characterized by the initiation of marijuana (Cannabis sativa) use. Limited information is known regarding the endogenous cannabinoid system of the adolescent brain as well as related neurotransmitters that appear sensitive to cannabis exposure. We recently observed that adult rats pre-exposed to Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) during adolescence self-administered higher amounts of heroin and had selective impairments of the enkephalin opioid system within the nucleus accumbens (NAc) implicated in reward-related behavior. To explore the ontogeny of the cannabinoid and opioid neuronal systems in association with adolescence THC exposure, rats were examined at different adolescent stages during an intermittent THC paradigm (1.5 mg/kg i.p. every third day) from postnatal days (PNDs) 28-49. Rat brains were examined 24 h after injection at PND 29 (early adolescence), PND 38 (mid adolescence) and PND 50 (late adolescence) and analyzed for endocannabinoids (anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol), Met-enkephalin, cannabinoid CB(1) receptors and micro opioid receptors (microOR) in the NAc, caudate-putamen and prefrontal cortex (PFC). Of the markers studied, the endocannabinoid levels had the most robust alterations throughout adolescence and were specific to the PFC and NAc. Normal correlations between anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol concentrations in the NAc (positive) and PFC (negative) were reversed by THC. Other significant THC-induced effects were confined to the NAc - increased anandamide, decreased Met-enkephalin and decreased microORs. These findings emphasize the dynamic nature of the mesocorticolimbic endocannabinoid system during adolescence and the selective mesocorticolimbic disturbance as a consequence of adolescent cannabis exposure.
The underlying cellular mechanisms leading to frontal cortical hypofunction (i.e., hypofrontality) in schizophrenia remain unclear. Both hypoactive and hyperreactive prefrontal cortical (PFC) states have been reported in schizophrenia patients. Recent proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies revealed that antipsychotic-nave patients with first psychotic episode exhibit a hyperactive PFC. Conversely, PFC activity seems to be diminished in patients chronically exposed to conventional antipsychotic treatments, an effect that could reflect the therapeutic action as well as some of the impairing side effects induced by long-term blockade of dopamine transmission. In this review, we will provide an evolving picture of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia moving from dopamine to a more glutamatergic-centered hypothesis. We will discuss how alternative antipsychotic strategies may emerge by using drugs that reduce excessive glutamatergic response without altering the balance of synaptic and extrasynaptic normal glutamatergic neurotransmission. Preclinical studies indicate that acamprosate, a FDA approved drug for relapse prevention in detoxified alcoholic patients, reduces the glutamatergic hyperactivity triggered by ethanol withdrawal without depressing normal glutamatergic transmission. Whether this effect is mediated by a direct modulation of NMDA receptors or by antagonism of metabotropic glutamate receptor remains to be determined. We hypothesize that drugs with similar pharmacological actions to acamprosate may provide a better and safer approach to reverse psychotic symptoms and cognitive deficits without altering the balance of excitation and inhibition of the corticolimbic dopamine-PFC system. It is predicted that schizophrenia patients treated with acamprosate-like compounds will not exhibit progressive cortical atrophy associated with the anti-dopaminergic effect of classical antipsychotic exposure.
The primary aim of this work was: to evaluate the time course of serum prolactin (PRL) increase following repetitive seizures in epileptic patients with (Group II) and without (Group I) temporal ischemia. Epileptic patients were examined after 2 or 3 epileptic seizures in wakefulness with seizure-free intervals of 4 hours. Serum PRL levels was assessed within 3 hours of the last epileptic seizure and up to 48 hours after. The increase of serum PRL attained within baseline levels after 6 h in Group I and after 12 h in Group II. A longer increase of serum PRL levels were observed in Group II patients respect to Group I (P &lt; 0.01). In conclusion, this different long time attenuation of serum PRL following repetitive temporal seizures with and without damage of temporal structure, may be useful in order to better analyse the synaptic transmission involved in the pathways interconnect limbic areas.
Every vertebrate species has its own unique morphology adapted to a particular lifestyle and habitat. Limbs and fins are strikingly diversified in size, shape, and position along the body axis. This diversity in morphology suggests the existence of a variety of embryonic developmental programs. However, comparisons of various embryos suggest common mechanisms underlying limb/fin formation. Here, we report the existence of continuous stripes of competency for appendage formation along the dorsal midline and the lateral trunk of all of the major jawed vertebrate (gnathostome) groups. We also show that the developing fin buds of cartilaginous fish share a mechanism of anterior-posterior axis formation as well as an shh (sonic hedgehog) expression domain in the posterior bud. We hypothesize a continuous distribution of competent stripes that represents the common developmental program at the root of appendage formation in gnathostomes. This schema would have permitted subsequent divergence into various levels of limbs/fins in each animal group.
Auditory localisation was examined using brief broadband sounds presented during rapid head turns to visual targets in the peripheral field. Presenting sounds during a rapid head movement will &quot;smear&quot; the acoustic cues to the sound's location. During the early stages of a head turn, sound localisation accuracy was comparable to a no-turn control condition. However, significant localisation errors occurred when the probe sound was presented during the later part of a head turn. After correcting for head position, the estimate of lateral angle (horizontal position) in the front hemisphere was generally accurate. However, lateral angle estimates for positions in the rear hemisphere exhibited systematic errors that were especially large around the midline. Polar angle (elevation) perception remained robust, being comparable to no-turn controls whether tested early or late in the head turn. The results are interpreted in terms of a 'multiple look' strategy for calculating sound location, and the allocation of attention to the hemisphere containing the head-turn target.
To analyse the contributions of metabolic toxicity of high glucose level and accompanying hyperosmolality to the development of diabetic neuropathy, mouse dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cultures were used. DRGs from postnatal day 7 mice were embedded in collagen gel and incubated in RPMI 1640 culture medium with increasing concentrations of glucose or equimolar amounts of mannitol which would create similar osmolalities. Outgrowth of axons from the peripheral nerve attached to DRG and migration of cells into the gel were quantified. The extent of cell death, apoptosis and mitosis among the migrating cells and apoptosis among DRG neurons following exposure to high glucose or mannitol were also evaluated. The growth of axons was almost equally affected by increasing concentrations of glucose or mannitol up to 395 mOsm/kg H (2)O. Number of migrating cells was close to control values with mannitol between 340-395 mOsm/kg H (2)O while high concentrations of glucose always decreased it. Exposure to high glucose or mannitol led to increased proportions of dead and apoptotic migrating cells and apoptotic DRG neurons. Mitotic activity was also negatively affected by high glucose or mannitol. While glucose proved significantly more detrimental to migrating cells than mannitol in the latter tests, the extent of apoptosis was similar among DRG neurons in both conditions. In conclusion, the contribution of hyperosmolality to the development of neuropathy in high glucose condition appears to be quite significant. The peripheral nerve cells and neurons, however, are differentially affected by hyperosmolality and metabolic toxicity of high glucose.
Levels of dopamine and melatonin exhibit diurnal rhythms in the rat retina. Dopamine is high during daytime adapting the retina to light, whereas melatonin is high during nighttime participating in the adaptation of the retina to low light intensities. Dopamine inhibits the synthesis of melatonin in the photoreceptors via Drd4 receptors located on the cell membrane of these cells. In this study, we show by semiquantitative in situ hybridization a prominent day/night variation in Drd4 expression in the retina of the Sprague-Dawley rat with a peak during the nighttime. Drd4 expression is seen in all retinal layers but the nocturnal increase is confined to the photoreceptors. Retinal Drd4 expression is not affected by removal of the sympathetic input to the eye, but triiodothyronine treatment induces Drd4 expression in the photoreceptors. In a developmental series, we show that the expression of Drd4 is restricted to postnatal stages with a peak at postnatal day 12. The high Drd4 expression in the rat retinal photoreceptors during the night supports physiological and pharmacologic evidence that the Drd4 receptor is involved in the dopaminergic inhibition of melatonin synthesis upon light stimulation. The sharp increase of Drd4 expression at a specific postnatal time suggests that dopamine is involved in retinal development.
The nucleus accumbens is gaining interest as a target for deep brain stimulation in refractory neuropsychiatric disorders with impulsivity as core symptom. The nucleus accumbens is composed of two subterritories, core and shell, which have different anatomical connections. Here, we tested the hypothesis that stimulation of the nucleus accumbens core and shell would have different effects on impulsivity. Rats received bilateral stimulation at the level of the nucleus accumbens core or shell during a reaction time task. Stimulation of the nucleus accumbens core significantly decreased impulsivity, while stimulation of the shell increased it. Our results support the hypothesis that the nucleus accumbens is a potential target to treat neuropsychiatric disorders related to impulsivity by deep brain stimulation. However, different behavioral effects resulting from stimulation of the subterritories should be taken into account.
A mild to moderate reduction in dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin levels alongside a progressive loss of hypocretin cells and melanin hormone concentrating cells has been reported in the hypothalamus of PD at postmortem. Hypothalamic uptake of (18)F-dopa PET, an in vivo marker of dysfunction of monoaminergic neurons, is also significantly reduced in these patients. These data indicate a general impairment of hypothalamic function in PD. Dopamine receptors play an important role in the regulation of hypothalamic pathways. To date, possible changes in hypothalamic D(2) receptor availability have not been investigated in PD. The objective in this study was to assess dopamine D(2) receptor availability in hypothalamus of patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) using positron emission tomography (PET) with (11)C-raclopride (RAC). We evaluated D(2) binding in RAC PET images of 14 PD patients using both region of interest (ROI) analysis and a voxel based approach. ROIs for the hypothalamus were traced on the subject's MRI co-registered to the PET image. (11)C-raclopride binding potentials (BP) for hypothalamus were obtained by applying ROIs onto parametric images. Findings were compared with those of 9 normal controls. We found a significant reduction in the mean hypothalamic RAC BP of the PD patients compared with the normal controls (0.2714+/-0.06 vs. 0.3861+/-0.04; mean+/-SD; p=0.0005). ROI results were confirmed with statistical parametric mapping (SPM). Individual hypothalamic BP values of PD patients did not correlate with age, disease duration, disease severity and levodopa equivalent dose. It remains to be ascertained whether the reductions in hypothalamic D(2) receptor availability seen in PD are disease related, the results of chronic exposure to levodopa or both. Our results provide further evidence of dopaminergic dysfunction in the hypothalamus in PD, and this may contribute to the development of sleep, endocrine and autonomic disorders.
A &quot;neuroplastic&quot; hypothesis proposes that changes in neuronal structural plasticity may underlie the aetiology of depression and the action of antidepressants. The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is affected by this disorder and shows an intense expression of the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM), a plasticity-associated molecule, which is expressed mainly in interneurons. The monoamines serotonin, dopamine and noradrenaline are the principal targets of antidepressant action. Pharmacological manipulation of serotonin levels regulates synaptophysin and PSA-NCAM expression in the adult mPFC. However, the involvement of structural plasticity on the antidepressant effects of dopamine has not been well explored yet. Using immunohistochemistry, we have studied the relationship between dopaminergic fibers and PSA-NCAM expressing neurons in the mPFC and the expression of D2 receptors. In order to evaluate the effects of dopamine in neuronal structural plasticity and on inhibitory neurotransmission, we have analyzed the expression of synaptophysin, PSA-NCAM and GAD67 in the mPFC after cortical dopamine depletion with 6-OHDA and after chronic treatments with the D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol or the D2 receptor agonist PPHT. Many dopaminergic fibers were observed in close apposition to PSA-NCAM expressing neurons and 76% of these cells co-expressed D2 receptor. Both haloperidol treatment and 6-OHDA injection reduced significantly PSA-NCAM, synaptophysin and GAD67 expression in the mPFC. Conversely, PPHT treatment increased the expression of these molecules. Our results give support to the &quot;neuroplastic&quot; hypothesis of depression, suggesting that dopamine acting on D2 receptors may modulate neuronal structural plasticity and inhibitory neurotransmission through changes in PSA-NCAM expression.
Research focused on improving recovery of function, including the reduction of central neuropathic pain (CNP) after spinal cord injury (SCI) is essential. After SCI, regional neuropathic pain syndromes above, at and below the level or spinal injury develop and are thought to have different mechanisms, but may share common dysfunctional glial mechanisms. Detloff et al., [Detloff, M.R., Fisher, L.C., McGaughy, V., Longbrake, E.E., Popovich, P.G., Basso, D.M., Remote activation of microglia and pro-inflammatory cytokines predict the onset and severity of below-level neuropathic pain after spinal cord injury in rats. Exp. Neurol. (2008), doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2008.04.009.] describe events in the lumbar region of the spinal cord after a midthoracic SCI injury, the so called &quot;below-level&quot; pain and compares the findings to peripheral nerve lesion findings. This commentary briefly reviews glial contributions and intracellular signaling mechanisms, both neuronal and glial, that provide the substrate for CNP after SCI, including the persistent glial production of factors that can maintain sensitization of dorsal horn neurons in segments remote from the spinal injury; ie. dorsal horn hyperexcitability to formerly non noxious stimuli that become noxious after SCI resulting in allodynia. The term &quot;gliopathy&quot; is proposed to describe the dysfunctional and maladaptive response of glial cells, specifically astrocytes and microglia, to neural injury that is initiated by the sudden injury induced increase in extracellular concentrations of glutamate and concomitant production of several proinflammatory molecules. It is important to understand the roles that different glia play in &quot;gliopathy&quot;, a condition that appears to persist after SCI. Furthermore, targeted treatment of gliopathy will attenuate mechanical allodynia in both central and peripheral neuropathic pain syndromes.
Astrocytes respond to environmental cues and play a multifaceted role in the response to trauma in the central nervous system. As the most prevalent contributors to the glial scar, astrocytes are targeted as barriers to regeneration. However, there is also strong evidence that astrocytes are vital for neuroprotection and metabolic support after injury. In addition, consistent with their role during development, astrocytes may be capable of supporting the growth of injured axons. Therefore, we hypothesized that with appropriate stimulation, the reparative functions of endogenous astrocytes could be harnessed to promote axon growth and recovery after spinal cord injury. Transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha) is a mitogenic growth factor that is active on astrocytes and is poised to contribute to such a strategy. Recombinant TGF-alpha was administered intrathecally to adult C57BL/6 mice for two weeks following a moderate mid-thoracic spinal cord contusion. By three weeks post-injury, TGF-alpha infusion had not affected locomotor recovery, but promoted extensive axon growth and altered the composition of the lesion site. The center of the lesion in the treated mice contained greater numbers of new cells and increased astrocyte invasion. Despite the expression of inhibitory proteoglycans, there was a marked increase in axons expressing neurofilament and GAP-43 immunoreactivity, and the new axons were closely associated with increased laminin expression within and beyond the astrocyte matrix. The results demonstrate that astrocytes are dynamic players in the response to spinal cord injury, and the growth-supportive role of these cells can be enhanced by TGF-alpha infusion.
Background: Scintillation proximity assay (SPA) is a homogeneous scintillant bead-based platform for the measurement of biological processes and plays an important role in the identification of active chemical entities in drug discovery. Objective: The design and development of solid-phase SPA approaches are examined and compared with alternative non-radiometric fluorescence-based technologies. Methods: This review provides background on the principle of SPA and its application to biomolecular interactions from a variety of biological sources. Conclusion: The SPA approach is well suited to the demands of commercial high volume automation and assay miniaturization for target-based high-throughput screening campaigns on synthetic and natural product libraries as well as for benchtop characterization and confirmation studies. In the near future, innovations in the way SPA and fluorescence-based screening strategies are multiplexed will improve our comprehensive understanding of cellular system biology and dramatically advance the lead discovery process for the treatment of complex target-related disorders.





Fecal incontinence is a common condition that often impairs quality of life. It is generally caused by a variety of conditions that are associated with anorectal sensorimotor dysfunction and/or diarrhea. A detailed characterization of symptoms, particularly bowel habits, is useful for assessing symptom severity and guiding management. A careful digital rectal examination is invaluable for gauging anal resting and squeeze pressures and anorectal evacuation. Tests should be tailored to age, symptom severity, and response to previous therapy. Anorectal manometry and sphincter imaging are useful starting tests. Depending upon the clinical circumstances, additional testing and therapeutic options may be useful. Fecal continence can be improved by measures to regulate bowel habits and pelvic floor retraining. Surgical repair of anal sphincter defects improves fecal continence in the short but not in the long term. Newer surgical therapies and devices are of limited and/or unproven utility.
To better understand the proximate causation of the two major types of mating seasons described for North American pitvipers, we conducted a field study of the cottonmouth (Agkistrodon piscivorus) in Georgia from September 2003 to May 2005 that included an extensive observational regime and collection of tissues for behavioral, anatomical, histological, and hormone analysis. Enzyme immunoassays (EIA) of plasma samples and standard histological procedures were conducted on reproductive tissues. Evidence from the annual testosterone (T) and sexual segment of the kidney (SSK) cycle and their relationship to the spermatogenic cycle provide correlative evidence of a unimodal mating pattern in this species of pitviper, as these variables consistently predict the mating season in all snake species previously examined under natural conditions. In most reptiles studied to date, high plasma levels of T and corticosterone (CORT) coincide during the mating period, making the cottonmouth an exception to this trend; we suggest two possible explanations for increased CORT during spring (regulation of a spring basking period), and decreased CORT during summer (avoiding reproductive behavioral inhibition), in this species.

Depriving one eye of visual experience during a sensitive period of development results in a shift in ocular dominance (OD) in the primary visual cortex (V1). To assess the heritability of this form of cortical plasticity and identify the responsible gene loci, we studied the influence of monocular deprivation on OD in a large number of recombinant inbred mouse strains derived from mixed C57BL/6J and DBA/2J backgrounds (BXD). The strength of imaged intrinsic signal responses in V1 to visual stimuli was strongly heritable as were various elements of OD plasticity. This has important implications for the use of mice of mixed genetic backgrounds for studying OD plasticity. C57BL/6J showed the most significant shift in OD, while some BXD strains did not show any shift at all. Interestingly, the increase in undeprived ipsilateral eye responses was not correlated to the decrease in deprived contralateral eye responses, suggesting that the size of these components of OD plasticity are not genetically controlled by only a single mechanism. We identified a quantitative trait locus regulating the change in response to the deprived eye. The locus encompasses 13 genes, two of which--Stch and Nrip1--contain missense polymorphisms. The expression levels of Stch and to a lesser extent Nrip1 in whole brain correlate with the trait identifying them as novel candidate plasticity genes.
Administration of amphetamine overstimulates medium spiny neurons (MSNs) by releasing dopamine and glutamate from afferents in the striatum. However, these afferents also release brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) that protects striatal MSNs from overstimulation. Intriguingly, all three neurochemicals increase opioid gene expression in MSNs. In contrast, striatal opioid expression is less in naive BDNF heterozygous (BDNF(+/-)) vs. wild-type (WT) mice. This study was designed to determine whether partial genetic depletion of BDNF influences the behavioral and molecular response to an acute amphetamine injection. An acute injection of amphetamine [5 mg/kg, intraperitoneal (i.p.)] or saline was administered to WT and BDNF(+/-) mice. WT and BDNF(+/-) mice exhibited similar locomotor activity during habituation, whereas BDNF(+/-) mice exhibited more prolonged locomotor activation during the third hour after injection of amphetamine. Three hours after amphetamine injection, there was an increase of preprodynorphin mRNA in the caudate putamen and nucleus accumbens (Acb) and dopamine D(3) receptor mRNA levels were increased in the Acb of BDNF(+/-) and WT mice. Striatal/cortical trkB and BDNF, and mesencephalic tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA levels were only increased in WT mice. These results indicate that BDNF modifies the locomotor responses of mice to acute amphetamine and differentially regulates amphetamine-induced gene expression.
Rab proteins play a critical role in intracellular vesicle trafficking and require post-translational modification by adding lipids at the C-terminus for proper functions. This modification is preceded by the formation of a trimeric protein complex with the Rab escort protein (REP) and the Rab geranylgeranyltransferase (RabGGTase). However, the genetic hierarchy among these proteins and the tissue-specificity of each protein function are not yet clearly understood. Here we identified the Caenorhabditis elegans rep-1 gene and found that a rep-1 mutant showed a mild defect in synaptic transmission and defecation behaviors. Genetic analyses using the exocytic Rab mutants rab-3 or rab-27 suggested that rep-1 functions only in the RAB-27 pathway, and not in the RAB-3 pathway, for synaptic transmission at neuromuscular junctions. However, the disruption of REP-1 did not cause defecation defects compared to severe defects in either RAB-27 or RabGGTase disruption, suggesting that REP-1 is not essential for RAB-27 signaling in defection. Some Rab proteins did not physically interact with REP-1, and localization of these Rab proteins was not severely affected by REP-1 disruption. These findings suggest that REP-1 functions are required in specific Rab pathways and in specific tissues, and that some Rab proteins are functionally prenylated without REP-1.
Loss of chromosome 22 and gain of 1q are the most frequent genomic aberrations in ependymomas, indicating that genes mapping to these regions are critical in their pathogenesis. Using real-time quantitative PCR, we measured relative copy numbers of 10 genes mapping to 22q12.3-q13.33 and 10 genes at 1q21-32 in a series of 47 pediatric intracranial ependymomas. Loss of one or more of the genes on 22 was detected in 81% of cases, with RAC2 and C22ORF2 at 22q12-q13.1 being deleted most frequently in 38% and 32% of ependymoma samples, respectively. Combined analysis of quantitative-PCR with methylation-specific PCR and bisulphite sequencing revealed a high rate (&gt;60% ependymoma) of transcriptional inactivation of C22ORF2, indicating its potential importance in the development of pediatric ependymomas. Increase of relative copy numbers of at least one gene on 1q were detected in 61% of cases, with TPR at 1q25 displaying relative copy number gains in 38% of cases. Patient age was identified as a significant adverse prognostic factor, as a significantly shorter overall survival time (P = 0.0056) was observed in patients &lt;2 years of age compared with patients who were &gt;2 years of age. Loss of RAC2 at 22q13 or amplification of TPR at 1q25 was significantly associated with shorter overall survival in these younger patients (P = 0.0492 and P = &lt; 0.0001, respectively). This study identifies candidate target genes within 1q and 22q that are potentially important in the pathogenesis of intracranial pediatric ependymomas.
Myelinated axons are organized into a series of specialized domains with distinct molecular compositions and functions. These domains, which include the node of Ranvier, the flanking paranodal junctions, the juxtaparanodes, and the internode, form as the result of interactions with myelinating Schwann cells. This domain organization is essential for action potential propagation by saltatory conduction and for the overall function and integrity of the axon.
The posterior fossa may be enlarged due to: mega cisterna magna, arachnoid cyst or Dandy Walker malformation. These anomalies can be identified during routine ultrasound screening performed in the beginning of the second half of pregnancy (22nd week). The outcome of these findings is not clear. Therefore, it is difficult to advise the parents how to manage the pregnancy after the discovery of this anomaly. Most of the studies report a good prognosis in cases of mega cisterna magna or arachnoid cyst, as long as this finding is isolated. A Dandy-Walker malformation or non-isolated enlargement of the posterior fossa entail a guarded prognosis. Further studies are needed in order to enable better counseling.

Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) remains a severe neuropsychiatric complication of liver failure. Neuropathological evaluation of material from patients who died in hepatic coma reveals morphologic changes primarily to astrocytes (cytotoxic edema, Alzheimer Type II astrocytosis) accompanied by discreet neuronal changes. Liver failure results in the accumulation in brain of neurotoxic compounds (ammonia, manganese, proinflammatory cytokines, mercaptans, octanoic acid) that may act synergistically to impair neuropsychiatric function. Ammonia and manganese act synergistically to activate mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptors leading to increased production of neuroactive steroids, many of which (allopregnanolone, THDOC) have potent neuroinhibitory properties resulting from activation of a neuromodulatory site on the GABA-A receptor (&quot;increased GABAergic tone&quot;). New evidence demonstrates that proinflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) and the interleukins (IL-1beta, and IL-6) are produced not only by the liver but also by the brain in liver failure. Ammonia and proinflammatory cytokines generated either by intercurrent infection or from hepatocyte necrosis in liver failure act synergistically to decrease the capacity of astrocytes to remove glutamate from the brain extracellular space leading to the activation of glutamate (NMDA) receptors that in turn results in alterations of cell-cell signalling and hyperexcitability. Therapy for HE continues to rely heavily on strategies aimed at reduction of gut ammonia production, increased ammonia removal and, ultimately, liver transplantation. A more complete understanding of pathophysiologic mechanisms has led to novel potential strategies aimed at decreasing both GABAergic tone, glutamate (NMDA) receptor activation and proinflammatory cytokines. Such strategies hold promise for new therapies for HE in the near future.
Normal development of the male rat brain involves two distinct processes, masculinization and defeminization, that occur during a critical period of brain sexual differentiation. Masculinization allows for the capacity to express male sex behavior in adulthood, and defeminization eliminates or suppresses the capacity to express female sex behavior in adulthood. Despite being separate processes, both masculinization and defeminization are induced by neonatal estradiol exposure. Though the mechanisms underlying estradiol-mediated masculinization of behavior during development have been identified, the mechanisms underlying defeminization are still unknown. We sought to determine whether neonatal activation of glutamate NMDA receptors is a necessary component of estradiol-induced defeminization of behavior. We report here that antagonizing glutamate receptors during the critical period of sexual differentiation blocks estradiol-induced defeminization but not masculinization of behavior in adulthood. However, enhancing NMDA receptor activation during the same critical period mimics estradiol to permanently induce both defeminization and masculinization of sexual behavior.
Enzyme immunoassays for testosterone, 17beta-estradiol, and progesterone were validated for human facial and axillary perspiration and compared to levels in urine. In study 1, these assays were applied to samples from preadolescent girls and boys and young women and men. Men's axillary perspiration contained substantially higher levels of steroids than seen in other substrates from men or in any sample from women, boys, and girls. Male axillary steroid levels were very variable across individuals, and on average they exceeded levels in facial perspiration by 90-fold for testosterone and 45-fold for estradiol. Men's urinary testosterone also exceeded urinary levels of the other subjects. In study 2, axillary perspiration, urine, and saliva were collected from young men. Substantial axillary levels of testosterone and estradiol were again observed. Correlations of the same hormone among the different substrates were generally very low, except for a small correlation between estradiol levels measured in axillary perspiration and urine in study 2. High unconjugated steroid content in men's axillary excretions could, if absorbed by women during intimacy, be implicated in pheromonal activity.
The antioxidant enzyme Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) is predominantly localized in the cytosol, but it is also found in mitochondria. Studies in yeast suggest that apoSOD1 is imported into mitochondria and trapped inside by folding and maturation, which is facilitated by its copper chaperone for SOD1 (CCS). Here, we show that in mammalian cells, SOD1 mitochondrial localization is dictated by its folding state, which is modulated by several interconnected factors. First, the intracellular distribution of CCS determines SOD1 partitioning in cytosol and mitochondria: CCS localization in the cytosol prevents SOD1 mitochondrial import, whereas CCS in mitochondria increases it. Second, the Mia40/Erv1 pathway for import of small intermembrane space proteins participates in CCS mitochondrial import in a respiratory chain-dependent manner. Third, CCS mitochondrial import is regulated by oxygen concentration: high (20%) oxygen prevents import, whereas physiological (6%) oxygen promotes it. Therefore, SOD1 localization responds to changes in environmental conditions following redistribution of CCS, which operates as an oxygen sensor. Fourth, all of the cysteine residues in human SOD1 are critical for its retention in mitochondria due to their involvement in intramolecular disulfide bonds and in the interaction with CCS. Mutations in SOD1 are associated with autosomal dominant familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Like the wild-type protein, mutant SOD1 localizes to mitochondria, where it induces bioenergetic defects. We find that the physiological regulation of mitochondrial localization is either inefficient or absent in SOD1 pathogenic mutants. We propose misfolding and aggregation of these mutants that trap them inside mitochondria.
Autosomal dominant optic atrophy (ADOA), the commonest cause of inherited optic atrophy, is caused by mutations in the ubiquitously expressed gene optic atrophy 1 (OPA1), involved in fusion and biogenesis of the inner membrane of mitochondria. Bioenergetic failure, mitochondrial network abnormalities and increased apoptosis have all been proposed as possible causal factors. However, their relative contribution to pathogenesis as well as the prominent susceptibility of the retinal ganglion cell (RGC) in this disease remains uncertain. Here we identify a novel deletion of OPA1 gene in the GTPase domain in three patients affected by ADOA. Muscle biopsy of the patients showed neurogenic atrophy and abnormal morphology and distribution of mitochondria. Confocal microscopy revealed increased mitochondrial fragmentation in fibroblasts as well as in myotubes, where mitochondria were also unevenly distributed, with clustered organelles alternating with areas where mitochondria were sparse. These abnormalities were not associated with altered bioenergetics or increased susceptibility to pro-apoptotic stimuli. Therefore, changes in mitochondrial shape and distribution can be independent of other reported effects of OPA1 mutations, and therefore may be the primary cause of the disease. The arrangement of mitochondria in RGCs, which degenerate in ADOA, may be exquisitely sensitive to disturbance, and this may lead to bioenergetic crisis and/or induction of apoptosis. Our results highlight the importance of mitochondrial dynamics in the disease per se, and point to the loss of the fine positioning of mitochondria in the axons of RGCs as a possible explanation for their predominant degeneration in ADOA.
Frequency-derived identification of the propagation of information between brain regions has quickly become a popular area in the neurosciences. Of the various techniques used to study the propagation of activation within the central nervous system, the directed transfer function (DTF) has been well used to explore the functional connectivity during a variety of brain states and pathological conditions. However, the DTF method assumes the stationarity of the neural electrical signals and the time invariance of the connectivity among different channels over the investigated time window. Such assumptions may not be valid in the abnormal brain signals such as seizures and interictal spikes in epilepsy patients. In the present study, we have developed an adaptive DTF (ADTF) method through the use of a multivariate adaptive autoregressive model to study the time-variant propagation of seizures and interictal spikes in simulated electrocorticogram (ECoG) networks. The time-variant connectivity reconstruction is achieved by the Kalman filter algorithm, which can incorporate time-varying state equations. We study the performance of the proposed method through simulations with various propagation models using either sample seizures or interictal spikes as the source waveform. The present results suggest that the new ADTF method correctly captures the temporal dynamics of the propagation models, while the DTF method cannot, and even returns erroneous results in some cases. The present ADTF method was tested in real epileptiform ECoG data from an epilepsy patient, and the ADTF results are consistent with the clinical assessments performed by neurologists.
Previous studies have demonstrated that pharmacokinetic behavior of several drugs such as paracetamol, theophylline, and aminoglycosides are significantly altered in spinal cord injured patients. No pharmacokinetic study of amitriptyline has been performed in patients and experimental models of spinal cord injury. Pharmacokinetic parameters of amitriptyline in orally treated rabbits subjected to laminectomy and spinal cord injury compared with those underwent laminectomy alone. Among twenty four male rabbits were included in this study, nine of them subjected to spinal cord injury at the 8(th) thoracic level by knife severance method and six rabbits underwent laminectomy alone (sham group) and nine rabbits treated as control. All received a single oral dose of amitriptyline (20 mg/kg) 24 h after injury. Blood sampling were done at predetermined times to 36 h after drug administration. Amitriptyline concentration in serum samples was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. Pharmacokinetic parameters including maximum concentration (C(max)), time to reach maximum concentration (T(max)), half life, and the area under the curve to last detectable concentration time point (AUC(0-t)) were directly determined from the concentration-time curve. Maximum concentration was observed at 6.5 h after administration in sham group with a concentration of 439.6 ng/ml, whereas in SCI group T(max) was at 2.7 h with a concentration of 2763.9 ng/ml. In control group it was 3.3 h and 396 ng/ml, respectively. In SCI group, AUC was 9465.6 ng.h/ml and half life was 6 h and for control group it was 2817.4 ng.h/ml and 6.4 h, respectively. Statistical analysis of data showed that SCI didn't induce significant changes in amitriptyline pharmacokinetic parameters.
The objective was to determine the efficacy of treating aggressive behavior in men, with a history of intimate partner abuse, with fluoxetine. Twenty-six men with a history of intimate-partner-abusing behavior entered a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of fluoxetine (20-60 mg by mouth per day). The primary outcome measure was the Aggression score from the overt aggression scale-modified (OAS-M). Fluoxetine-treated patients (n=13) did not differ from placebo-treated patients (n=13) on any key demographic or behavioral variables. Although a significant 'pre-post' reduction in OAS-M Aggression score was noted in all patients, no drug-placebo differences for OAS-M Aggression scores were seen in any analysis. Despite the small sample, these results do not support the hypothesis that treatment with an SSRI is associated with a reduction in aggressive behavior among men with a history of intimate partner abuse.
The presented results show the effect of targeting of collagen receptor, alpha1beta1 integrin expressed on the endothelial cells on the development of experimental melanoma and pathological angiogenesis. Obtustatin, a snake venom KTS-disintegrin, was applied as a specific inhibitor of this integrin. This low molecular weight peptide revealed a potent therapeutic effect on melanoma progression in 2 animal systems, mouse and quail. Its oncostatic effect was related to the inhibition of angiogenesis. Obtustatin inhibited the neovascularization ratio on the CAM embryo of quail, which was pathologically induced by the developing tumor. The i.v. administration of obtustatin completely blocked cancer growth of MV3 human melanoma in nude mice. In B16F10 syngeneic mouse model treatment with the disintegrin revealed a lower effect, although the development of the tumor was significantly reduced for both dosages. The mechanism of obtustatin action is related to the blocking of microvascular endothelial cell proliferation, which undergoes apoptosis in caspase-dependent manner. Summarizing, we present studies of low molecular weight disintegrin, obtustatin as a potential therapeutic compound for treatment of melanoma that contain a high level of vascularization.
Elevated Ca(2+) concentrations have been implicated in cell death mechanisms following seizures, however, the age and brain region of intracellular Ca(2+) accumulations [Ca(2+)](i), may influence whether or not they are toxic. Therefore, we examined regional accumulations of (45)Ca(2+) by autoradiography from rats of several developmental stages (P14, P21, P30 and P60) at 5, 14, and 24h after status epilepticus. To determine whether the uptake was intracellular, Ca(2+) was also assessed in hippocampal slices with the dye indicator, Fura 2AM at P14. Control animals accumulated low homogeneous levels of (45)Ca(2+); however, highly specific and age-dependent patterns of (45)Ca(2+) uptake were observed at 5h. (45)Ca(2+) accumulations were predominant in dorsal hippocampal regions, CA1/CA2/CA3a, in P14 and P21 rats and in CA3a and CA3c neurons of P30 and P60 rats. Selective midline and amygdala nuclei were marked at P14 but not at P21 and limbic accumulations recurred with maturation that were extensive at P30 and even more so at P60. At 14 h, P14 and P21 rats had no persistent accumulations whereas P30 and P60 rats showed persistent uptake patterns within selective amygdala, thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei, and other limbic cortical regions that continued to differ at these ages. For example, piriform cortex accumulation was highest at P60. Fura 2AM imaging at P14 confirmed that Ca(2+) rises were intracellular and occurred in both vulnerable and invulnerable regions of the hippocampus, such as CA2 pyramidal and dentate granule cells. Silver impregnation showed predominant CA1 injury at P20 and P30 but CA3 injury at P60 whereas little or no injury was found in extrahippocampal structures at P14 and P20 but was modest at P30 and maximal at P60. Thus, at young ages there was an apparent dissociation between high (45)Ca(2+) accumulations and neurotoxicity whereas in adults a closer relationship was observed, particularly in the extrahippocampal structures.
Neuropathological, epidemiological and experimental data indicate a potential interrelationship between Alzheimer's disease and prion diseases. Proteolytic processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by beta-secretase was recently suggested to be controlled by prion protein expression. Here, we characterized the prion infection of Tg2576 mice, which overexpress the human APP(Swe) protein. Prion infection of Tg2576-mice led to an early death of the animals, which was preceded by a relatively short symptomatic stage. However, disease-associated gliosis and deposition of misfolded prion protein PrP(Sc) were identical in infected Tg2576-mice and non-transgenic littermate controls. To analyze the effect of prion infection on APP processing and generation of beta-amyloid we determined cortical levels of SDS- and formic acid (FA)-extractable forms of beta-amyloid (1-40) and (1-42) by ELISA. Formic acid-extractable Abeta (1-42) levels were 10-fold higher in infected versus uninfected Tg2576 mice whereas other forms of Abeta were essentially unaffected by the prion infection. Hence, the experimental model demonstrates that a prion infection of the CNS promotes selectively formation of FA-extractable Abeta(1-42) in Tg2576 mice.
Fragile X, an inheritable form of mental retardation, is caused by the inactivation of a gene on the X chromosome, FMR1 which codes for an RNA binding protein, fragile X mental retardation protein. Loss of this protein is associated with reduced complexities of neuronal dendrites and alterations in spine morphology in a number of cortical brain regions, and these deficits may underlie the cognitive impairment observed in fragile X patients. Among the many symptoms of fragile X are altered motor functions, although the neuronal basis for these remains unclear. In this study we investigated whether knockout of Fmr1 in the mouse model of fragile X altered dendrite morphology in developing spinal cord motor neurons. We find that Fmr1 knockout leads to modest alterations in the distribution of dendritic arbor across the span of the motor neuron dendritic tree in 2- and 4-week-old mice, compared to wild-type controls, consistent with slower rates of extension and abnormal pruning of intermediate dendritic segments. These studies suggest that some motor deficits in fragile X patients may be due to abnormal maturation of dendritic patterning within spinal motor neurons, and suggest that strategies aimed at preventing motor impairment in fragile X patients may be targeted at motor functions during early development.


Sleep deprivation (SD) is known to induce perceptual impairments, ranging from perceptual distortion to hallucinatory states. Although this phenomenon has been extensively described in the literature, its neurobiological underpinnings remain elusive. In rodents, SD induces a series of behavioural patterns that might be reflective of psychosis and mania, such as hyperlocomotion and sensitization to psychotogenic drugs. Notably, such changes are accompanied by transitory alterations of dopaminergic signalling. Based on the hypothesis that both psychotic and manic disorders reflect gating impairments, the present study was aimed at the assessment of the impact of SD on the behavioural model of prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle reflex, a reliable paradigm for the study of informational filtering. Rats subjected to SD (24 h, 48 h, 72 h) exhibited a time-dependent increase in startle reflex and a dramatic deficit in PPI. Both alterations were reversed 24 h after termination of the SD period. Interestingly, PPI disruption was efficiently prevented by haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg i.p.) clozapine (5 mg/kg i.p.) and risperidone (1 mg/kg i.p.). Conversely, neither the anxiolytic diazepam (5 mg/kg i.p.) nor the antidepressant citalopram (5 mg/kg i.p) affected the PPI disruption mediated by SD, although diazepam reversed the enhancement in startle reflex magnitude induced by this manipulation. Our data suggest that SD induces gating deficits that might be relevant to the hallucinatory phenomena observed in humans, and provide a novel reliable animal model where such relationship can be studied.
Cannabinoids, in contrast to typical drugs of abuse, have been shown to exert complex effects on behavioural reinforcement and psychomotor function. We have shown that cannabinoid agonists lack reinforcing/rewarding properties in the intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) paradigm and that the CB1 receptor (CB1R) agonist WIN55,212-2 attenuates the reward-facilitating actions of cocaine. We sought to determine the effects of the endocannabinoid neurotransmission enhancer AM-404 (1, 3, 10, 30 mg/kg) on the changes in ICSS threshold and locomotion elicited by cocaine and extend the study of the effects of WIN55,212-2 (0.3, 1, 3 mg/kg) on cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion. AM-404 did not exhibit reward-facilitating properties, and actually increased self-stimulation threshold at the highest dose. Cocaine significantly reduced self-stimulation threshold, without altering maximal rates of responding. AM-404 (10 mg/kg) attenuated this action of cocaine, an effect which was reversed by pretreatment with the selective CB1R antagonist SR141716A. WIN55,212-2 decreased locomotion at the two highest doses, an effect that was blocked by SR141716A; AM-404 had no effect on locomotion. Cocaine caused a significant, dose-dependent increase in locomotion, which was reduced by WIN55,212-2 and AM-404. SR141716A blocked the effects of WIN55,212-2 and AM-404 on cocaine-induced hyperlocomotion. SR141716A alone had no effect on ICSS threshold or locomotion. These results indicate that cannabinoids may interfere with brain reward systems responsible for the expression of acute reinforcing/rewarding properties of cocaine, and provide further evidence that the cannabinoid system could be explored as a potential drug discovery target for the treatment of psychostimulant addiction and pathological states associated with psychomotor overexcitability.

Body dysmorphic disorder (BDD) is a severe psychiatric disease with delusions about defects in appearance for which patients seek surgical help. This is the first European study to determine the half-year prevalence of BDD in a maxillofacial outpatient clinic. A total of 160 patients with maxillofacial problems completed a validated self-report questionnaire, while a staff member scored maxillofacial defects on a severity scale. Twenty-eight (17%) patients had excessive concerns about their appearance, which negatively influenced their psychosocial functioning; 16 patients (10%; 95%CI 5-15%) screened positive for BDD. The high prevalence of problems related to psychosocial functioning and the occurrence of BDD in maxillofacial patients means that maxillofacial surgeons should take psychological concerns about physical defects into account.
This study investigated the possibility of a pervasive auditory-processing deficit in 10 adult dyslexics who had compensated for their reading disability, compared to 10 matched controls. Unlike previous studies [Baldeweg, T., Richardson, A., Watkins, S., Foale, C. &amp; Gruzelier, J. (1999). Impaired auditory frequency discrimination in dyslexia detected with mismatch evoked potentials. Annals of Neurology, 45(4): 495-503], the current EEG study used a dichotic presentation of stimuli in order to probe the relationship between ear advantage and left- and right-hemisphere dominance for processing speech and non-speech stimuli respectively. A dichotic presentation is thought to maximise lateralization effects, as well being a more ecologically valid paradigm. The Mismatch Negativity (MMN) was measured for both speech [consonant-vowel pairs: /ta/ vs. /ka/ and ba/ vs. /da/] and non-speech stimuli (pure tones: 1 kHz vs. 1.2 kHz). Smaller MMNs to tone stimuli were obtained for dyslexics versus controls, but no differences were found for speech stimuli. Controls differentiated between speech and tones, with larger MMNs to tone stimuli. Dyslexics showed significantly greater MMNs to one stop consonant discrimination (/ta/ vs /ka/) than the other (/ba/ vs /da/), but did not differentiate speech from tones, and no or minimal lateralization was found for either group or stimulus type, in line with recent studies [Kershner and Micallef, 1992; Bellis, T.J., Nicol, T., &amp; Kraus, N. (2000). Aging affects hemispheric asymmetry in the neural representation of speech sounds. Journal of Neuroscience, 20, 791-797]. However, analysis of left and right dipole source activity suggested right hemispheric preference for tones in controls, and the lack of such a preference in dyslexics. Lateralization of the auditory system in general may be less specialized in compensated dyslexia, although no specific differences in speech lateralization were seen. The present study also extends previous findings to show that the frequency range over which dyslexics are shown to display impaired frequency discrimination can be extended to 20% (1 kHz vs. 1.2 kHz) if using a dichotic presentation.
The emotional salience of stimuli influences ERP old/new effects, but despite proven age differences in emotional processing, the influence of emotion on old/new effects has previously been investigated in younger adults only. Therefore, we set out to examine age differences in the emotional modulation of old/new effects. To this end, the electroencephalogram of younger (17-27 years) and older (63-77 years) adults was recorded while they completed a continuous recognition test with unpleasant, neutral and pleasant pictures. Because recollection is typically enhanced by emotion, the parietal old/new effect was expected to be larger for emotional than neutral stimuli in the younger adults. Because recollection suffers from age-related decline, emotion enhancement of the parietal old/new effect was not expected in the older adults. The results showed that, in both age groups, recognition accuracy was not affected by emotion and that the response bias was more liberal for unpleasant pictures. The younger adults displayed an early, a parietal and a late frontal old/new effect, whereas the older adults showed an early, no parietal and an inverse left-lateralized late frontal old/new effect. Further, the emotional modulation of the old/new effects differed with age. Importantly, emotion enhanced the parietal and late frontal old/new effects in younger adults, and the early old/new effect in older adults. This suggests that whereas recollection and post-retrieval processes are augmented in emotional recognition memory in younger adults, familiarity is enhanced by emotional salience in older adults.


The morphology of the vertebrate head is extremely complex and comprises numerous iterative structures that arise from each of the embryonic germ layers. The search for a fundamental plan uniting all of these serial structures spans 200 years. The earliest attempt to identify a common plan was J. W. Goethe's vertebral theory of skull organization, in which the skull was interpreted as being formed by a series of trunk vertebrae. This theory was rejected by T. H. Huxley in the 1858 Croonian Lecture and was replaced by the segmented mesodermal model of Francis Balfour, which was elaborated subsequently by A. Marshall, Gavin de Beer, and Edwin Goodrich. This model assumes that the head of the earliest vertebrates consisted of eight segments. It further assumes that each segment contained dorsal muscles arising from the somitic mesoderm, and ventral muscles arising from lateral plate mesoderm, except for the first segment, which lacked ventral muscles derived from the lateral plate mesoderm. The muscles of each head segment were believed to be innervated by two pairs of cranial nerves, homologous to the dorsal and ventral spinal nerves of lampreys. The validity of this theory, known as the Goodrich model, came into question, however, after the discovery that the branchiomeric muscles associated with each pharyngeal arch do not arise from lateral plate mesoderm, as initially proposed by Marshall and subsequently accepted by Goodrich and de Beer, but, rather, arise from paraxial mesoderm. Furthermore, segmentation of the brain into some 14 neuromeres cannot be accommodated by any model involving eight segments. Finally, there is also clear evidence that at least one, if not two, additional series of placodally derived sensory nerves occurs in the head and has no counterpart in the trunk. At present, there is no theory of segmentation that can account for all cephalic iterative structures.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) controls the reproductive physiology and behavior of vertebrates by stimulating synthesis and release of gonadotropin from the pituitary gland. In 2000, another hypothalamic neuropeptide, gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH), was discovered in quail and found to be an inhibiting factor for gonadotropin release. GnIH homologs are present in the brains of vertebrates, including birds, mammals, amphibians, and fish. These peptides, categorized as RF amide-related peptides (RFRPs), possess a characteristic LPXRF-amide (X = L or Q) motif at their C-termini. GnIH/RFRP precursor mRNA encodes a polypeptide that is possibly cleaved into three mature peptides in birds and two in mammals. The names of these peptides are GnIH, GnIH-related peptide-1 (GnIH-RP-1) and GnIH-RP-2 in birds, and RFRP-1 and RFRP-3 in mammals. GnIH/RFRP is synthesized in neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus in birds and the dorsomedial hypothalamic area in mammals. GnIH neurons project to the median eminence, thus providing a functional neuroanatomical infrastructure to regulate anterior pituitary function. In quail, GnIH inhibits gonadal activity by decreasing synthesis and release of gonadotropin. The widespread distribution of GnIH/RFRP immunoreactive fibers in all animals tested suggests various actions within the brain. In accordance, GnIH/RFRP receptor mRNA is also expressed widely in the brain and the pituitary. GnIH/RFRP immunoreactive axon terminals are in probable contact with GnRH neurons in birds and mammals, and we recently demonstrated expression of GnIH receptor mRNA in GnRH-I and GnRH-II neurons in European starlings. Thus, GnIH/RFRP may also inhibit gonadotropin synthesis and release by inhibiting GnRH neurons in addition to having direct actions on the pituitary gland. Intracerebroventricular administration of GnIH/RFRP further inhibits reproductive behaviors in songbirds and rodents, possibly via direct actions on the GnRH system. The expression of GnIH/RFRP is regulated by melatonin which is an internal indicator of day length in vertebrates. Stress stimuli also regulate the expression of GnIH/RFRP in songbirds and rodents. Accordingly, GnIH/RFRP may serve as a transducer of environmental information and social interactions into endogenous physiology and behavior of the animal. Recently, it was shown that GnIH/RFRP and its receptor are also expressed in the gonads of birds, rodents and primates. In sum, the existing data suggest that GnIH/RFRP is an important mediator of reproductive function acting at the level of the brain, pituitary, and the gonad in birds and mammals.
In most versions of theories of the segmentation of the vertebrate head, a premandibular segment is present rostral to the jaw-forming mandibular segment. These theories posit that in ancient fishes this segment included a gill and a gill-supporting skeleton, which then was modified to support the anterior brain. However, we find no recent evidence for existence of such a premandibular segment. Rather, new findings from studies of fate mapping and gene expression show that the &quot;premandibular&quot; territory is in fact the maxillary region of the mandibular arch. A signaling cascade, beginning with dorsal midline mesoderm in the gastrula and relayed through neural ectoderm and then oral ectoderm, greatly expands the skeletal derivatives of maxillary neural crest in a manner fully consistent with the Gans-Northcutt theory of the vertebrate new head.


Dreyer and Oxenham [(2008). &quot;Effects of level and background noise on interaural time difference discrimination for transposed stimuli,&quot; J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 123, EL1-EL7] reported that spectrally flanking noise increased threshold interaural temporal disparities (ITDs) conveyed by high-frequency transposed tones but rendered them indiscriminable when they were conveyed by high-frequency sinusoidally amplitude-modulated (SAM) tones. This study extends those observations and evaluates the role of &quot;off-frequency listening.&quot; Threshold ITDs were measured using 4-kHz-centered transposed or SAM tonal &quot;targets.&quot; In &quot;baseline&quot; conditions, targets were presented without spectrally flanking noise. Additionally, targets were presented along with continuous diotic broadband Gaussian noise spectrally &quot;notched&quot; between 3.6 and 4.4 kHz. In another condition, only the high-pass segment of the notched noise was continuously present. In the final condition, only the low-pass segment was continuously present. Results indicate that (1) relative to baseline, adding notched noise resulted in similar relative increases of threshold ITDs for both SAM and transposed targets; (2) the presence of the high-pass segment of the notched noise resulted in greater relative increases in threshold ITDs over those obtained in baseline conditions for SAM tones as compared to transposed tones; (3) comparisons among all of the data were consistent with the interpretation that both on-frequency and off-frequency processing of envelope-based ITDs can be disrupted by the presence of a notched noise.
Cochlear-implant (CI) users often have difficulties perceiving speech in noisy environments. Although this problem likely involves auditory scene analysis, few studies have examined sequential segregation in CI listening situations. The present study aims to assess the possible role of fundamental frequency (F(0)) cues for the segregation of vowel sequences, using a noise-excited envelope vocoder that simulates certain aspects of CI stimulation. Obligatory streaming was evaluated using an order-naming task in two experiments involving normal-hearing subjects. In the first experiment, it was found that streaming did not occur based on F(0) cues when natural-duration vowels were processed to reduce spectral cues using the vocoder. In the second experiment, shorter duration vowels were used to enhance streaming. Under these conditions, F(0)-related streaming appeared even when vowels were processed to reduce spectral cues. However, the observed segregation could not be convincingly attributed to temporal periodicity cues. A subsequent analysis of the stimuli revealed that an F(0)-related spectral cue could have elicited the observed segregation. Thus, streaming under conditions of severely reduced spectral cues, such as those associated with CIs, may potentially occur as a result of this particular cue.


A lower thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) response to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in depressed women has been associated with violent suicide attempts, suicidal intent, higher lethality and suicide risk. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) and homovanillic acid (HVA) levels are related to suicidal behaviour. We studied the HPT axis function in twelve male suicide attempters and eight healthy volunteers submitted to lumbar puncture and to TRH test. Suicidal behaviour and depression severity were assessed. There was no association between deltamaxTSH and violent suicidality or subsequent suicide. The deltamaxTSH correlated with CSF HVA in suicide attempters. The plasma T3 showed a negative correlation with the Beck Suicide Intent Scale and the Montgomery Asberg Depression rating scale. Dopaminergic regulatory mechanisms on the thyroid hormone activity may be altered in male suicide attempters.

The benzimidazole anthelmintic fenbendazole (FBZ) is a common and effective treatment for pinworm infestation in laboratory animal colonies. Although many investigators have examined the potential for deleterious biologic effects of FBZ, more subtle aspects of the treatment remain untested. Accordingly, we evaluated differences in food intake when healthy male Sprague-Dawley rats were provided a standard nonmedicated laboratory rodent chow or the same chow supplemented with FBZ. We also tested for a preference for either food type when subjects were provided a choice of the 2 diets. Data from these experiments showed no differences in food intake or body weight when rats were maintained on either standard or FBZ-supplemented chow. When the rats were given access to both the standard and FBZ-supplemented diets, they showed a clear preference for the standard diet. The preference for the standard diet indicates that the rats can discriminate between the 2 foods and may avoid the FBZ-supplemented chow when possible. Investigators conducting experiments during treatment with FBZ in which differences in food preference are relevant should be aware of these data and plan their studies accordingly.
Measurement of the conjugated ethanol metabolite ethyl glucuronide (EtG) in urine is increasingly being used as a biomarker for recent alcohol consumption. Prior to quantification of EtG by mass spectrometric (MS) methods [liquid chromatography (LC)-MS or gas chromatography-MS], there is sometimes need for sample cleanup to remove interfering matrix constituents. A solid-phase extraction (SPE) procedure using a HyperSep SAX strong anion exchanger was developed for sample cleanup of urinary EtG prior to LC-MS analysis. The EtG content in a 50-100-microL urine sample was finally reconstituted in the same volume as the original aliquot. The cleaner SPE extracts, without sample dilution, allowed for improved quantification of urinary EtG in the low concentration range. The detection limit of the SPE procedure when combined with LC-MS analysis was &lt; 0.1 mg/L EtG, and the assay imprecision &lt; 5.5% (total CV) in the 0.5-5.0 mg/L concentration range. The absolute recovery of urinary EtG was ~80%, which was compensated for by using a deuterated analogue (EtG-d(5)) as internal standard. The urinary EtG results with SPE followed by LC-MS were highly correlated (r(2) = 0.959) with those obtained using a sensitive and selective ultra-performance LC-tandem MS method.
l-Glutamate is one of the major excitatory neurotransmitters in the mammalian central nervous system, but recently it has been shown to have a role also in the transduction of sensory input at the periphery, and in particular in the nociceptive pathway. An excess of glutamate is implicated in cases of peripheral neuropathies as well. Conventional therapeutic approaches for treating these diseases have focused on blocking glutamate receptors with small molecules or on reducing its synthesis of the receptors through the inhibition of glutamate carboxypeptidase II (GCPII), the enzyme that generates glutamate. In vivo studies have demonstrated that the pharmacological inhibition of GCPII can either prevent or treat the peripheral nerve changes in both BB/Wor and chemically induced diabetes in rats. In this study, we characterized the expression and distribution of glutamate transporters GLT1, GLAST, EAAC1 and of the enzyme GCPII in the peripheral nervous system of female Wistar rats. Immunoblotting results demonstrated that all glutamate transporters and GCPII are present in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and the sciatic nerve. Immunofluorescence localization studies revealed that both DRG and sciatic nerves were immunopositive for all glutamate transporters and for GCPII. In DRG, satellite cells were positive for GLT1 and GCPII, whereas sensory neurons were positive for EAAC1. GLAST was localized in both neurons and satellite cells. In the sciatic nerve, GLT1 and GCPII were expressed in the cytoplasm of Schwann cells, whereas GLAST and EAAC1 stained the myelin layer. Our results give for the first time a complete characterization of the glutamate transporter system in the peripheral nervous system. Therefore, they are important both for understanding glutamatergic signalling in the PNS and for establishing new strategies to treat peripheral neuropathies.
Experiments suggesting that a change in eye gaze creates a reflexive attention shift tend to confound motion direction and terminal eye direction. However, motion and the onset of motion are known to capture attention. Current thinking about social cognition in autism suggests that there might be a deficit in responding to social (eye gaze) cues but not non-social (motion direction) cues, making the current study theoretically critical. We report an experiment in which motion direction and eye direction are decoupled in order to determine which predicts attention shifts in adults with and without autism. In the Eye Movement condition the eyes moved towards or away from a target. In the Face Movement condition the face image shifted while pupils remained stationary on the screen, resulting in terminal eye gaze and motion being in opposite directions. Reflexive attention shifts in both groups followed terminal eye direction, rather than direction of movement.
Given the recent findings regarding the association between alexithymia and Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and the accumulating evidence for the presence of the Broader Autism Phenotype (BAP) in relatives of individuals with ASD, we further explored the construct of alexithymia in parents of children with ASD as a potential part of the BAP. We hypothesized that (a) parents of children with ASD will demonstrate higher impairment in their emotion processing when compared to controls, and (b) high impairment in emotion processing in parents will be associated with severity of symptoms in children with ASD. Psychometric and diagnostic data were collected on 188 children with a diagnosis of ASD. The Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20) was completed by 439 parents of children with ASD and a control group of 45 parents of children with Prader Willi syndrome (PW). Results show that ASD parents score higher than controls on the TAS-20 total score. Within the ASD group, children of fathers with high alexithymia score higher on repetitive behaviour symptoms compared to children of fathers with low alexithymia. The alexithymia trait appears to be one of the many building blocks that make up the BAP.

The objective of this study was to establish pure blood-nerve barrier (BNB)-derived peripheral nerve pericyte cell lines and to investigate their unique properties as barrier-forming cells. We isolated peripheral nerve, brain, and lung pericytes from transgenic rats harboring the temperature-sensitive simian virus 40 large T-antigen gene. These cell lines expressed several pericyte markers such as alpha-smooth muscle actin, NG2, osteopontin, and desmin, whereas they did not express endothelial cell markers such as vWF and PECAM. In addition, these cell lines expressed several tight junction molecules such as occludin, claudin-12, ZO-1, and ZO-2. In particular, the expression of occludin was detected in peripheral nerve and brain pericytes, although it was not detected in lung pericytes by a Western blot analysis. An immunocytochemical analysis confirmed that occludin and ZO-1 were localized at the cell-cell boundaries among the pericytes. Brain and peripheral nerve pericytes also showed significantly higher trans-pericyte electrical resistance values and lower inulin clearances than lung pericytes. We considered that occludin localized at the cell-cell boundaries among the pericytes might mechanically stabilize the microvessels of the BNB and the blood-brain barrier. Furthermore, we also showed that these cell lines expressed many barrier-related transporters. ABCG2, p-gp, MRP-1, and Glut-1 were detected by a Western blot analysis and were observed in the cytoplasm and outer membrane by an immunocytochemical analysis. These transporters on pericytes might facilitate the peripheral nerve-to-blood efflux and blood-to-peripheral nerve influx transport of substrates in cooperation with those on endothelial cells in order to maintain peripheral nerve homeostasis.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) causes both direct and delayed tissue damage. The latter is associated with secondary biochemical changes such as cell cycle activation, which leads to neuronal death, inflammation, and glial scarring. Flavopiridol--a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor that is neither specific nor selective--is neuroprotective. To examine the role of more specific CDK inhibitors as potential neuroprotective agents, we studied the effects of roscovitine in TBI. Central administration of roscovitine 30 mins after injury resulted in significantly decreased lesion volume, as well as improved motor and cognitive recovery. Roscovitine attenuated neuronal death and inhibited activation of cell cycle pathways in neurons after TBI, as indicated by attenuated cyclin G1 accumulation and phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein. Treatment also decreased microglial activation after TBI, as reflected by reductions in ED1, galectin-3, p22(PHOX), and Iba-1 levels, and attenuated astrogliosis, as shown by decreased accumulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein. In primary cortical microglia and neuronal cultures, roscovitine and other selective CDK inhibitors attenuated neuronal cell death, as well as decreasing microglial activation and microglial-dependent neurotoxicity. These data support a multifactorial neuroprotective effect of cell cycle inhibition after TBI--likely related to inhibition of neuronal apoptosis, microglial-induced inflammation, and gliosis--and suggest that multiple CDKs are potentially involved in this process.
We describe the case of Angie, a 50-year-old woman with profound amnesia (General Memory Index = 49, Full Scale IQ = 126) following a closed head injury in 1985. This case is unique in comparison to other cases reported in the literature in that, despite the severity of her amnesia, she has developed remarkable real-world life abilities, shows impressive self-awareness and insight into the impairment and sparing of various functional memory abilities, and exhibits ongoing maturation of her identity and sense of self following amnesia. The case provides insights into the interaction of different memory and cognitive systems in handling real-world memory demands and has implications for rehabilitation and for successful life outcome after amnesia.
This retrospective study was designed to analyze and compare the efficacy and outcomes of anterior cervical fusion using titanium cages, polyetheretherketone (PEEK) cages and autogenous tricortical bone grafts. Fifty-five patients who underwent segmental anterior discectomy with a follow-up period up to 12 months enrolled in this study. They were divided into three groups: titanium cage with biphasic calcium phosphate ceramic (Triosite; Zimmer, Berlin, Germany) in group A (n=27); PEEK cage with Triosite in group B (n=9); and autogenous tricortical iliac crest bone graft in group C (n=19). The fusion rates after 6 months were 37.21% in group A , 93.3% in group B, and 84.85% in group C. The fusion rates after 1 year in groups A, B, and C were 46.51%, 100% and 100%, respectively. The PEEK cage is a viable alternative to autogenous tricortical bone grafts in anterior cervical fusion.
The hallmark of tuberous sclerosis is the presence of multiple cortical tubers. Identifying the epileptogenic tubers is difficult and often requires invasive intracranial electroencephalograph (EEG) monitoring. We report on a patient with tuberous sclerosis upon whom the novel magnetoencephalography (MEG) technique of synthetic aperture magnetometry (SAM) with excess kurtosis (g2) analysis was performed for localization of the epileptogenic tuber. Simultaneous electroencephalography (EEG) was also performed. MEG data, as analyzed by SAM(g2), were superimposed on the patient's MRIs. In the fluid attenuated inversion recovery MRIs, several tubers and subependymal nodules could be identified, with the largest tubers being located in the right frontal and left anteriotemporal regions. Despite multiple cortical lesions existing, the SAM(g2) images showed a single large tuber and surrounding epileptogenic tissue in the left temporal cortex. We suggest that MEG with SAM(g2) analysis may be clinically useful for the accurate identification of epileptogenic tubers in patients with tuberous sclerosis.
During embryogenesis and in regions of the adult brain undergoing post-natal neurogenesis, neural stem cells and endothelial precursors are found within a vascular niche, where the coordinated interactions between neurogenesis and vasculogenesis dictates development and responses to the environment. Moreover, recent evidence suggests that gliomas may arise from transformed neural stem cells and that angiogenesis is important in the malignant progression of these tumors. Taken together, these findings have led researchers to focus on the dynamic interaction between neural stem cells and their vascular niche so as to find new therapeutic strategies to halt the progression of gliomas. This review summarizes the cellular substrates responsible for the coordinated interactions between the nervous and vascular systems and how this relates to gliomagenesis.



In texture segregation, an example of scene segmentation, we can discern two different processes: texture boundary detection and subsequent surface segregation [Lamme, V. A. F., Rodriguez-Rodriguez, V., &amp; Spekreijse, H. Separate processing dynamics for texture elements, boundaries and surfaces in primary visual cortex of the macaque monkey. Cerebral Cortex, 9, 406-413, 1999]. Neural correlates of texture boundary detection have been found in monkey V1 [Sillito, A. M., Grieve, K. L., Jones, H. E., Cudeiro, J., &amp; Davis, J. Visual cortical mechanisms detecting focal orientation discontinuities. Nature, 378, 492-496, 1995; Grosof, D. H., Shapley, R. M., &amp; Hawken, M. J. Macaque-V1 neurons can signal illusory contours. Nature, 365, 550-552, 1993], but whether surface segregation occurs in monkey V1 [Rossi, A. F., Desimone, R., &amp; Ungerleider, L. G. Contextual modulation in primary visual cortex of macaques. Journal of Neuroscience, 21, 1698-1709, 2001; Lamme, V. A. F. The neurophysiology of figure ground segregation in primary visual-cortex. Journal of Neuroscience, 15, 1605-1615, 1995], and whether boundary detection or surface segregation signals can also be measured in human V1, is more controversial [Kastner, S., De Weerd, P., &amp; Ungerleider, L. G. Texture segregation in the human visual cortex: A functional MRI study. Journal of Neurophysiology, 83, 2453-2457, 2000]. Here we present electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging data that have been recorded with a paradigm that makes it possible to differentiate between boundary detection and scene segmentation in humans. In this way, we were able to show with EEG that neural correlates of texture boundary detection are first present in the early visual cortex around 92 msec and then spread toward the parietal and temporal lobes. Correlates of surface segregation first appear in temporal areas (around 112 msec) and from there appear to spread to parietal, and back to occipital areas. After 208 msec, correlates of surface segregation and boundary detection also appear in more frontal areas. Blood oxygenation level-dependent magnetic resonance imaging results show correlates of boundary detection and surface segregation in all early visual areas including V1. We conclude that texture boundaries are detected in a feedforward fashion and are represented at increasing latencies in higher visual areas. Surface segregation, on the other hand, is represented in &quot;reverse hierarchical&quot; fashion and seems to arise from feedback signals toward early visual areas such as V1.
The present study attempts to explore the process by which knowledge of another's intentional behavior in a joint-action scenario is represented through the action observation and execution network-also known as the common coding system. Participants (n = 18) were instructed to perform the complementary social Simon task under the implemented belief of interaction with either an unseen human (biological agent) or a computer program, where in fact, all response sequences from either &quot;partner&quot; were generated by computer. Results provide behavioral and neurophysiological evidence (P3 and S-LRP) that the believed intentionality of another person's actions is sufficient to facilitate a strong-enough agency-dependent social Simon effect to modulate action planning and anticipation. We suggest that the co-representation of human action may be an evolved biologically tuned default of the human motor system.
Feedback signals may be of different modality, latency, and accuracy. To learn and control motor tasks, the feedback available may be redundant, and it would not be necessary to rely on every accessible feedback loop. Which feedback loops should then be utilized? In this article, we propose that the latency is a critical factor to determine which signals will be influential at different learning stages. We use a computational framework to study the role of feedback modules with different latencies in optimal motor control. Instead of explicit gating between modules, the reinforcement learning algorithm learns to rely on the more useful module. We tested our paradigm for two different implementations, which confirmed our hypothesis. In the first, we examined how feedback latency affects the competitiveness of two identical modules. In the second, we examined an example of visuomotor sequence learning, where a plastic, faster somatosensory module interacts with a preacquired, slower visual module. We found that the overall performance depended on the latency of the faster module alone, whereas the relative latency determines the independence of the faster from the slower. In the second implementation, the somatosensory module with shorter latency overtook the slower visual module, and realized better overall performance. The visual module played different roles in early and late learning. First, it worked as a guide for the exploration of the somatosensory module. Then, when learning had converged, it contributed to robustness against system noise and external perturbations. Overall, these results demonstrate that our framework successfully learns to utilize the most useful available feedback for optimal control.
Regular exercise can counteract the adverse effects of aging on the musculoskeletal and cardiovascular systems. In males, the normal aging process is associated with reductions in testosterone production and impaired spermatogenesis, but the underlying mechanisms and their potential modification by exercise are unknown. Here, we report that lifelong regular exercise (running) protects the testes against the adverse effects of advancing age, and that this effect of running is associated with decreased amounts of oxidative damage to proteins, lipids, and DNA in spermatogenic and Leydig cells. Six-month-old male mice were divided into a sedentary group and a group that ran an average of 1.75 km/day, until the mice reached the age of 20 months. Seminiferous tubules of runners exhibited a full complement of cells at different stages of the spermatogenic process and a clear central lumen with large numbers of spermatozoa, in contrast to sedentary mice that exhibited disorganized spermatogenic cells and lacked spermatocytes in a central lumen. Levels of protein carbonyls, nitrotyrosine, lipid peroxidation products, and oxidatively modified DNA were significantly greater in spermatogenic and Leydig cells of sedentary mice compared with runners. These findings suggest that lifelong regular exercise suppresses aging of testes by a mechanism that involves reduced oxidative damage to spermatogenic and Leydig cells.
delta-Opioid receptor (DOR) activation is neuroprotective against short-term anoxic insults in the mammalian brain. This protection may be conferred by inhibition of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), whose over-activation during anoxia otherwise leads to a deleterious accumulation of cytosolic calcium ([Ca(2+)](c)), severe membrane potential (E(m)) depolarization and excitotoxic cell death (ECD). Conversely, NMDAR activity is decreased by approximately 50% with anoxia in the cortex of the painted turtle, and large elevations in [Ca(2+)](c), severe E(m) depolarization and ECD are avoided. DORs are expressed in high quantity throughout the turtle brain relative to the mammalian brain; however, the role of DORs in anoxic NMDAR regulation has not been investigated in turtles. We examined the effect of DOR blockade with naltrindole (1-10 micromol l(-1)) on E(m), NMDAR activity and [Ca(2+)](c) homeostasis in turtle cortical neurons during normoxia and the transition to anoxia. Naltrindole potentiated normoxic NMDAR currents by 78+/-5% and increased [Ca(2+)](c) by 13+/-4%. Anoxic neurons treated with naltrindole were strongly depolarized, NMDAR currents were potentiated by 70+/-15%, and [Ca(2+)](c) increased 5-fold compared with anoxic controls. Following naltrindole washout, E(m) remained depolarized and [Ca(2+)](c) became further elevated in all neurons. The naltrindole-mediated depolarization and increased [Ca(2+)](c) were prevented by NMDAR antagonism or by perfusion of the G(i) protein agonist mastoparan-7, which also reversed the naltrindole-mediated potentiation of NMDAR currents. Together, these data suggest that DORs mediate NMDAR activity in a G(i)-dependent manner and prevent deleterious NMDAR-mediated [Ca(2+)](c) influx during anoxic insults in the turtle cortex.
One hundred fifteen undergraduates rated 15 word-cued memories and their 3 most negatively stressful, 3 most positive, and 7 most important events and completed tests of personality and depression. Eighty-nine also recorded involuntary memories online for 1 week. In the first 3-way comparisons needed to test existing theories, comparisons were made of memories of stressful events versus control events and involuntary versus voluntary memories in people high versus low in posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) symptom severity. For all participants, stressful memories had more emotional intensity, more frequent voluntary and involuntary retrieval, but not more fragmentation. For all memories, participants with greater PTSD symptom severity showed the same differences. Involuntary memories had more emotional intensity and less centrality to the life story than voluntary memories. Meeting the diagnostic criteria for traumatic events had no effect, but the emotional responses to events did. In 533 undergraduates, correlations among measures were replicated and the Negative Intensity factor of the Affect Intensity Measure correlated with PTSD symptom severity. No special trauma mechanisms were needed to account for the results, which are summarized by the autobiographical memory theory of PTSD.
Four experiments were conducted in order to examine effects of notation--Arabic and verbal numbers--on relevant and irrelevant numerical processing. In Experiment 1, notation interacted with the numerical distance effect, and irrelevant physical size affected numerical processing (i.e., size congruity effect) for both notations but to a lesser degree for verbal numbers. In contrast, size congruity had no effect when verbal numbers were the irrelevant dimension. In Experiments 2 and 3, different parameters that could possibly affect the results, such as discriminability and variability (Experiment 2) and the block design (Experiment 3), were controlled. The results replicated the effects obtained in Experiment 1. In Experiment 4, in which physical size was made more difficult to process, size congruity for irrelevant verbal numbers was observed. The present results imply that notation affects numerical processing and that Arabic and verbal numbers are represented separately, and thus it is suggested that current models of numerical processing should have separate comparison mechanisms for verbal and Arabic numbers.
The authors show that the updating of working memory (WM) representations is carried out by the cooperative act of 2 dissociable reaction time (RT) components: a global updating process that provides stability by shielding WM contents against interference and a local process that provides flexibility. Participants kept track of 1-3 items (digits or Gibson figures). In each trial, the items either were similar to those in the previous trial or were different in any or all of the items. Experiments 1 and 2 established the existence of 2 independent RT components representing the 2 updating processes. Global updating cost was sensitive to total number of items in WM (set size), regardless of the number of items that actually were modified. Local updating cost was sensitive to the number of modified items, regardless of the set size. Experiment 3 showed that participants had to dismantle the representation formed by previous global updating in order to carry out new updating.
Activation of the purinergic P2X(7) receptor leads to the rapid opening of an integral ion channel that is permeable to small cations. This is followed by a gradual increase in permeability to fluorescent dyes by integrating the actions of the pannexin-1 channel. Here, we show that during the prolonged agonist application a rapid current that peaked within 200 ms was accompanied with a slower current that required tens of seconds to reach its peak. The secondary rise in current was observed under different ionic conditions and temporally coincided with the development of conductivity to larger organic cations. The biphasic response was also observed in cells with blocked pannexin channels and in cells not expressing these channels endogenously. The biphasic current was preserved in N-terminal T15A, T15S, and T15V mutants that have low or no permeability to organic cations, reflecting enhanced permeability to inorganic cations. In contrast, the T15E, T15K, and T15W mutants, and the Delta18 mutant with deleted P2X(7) receptor-specific 18-amino acid C-terminal segment, were instantaneously permeable to organic cations and generated high amplitude monophasic currents. These results indicate that the P2X(7) receptor channel dilates under physiological ion conditions, leading to generation of biphasic current, and that this process is controlled by residues near the intracellular side of the channel pore.
Children with prenatal alcohol exposure (PAE) show deficits in verbal learning and spatial memory, as well as abnormal hippocampal development. The relationship between their memory and neuroanatomic impairments, however, has not been directly explored. Given that the hippocampus is integral for the synthesis and retrieval of learned information and is particularly vulnerable to the teratogenic effects of alcohol, we assessed whether reduced learning and recall abilities in children with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) are associated with abnormal hippocampal volumes. Nineteen children with FASDs and 18 typically developing controls aged 9 to 15 years were assessed for verbal learning and verbal and spatial recall and underwent structural magnetic resonance imaging. Images were analyzed for total intracranial volume and for right and left hippocampal volumes. Results revealed smaller left hippocampi and poorer verbal learning and verbal and spatial recall performance in children with FASDs than controls, as well as positive correlations between selective memory indices and hippocampal volumes only in the FASD group. Additionally, hippocampal volumes increased significantly with age in controls only, suggesting that PAE may be associated with long-term abnormalities in hippocampal development that may contribute to impaired verbal learning and verbal and spatial recall.
Deficits in inhibitory abilities are frequently observed in normal aging. However, few studies have explored the generality of these deficits in a single group of participants. Here, we used an adaptation of the Simon task to differentially assess perceptual and motor inhibition using the same stimuli and task design and to determine whether these processes use separate or shared cognitive resources. We were interested in determining whether (1) normal aging is associated with the use of separate (as previously evidenced in young participants) or similar cognitive resources to perform perceptual and motor inhibition tasks; (2) older participants present a specific impairment in one of these two processes. Analyses of reaction times indicated that motor and perceptual inhibitory processes share some cognitive resources and both are impaired in normal aging. These results can be interpreted by considering that a dedifferentiation process is responsible for the inhibitory deficits presented by older participants.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, inflammatory, demyelinating disease of the CNS, most frequently starting with a series of bouts, each followed by complete remission and then a secondary, progressive phase during which the neurological deficit increases steadily. The underlying molecular mechanisms responsible for disease progression are still unclear. Herein, we demonstrate that high mobility group box chromosomal protein 1 (HMGB1), a DNA-binding protein with proinflammatory properties, is evident in active lesions of MS and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and that HMGB1 levels correlate with active inflammation. Furthermore, the expression of the innate HMGB1 receptors--receptor for advanced glycation end products, TLR2, and TLR4--was also highly increased in MS and rodent EAE. Additionally, in vitro activation of rodent CNS-derived microglia and bone marrow-derived macrophages demonstrated that microglia were equally as capable as macrophages of translocating HMGB1 following LPS/IFN-gamma stimulation. Significant expression of HMGB1 and its receptors on accumulating activated macrophages and resident microglia may thus provide a positive feedback loop that amplifies the inflammatory response during MS and EAE pathogenesis.
Previously, it has been shown theoretically that in case of restricted diffusion, e.g. within isolated pores or cells, a measure of the pore size, the mean radius of gyration, can be estimated from double wave vector diffusion-weighting experiments. However, these results are based on the assumption of an isotropic orientation distribution of the pores or cells which hampers the applicability to samples with anisotropic or unknown orientation distributions, such as biological tissue. Here, the theoretical considerations are re-investigated and generalized in order to describe the signal dependency for arbitrary orientation distributions. The second-order Taylor expansion of the signal delivers a symmetric rank-2 tensor with six independent elements if the two wave vectors are concatenated to a single six-element vector. With this tensor approach the signal behavior for arbitrary wave vectors and orientation distributions can be described as is demonstrated by numerical simulations. The rotationally invariant trace of the tensor represents a pore size measure and can be determined from three orthogonal directions with parallel and antiparallel orientation of the two wave vectors. Thus, the presented tensor approach may help to improve the applicability of double wave vector diffusion-weighting experiments to determine pore or cell sizes, in particular in biological tissue.
In humans, more than 140 different mutations within seven genes (ACTA1, TPM2, TPM3, TNNI2, TNNT1, TNNT3, and NEB) that encode thin filament proteins (skeletal alpha-actin, beta-tropomyosin, gamma-tropomyosin, fast skeletal muscle troponin I, slow skeletal muscle troponin T, fast skeletal muscle troponin T, and nebulin, respectively) have been identified. These mutations have been linked to muscle weakness and various congenital skeletal myopathies including nemaline myopathy, distal arthrogryposis, cap disease, actin myopathy, congenital fiber type disproportion, rod-core myopathy, intranuclear rod myopathy, and distal myopathy, with a dramatic negative impact on the quality of life. In this review, we discuss studies that use various approaches such as patient biopsy specimen samples, tissue culture systems or transgenic animal models, and that demonstrate how thin filament proteins mutations alter muscle structure and contractile function. With an enhanced understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying muscle weakness in patients carrying such mutations, better therapy strategies can be developed to improve the quality of life.
Neuropeptides, including pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), can influence diverse cellular processes over a broad temporal range. In ciliary ganglion (CG) neurons, for example, PACAP binding to high-affinity PAC1 receptors triggers transduction cascades that both rapidly modulate nicotinic receptors and synapses and support long-term survival. Since PACAP/PAC1 signaling recruits intracellular messengers and effectors that potently alter transcription, we examined its activation of the transcription factor CREB and then tested for changes in gene expression. PACAP/PAC1 signaling rapidly induced prolonged CREB activation in CG neurons by a phospholipase C -independent mechanism supported by Ca2+-influx, adenylate cyclase, and effectors, including protein kinase C (PKC) and possibly PKA. Since PACAP is abundant in the CG and released from depolarized presynaptic terminals, it is well suited to regulate gene expression relevant to neuronal and synaptic development. Gene array screens conducted using RNA from CG cultures grown with PACAP for 1/4, 24, or 96 h revealed a time-dependent pattern of &gt; 600 regulated transcripts, including several encoding proteins implicated in synaptic function, neuronal survival, and development. The results underscore rapid, neuromodulatory, and long-term, neurotrophic consequences of PAC1 signaling in CG neurons and suggest that PACAP exerts such diverse influences by altering the expression of specific gene transcripts in a time-dependent fashion.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a neuropeptide that belongs to the secretin/glucagon/vasoactive intestinal polypeptide superfamily. The PACAPergic system is actively expressed in the developing cerebellum of mammals. In particular, PACAP receptors are expressed by granule cell precursors suggesting a role of the peptide in neurogenesis of this cell type. Consistent with this hypothesis, several studies reported antiapoptotic effects of PACAP in the developing cerebellum. On the other hand, the sphingomyelin metabolites ceramides are recognized as important signaling molecules that play pivotal roles during neuronal development. Ceramides, which production can be induced by death factors such as FasL or TNFalpha, are involved in the control of cell survival during brain development through activation of caspase-dependent mechanisms. The present review focuses on the interactions between PACAP and ceramides in the control of granule cell survival and on the transduction mechanisms associated with the anti- and proapoptotic effects of PACAP and ceramides, respectively.
PACAP exerts neuroprotective effects during development, especially in the cerebellum where PAC1 receptor and ligand are both expressed. However, while previous studies using PACAP injections in postnatal animals defined trophic effects of exogenous peptide, the role of endogenous PACAP remains unexplored. Here, we used PAC1(-/-) mice to investigate the role of PACAP receptor signaling in postnatal day 7 cerebellum. There was no difference in DNA synthesis in the cerebellar EGL of PAC1(-/-) compared to wild type animals, assessed using thymidine incorporation and BrdU immunohistochemistry. In contrast, we found that a significant proportion of newly generated neurons were eliminated before they successfully differentiated in the granule cell layer. In aggregate, these results suggest that endogenous PACAP plays an important role in cell survival during cerebellar development, through the activation of the PAC1 receptor.
Several studies have shown that cannabinoids have anticonvulsant properties that are mediated through activation of the cannabinoid CB1 receptors. In addition, endogenous cannabinoid compounds (endocannabinoids) regulate synaptic transmission and dampen seizure activity via activation of the same receptors. The aim of this study was to evaluate the possible interactions between antiepileptic effects of cannabinoid compounds and diazepam using electroshock-induced model of seizure in mice. Electroconvulsions were produced by means of an alternating current (ear-clip electrodes, fixed current intensity 35 mA, stimulus duration 0.2 s) and tonic hindlimb extension was taken as the endpoint. All experiments were performed on groups of ten mice and the number of animals who did not display seizure reported as percent protection. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of diazepam (0.25-2 mg/kg) and CB1 receptor agonist WIN55212-2 (0.5-4 mg/kg) dose dependently produced an antiepileptic effect evaluated in terms of increased percentage of protection against electroshock-induced seizure. Logistic regression analysis indicated synergistic interactions in anticonvulsant action after co-administration of diazepam and WIN55212-2 in fixed-ratio combination of 3:1 (diazepam:WIN55212-2), while an additive effect was resulted after co-administration of 1:1 and 1:3 fixed-ratio combinations. Administration of various doses of the endocannabinoid reuptake inhibitor, AM404, did not produce any effect on electroshock-induced seizure. Moreover, co-administration of AM404 and diazepam did not produce significant interaction in antiepileptic properties of these compounds. Administration of the fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitor, URB597, produced significant antiepileptic effect. Co-administration of URB597 and diazepam led to an antagonistic interaction in protection against shock-induced seizure. Co-administration of different doses of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist, AM251 did not alter the antiepileptic effect of diazepam in the electroshock-induced seizure test. These results demonstrate that endocannabinoid system participates in the modulation of seizure and combination of small doses of exogenous CB1 receptor agonists with diazepam may have effective consequences in seizure control. Furthermore, inhibiting the endocannabinoid degradation could be more efficacious in modulating seizure than preventing their uptake. This study also suggests that the effects of cannabinoids on epilepsy depend on the relative cannabinoid responsiveness of GABAergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission. While, the antiepileptic effects of cannabinoid compounds are likely by affecting excitatory glutamate neurotransmission, the antagonistic interaction between cannabinoid compounds and diazepam to protect seizure is due to the cannabinoid action on inhibitory GABAergic system.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) promotes cell survival via binding to the tyrosine kinase receptor A (TrkA). Its precursor, proNGF, binds to p75(NTR) and sortilin receptors to initiate apoptosis. Current disagreement exists over whether proNGF acts neurotrophically following binding to TrkA. As in Alzheimer's disease the levels of proNGF increase and TrkA decrease, it is important to clarify the properties of proNGF. Here, wild-type and cleavage-resistant mutated forms (M) of proNGF were engineered and their binding characteristics determined. M-proNGF and NGF bound to p75(NTR) with similar affinities, whilst M-proNGF had a lower affinity than NGF for TrkA. M-proNGF behaved neurotrophically, albeit less effectively than NGF. M-proNGF addition resulted in phosphorylation of TrkA and ERK1/2, and in PC12 cells elicited neurite outgrowth and supported cell survival. Conversely, M-proNGF addition to cultured cortical neurons initiated caspase 3 cleavage. Importantly, these biological effects were shown to be mediated by unprocessed M-proNGF. Surprisingly, binding of the pro region alone to TrkA, at a site other than that of NGF, caused TrkA and ERK1/2 phosphorylation. Our data show that M-proNGF stimulates TrkA to a lesser degree than NGF, suggesting that in Alzheimer brain the increased proNGF : NGF and p75(NTR) : TrkA ratios may permit apoptotic effects to predominate over neurotrophic effects.
The physiological roles of sonic hedgehog (Shh) have been intensively characterized in development of various organs. However, their functions in adult tissues have not been fully elucidated. We investigated the expression and the potential function of Shh in crush-injured adult rat sciatic nerves. The Shh expression was up-regulated in Schwann cells adjacent to the injured site. The time-course analyses of various neurotrophic factors revealed the up-regulation of Shh mRNA followed by that of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA. The continuous administration of cyclopamine, a hedgehog signal inhibitor, to the injured site suppressed the increase of BDNF expression and deteriorated the survival of motor neurons in lumbar spinal cord. Treatment of exogenous Shh in cultured Schwann cells enhanced the BDNF expression. The BDNF promoter activity (exon I and II) was increased in IMS32 cells co-transfected with Shh and its receptor Smoothened. These findings imply that the up-regulated expression of Shh in Schwann cells may play an important role in injured motor neurons through the induction of BDNF.
With the rise in methamphetamine (MA) use among women of childbearing age, the potential consequences of MA exposure to the developing brain for cognition in adulthood is a major concern. Histamine might mediate these MA effects. Following MA administration in neonatal mice, histamine levels in brain were elevated and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis was activated. Co-administration of MA with the H3 receptor agonist immepip antagonized these effects. The effects of MA on histamine levels and on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation at P20 were more pronounced in female than male mice. These sex differences could have contributed to the increased susceptibility of female mice to the detrimental long-term cognitive effects of MA and the H3/H4 antagonist thioperamide. Following behavioral testing, mice neonatally treated with MA or thioperamide showed reduced levels of the dendritic marker microtubule-associated protein 2 in the CA3 region of the hippocampus and the enthorhinal cortex. This was not seen in mice neonatally treated with immepip and MA who did not show cognitive impairments, suggesting that these brain areas might be particularly important for the long-term effects of MA on cognitive function. These data support a role for histamine in the effects of MA on the developing brain.
While protease-activated receptors (PARs) are known to mediate signaling events in CNS, contributing both to normal function and pathogenesis, the endogenous activators of CNS PARs are poorly characterized. In this study, we test the hypothesis that kallikreins (KLKs) represent an important pool of endogenous activators of CNS PARs. Specifically, KLK1 and KLK6 were examined for their ability to evoke intracellular Ca(2+) flux in a PAR-dependent fashion in NSC34 neurons and Neu7 astrocytes. Both KLKs were also examined for their ability to activate mitogen-activated protein kinases (extracellular signal-regulated kinases, C-Jun N-terminal kinases, and p38) and protein kinase B (AKT) intracellular signaling cascades. Cumulatively, these studies show that KLK6, but not KLK1, signals through PARs. KLK6 evoked intracellular Ca(2+) flux was mediated by PAR1 in neurons and both PAR1 and PAR2 in astrocytes. Importantly, both KLK1 and KLK6 altered the activation state of mitogen-activated protein kinases and AKT, suggestive of important roles for each in CNS neuron and glial differentiation, and survival. The cellular specificity of CNS-KLK activity was underscored by observations that both proteases promoted AKT activation in astrocytes, but inhibited such signaling in neurons. PAR1 and bradykinin receptor inhibitors were used to demonstrate that KLK1-mediated activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases in neurons occurred in a non-PAR, bradykinin 2 (B2) receptor-dependent fashion, while similar signaling by KLK6 was mediated by the combined activation of PAR1 and B2. Cumulatively results indicate KLK6, but not KLK1 is an activator of CNS PARs, and that both KLKs are poised to signal in a B2 receptor-dependent fashion to regulate multiple signal transduction pathways relevant to CNS physiologic function and dysfunction.
Activated microglia participate in neuroinflammation which contributes to neuronal damage in neurodegenerative diseases. Inhibition of microglial activation may have potential anti-inflammatory effects. Our laboratory has previously reported that triptolide, a natural biologically active compound extracted from Tripterygium wilfordii, could protect dopaminergic neurons from inflammation-mediated damage. However, the mechanism by which triptolide inhibits inflammation remains unknown. We reported here that inhibition of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) production could be a potential mechanism of triptolide to suppress inflammation. Triptolide suppressed c-jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) phosphorylation, cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) expression and PGE(2) production in microglial cultures treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Triptolide also greatly inhibited the transcriptional activity, but not the DNA-binding activity of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) in microglia following LPS stimulation. These results indicate that triptolide might suppress NF-kappaB activity to down-regulate COX-2 expression. The LPS-stimulated transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB was suppressed by inhibition of p38MAPK, but not by that of JNK and extracellular signal-regulated kinase. Furthermore, the LPS-induced PGE(2) production was reduced by inhibiting these kinases. Taken together, these results suggest that triptolide may suppress neuroinflammation via a mechanism that involves inactivation of two parallel signaling pathways: p38-NF-kappaB-COX-2-PGE(2) and JNK-PGE(2).
The ultradian pulsatile pattern of growth hormone (GH) secretion is markedly sexually dimorphic in rodents as in primates, but the neuroanatomical mechanisms of this phenomenon are not clear. In the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus, GH-releasing hormone (GHRH) neurones receive somatostatinergic inputs through the sst2A receptor (sst2A-R) and the percentage of GHRH neurones bearing sst2A-R is higher in female than in male GHRH-enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) mice. In the present study, we hypothesised that sst2A-R expression on GHRH neurones is modulated by gonadal steroids and constitutes a mechanism for sexually differentiated GH secretion. The distribution of sst2A-R on GHRH neurones was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in adult GHRH-eGFP mice gonadectomised and treated for 3 weeks with oestradiol or testosterone implants. In gonadectomised females supplemented with testosterone, sst2A-R distribution on GHRH neurones was reduced to the level seen in intact males, whereas oestradiol implants were ineffective. Conversely, orchidectomy induced a female 'sst2A phenotype', which was reversed by testosterone supplementation. Changes in the hepatic expression of GH-dependent genes for major urinary protein-3 and the prolactin receptor reflected the altered steroid influence on GH pulsatile secretion. In the ventromedial-arcuate region, GHRH and sst2-R, as well as GHRH and somatostatin expression as measured by the real-time polymerase chain reaction, were positively correlated in both sexes. By contrast, the positive correlation between ventromedial-arcuate GHRH and periventricular somatostatin expression in males was reversed to a negative one in females. Moreover, the positive correlation between periventricular somatostatin and ventromedial-arcuate sst2-R expressions in males was lost in females. These results suggest that, in the adult mouse, testosterone is a major modulator of sst2A distribution on GHRH neurones. This marked sex difference in sst2A-R distribution may constitute a key element in the genesis of the sexually differentiated pattern of GH secretion, possibly through testosterone-modulated changes in somatostatin inputs from hypophysiotrophic periventricular neurones.
The cannabinoid CB1 receptor has been implicated in the regulation of appetite and the consumption of palatable foods. This experiment aimed to explore the involvement of the CB1 receptor in the early and late stages of high fat diet-induced obesity in C57BL/6 mice. The C57Bl/6 mice were placed on a high fat (HF) or low fat/high carbohydrate (LF) diet for 3 or 20 weeks. Quantitative autoradiography revealed that binding of [3H] CP-55,940 (CB1 receptor ligand) was elevated following 3 weeks of HF feeding in areas including the medial/ventral anterior olfactory nucleus (22.1%), agranular insular cortex (24.0%) and the hypothalamus (31.5%) compared to LF controls. This increased level of binding was correlated with an increase in plasma leptin in the hypothalamus, raising the possibility that this hormone may exert inhibitory control over endocannabinoid signalling at this stage of obesity. Mice fed a HF diet for 20 weeks were obese, hyperphagic and had decreased CB1 receptor binding levels in the substantia nigra (12.8%) and ventral tegmental area (17.1%) compared to LF controls. The low [3H] CP-55,940 binding density seen in these reward-related areas in the late stage of obesity may be indicative of increased endocannabinoid release due to the chronic HF diet consumption.
Dystonia causes body disfigurement in the majority of those affected. Our aim was to test the hypothesis that low self-esteem resulting from the sense of disfigurement is an important component of self-reported depression in focal, segmental and generalized dystonia. Questionnaires to assess self-reported depression, self-esteem, body concept, disfigurement, disability and quality of life were completed by 329 community based dystonia patients. Moderate to severe depression was reported by 30 %. Self-reported depression had a strong somatic component, but patients also showed a specific concern with self-image. Extent of dystonia, body parts affected and marital status influenced self-reported depression in dystonia. Self esteem, body concept, disfigurement and quality of life emerged as factors which accounted for the variance of self-reported depression in dystonia. These results suggest that in dystonia, disfigurement, negative body concept, low self-esteem, and the impact of the disease on quality of life make important contributions to depression. However, longitudinal followup is required to firmly establish the direction of causality between depression and these psychosocial variables in dystonia.

We studied the effects of oral levetiracetam (LEV) (500 mg twice daily) in three women with stiff-person syndrome in a single-blind, placebo-controlled study. The severity of muscle rigidity and of paroxysmal symptoms was assessed by EMG and clinically by a rating scale of 0-4 and by the Patients Global Impressions Scale. LEV was well tolerated. On active treatment all patients improved as assessed by any of the objective or subjective outcome measures. No response was noticed on placebo. Our data indicate that in patients with SPS, LEV is well tolerated and has a therapeutic role in the management of both muscle stiffness and life-threatening paroxysmal respiratory spasms.
Iron misregulation promotes oxidative stress, a proposed pathological mechanism in neurodegenerative disease. The aim of this study was to evaluate serum iron metabolism indicators in 60 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients and 44 age matched controls. Serum ferritin levels were significantly increased in ALS patients compared to controls (p &lt; 0.001), while no differences in the levels of serum iron, transferrin, iron saturation or total iron binding capacity were found. Likewise no differences in C reactive protein (CRP) or caeruloplasmin were detected, suggesting that the elevated ferritin levels in ALS did not merely indicate an acute phase response. The increased ferritin level may reflect a general increase in stored iron or be a consequence of ongoing muscle degeneration.




Immunotherapies markedly reduce beta-amyloid (Abeta) burden and reverse behavioral impairment in mouse models of Alzheimer disease. We previously showed that new Abeta DNA vaccines reduced Abeta deposits in Alzheimer disease model mice without detectable side effects. Although they are effective, the mechanisms of Abeta reduction by the DNA vaccines remain to be elucidated. Here, we analyzed vaccinated and control Alzheimer disease model mice from 4 months to 15 months of age to assess which of several proposed mechanisms may underlie the beneficial effects of this vaccination. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that activated microglial numbers increased significantly in the brains of vaccinated mice after DNA vaccination both around Abeta plaques and in areas remote from them. Microglia in treated mice phagocytosed Abeta debris more frequently than they did in untreated mice. Although microglia had an activated morphological phenotype, they did not produce significant amounts of tumor necrosis factor. Amyloid plaque immunoreactivity and Abeta concentrations in plasma increased slightly in vaccinated mice compared with controls at 9 but not at 15 months of age. Collectively, these data suggest that phagocytosis of Abeta deposits by microglia plays a central role in Abeta reduction after DNA vaccination.
Filamentous alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) aggregates form Lewy bodies (LBs), the neuropathologic hallmarks of Parkinson disease and related alpha-synucleinopathies. To model Lewy body-associated neurodegeneration, we generated transfectant 3D5 of human neuronal-type in which expression of human wild-type alpha-syn is regulated by the tetracycline off (TetOff)-inducible mechanism. Retinoic acid-elicited differentiation promoted assembly of alpha-syn aggregates after TetOff induction in 3D5 cells. The aggregates accumulated 14 days after TetOff induction were primarily soluble and showed augmented thioflavin affinity with concomitant phosphorylation and nitration of alpha-syn. Extension of the induction led to the formation of sarkosyl-insoluble aggregates that appeared concurrently with thioflavin-positive inclusions. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed that the inclusions consist of dense bundles of 8- to 12-nm alpha-syn fibrils that congregate in the perikarya and resemble Lewy bodies. Most importantly, accumulation of soluble and insoluble aggregates after TetOff induction for 14 and 28 days was reversible and did not compromise the viability of the cells or their subsequent survival. Thus, this chemically defined culture paradigm provides a useful means to elucidate how oxidative injuries and other insults that are associated with aging promote alpha-syn to self-assemble or interact with other molecules leading to neuronal degeneration in alpha-synucleinopathies.
Here we have systematically characterized the stimulus response properties of mechanosensitive sensory fibers in the mouse saphenous nerve. We tested mechanoreceptors and nociceptors with defined displacement stimuli of varying amplitude and velocity. For each sensory afferent investigated we measured the mechanical latency, which is the delay between the onset of a ramp displacement and the first evoked spike, corrected for conduction delay. Mechanical latency plotted as a function of stimulus strength was very characteristic for each receptor type and was very short for rapidly adapting mechanoreceptors (&lt;11 ms) but very long in myelinated and unmyelinated nociceptors (49-114 ms). Increasing the stimulus speed decreased mechanical latency in all receptor types with the notable exception of C-fiber nociceptors, in which mean mechanical latency was not reduced less, similar100 ms, even with very fast ramp stimuli (2,945 microm/s). We examined stimulus response functions and mechanical latency at two different temperatures (24 and 32 degrees C) and found that stimulus response properties of almost all mechanoreceptors were not altered in this range. A notable exception to this rule was found for C-fibers in which mechanical latency was substantially increased and stimulus response functions decreased at lower temperatures. We calculated Q(10) values for mechanical latency in C-fibers to be 5.1; in contrast, the Q(10) value for conduction velocity for the same fibers was 1.4. Finally, we examined the effects of short-term inflammation (2-6 h) induced by carrageenan on nociceptor and mechanoreceptor sensitivity. We did not detect robust changes in mechanical latency or stimulus response functions after inflammation that might have reflected mechanical sensitization under the conditions tested.
Within a neuron, spike propagation can occur in a complex manner, with spikes propagating into some processes but not others. We study this phenomenon in an experimentally advantageous mechanoafferent in Aplysia, neuron B21. B21 has two processes within the CNS. One is ipsilateral to the soma and is referred to as the lateral process. The second travels into the contralateral hemiganglion and is referred to as the contralateral process. Previously we characterized spike propagation to the lateral process, which is an output region that contacts follower motor neurons. Spikes fail to actively propagate to the lateral process when B21 is peripherally activated at its resting potential. This propagation failure can be relieved if the medial regions of B21 are centrally depolarized during peripheral activation. This study examines spike propagation to the contralateral process. We show that, unlike the lateral process, active spike propagation in the contralateral process occurs when B21 is peripherally activated at its resting membrane potential. Thus spike propagation occurs selectively, favoring the contralateral process. Interestingly, the contralateral process of one B21 is immediately adjacent to the medial region of the bilaterally symmetrical cell. The B21 neurons are electrically coupled, suggesting that spikes propagating in the contralateral process of one cell could modify propagation in the sister neuron. Consistent with this idea, we show that lateral process propagation failures observed when a single B21 is peripherally activated can be relieved by central coactivation of the contralateral cell. These results imply that stimuli that coactivate the B21 neurons bilaterally are more apt to generate afferent activity that is transmitted to followers than stimuli that activate one cell.
Enhancement of presynaptic Ca(2+) signals is widely recognized as a potential mechanism for heterosynaptic potentiation of neurotransmitter release. Here we show that stimulation of a serotonergic interneuron increased spike-evoked Ca(2+) in a manner consistent with its neuromodulatory effect on synaptic transmission. In the gastropod mollusk, Tritonia diomedea, stimulation of a serotonergic dorsal swim interneuron (DSI) at physiological rates heterosynaptically enhances the strength of output synapses made by another swim interneuron, C2, onto neurons in the pedal ganglion. Using intracellular electrophysiological recording combined with real-time confocal imaging of C2 (loaded with Oregon Green Bapta 1), it was determined that DSI stimulation increases the amplitude of spike-evoked Ca(2+) signals in C2 without altering basal Ca(2+) signals. This neuromodulatory action was restricted to distal neurites of C2 where synapses with pedal neurons are located. The effect of DSI stimulation on C2 spike-evoked Ca(2+) signals resembled DSI heterosynaptic enhancement of C2 synapses in several measures: both decayed within 15 s, both were abolished by the serotonin receptor antagonist, methysergide, and both were independent of DSI's depolarizing actions on C2. A brief puff of serotonin could mimic the enhancement of spike-evoked Ca(2+) signals in the distal neurites of C2, but larger puffs or bath-applied serotonin elicited nonphysiological effects. These results suggest that DSI heterosynaptic enhancement of C2 synaptic strength may be mediated by a local enhancement of spike-evoked Ca(2+) signals in the distal neurites of C2.
We studied real-time changes in brain activity during active vocal learning in the zebra finch songbird. The song nucleus HVC is required for the production of learned song. To quantify the relationship of HVC activity and behavior, HVC population activity during repeated vocal sequences (motifs) was recorded and temporally aligned relative to the motif, millisecond by millisecond. Somewhat surprisingly, HVC activity did not reliably predict any vocal feature except amplitude and, to a lesser extent, entropy and pitch goodness (sound periodicity). Variance in &quot;premotor&quot; HVC activity did not reliably predict variance in behavior. In contrast, HVC activity inversely predicted the variance of amplitude, entropy, frequency, pitch, and FM. We reasoned that, if HVC was involved in song learning, the relationship of HVC activity to learned features would be developmentally regulated. To test this hypothesis, we compared the HVC song feature relationships in adults and juveniles in the sensorimotor &quot;babbling&quot; period. We found that the relationship of HVC activity to variance in FM was developmentally regulated, with the greatest difference at an HVC vocalization lag of 50 ms. Collectively, these data show that, millisecond by millisecond, bursts in HVC activity predict song stability on-line during singing, whereas decrements in HVC activity predict plasticity. These relationships between neural activity and plasticity may play a role in vocal learning in songbirds by enabling the selective stabilization of parts of the song that match a learned tutor model.
Despite the pronounced neurological deficits associated with mental retardation and autism, it is unknown if altered neocortical circuit function occurs in these prevalent disorders. Here we demonstrate specific alterations in local synaptic connections, membrane excitability, and circuit activity of defined neuron types in sensory neocortex of the mouse model of Fragile X Syndrome-the Fmr1 knockout (KO). Overall, these alterations result in hyperexcitability of neocortical circuits in the Fmr1 KO. Specifically, we observe a substantial deficit in local excitatory drive ( approximately 50%) targeting fast-spiking (FS) inhibitory neurons in layer 4 of somatosensory, barrel cortex. This persists until at least 4 wk of age suggesting it may be permanent. In contrast, monosynaptic GABAergic synaptic transmission was unaffected. Overall, these changes indicate that local feedback inhibition in neocortical layer 4 is severely impaired in the Fmr1 KO mouse. An increase in the intrinsic membrane excitability of excitatory neurons may further contribute to hyperexcitability of cortical networks. In support of this idea, persistent neocortical circuit activity, or UP states, elicited by thalamic stimulation was longer in duration in the Fmr1 KO mouse. In addition, network inhibition during the UP state was less synchronous, including a 14% decrease in synchrony in the gamma frequency range (30-80 Hz). These circuit changes may be involved in sensory stimulus hypersensitivity, epilepsy, and cognitive impairment associated with Fragile X and autism.
Choice behavior on simple sensory-motor tasks can exhibit trial-to-trial dependencies. For perceptual tasks, these dependencies reflect the influence of prior trials on choices that are also guided by sensory evidence, which is often independent across trials. Here we show that the relative influences of prior trials and sensory evidence on choice behavior can be shaped by training, such that prior influences are strongest when perceptual sensitivity to the relevant sensory evidence is weakest and then decline steadily as sensitivity improves. We trained monkeys to decide the direction of random-dot motion and indicate their decision with an eye movement. We characterized sequential dependencies by relating current choices to weighted averages of prior choices. We then modeled behavior as a drift-diffusion process, in which the weighted average of prior choices provided an additive offset to a decision variable that integrated incoming motion evidence to govern choice. The average magnitude of offset within individual training sessions declined steadily as the quality of the integrated motion evidence increased over many months of training. The trial-by-trial magnitude of offset was correlated with signals related to developing commands that generate the oculomotor response but not with neural activity in either the middle temporal area, which represents information about the motion stimulus, or the lateral intraparietal area, which represents the sensory-motor conversion. The results suggest that training can shape the relative contributions of expectations based on prior trends and incoming sensory evidence to select and prepare visually guided actions.
The oculomotor system is well understood compared with other motor systems; however, we do not yet know the spatial details of sensory to motor transformations. This study addresses this issue by quantifying the spatial relationships between visual and motor responses in the superior colliculus (SC), a midbrain structure involved in the transformation of visual information into saccadic motor command signals. We collected extracellular single-unit recordings from 150 visual-motor (VM) and 28 motor (M) neurons in two monkeys trained to perform a nonpredictive visually guided saccade task to 110 possible target locations. Motor related discharge was greater than visual related discharge in 94% (141/150) of the VM neurons. Across the population of VM neurons, the mean locations of the peak visual and motor responses were spatially aligned. The visual response fields (RFs) were significantly smaller than and usually contained within the motor RFs. Converting RFs into the SC coordinate system significantly reduced any misalignment between peak visual and motor locations. RF size increased with increasing eccentricity in visual space but remained invariant on the SC map beyond 1 mm of the rostral pole. RF shape was significantly more symmetric in SC map coordinates compared with visual space coordinates. These results demonstrate that VM neurons specify the same location of a target stimulus in the visual field as the intended location of an upcoming saccade with minimal misalignment to downstream structures. The computational consequences of spatially transforming visual field coordinates to the SC map resulted in increased alignment and spatial symmetry during visual-sensory to saccadic-motor transformations.
Calcium-activated K(+) channels of the K(Ca)2 type (SK channels) are prominently expressed in the mammalian brain, including hippocampus. These channels are thought to underlie neuronal excitability control and have been implicated in plasticity, memory, and neural disease. Contrary to previous reports, we found that somatic spike-evoked medium afterhyperpolarizations (mAHPs) and corresponding excitability control were not caused by SK channels but mainly by Kv7/KCNQ/M channels in CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Thus apparently, these SK channels are hardly activated by somatic Na(+) spikes. To further test this conclusion, we used sharp electrode, whole cell, and perforated-patch recordings from rat CA1 pyramidal neurons. We found that SK channel blockers consistently failed to suppress mAHPs under a range of experimental conditions: mAHPs following single spikes or spike trains, at -60 or -80 mV, at 20-30 degrees C, in low or elevated extracellular [K(+)], or spike trains triggered by synaptic stimulation after blocking N-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptors (NMDARs). Nevertheless, we found that SK channels in these cells were readily activated by artificially enhanced Ca(2+) spikes, and an SK channel opener (1-ethyl-2-benzimidazolinone) enhanced somatic AHPs following Na(+) spikes, thus reducing excitability. In contrast to CA1 pyramidal cells, bursting pyramidal cells in the subiculum showed a Na(+) spike-evoked mAHP that was reduced by apamin, indicating cell-type-dependent differences in mAHP mechanisms. Testing for other SK channel functions in CA1, we found that field excitatory postsynaptic potentials mediated by NMDARs were enhanced by apamin, supporting the idea that dendritic SK channels are activated by NMDAR-dependent calcium influx. We conclude that SK channels in rat CA1 pyramidal cells can be activated by NMDAR-mediated synaptic input and cause feedback regulation of synaptic efficacy but are normally not appreciably activated by somatic Na(+) spikes in this cell type.
The fibrotic scar formed after central nervous system injury has been considered an obstacle to axonal regeneration. The present study was designed to examine whether cell transplantation into a damaged central nervous system can reduce fibrotic scar formation and promote axonal regeneration. Nigrostriatal dopaminergic axons were unilaterally transected in rats and cultures of olfactory-ensheathing cells (OECs), and olfactory nerve fibroblasts were transplanted into the lesion site. In the absence of transplants, few tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons extended across the lesion 2 weeks after the transection. Reactive astrocytes increased around the lesion, and a fibrotic scar containing type IV collagen deposits developed in the lesion center. The immunoreactivity of chondroitin sulfate side chains and core protein of NG2 proteoglycan increased in and around the lesion. One and 2 weeks after transection and simultaneous transplantation, dopaminergic axons regenerated across the transplanted tissues, which consisted of p75-immunoreactive OECs and fibronectin-immunoreactive fibroblasts. Reactive astrocytes and chondroitin sulfate immunoreactivity increased around the transplants, whereas the deposition of type IV collagen and fibrotic scar formation were completely prevented at the lesion site. Transplantation of meningeal fibroblasts similarly prevented the formation of the fibrotic scar, although its effect on regeneration was less potent than transplantation of OECs and olfactory nerve fibroblasts. The present results suggest that elimination of the inhibitory fibrotic scar is important for neural regeneration.
Chronic spinal cord injury (SCI) is associated with the development of serious medical concerns. In fact, it is increasingly well documented that most SCI patients who survive the first 24 hr will rapidly develop, within a few months to a few years, cardiovascular problems, type II diabetes, muscle wasting, osteoporosis, immune deficiencies, and other life-threatening problems. The cellular mechanisms underlying these so-called secondary health complications remain unclear, and no drug or standard approach has been developed to specifically treat these complications. To investigate the cellular and metabolic changes associated with chronic SCI and functional recovery, work mainly from our laboratory recently has led to the characterization of a mouse model of chronic paraplegia. This review reports cellular, systemic, and metabolic changes (associated mainly with secondary health complications) occurring within a few days to a few weeks after SCI in low-thoracic spinal cord-transected mice. We also describe our research platform developed to ease technological transfer and to accelerate drug-screening studies in animals. A global understanding of the many chronic changes occurring after SCI together with efficient tools and approaches for testing new or existing drug candidates is likely to yield the design of innovative treatments against secondary complications that combine cellular plasticity-modulating agents, locomotor network-activating drugs, hormonal therapy, and exercise training.
Microglial and inflammatory responses to acute damage in aging are still poorly understood, although the aged brain responds differently to injury, showing poor lesion outcome. In this study, excitotoxicity was induced by intrastriatal injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate in adult (3-4 months) and aged (22-24 months) rats. Cryostat brain sections were processed for the analysis of microglial response by lectin histochemistry and cyclooxygenase 2 (COX2) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression by immunohistochemistry and confocal analysis. Aged injured animals showed more widespread area of microglial response at 12 hr postlesion (hpl) and greater microglia/macrophage density at 3 days postlesion (dpl). However, aged reactive microglia showed prevalence of ramified morphologies and fewer amoeboid/round forms. Aged injured animals presented a diminished area of COX2 expression, but a significantly larger density of COX2(+) cells, with higher numbers of COX2(+) neurons during the first 24 hpl and COX2(+) microglia/macrophages later. In contrast, the amount of COX2(+) neutrophils was diminished in the aged. iNOS was more rapidly induced in the aged injured striatum, with higher cell density at 12 hpl, when expression was mainly neuronal. From 1 dpl, both the iNOS(+) area and the density of iNOS(+) cells were reduced in the aged, with lower numbers of iNOS(+) neurons, microglia/macrophages, neutrophils, and astrocytes. In conclusion, excitotoxic damage in aging induces a distinct pattern of microglia/macrophage response and expression of inflammatory enzymes, which may account for the changes in lesion outcome in the aged, and highlight the importance of using aged animals for the study of acute age-related insults.



Asymptomatic human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is associated with impaired cognitive functioning in both clade B and C infections. The nature of cognitive change longitudinally has not been studied in asymptomatic clade C infection. The present study evaluated changes in neuropsychological functioning over a 2(1/2)-year period in a cohort of HIV-1 clade C-infected asymptomatic individuals from South India. Participants with CD4 counts below 250 were started on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) as per National AIDS Control Organisation NACO guidelines and hence excluded. The sample consisted of 68 patients (30 men and 38 women), with a mean age of 29.4 years (SD=5.6 years) and a mean education of 10.0 years (SD=2.7 years). A comprehensive neuropsychological assessment with 12 tests yielding 21 variables was used to examine cognitive functioning at baseline and subsequently at 6-monthly intervals for five follow-ups. Shift in CD4 and viral load categories measured by the McNemar's test indicated disease progression. Latent growth curve (LGC) modeling assessed the nature of change in cognition over the 2(1/2)-year study period. Ten variables representing attention, executive functions, and long-term memory fit the LGC model. Excepting visual working memory, the slope was nonsignificant for nine variables, indicating absence of deterioration in cognition over a 2(1/2)-year period. However, CD4 and viral load levels worsened, indicating disease progression. Asymptomatic individuals with HIV-1 clade C infection do not show any significant decline on individual neuropsychological functions over 2(1/2) years despite disease progression, as evidenced by immune suppression and viral loads.
Although no longer considered therapeutically beneficial, antiretroviral treatment interruptions (TIs) still occur frequently among patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection for a variety of reasons. TIs typically result in viral rebound and worsening immunosuppression, which in turn are risk factors for neurocognitive decline and dementia. We sought to determine the extent of neurocognitive risk with TIs and subsequent reintroduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) by using a comprehensive, sensitive neuropsychological assessment and by concurrently determining changes in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) viral load and CD4 counts. Prospective, serial, clinical evaluations including neuropsychological (NP) testing and measurement of plasma HIV RNA and CD4 count and mood state were performed on HIV-1-infected individuals (N=11) at three time points: (1) prior to a TI, while on HAART; (2) after TIs averaging 6 months; and (3) after reinitiating HAART therapy. During TI, plasma HIV RNA increased and CD4 counts declined significantly, but NP performance did not change. Following reinitiation of HAART, viral loads fell below pre-TI levels, and CD4 counts rose. Improved viral suppression and immune restoration with reinitiation of HAART resulted in significant improvement in neurocognitive performance. No changes on comprehensive questionnaires of mood state were observed in relation to TI.NP performance and mood state remained stable during TIs despite worsened viral loads and CD4 counts. Because &quot;practice effects&quot; are generally greatest between the first and second NP testing sessions, improvement at the third, post-TI time point was unlikely to be accounted for by practice. TIs of up to 6 months appear to be neurocognitively and psychiatrically safe for most patients.
Acute care hospitals are changing rapidly to address economic and technologic advancements and meet community needs. The authors describe 1 medical center's use of Kotter's work on leading change to expand the neuroscience intensive care unit from 10 to 30 beds to meet community needs, improve hospital efficiencies, and increase bed capacity. Nurse satisfaction, retention, and other human resource quality data that showed positive results are compared before and after the change.

N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated excitotoxicity is thought to underlie a variety of neurological disorders, and inhibition of either the NMDA receptor itself, or molecules of the intracellular cascade, may attenuate neurodegeneration in these diseases. Calpain, a calcium-dependent cysteine protease, has been identified as part of such an NMDA receptor-induced excitotoxic signaling pathway. The present study addressed the question of whether inhibition of calpain can prevent neuronal cell death and associated behavioral deficits in a disease-relevant animal model, which is based on excitotoxic lesions of the cholinergic nucleus basalis magnocellularis of Meynert. Excitotoxic lesions of the nucleus basalis with NMDA induced a markedly impaired performance in the novel object recognition test. Treatment with the calpain inhibitor, N-(1-benzyl-2-carbamoyl-2-oxoethyl)-2-[E-2-(4-diethlyaminomethylphenyl) ethen-1-yl]benzamide (A-705253), dose-dependently prevented the behavioral deficit. Subsequent analysis of choline acetyltransferase in the cortical mantle of the lesioned animals revealed that application of A-705253 dose-dependently and significantly attenuated cholinergic neurodegeneration. Calpain inhibition also significantly diminished the accompanying gliosis, as determined by immunohistochemical analysis of microglia activation. Finally, inhibition of calpain by A-705253 and the peptidic calpain inhibitor N-acetyl-Leu-Leu-Nle-CHO did not impair long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices, indicating that calpain inhibition interrupts NMDA excitotoxicity pathways without interfering with NMDA receptor-mediated signaling involved in cognition. We conclude that inhibition of calpains may represent a valuable strategy for the prevention of excitotoxicity-induced neuronal decline without interfering with the physiological neuronal functions associated with learning and memory processes. Thus, calpain inhibition may be a promising and novel approach for the treatment of various neurodegenerative disorders.
Activation of cannabinoid CB(2) receptors suppresses neuropathic pain induced by traumatic nerve injury. The present studies were conducted to evaluate the efficacy of cannabinoid CB(2) receptor activation in suppressing painful peripheral neuropathy evoked by chemotherapeutic treatment with the antitumor agent paclitaxel. Rats received paclitaxel (2 mg/kg i.p./day) on 4 alternate days to induce mechanical hypersensitivity (mechanical allodynia). Mechanical allodynia was defined as a lowering of the threshold for paw withdrawal to stimulation of the plantar hind paw surface with an electronic von Frey stimulator. Mechanical allodynia developed in paclitaxel-treated animals relative to groups receiving the Cremophor EL/ethanol/saline vehicle at the same times. Two structurally distinct cannabinoid CB(2) agonists, the aminoalkylindole (R,S)-AM1241 [(R,S)-(2-iodo-5-nitrophenyl)-[1-((1-methyl-piperidin-2-yl)methyl)-1H-indol-3-yl]-methanone] and the cannabilactone AM1714 (1,9-dihydroxy-3-(1',1'-dimethylheptyl)-6H-benzo[c]chromene-6-one), produced a dose-related suppression of established paclitaxel-evoked mechanical allodynia after systemic administration. Pretreatment with the CB(2) antagonist SR144528 [5-(4-chloro-3-methylphenyl)-1-(4-methylbenzyl)-N-(1,3,3-trimethylbicyclo[2.2.1]heptan-2-yl)-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide], but not the CB(1) antagonist SR141716 [5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-N-(piperidin-1-yl)-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide], blocked the antiallodynic effects of both (R,S)-AM1241 and AM1714. Moreover, (R)-AM1241, but not (S)-AM1241, suppressed paclitaxel-evoked mechanical allodynia relative to either vehicle treatment or preinjection thresholds, consistent with mediation by CB(2). Administration of either the CB(1) or CB(2) antagonist alone failed to alter paclitaxel-evoked mechanical allodynia. Moreover, (R,S)-AM1241 did not alter paw withdrawal thresholds in rats that received the Cremophor EL vehicle in lieu of paclitaxel, whereas AM1714 induced a modest antinociceptive effect. Our data suggest that cannabinoid CB(2) receptors may be important therapeutic targets for the treatment of chemotherapy-evoked neuropathy.
Short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI), intracortical facilitation (ICF) and short-interval intracortical facilitation (SICF) were assessed in the cortical motor area of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (FDI) of 16 healthy subjects. Paired-pulse TMS was delivered to the left hemisphere at the following interstimulus intervals (ISIs): 2 and 3 ms for SICI, 10 and 15 ms for ICF and 1-5 ms for SICF. Motor-evoked potentials were recorded from the resting and active right FDI. The effects exerted on SICI and ICF by four intensities (60-90% of active motor threshold, AMT) of the conditioning stimulus (S1) and by three levels of muscle contraction (10%, 25%, 50% of maximal voluntary contraction, MVC) were evaluated. The effects exerted on SICF were evaluated with two intensities (90% and 70% of AMT) of the test stimulus (S2) and with the same levels of muscle contraction. Results showed that: (i) during 10% MVC, maximum SICI was observed with S1 = 70% AMT; (ii) the amount of SICI obtained with S1 = 70% AMT was the same at rest as during 10% MVC, but decreased at higher contraction levels; (iii) ICF was observed only at rest with S1 = 90% AMT; (iv) SICF was facilitated at 10% and 25% MVC, but not at 50% MVC. We conclude that during muscle activation, intracortical excitability reflects a balance between activation of SICI and SICF systems. Part of the reduction in SICI during contraction is due to superimposed recruitment of SICF. Low intensity (70% AMT) conditioning stimuli can test SICI independently of effects on SICF at low contraction levels.
The intravenous infusion of melatonin (5 and 25 mg/kg over 10 min) evoked a dose-dependent output of protein and amylase but no overt fluid secretion from the parotid gland of the pentobarbitone-anaesthetised rat, as revealed by increased concentrations of protein and amylase activity in a subsequent wash-out flow of saliva in response to an intravenous bolus injection of methacholine (5 microg/kg) 10 min later. The secretory responses to melatonin occurred in the presence of alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor antagonists. They were not affected by the cholecystokinin A-receptor antagonist, lorglumide, and they were reproduced in eviscerated animals acutely subjected to postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic denervation of the gland. The responses to melatonin were partially dependent on nitric oxide generation, through the activity of nitric oxide synthase of the neuronal type. Immunoblotting showed both melatonin receptors of type 1 and type 2 to be expressed in parotid gland tissue. The relative specific melatonin 2-receptor antagonist luzindole prevented the expected secretory effects of melatonin. The results favour a direct action by melatonin on melatonin receptors of parotid secretory cells and suggest a potential physiological role for melatonin in the regulation of salivary glandular activities.
The effects of estradiol (E2) on the expression of proteins in the pars lateralis of the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMNpl) in ovariectomized rats was studied using 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis followed by RPLC-nanoESI-MS/MS. E2 treatment resulted in the up-regulation of 29 identified proteins. Many of these proteins are implicated in the promotion of neuronal plasticity and signaling.
The mammalian supraoptic nucleus (SON) is a neuroendocrine center in the brain regulating a variety of physiological functions. Within the SON, peptidergic magnocellular neurons that project to the neurohypophysis (posterior pituitary) are involved in controlling osmotic balance, lactation, and parturition, partly through secretion of signaling peptides such as oxytocin and vasopressin into the blood. An improved understanding of SON activity and function requires identification and characterization of the peptides used by the SON. Here, small-volume sample preparation approaches are optimized for neuropeptidomic studies of isolated SON samples ranging from entire nuclei down to single magnocellular neurons. Unlike most previous mammalian peptidome studies, tissues are not immediately heated or microwaved. SON samples are obtained from ex vivo brain slice preparations via tissue punch and the samples processed through sequential steps of peptide extraction. Analyses of the samples via liquid chromatography mass spectrometry and tandem mass spectrometry result in the identification of 85 peptides, including 20 unique peptides from known prohormones. As the sample size is further reduced, the depth of peptide coverage decreases; however, even from individually isolated magnocellular neuroendocrine cells, vasopressin and several other peptides are detected.

In the past three decades, there has been increased recognition of the role of gender in influencing the course of substance use and treatment utilization. Concurrently, a substantial body of research on gender-related issues and substance abuse and its treatment has developed. This article reviews (1) policy initiatives that led to the growth of &quot;specialized&quot; treatment programs and services for women and recent policy changes that influence the provision of substance abuse treatment to women; (2) gender differences in the prevalence of substance use disorders and admissions to treatment; (3) gender differences in treatment needs,utilization, and outcomes, including long-term outcomes following treatment; (4) organizational characteristics of substance abuse treatment providers for women and the types of services provided in these programs; (5) treatment outcomes in gender-specific programs for women; and (6) the effectiveness of evidence-based treatment practices that have either been modified, or have the potential to be adapted, to address the treatment needs of women. This body of research is viewed within the context of a series of paradigm shifts from a generic treatment approach to a focus on gender differences and gender specificity and, most recently, to an emergent focus on gender responsiveness.
The electrophysiological characterisation of cultured neurons is of paramount importance for drug discovery, safety pharmacology and basic research in the neurosciences. Technologies offering low cost, low technical complexity and potential for scalability towards high-throughput electrophysiology on in vitro neurons would be advantageous, in particular for screening purposes. Here we describe a plastic culture substrate supporting low-complexity multi-unit loose-patch recording and stimulation of developing networks while retaining manufacturability compatible with low-cost and large-scale production. Our hybrid polydimethylsilane (PDMS)-on-polystyrene structures include chambers (6 mm in diameter) and microchannels (25 microm x 3.7 microm x 1 mm) serving as substrate-embedded recording pipettes. Somas are plated and retained in the chambers due to geometrical constraints and their processes grow along the microchannels, effectively establishing a loose-patch configuration without human intervention. We demonstrate that off-the-shelf voltage-clamp, current-clamp and extracellular amplifiers can be used to record and stimulate multi-unit activity with the aid of our dishes. Spikes up to 50 pA in voltage-clamp and 300 microV in current-clamp modes are recorded in sparse and bursting activity patterns characteristic of 1 week-old hippocampal cultures. Moreover, spike sorting employing principal component analysis (PCA) confirms that single microchannels support the recording of multiple neurons. Overall, this work suggests a strategy to endow conventional culture plasticware with added functionality to enable cost-efficient network electrophysiology.
Medulloblastoma spreads by leptomeningeal dissemination rather than by infiltration that characterizes other CNS tumors, eg, gliomas. This study represents an initial attempt to identify both the molecules that mediate medulloblastoma adhesion to leptomeninges and the pathways that are key to survival and proliferation of tumor following adhesion. As a first step in molecule identification, we produced adhesion of D283 medulloblastoma cells to the extracellular matrix (ECM) of H4 glioma cells in vitro. Within this context, D283 cells preferentially expressed the alpha9 and beta1 integrin subunits; antibody and disintegrin blockade of alpha9 and beta1 binding eliminated the adhesion. The H4 ECM was enriched in tenascin, a binding partner for the alpha9beta1 integrin heterodimer. Purified tenascin-C supported D283 cell adhesion. The adhesion was blocked by antibodies to alpha9 and beta1 integrin. In vivo data were similar; immunohistochemistry of primary human medulloblastomas with leptomeningeal extension demonstrated increased expression of alpha9 and beta1 integrins as well as tenascin at the interface of brain and leptomeningeal tumor. These data suggest that tumor-cell expressions of alpha9 and beta1 integrins in combination with extracellular tenascin are necessary for medulloblastoma adhesion to the leptomeninges. As a first step in the identification of pathways that mediate survival and proliferation of tumor following adhesion, we demonstrated that adhesion to H4 ECM was associated with survival and proliferation of D283 cells as well as activation of the MAPK pathway in a growth factor deficient environment. Antibody blockade of alpha9 and beta1 integrin binding that eliminated adhesion also eliminated the in vitro survival benefit. These data suggest that adhesion of medulloblastoma to the meninges is necessary for the survival and proliferation of these tumor cells at the secondary site.
Although largely neglected in earlier literature, sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) is the most important epilepsy-related mode of death, and is the leading cause of death in people with chronic uncontrolled epilepsy. Research during the past two to three decades has shown that incidence varies substantially depending on the epilepsy population studied, ranging from 0.09 per 1000 patient-years in newly diagnosed patients to 9 per 1000 patient-years in candidates for epilepsy surgery. Risk profiles have been delineated in case-control studies. These and other studies indicate that SUDEP mainly occurs in the context of a generalised tonic-clonic seizure. However, it remains unclear why a seizure becomes fatal in a person that might have had many similar seizures in the past. Here, we review SUDEP rates, risk factors, triggers, and proposed mechanisms, and critically assess potential preventive strategies. Gaps in knowledge are discussed and ways forward are suggested.
This study investigates the spatial bias of visual attention measured by a temporal order judgement (TOJ) task and the influence of a high attentional load condition in a group of dyslexic children compared to a control group with normal reading skills (each group N=10). The TOJ task (T2) was placed after a shape discrimination task (T1). In a low attentional load block participants worked only on T2, whereas in the high attentional load block they were required to process both T1 and T2. Several t-tests were executed to compare performance between conditions and groups. In the low attentional load conditions, results in dyslexic children were significantly impaired for the right visual field compared to a control group. The high attentional load conditions did not enhance these effects and seems to provoke the same leftward bias in the control group.
In vertebrate embryos, neural crest cells emerge from the dorsal neural tube and migrate along well defined pathways to form a wide diversity of tissues, including the majority of the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Members of the cadherin family of cell adhesion molecules play key roles during the initiation of migration, mediating the delamination of cells from the neural tube. However, a role for cadherins in the sorting and re-aggregation of the neural crest to form the PNS has not been established. We report the requirement for a protocadherin, chicken protocadherin-1 (Pcdh1), in neural crest cell sorting during the formation of the dorsal root ganglia (DRG). In embryos, cPcdh1 is highly expressed in the developing DRG, where it co-localizes with the undifferentiated and mitotically active cells along the perimeter. Pcdh1 can promote cell adhesion in vivo and disrupting Pcdh1 function in embryos results in fewer neural crest cells localizing to the DRG, with a concomitant increase in cells that migrate to the sympathetic ganglia. Furthermore, those cells that still localize to the DRG, when Pcdh1 is inhibited, are no longer found at the perimeter, but are instead dispersed throughout the DRG and are now more likely to differentiate along the sensory neuron pathway. These results demonstrate that Pcdh1-mediated cell adhesion plays an important role as neural crest cells coalesce to form the DRG, where it serves to sort cells to the mitotically active perimeter.

Experience has shown that therapy using music for therapeutic purposes has certain effects on neuropsychiatric disorders (both functional and organic disorders). However, the mechanisms of action underlying music therapy remain unknown, and scientific clarification has not advanced. While that study disproved the Mozart effect, the effects of music on the human body and mind were not disproved. In fact, more scientific studies on music have been conducted in recent years, mainly in the field of neuroscience, and the level of interest among researchers is increasing. The results of past studies have clarified that music influences and affects cranial nerves in humans from fetus to adult. The effects of music at a cellular level have not been clarified, and the mechanisms of action for the effects of music on the brain have not been elucidated. We propose that listening to music facilitates the neurogenesis, the regeneration and repair of cerebral nerves by adjusting the secretion of steroid hormones, ultimately leading to cerebral plasticity. Music affects levels of such steroids as cortisol (C), testosterone (T) and estrogen (E), and we believe that music also affects the receptor genes related to these substances, and related proteins. In the prevention of Alzheimer's disease and dementia, hormone replacement therapy has been shown to be effective, but at the same time, side effects have been documented, and the clinical application of hormone replacement therapy is facing a serious challenge. Conversely, music is noninvasive, and its existence is universal and mundane. Thus, if music can be used in medical care, the application of such a safe and inexpensive therapeutic option is limitless.
We report a case of cerebral phaeohyphomycosis caused by Scytalidium dimidiatum (synanamorph Nattrassia mangiferae) in a young, apparently immunocompetent Indian male. Etiological diagnosis was made by recovery of the fungus in culture and histopathological examination. The infection proved fatal despite aggressive antifungal therapy.
Detecting differences in texture has been found to be useful in a variety of medical image analysis applications. One class of methods for texture estimation is based upon analysis of local frequency spectra produced by the S transform. Clinical applications have included detection of multiple sclerosis lesions and identification of brain tumor genotype. This paper describes a software application designed to detect texture differences in medical images, demonstrates and validates the ability of the technique to analyze magnetic resonance images obtained of an in vitro phantom with known textural features, and compares the results to alternative methods. Finally, some examples of texture analysis in several promising biomedical applications are included.
Our laboratory and others have demonstrated that animals can make morphine, meaning its biosynthetic pathway has been conserved during evolution. Among the many enzymes involved in this process, CYP2D6 is of particular importance because of its role in multiple steps of morphine precursor metabolism, as well as its distribution in a variety of tissues, such as neuronal and immune. Additionally, its genetic variations support its role in this process. Elucidating its role in the critical metabolic processes involved with many drugs, not just opiate alkaloids may provide a critical understanding of induced addiction, analgesia, immune- and vascular regulation. Its presence in invertebrate tissues underscores its singular significance in these processes as well, allowing one to hypothesize its role in actions of many substances of abuse.
New scientific technologies and concepts have led to the revolution of the field of regenerative medicine, as highlighted in our review of articles published in the journal Cell Transplantation - The Regenerative Medicine Journal over the last two years. From 2006 to 2007, 373 articles were published; a remarkable increase over the last two time periods (2004-2005 and 2005-2006), partly due to inclusion of American Society for Neural Therapy and Repair (ASNTR) meeting abstracts in the current analysis. The neuroscience section has increased immensely in the number of articles and percentage of all manuscripts. The tissue engineering and bioartificial organs section is now equally important with the islets and other endocrines section. There is a considerable increase in the proportion of manuscripts related to transplants with stem cells, progenitors, and bone marrow and nontransplants. Stem cell transplants can be ranked in the following descending order of preference; bone marrow-derived cells, neural stem cells, human umbilical cord blood cells, embryonic stem cells, and myoblasts. Bone marrow derived cells and human umbilical cord blood cell have been used for various disease fields. The non-stem cell transplantation group is made up primarily of islet cells, followed by biomaterials, and other cells or tissues from a variety of sources. The field of regenerative medicine as represented by the journal Cell Transplantation is not restricted solely to transplantation. The majority of the non-transplantation-based articles relate to methods other than transplant for treatment, e.g. dietary supplementation, preparation for transplantation (isolation, differentiation and growth of cells or tissues), and pathology (e.g. neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease).

According to the distractor-selection hypothesis (Mulligan, 2003), dividing attention during encoding reduces perceptual priming when responses to non-critical (i.e., distractor) stimuli are selected frequently and simultaneously with critical stimulus encoding. Because direct support for this hypothesis comes exclusively from studies using familiar word stimuli, the present study tested whether the predictions of the distractor-selection hypothesis extend to perceptual priming of unfamiliar visual objects using the possible/impossible object decision test. Consistent with the distractor-selection hypothesis, Experiments 1 and 2 found no reduction in priming when the non-critical stimuli were presented infrequently and non-synchronously with the critical target stimuli, even though explicit recognition memory was reduced. In Experiment 3, non-critical stimuli were presented frequently and simultaneously during encoding of critical stimuli; however, no decrement in priming was detected, even when encoding time was reduced. These results suggest that priming in the possible/impossible object decision test is relatively immune to reductions in central attention and that not all aspects of the distractor-selection hypothesis generalise to priming of unfamiliar visual objects. Implications for theoretical models of object decision priming are discussed.
Type 2 diabetes is a major health problem associated with excess mortality and morbidity. Vascular complications are one of the most serious consequences of this disorder. Moreover, type 2 diabetes is also a risk factor for cerebral complications, including cognitive impairment and dementia. However, it has been shown that tight glycemic control contributes to reduce the incidence of diabetes-associated complications. Metformin is a potent antihyperglycemic agent widely used in the management of type 2 diabetes whose main actions are the suppression of gluconeogenesis and the improvement of glucose uptake and insulin sensitivity. This review is mainly devoted to describe the mechanisms of action underlying the antidiabetic effects of metformin. Furthermore, we will present evidence for the protective effects of metformin against diabetes-associated complications mainly cerebral and vascular complications. Finally, we will describe the few known side effects associated to this antidiabetic agent.
Dendrites undergo extensive growth and branching at early stages, but relatively little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying these processes. Here, we show that increasing the level of myristoylated, alanine-rich C kinase substrate (MARCKS), a prominent substrate of protein kinase C and a phosphatidylinositol-4,5-diphosphate [PI(4,5)P2] sequestration protein highly expressed in the brain, enhanced branching and growth of dendrites both in vitro and in vivo. Conversely, knockdown of endogenous MARCKS by RNA interference reduced dendritic arborization. Results from expression of different mutants indicated that membrane binding is essential for MARCKS-induced dendritic morphogenesis. Furthermore, MARCKS increased the number and length of filamentous actin-based filopodia along neurites, as well as the motility of filopodia, in a PI(4,5)P2-dependent manner. Time-lapse imaging showed that MARCKS increased frequency of filopodia initiation but did not affect filopodia longevity, suggesting that MARCKS may increase dendritic branching through its action on filopodia initiation. These findings demonstrate a critical role for MARCKS-PI(4,5)P2 signaling in regulating dendrite development.
Among fos family genes encoding components of activator protein-1 complex, only the fosB gene produces two forms of mature transcripts, namely fosB and DeltafosB mRNAs, by alternative splicing of an exonic intron. The former encodes full-length FosB. The latter encodes DeltaFosB and Delta2DeltaFosB by alternative translation initiation, and both of these lack the C-terminal transactivation domain of FosB. We established two mutant mouse embryonic stem (ES) cell lines carrying homozygous fosB-null alleles and fosB(d) alleles, the latter exclusively encoding DeltaFosB/Delta2DeltaFosB. Comparison of their gene expression profiles with that of the wild type revealed that more than 200 genes were up-regulated, whereas 19 genes were down-regulated in a DeltaFosB/Delta2DeltaFosB-dependent manner. We furthermore found that mRNAs for basement membrane proteins were significantly up-regulated in fosB(d/d) but not fosB-null mutant cells, whereas genes involved in the TGF-beta1 signaling pathway were up-regulated in both mutants. Cell-matrix adhesion was remarkably augmented in fosB(d/d) ES cells and to some extent in fosB-null cells. By analyzing ES cell lines carrying homozygous fosB(FN) alleles, which exclusively encode FosB, we confirmed that FosB negatively regulates cell-matrix adhesion and the TGF-beta1 signaling pathway. We thus concluded that FosB and DeltaFosB/Delta2DeltaFosB use this pathway to antagonistically regulate cell matrix adhesion.
A brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) receptor TrkB involves three spliced variants, namely the tyrosine kinase domain (TK) intact (+) and two TK(-) isoforms T1 and T2, yet their precise roles are largely unknown. Here we extensively map the mRNA expression patterns of BDNF and TrkB variants, further to gain insights in TK(-) specific functions during mouse development. Consequently, we found that TK(+), T1 and T2 were expressed in distinct regions of the mouse nervous system at the embryonic and postnatal stages, implicating separable functions of TK(-) forms. Additionally we uncovered five expressed segments in the intron between T2 and T1 specific exons, and one of these segments was revealed to code novel TK(-) receptors with unique responsiveness in vitro. These results suggest dynamic modes of expression from the Ntrk2 gene locus and multiple roles of TK(-) forms in the developing mouse nervous system.
Adenovirus (Ad) is an efficient and safe vector for CNS gene delivery since it infects non-replicating neurons and does not cause insertional mutagenesis of host cell genomes. However, the promiscuous Ad CAR receptor targets cells non-specifically and activates a host immune response. Using Ad5 containing an expression cassette encoding the gene for green fluorescent protein, gfp, regulated by the neuron specific promoter synapsin-1 and the woodchuck post-transcriptional regulatory element (WPRE), we demonstrate efficient, prolonged and promoter-restricted gfp expression in neurons of mixed primary adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and retinal cell cultures. We also demonstrate restricted gfp expression in DRG neurons after direct injections of Ad5 containing the synapsin-1(gfp)/WPRE construct into L4 DRG in vivo, while Ad5 CMV(gfp) transfected both DRG glia and neurons. Moreover, since the effective titres of delivered Ad5 are reduced with this neuron specific promoter/WPRE expression cassette, the viral immune challenge should be attenuated when used in vivo.
Granule neurons generated in the adult mammalian hippocampus synaptically integrate to facilitate cognitive function and antidepressant efficacy. Here, we investigated the role of BDNF in facilitating their maturation in vivo. We found that depletion of central BDNF in mice elicited an increase in hippocampal cell proliferation without affecting cell survival or fate specification. However, new mutant neurons failed to fully mature as indicated by their lack of calbindin, reduced dendritic differentiation and an accumulation of calretinin(+) immature neurons in the BDNF mutant dentate gyrus. Furthermore, the facilitating effects of GABA(A) receptor stimulation on neurogenesis were absent in the mutants, suggesting that defects might be due to alterations in GABA signaling. Transcriptional analysis of the mutant hippocampal neurogenic region revealed increases in markers for immature neurons and decreases in neuronal differentiation facilitators. These findings demonstrate that BDNF is required for the terminal differentiation of new neurons in the adult hippocampus.


Analysis of the distribution of mRNA encoding the serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) 5-HT(2A) receptor and the mu opioid peptide receptor in rat brain demonstrated their coexpression in neurons in several distinct regions. These regions included the periaqueductal gray, an area that plays an important role in morphine-induced analgesia but also in the development of tolerance to morphine. To explore potential cross-regulation between these G protein-coupled receptors, the human mu opioid peptide receptor was expressed stably and constitutively in Flp-In T-REx human embryonic kidney 293 cells that harbored the human 5-HT(2A) receptor at the inducible Flp-In locus. In the absence of the 5-HT(2A) receptor, pretreatment with the enkephalin agonist [D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]-enkephalin but not with the alkaloid agonist morphine produced desensitization, internalization, and down-regulation of the mu opioid peptide receptor. Induction of 5-HT(2A) receptor expression in these cells resulted in up-regulation of mu opioid peptide receptor levels that was blocked by both a 5-HT(2A) receptor inverse agonist and selective inhibition of signaling via Galpha(q)/Galpha(11) G proteins. After induction of the 5-HT(2A) receptor, coaddition of 5-HT with morphine now also resulted in desensitization, receptor internalization, and down-regulation of the mu opioid peptide receptor. It has been argued that enhancement of mu opioid peptide receptor internalization in response to morphine would limit the development of tolerance without limiting analgesia. These data suggest that selective activation of the 5-HT(2A) receptor in concert with treatment with morphine might achieve this aim.
The alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR), a homopentameric, rapidly activating and desensitizing ligand-gated ion channel with relatively high degree of calcium permeability, is expressed in the mammalian central nervous system, including regions associated with cognitive processing. Selective agonists targeting the alpha7 nAChR have shown efficacy in animal models of cognitive dysfunction. Use of positive allosteric modulators selective for the alpha7 receptor is another strategy that is envisaged in the design of active compounds aiming at improving attention and cognitive dysfunction. The recent discovery of novel positive allosteric modulators such as 1-(5-chloro-2-hydroxyphenyl)-3-(2-chloro-5-trifluoromethylphenyl)urea (NS-1738) and 1-(5-chloro-2,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-3-(5-methylisoxazol-3-yl)urea (PNU-120596) that are selective for the alpha7 nAChRs but display significant phenotypic differences in their profile of allosteric modulation, suggests that these molecules may act at different sites on the receptor. Taking advantage of the possibility to obtain functional receptors by the fusion of proteins domains from the alpha7 and the 5-HT(3) receptor, we examined the structural determinants required for positive allosteric modulation. This strategy revealed that the extracellular N-terminal domain of alpha7 plays a critical role in allosteric modulation by NS-1738. In addition, alpha7-5HT(3) chimeras harboring the M2-M3 segment showed that spontaneous activity in response to NS-1738, which confirmed the critical contribution of this small extracellular segment in the receptor gating. In contrast to NS-1738, positive allosteric modulation by PNU-120596 could not be restored in the alpha7-5HT(3) chimeras but was selectively observed in the reverse 5HT(3)-alpha7 chimera. All together, these data illustrate the existence of distinct allosteric binding sites with specificity of different profiles of allosteric modulators and open new possibilities to investigate the alpha7 receptor function.
Systemic lupus erythematosus is frequently accompanied by psychiatric manifestations of unknown origin. Although damage of central neurons had been documented, little is known about neurotransmitter systems affected by the autoimmune/inflammatory process. Recent studies on lupus-prone MRL-lpr mice point to imbalanced dopamine function and neurodegeneration in dopamine-rich brain regions. We follow up on anecdotal observations of singly housed mice developing chest wounds. Compulsive grooming and/or skin biting accounted for open lesions, lending itself to the operational term 'self-injurious behavior' (SIB). Low incidence of spontaneous SIB increased significantly after repeated injections of dopamine-2/3 receptor (D2/D3R) agonist quinpirole (QNP). To further probe the dopaminergic circuitry and examine whether SIB is associated with development of lupus-like disease, we compared behavioral responses among cohorts that differed in the immune status. Two-week treatment with QNP (intraperitoneal, 0.5 mg kg(-1) body weight per day) induced SIB in 60% of diseased MRL-lpr mice, and exacerbated their splenomegaly. Although increased grooming and stereotypy were observed in less symptomatic MRL+/+ controls, only one mouse (10%) developed SIB. Similarly, SIB was not seen in young, asymptomatic groups despite dissimilar ambulatory responses to QNP. In situ hybridization revealed treatment-independent upregulation of D2R mRNA in substantia nigra of diseased MRL-lpr mice. The above results suggest that development of systemic autoimmunity alters sensitivity of the dopaminergic system and renders MRL-lpr mice prone to SIB. Although pathogenic factors were not examined, we hypothesize that immune and endocrine mechanisms jointly contribute to early neuronal damage, which underlies behavioral deficiency in the adulthood.
Despite the relatively frequent involvement of the basal ganglia and subthalamic nucleus by multiple sclerosis (MS) plaques, movement disorders (MD), other than tremor secondary to cerebellar or brainstem lesions, are uncommon clinical manifestations of MS. MD were present in 12 of 733 patients with MS (1.6%): three patients had parkinsonism, two blepharospasm, five hemifacial spasm, one hemidystonia, and one tourettism. MD in patients with MS are often secondary to demyelinating disease. Also in cases without response to steroid treatment and demyelinating lesions in critical regions, it is not possible to exclude that MD and MS are causally related.



The clinical features of myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) and type 2 (DM2) may present striking similarity, whereas, in some cases, the DM2 phenotype may be so mild that the diagnosis may be missed. Therefore, the identification of disease-specific histopathological patterns for DM1 and DM2 may help clinicians to correctly address genetic studies. We performed a comparative morphological and morphometric analysis on muscle biopsies from 10 DM1 and 11 DM2 patients, comparing type 1 and type 2 fibers as to: fiber type predominance, transverse diameter, atrophy and hypertrophy factors, and prevalence of central nuclei. In DM1 cases we observed preferential type 1 fiber atrophy and a higher prevalence of central nucleation among type 1 fibers in all cases. In DM2 muscle biopsies, high rates of atrophic and hypertrophic type 2 fibers were observed in most cases, and preferential central nucleation in type 2 fibers was present in all cases. As opposed to DM1, in which type 1 fibers display most of the histological changes, preferential atrophy and hypertrophy of type 2 fibers may be considered as markers of DM2. A higher prevalence of central nuclei among hypertrophic type 2 fibers has a predictive value for the diagnosis of DM2. Thus, morphometric and fiber type-based histological analysis of muscle biopsies may help differentiate between DM1 and DM2 and guide molecular analysis.

Parkinson disease (PD) is associated with progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, as well as with more-widespread neuronal changes that cause complex and variable motor and nonmotor symptoms. Recent rapid advances in PD genetics have revealed a prominent role for mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of the disease, and the products of several PD-associated genes, including SNCA, Parkin, PINK1, DJ-1, LRRK2 and HTR2A, show a degree of localization to the mitochondria under certain conditions. Impaired mitochondrial function is likely to increase oxidative stress and might render cells more vulnerable to this and other related processes, including excitotoxicity. The mitochondria, therefore, represent a highly promising target for the development of disease biomarkers by use of genetic, biochemical and bioimaging approaches. Novel therapeutic interventions that modify mitochondrial function are currently under development, and a large phase III clinical trial is underway to examine whether high-dose oral coenzyme Q10 will slow disease progression. In this Review, we examine evidence for the roles of mitochondrial dysfunction and increased oxidative stress in the neuronal loss that leads to PD and discuss how this knowledge might further improve patient management and aid in the development of 'mitochondrial therapy' for PD.


The enormous complexity of the human brain ultimately derives from a finite set of molecular instructions encoded in the human genome. These instructions can be directly studied by exploring the organization of the brain's transcriptome through systematic analysis of gene coexpression relationships. We analyzed gene coexpression relationships in microarray data generated from specific human brain regions and identified modules of coexpressed genes that correspond to neurons, oligodendrocytes, astrocytes and microglia. These modules provide an initial description of the transcriptional programs that distinguish the major cell classes of the human brain and indicate that cell type-specific information can be obtained from whole brain tissue without isolating homogeneous populations of cells. Other modules corresponded to additional cell types, organelles, synaptic function, gender differences and the subventricular neurogenic niche. We found that subventricular zone astrocytes, which are thought to function as neural stem cells in adults, have a distinct gene expression pattern relative to protoplasmic astrocytes. Our findings provide a new foundation for neurogenetic inquiries by revealing a robust and previously unrecognized organization to the human brain transcriptome.
Action potential threshold is thought to be lowest in the axon, but when measured using conventional techniques, we found that action potential voltage threshold of rat cortical pyramidal neurons was higher in the axon than at other neuronal locations. In contrast, both current threshold and voltage threshold of the isolated somato-dendritic spike were substantially higher at the soma. These data indicate that action potential threshold is indeed lowest in the axon.
A key component of recent theories on cerebellar function is rebound firing in neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN). Despite the robustness of this phenomenon in vitro, in vivo studies have provided little evidence for its prevalence. We found that intact mouse or rat DCN neurons rarely showed rebound firing under physiological conditions in vitro or in vivo. These observations necessitate a critical re-evaluation of recent cerebellar models.
Some neurons in auditory cortex respond to recent stimulus history by adapting their response functions to track stimulus statistics directly, as might be expected. In contrast, some neurons respond to loud sounds by adjusting their response functions away from high intensities and consequently remain sensitive to softer sounds. In marmoset monkey auditory cortex, the latter type of adaptation appears to exist only in neurons tuned to stimulus intensity.
The supplementary motor complex consists of the supplementary motor area, the supplementary eye field and the pre-supplementary motor area. In recent years, these areas have come under increasing scrutiny from cognitive neuroscientists, motor physiologists and clinicians because they seem to be crucial for linking cognition to action. However, theories regarding their function vary widely. This Review brings together the data regarding the supplementary motor regions, highlighting outstanding issues and providing new perspectives for understanding their functions.
As investment in science and technology continues to grow in Asia, countries such as China, Japan and Singapore are witnessing great improvements in their neuroscience research environments; this is reflected in the opening of new research institutions and in the influx of neuroscientists trained abroad. Collaborative projects between researchers in these countries and laboratories in the United States and Europe are not only helping to shape these institutions, they are also leading to a surge in high-quality publications in both basic and translational neuroscience, resulting in increasing international recognition. Nature Reviews Neuroscience asks four neuroscientists about their collaborative experiences and the impact that such collaborations are having on neuroscience research.
Synaptotagmin-1 functions as a Ca2+ sensor in neurotransmitter release and was proposed to act on both the synaptic vesicle and plasma membranes through interactions involving the Ca2+ binding top loops of its C(2) domains and the Ca2+-independent bottom face of the C(2)B domain. However, the functional importance of the C(2)B domain bottom face is unclear. We now show that mutating two conserved arginine residues at the C(2)B domain bottom face practically abolishes synchronous release in hippocampal neurons. Reconstitution experiments reveal that Ca2+-synaptotagmin-1 can dramatically stimulate the rate of SNARE-dependent lipid mixing, and that the two-arginine mutation strongly impairs this activity. These results demonstrate that synaptotagmin-1 function depends crucially on the bottom face of the C(2)B domain and strongly support the notion that synaptotagmin-1 triggers membrane fusion and neurotransmitter release by bringing the vesicle and plasma membranes together, much like the SNAREs do but in a Ca2+-dependent manner.
We provide analytical solutions for mean firing rates and cross-correlations of coincidence detector neurons in recurrent networks with excitatory or inhibitory connectivity, with rate-modulated steady-state spiking inputs. We use discrete-time finite-state Markov chains to represent network state transition probabilities, which are subsequently used to derive exact analytical solutions for mean firing rates and cross-correlations. As illustrated in several examples, the method can be used for modeling cortical microcircuits and clarifying single-neuron and population coding mechanisms. We also demonstrate that increasing firing rates do not necessarily translate into increasing cross-correlations, though our results do support the contention that firing rates and cross-correlations are likely to be coupled. Our analytical solutions underscore the complexity of the relationship between firing rates and cross-correlations.
This paper presents an experiment, which builds a bridge over the gap between neuroscience and the analysis of economic behaviour. We apply the mathematical theory of Pavlovian conditioning, known as Recurrent Associative Gated Dipole (READ), to analyse consumer choices in a computer-based experiment. Supplier reputations, consumer satisfaction, and customer reactions are operationally defined and, together with prices, related to READ's neural dynamics. We recorded our participants' decisions with their timing, and then mapped those decisions on a sequence of events generated by the READ model. To achieve this, all constants in the differential equations were determined using simulated annealing with data from 129 people. READ predicted correctly 96% of all consumer choices in a calibration sample (n=1290), and 87% in a test sample (n=903), thus outperforming logit models. The rank correlations between self-assessed and dipole-generated consumer satisfactions were 89% in the calibration sample and 78% in the test sample, surpassing by a wide margin the best linear regression model.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a non-invasive and painless way of stimulating the neural tissue (cerebral cortex, spinal roots, and cranial and peripheral nerves). The first attempts at stimulating the neural tissue date back to 1896 by d'Arsonval; however, it was successfully carried out by Barker and colleagues in Sheffield, UK, in 1985. It soon became a useful tool in neuroscience for neurophysiologists and neurologists and psychiatrists. The original single-pulse TMS, largely used as an investigative tool, was further refined and developed in the early 1990s into what is known as repetitive TMS (rTMS), having a frequency range of 1-60 Hz. The stimulation by both TMS and rTMS of various cortical regions displayed alteration of movement, mood, and behavior, leading researchers to investigate a number of psychiatric and neuropsychiatric disorders, as well as to explore its therapeutic potential. There is now a large amount of literature on the use of TMS/rTMS in depression; however, its use in schizophrenia, both as an investigative and certainly as a therapeutic tool is relatively recent with a limited but increasing number of publications. In this article, we will outline the principles of TMS/rTMS and critically review their use in schizophrenia both as investigative and potential therapeutic tools.
Stereological cell counting was applied to post-mortem neocortices of human brains from 31 normal individuals, age 18-93 years, 18 females (average age 65 years, range 18-93) and 13 males (average age 57 years, range 19-87). The cells were differentiated in astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, microglia and neurons and counting were done in each of the four lobes. The study showed that the different subpopulations of glial cells behave differently as a function of age; the number of oligodendrocytes showed a significant 27% decrease over adult life and a strong correlation to the total number of neurons while the total astrocyte number is constant through life; finally males have a 28% higher number of neocortical glial cells and a 19% higher neocortical neuron number than females. The overall total number of neocortical neurons and glial cells was 49.3 billion in females and 65.2 billion in males, a difference of 24% with a high biological variance. These numbers can serve as reference values in quantitative studies of the human neocortex.
The accumulation of misfolded protein aggregates is a common feature of numerous neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer disease (AD). Here, we examined the effects of different assembly states of amyloid beta (Abeta) on proteasome function. We find that Abeta oligomers, but not monomers, inhibit the proteasome in vitro. In young 3xTg-AD mice, we observed impaired proteasome activity that correlates with the detection of intraneuronal Abeta oligomers. Blocking proteasome function in pre-pathological 3xTg-AD mice with specific inhibitors causes a marked increase in Abeta and tau accumulation, highlighting the adverse consequences of impaired proteasome activity for AD. Lastly, we show that Abeta immunotherapy in the 3xTg-AD mice reduces Abeta oligomers and reverses the deficits in proteasome activity. Taken together, our results indicate that Abeta oligomers impair proteasome activity, contributing to the age-related pathological accumulation of Abeta and tau. These findings provide further evidence that the proteasome represents a viable target for therapeutic intervention in AD.
The 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned mouse serves as a model of basal ganglia injury and Parkinson's disease. The present study investigated the effects of MPTP-induced lesioning on associative memory, conditioned fear, and affective behavior. Male C57BL/6 mice were administered saline or MPTP and separate groups were evaluated at either 7 or 30 days post-lesioning. In the social transmission of food preference test, mice showed a significant decrease in preference for familiar food 30 days post-MPTP compared to controls. Mice at both 7 and 30 days post-MPTP lesioning had increased fear extinction compared to controls. High Performance Liquid Chromatography analysis of tissues homogenates showed dopamine and serotonin were depleted in the striatum, frontal cortex, and amygdala. No changes in anxiety or depression were detected by the tail suspension, sucrose preference, light-dark preference, or hole-board tests. In conclusion, acute MPTP lesioning regimen in mice causes impairments in associative memory and conditioned fear, no mood changes, and depletion of dopamine and serotonin throughout the brain.
The observation that neural grafts can induce dyskinesias has severely hindered the development of a transplantation therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD). We addressed the hypothesis that inflammatory responses within and around an intrastriatal graft containing dopamine neurons can trigger dyskinetic behaviors. We subjected rats to unilateral nigrostriatal lesions with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and treated them with L-DOPA for 21 days in order to induce abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs). Subsequently, we grafted the rats with allogeneic embryonic ventral mesencephalic tissue in the dopamine-denervated striatum. In agreement with earlier studies, the grafted rats developed dyskinesia-like AIMs in response to amphetamine. We then used two experimental approaches to induce an inflammatory response and examined if the amphetamine-induced AIMs worsened or if spontaneous AIMs developed. In one experiment, we challenged the neural graft hosts immunologically with an orthotopic skin allograft of the same genetic origin as the intracerebral neural allograft. In another experiment, we infused the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin 2 (IL-2) adjacent to the intrastriatal grafts using osmotic minipumps. The skin allograft induced rapid rejection of the mesencephalic allografts, leading to disappearance of the amphetamine-induced AIMs. Contrary to our hypothesis, the rejection process itself did not elicit AIMs. Likewise, the IL-2 infusion did not induce spontaneous AIMs, nor did it alter L-DOPA-induced AIMs. The IL-2 infusions did, however, elicit the predicted marked striatal inflammation, as evidenced by the presence of activated microglia and IL2Ralpha-positive cells. These results indicate that an inflammatory response in and around grafted dopaminergic neurons is not sufficient to evoke dyskinetic behaviors in experimental models of PD.
The effects of hypothermia on memory formation have been examined extensively, and while it is clear that post-training cooling interferes with the process of consolidation, the nature of the temperature sensitive processes disrupted in this way remain poorly defined. Post-training manipulations that disrupt consolidation tend to be effective during specific time-windows of sensitivity, the timing and duration of which are directly related to the mechanism through which the treatment induces amnesia. As such, different treatments that target the same basic processes should be associated with similar time-windows of sensitivity. Using this rationale we have investigated the possibility that cooling induced blockade of long-term memory (LTM) stems from the disruption of protein synthesis. By varying the timing of post-training hypothermia we have determined the critical period during which cooling disrupts the consolidation of appetitive long-term memory in the pond snail Lymnaea. Post-training hypothermia was found to disrupt LTM only when applied immediately after conditioning, while delaying the treatment by 10 min left the 24 h memory trace intact. This brief (&lt;10 min) window of sensitivity differs from the time-window we have previously described for the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin, which was effective during at least the first 30 min after conditioning [Fulton, D., Kemenes, I., Andrew, R. J., &amp; Benjamin, P. R. (2005). A single time-window for protein synthesis-dependent long-term memory formation after one-trial appetitive conditioning. European Journal of Neuroscience, 21, 1347-1358]. We conclude that hypothermia and protein synthesis inhibition exhibit distinct time-windows of effectiveness in Lymnaea, a fact that is inconsistent with the hypothesis that cooling induced amnesia occurs through the direct disruption of macromolecular synthesis.
Although a large number of signalling cascades are known to be activated downstream of NCAM, only little is known regarding the hierarchical relationship between the involved molecules in the individual cascades and the level of cross talk between the cascades. Here, we evaluated the requirement of putative upstream signalling cascades for the phosphorylation of the kinases extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and Akt and the transcription factor cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) response-element binding protein (CREB) following stimulation of NCAM in rat cerebellar granule neurons with an NCAM ligand, the C3d peptide. NCAM-mediated ERK phosphorylation depended on activation of the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR), Src-family kinases, MEK (MAP and ERK kinase) and G(0)/G(i)-proteins, whereas NCAM-mediated CREB phosphorylation depended on the activity of Src-family kinases and MEK. NCAM-specific Akt phosphorylation depended on cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) and phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). All three phosphorylation events were independent of activation of the signalling molecules phospholipase C, protein kinase C, protein kinase A, and CamKII, which all have been demonstrated previously to be involved in NCAM signalling. For comparison, we also evaluated the role of upstream signalling cascades on fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2)-mediated phosphorylation of ERK, Akt, and CREB and found that FGF2 required the activity of both FGFR and Src-family kinases for phosphorylation of ERK, Akt, and CREB. MEK was required for phosphorylation of ERK and CREB, but not Akt, whereas G(0)/G(i)-proteins were necessary for phosphorylation of Akt and CREB, and cGMP was necessary for Akt phosphorylation. We thus demonstrate that even though NCAM and FGF2 have many signalling features in common, and even though both are known to activate FGFR, there are a number of differences in the intracellular signalling network activated by the NCAM ligand C3d and the FGFR ligand FGF2.
We investigated the effect of the cAMP system on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced changes in the activity of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) in rat primary astrocytes. LPS stimulation increased MMP-9 and decreased tPA activity in rat primary astrocytes. Co-treatment with a cAMP analog, dibutyryl-cAMP (db-cAMP), or the cAMP elevating beta-adrenergic agonist, isoproterenol, concentration-dependently inhibited LPS-induced MMP-9 activity. In contrast, db-cAMP concentration-dependently increased tPA activity in both basal and LPS-stimulated rat primary astrocytes. To confirm the effect of cAMP on MMP-9 and tPA activity, we treated LPS-stimulated astrocytes with cAMP phosphodiesterase inhibitors, IBMX or rolipram, and they exhibited similar effects to db-cAMP, namely decreasing MMP-9 activity and increasing tPA activity. RT-PCR analysis of MMP-9 mRNA expression and MMP-9 promoter luciferase reporter assays revealed transcriptional upregulation by LPS stimulation and downregulation by db-cAMP. In contrast, the level of tPA mRNA expression was increased both by LPS and by cAMP treatment. Consistent with RT-PCR analysis, tPA promoter reporter assays showed increased activity by both LPS and cAMP stimulation. Interestingly, the level of mRNA encoding plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) was increased by LPS stimulation and decreased back to control level after co-treatment with db-cAMP, suggesting that PAI-1 expression plays a major role in the regulation of tPA activity. To examine PKA involvement in the effects of db-cAMP on MMP-9 and tPA activity, we added the PKA inhibitors, H89 or rp-cAMP, along with db-cAMP, and they inhibited db-cAMP-mediated changes in tPA activity without affecting MMP-9 activity. These data suggest that cAMP differentially modulates MMP-9 and tPA activity through a mechanism related to PKA activation. The differential regulation of MMP-9 and tPA by the cAMP system may confer more sophisticated regulation of physiological processes, such as extracellular matrix remodeling and cell migration, by activated astrocytes.
Thymosin beta(4) (Tbeta4) is a major actin-sequestering peptide widely distributed in mammalian tissues including the nervous system. The presence of this peptide in the nervous system likely plays a role in synaptogensis, axon growth, cell migration, and plastic changes in dendritic spine. However, the effects of Tbeta4 on the survival of neurons and axonal outgrowth have still not been fully understood. So far it is not clear if the effects of Tbeta4 are associated with L1 functions. In the present study, we hypothesized that Tbeta4-induced up-regulation of L1 synthesis could be involved in the survival and axon outgrowth of cultured spinal cord neurons. To test this hypothesis, primarily cultured neurons were prepared from the mouse spinal cord and treated with various concentrations of Tbeta4 ranging from 0.1 to 10 microg/ml. The analysis of L1 mRNA expression and protein synthesis in neurons was then carried out using RT-PCR and western blot assays, respectively. After the addition of Tbeta4 to cultures, cells were then treated with antibodies against distinct domains of L1-Fc. Subsequently, beta-tubulin III and L1 double-labeled indirect immunofluorescence was carried out. Meanwhile, L1 immunofluorescent reactivity was analyzed and compared in cells treated with Tbeta4. Furthermore, the number of beta-tubulin III-positive cells and neurite lengths were measured. We found that Tbeta4 enhanced L1 expression in a dose-dependent manner, and the highest L1 mRNA and protein synthesis in cells increased by more than 2.1- and 2.3-fold in the presence of Tbeta4 at identical concentrations, respectively. Moreover, it also dose dependently enhanced neurite outgrowth and neuronal survival. Compared to conditions without Tbeta4, the length of neurite and neuronal survival increased markedly in presence of 0.5, 1, and 5 microg/ml Tbeta4, respectively, whereas the effects of Tbeta4 were significantly attenuated or inhibited in the process of L1-Fc antibodies treatment. These above results indicate that the promotive effect of Tbeta4 on the survival and neurite outgrowth of cultured spinal cord neurons might be mediated, at least in part via a stimulation of the production of L1 in the neurons.
Amine transporters are major target for development of various pharmacological agents to treat behavioral disorders. Serotonin transporters (SERT) have been implicated in the etiology of depression and drugs acting on SERT can be effective in treating depression. The aim of the present study was to study the in vivo effect of various antidepressants on [(3)H]paroxetine binding to SERT in regions of rat brain. Rats were treated with tricyclic antidepressant (TCAs) such as amitriptyline (AMI), serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRIs) such as clomipramine (CMI), and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as fluoxetine (FLX) and citalopram (CIT) (10 mg/kg body wt.) for 30 days. Density of SERT was measured in cortex and hippocampus using [(3)H]paroxetine (0.03-1.0 nM) in presence and absence of 10 muM fluoxetine as displacer. It was observed that the density of cortical SERT was significantly decreased with CMI (68%, P &lt; 0.0001), FLX (67%, P &lt; 0.0001), CIT (54%, P &lt; 0.0001), and AMI (52%, P &lt; 0.0001) treatment, when compared to the density of 120.7 +/- 4.0 fmol/mg protein in control rats, without altering the affinity (Kd) of [(3)H]paroxetine to the transporters. The density of SERT in hippocampus was also significantly decreased with FLX (65%, P &lt; 0.0001), CMI (54%, P &lt; 0.0001), CIT (52%, P &lt; 0.0001) and AMI (46%, P &lt; 0.0001) treatment, when compared to the density of 74.0 +/- 2.6 fmol/mg protein in control rats, without altering the affinity of [(3)H]paroxetine to the transporters. Displacement study showed high affinity for CMI &gt; CIT &gt; FLX. The results suggest that chronic antidepressant treatment significantly down-regulates both cortical and hippocampal SERT in rat brain and SSRIs have high affinity for SERT than TCAs.
Interference control and time perception are mediated by common neural networks, including the frontal and parietal lobes, the cerebellum and the basal ganglia. Previous studies have shown that while time perception develops early in life, interference control seems to follow a protracted course of maturation into late adolescence. Thus, the current study examined developmental changes in neural activation and functional interaction between brain regions during a combined time discrimination and interference control task using fMRI. Thirty-four participants, aged 8-15 years, were scanned while performing a spatial stimulus response compatibility (SRC) task and a time discrimination (TD) task using identical stimuli. We found shared neural activation in a fronto-parieto-cerebellar network as well as task-specific patterns of psychophysiological interaction with positive coupling between the right inferior frontal gyrus (IFG), the superior parietal lobes bilaterally, the contralateral IFG and the thalamus during interference control and positive interactions between the right IFG and bilateral cerebellar activity and the thalamus during time discrimination. Developmental changes in task performance and brain activation patterns were only observed during the SRC task, with increased neural activity in the left inferior parietal gyrus and positive coupling between fronto-parietal brain regions that was only observed in the adolescents group. These results suggest that although both cognitive tasks rely on a shared neural network, distinct developmental curves of brain activation and connectivity could be observed associated with differential maturation patterns underlying cognitive development.
The progression of neurodegenerative diseases as well as healthy aging is accompanied by structural changes of the brain. These changes are often only subtle when considered over time intervals of several months. Therefore morphometrical techniques for their detection in longitudinally acquired MR images must be highly sensitive, and they require a careful validation. In the present study, a novel processing chain for a longitudinal analysis based on deformation field morphometry is described. Procedures for its quantitative validation are also reported: Deformation fields were computed for the simulation of non-linear, local structural changes of human brains. Applying these deformation fields to &quot;original&quot; MR images yielded deformed MR images. The volume changes defined by the deformation fields represented the standard, against which the results of the longitudinal analysis of each pair of original and deformed MR image were compared. The proposed processing chain enabled to localize and to quantify simulated local atrophies near the cortex as well as in deep brain structures. An exemplary analysis of serial MR images of a patient suffering from an atypical Parkinson syndrome (cortico-basal degeneration, CBD) and healthy control subjects is presented, showing a characteristic pattern of volume changes in the brain of the patient which is strikingly different from the controls' patterns of changes.
Recently developed positron emission tomography (PET) tracers, such as PIB and FDDNP, help to visualize amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in living subjects. FDDNP binds to both amyloid plaques and tangles, whereas PIB selectively labels amyloid plaques. Therefore, it will be interesting to see a direct comparison of the regional binding of the two radiotracers for plaques (PIB) and plaques and tangles (FDDNP) using multitracer PET imaging for both PIB and FDDNP in the same subjects with and without Alzheimer's disease. Here we report that multitracer PET images of PIB and FDDNP in the same Alzheimer subjects show negligible PIB but strong FDDNP binding in the medial temporal cortex (hippocampus, amygdala, and parahippocampal gyrus), whereas there are significant quantities of both PIB and FDDNP binding in neocortical areas. These results suggest that tangles rather than amyloid plaques are the dominant pathology in the medial temporal cortex of living Alzheimer patients. In nondemented elderly normal subjects, PIB binding shows a significant increase in the posterior cingulate cortex compared with other brain regions, whereas in the same normal subjects we found significant FDDNP binding in the medial temporal cortex. Interestingly, the medial temporal FDDNP uptake values in normal elderly subjects were inversely correlated with long delay recall scores in the California Verbal Learning Test, a measure of episodic memory performance. We conclude that multitracer PET imaging of amyloid plaques and tangles using FDDNP and PIB in both nondemented and demented subjects provides important insight into these complicated pathological processes in living subjects.
In a crowded scene we can effectively focus our attention on a specific speaker while largely ignoring sensory inputs from other speakers. How attended speech inputs are extracted from similar competing information has been primarily studied in the auditory domain. Here we examined the deployment of visuo-spatial attention in multiple speaker scenarios. Steady-state visual evoked potentials (SSVEP) were monitored as a real-time index of visual attention towards three competing speakers. Participants were instructed to detect a target syllable by the center speaker and ignore syllables from two flanking speakers. The study incorporated interference trials (syllables from three speakers), no-interference trials (syllable from center speaker only), and periods without speech stimulation in which static faces were presented. An enhancement of flanking speaker induced SSVEP was found 70-220 ms after sound onset over left temporal scalp during interference trials. This enhancement was negatively correlated with the behavioral performance of participants -- those who showed largest enhancements had the worst speech recognition performance. Additionally, poorly performing participants exhibited enhanced flanking speaker induced SSVEP over visual scalp during periods without speech stimulation. The present study provides neurophysiologic evidence that the deployment of visuo-spatial attention to flanking speakers interferes with the recognition of multisensory speech signals under noisy environmental conditions.
Stroke, the second leading cause of death throughout the world, has a major impact on society. This article provides a summary of quality improvement initiatives, including those relating to hospitals, the system of care delivery infrastructure, and legislative efforts in the United States and in various countries outside of the United States. Through quality improvement initiatives, it is projected that stroke outcomes may improve and the economic burden of stroke may be reduced.
Pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI) offers the potential to provide novel insights into the functioning of neurotransmitter systems and drug action in the central nervous system. To date, much of the neuropharmacological research that has applied phMRI techniques has focused on the dopaminergic system with relatively few studies into serotonergic function. In this article, we discuss the current capabilities of, and future potential for phMRI to address fundamental questions in serotonergic research using animal models. Firstly we review existing literature on the application of phMRI to the serotonergic system by exploring 3 broad research themes: (i) the functional anatomy of the serotonergic system; (ii) drug-receptor targeting and distribution; and (iii) disease models and drug development. Subsequently, we discuss the interpretation of phMRI data in terms of neuropharmacological action with a focus on issues specific to neuroimaging studies of the serotonergic system. Unlike other neuroimaging approaches such as positron emission tomography, phMRI methods do not currently offer sensitivity to markers of specific pharmacological action. However, they can provide in vivo markers of the neuropharmacological modulation of neuronal activity across the whole brain with unparalleled spatial and temporal resolution. Furthermore, due to the non-invasive nature of MRI, these markers are readily translatable to human studies. Whilst there are a number of constraints and limitations to phMRI methods that necessitate careful data interpretation, we argue that phMRI could become a valuable research tool in neuropharmacological studies of the serotonergic system.
As the 5-hydroxytryptamine(6) (5-HT(6)) receptor is almost exclusively expressed in the CNS, particularly in areas associated with learning and memory, many studies have examined its role in cognitive function in the rodent, as reviewed herein. Most studies, in healthy adult rats, report that 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists enhance retention of spatial learning in the Morris water maze, improve consolidation in autoshaping tasks and reverse natural forgetting in object recognition. Antagonists appear to facilitate both cholinergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission, reversing scopolamine- and NMDA receptor antagonist-induced memory impairments. Recent reports show that the 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist, PRX-07034, restores the impairment of novel object recognition produced in rats reared in social isolation, a neurodevelopmental model producing behavioural changes similar to several core symptoms seen in schizophrenia. The 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist, Ro 04-6790, modestly improved reversal learning in isolation reared but not group-housed controls in the water maze. Ro 04-6790 also improved novel object discrimination both in adult rats that received chronic intermittent phencyclidine and drug-nave 18-month-old rats. However, more information on their effect in animal models of schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease is required. Several selective high-affinity 5-HT(6) receptor agonists developed recently also improve object discrimination and extra-dimensional set-shifting behaviour. Thus both 5-HT(6) receptor agonist and antagonist compounds show promise as pro-cognitive agents in pre-clinical studies but the explanation for their paradoxical analogous effect is currently unclear, and is discussed in this article.
The serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptor serves as a hub to regulate the activity and actions of the serotonin system, and is expressed both as a presynaptic autoreceptor on raphe neurons, and as a major postsynaptic receptor in hippocampal, cortical, and hypothalamic regions involved in mood, emotion and stress response. As such, the level of expression of 5-HT1A receptors is implicated in the development of anxiety and depression phenotypes. This review focuses on the C(-1019)G (rs6295) promoter polymorphism of the 5-HT1A receptor gene (HTR1A) and its effect on the activity of transcription factors that recognize the C-allele, including Deaf-1, Hes1 and Hes5; its effects on 5-HT1A receptor expression in pre- and postsynaptic areas; as well as its implication in early postnatal development and adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus and cortex. Although several studies have now replicated the association of the G-allele with depression, panic disorder, neuroticism, and reduced response to antidepressant or antipsychotic treatment, ethnic, disease and genetic heterogeneity among subjects in different studies may obscure such associations. Gene-gene interaction studies suggest that the 5-HT1A receptor G(-1019) allele is a risk allele which could be used as a marker for depression and related mood disorders. Finally, association of the G(-1019) allele with increased raphe 5-HT1A binding potential, increased amygdala reactivity to emotional stimuli, and reduced amygdala volume, particularly in disease states, suggests a functional role for the C(-1019)G site in 5-HT1A receptor dys-regulation and predisposition to mental illness.
We present an overview of our studies on the differential role of serotonergic projections from the median raphe nucleus (MRN) and dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) in behavioural animal models with relevance to schizophrenia. Stereotaxic microinjection of the serotonin neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) into the MRN or one of its main projections regions, the dorsal hippocampus, induced a marked enhancement of phencyclidine-induced locomotor hyperactivity and a disruption of prepulse inhibition (PPI) in rats. There was no enhancement of locomotor hyperactivity induced by amphetamine or MK-801 or after 5,7-DHT lesions of the DRN or ventral hippocampus. Rats with dorsal hippocampus lesions did not show significant changes in the Y-maze test for short-term spatial memory, the Morris water maze for long-term spatial memory, or in the T-maze delayed alternation test for working memory. These chronic lesion studies suggest a modulatory influence of serotonergic projections from the MRN to the dorsal hippocampus on phencyclidine effects and prepulse inhibition, but not on different forms of learning and memory. The results provide new insight into the role of serotonin in the dorsal hippocampus in aspects of schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia is a chronic, debilitating neuropsychological disease characterised by positive, negative, and cognitive deficits. In recent years, new pharmacological treatment strategies have been developed to treat the sequalae of schizophrenia based upon more selective receptor activity profiles in the hope that treatment efficacy can be increased without inducing the side-effect profiles seen with current available therapies. One such strategy involves the development of combined (partial) 5-HT(1A) agonists and D(2) receptor (partial) antagonists such as bifeprunox, SLV313, F15063 and SSR-181507 in an attempt to increase therapeutic efficacy of all symptom domains whilst alleviating adverse side effects. Other novel drugs including SLV310 and SLV314 combine selective serotonin reuptake inhibition (SSRI) functionality with D(2) receptor antagonism in an attempt to not only improve schizophrenic symptoms, but to also relieve other affective disorders intricately linked with the disorder. The main scope of this review will evaluate the major preclinical and clinical pharmacological findings concerning the aforementioned strategies and pharmacological agents, and compare their therapeutic potential with currently available antipsychotics; however, recent developments at other emerging serotonergic targets such as 5-HT(2C), 5-HT(6) and 5-HT(7) receptors will also be considered.
A number of novel ways of using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to visualise the action of drugs on animal and human brain (pharmacoMRI or phMRI) are becoming established tools in translational psychopharmacology. Using drugs with known pharmacology it is possible to investigate how neurotransmitter systems are involved in neural systems engaged by other processes, such as cognitive challenge (modulation phMRI) or to examine the acute effects of the drug itself in the brain (challenge phMRI). In this article we discuss the principles behind phMRI and review studies investigating the effect of serotonin (5-HT) manipulations. 5-HT modulation phMRI studies show the involvement of 5-HT in a broad range of neural processes ranging from motor function through 'cold' cognition, such as memory and response inhibition, to emotional processing. We highlight findings in brain areas that show some consistency or complementarity across studies, such as the ventrolateral orbitofrontal cortex where modulation by 5-HT is task-specific, and the amygdala in emotional processing where 5-HT is predominantly inhibitory. 5-HT challenge phMRI is promising but as yet few studies have been carried out. New ways of analysing phMRI data include connectivity analysis which holds the promise of going beyond identifying isolated areas of activation/modulation to understanding functional circuits and their neurochemistry. 5-HT phMRI now needs to be taken into patient populations and methods of investigating treatment effects need to be developed. If this is successful then phMRI will provide a genuinely exciting opportunity for the rapid development of better treatments for psychiatric conditions.
Developmental dyslexia is one of the most common neuropsychological disorders in children and adults. Only few data are available on the pathomechanisms of this specific dysfunction, assuming--among others--that dyslexia might be a disconnection syndrome of anterior and posterior brain regions involved in phonological and orthographic aspects of the reading process, as well as in the integration of phonemes and graphemes. Therefore, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) were used to verify the hypothesis of altered white and gray matter structure in German dyslexic adults. DTI revealed decreased fractional anisotropy (FA) in bilateral fronto-temporal and left temporo-parietal white matter regions (inferior and superior longitudinal fasciculus). Significant correlations between white matter anisotropy and speed of pseudoword reading were found. In dyslexics, gray matter volumes (as measured by VBM) were reduced in the superior temporal gyrus of both hemispheres. So far, our results, based on a combined analysis of white and gray matter abnormalities, provide exceedingly strong evidence for a disconnection syndrome or dysfunction of cortical areas relevant for reading and spelling. Thus, we suggest that this imbalance of neuronal communication between the respective brain areas might be the crucial point for the development of dyslexia.
A comprehensive understanding of human memory requires cognitive and neural descriptions of memory processes along with a conception of how memory processing drives behavioral responses and subjective experiences. One serious challenge to this endeavor is that an individual memory process is typically operative within a mix of other contemporaneous memory processes. This challenge is particularly disquieting in the context of implicit memory, which, unlike explicit memory, transpires without the subject necessarily being aware of memory retrieval. Neural correlates of implicit memory and neural correlates of explicit memory are often investigated in different experiments using very different memory tests and procedures. This strategy poses difficulties for elucidating the interactions between the two types of memory process that may result in explicit remembering, and for determining the extent to which certain neural processing events uniquely contribute to only one type of memory. We review recent studies that have succeeded in separately assessing neural correlates of both implicit memory and explicit memory within the same paradigm using event-related brain potentials (ERPs) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), with an emphasis on studies from our laboratory. The strategies we describe provide a methodological framework for achieving valid assessments of memory processing, and the findings support an emerging conceptualization of the distinct neurocognitive events responsible for implicit and explicit memory.
Parkinson's disease (PD) patients exhibit cognitive deficits, including reinforcement learning, working memory (WM) and set shifting. Computational models of the basal ganglia-frontal system posit similar mechanisms for these deficits in terms of reduced dynamic range of striatal dopamine (DA) signals in both medicated and non-medicated states. Here, we report results from the first study that tests PD patients on and off dopaminergic medications in a modified version of the AX continuous performance (AX-CPT) working memory task, consisting of three performance phases and one phase requiring WM associations to be learned via reinforcement feedback. Patients generally showed impairments relative to controls. Medicated patients showed deficits specifically when having to ignore distracting stimuli during the delay. Our models suggest that this impairment is due to medication causing excessive WM updating by enhancing striatal &quot;Go&quot; signals that facilitate such updating, while concurrently suppressing &quot;NoGo&quot; signals. In contrast, patients off medication showed deficits consistent with an overall reduction in striatal DA and associated Go updating signals. Supporting this dichotomy, patients on and off medication both showed attentional shifting deficits, but for different reasons. Deficits in non-medicated patients were consistent with an inability to update the new attentional set, whereas those in medicated patients were evident when having to ignore distractors that had previously been task relevant. Finally, in the feedback-based WM phase, medicated patients were better than unmedicated patients, suggesting a key role of striatal DA in using feedback to update information into WM. These results lend further insight into the role of basal ganglia dopamine in WM and broadly support predictions from neurocomputational models.
Single-process theories assume that familiarity is the sole influence on recognition memory with decisions being made as a continuous process. Dual-process theories claim that recognition involves both recollection and familiarity processes with recollection as a threshold process. Although, the frontal lobes of the brain play an important role in recognition memory, few studies have examined the effect of frontal lobe lesions on recollection and familiarity. In the current study, the nonverbal recognition memory of 24 patients with focal frontal lesions due to tumour or stroke was examined. Recollection and familiarity were estimated using the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) method. A secondary analysis was also conducted using standard signal detection theory methodology. Both analyses led to similar conclusions where only the familiarity component of recognition memory was impaired in frontal patients compared to healthy controls whilst the recollection-type (or variance ratio) processes remained intact.
After hemispherectomy (removal or disconnection of an entire cerebral hemisphere) in childhood for treatment of intractable epilepsy, gross speech and language functions are often rescued. Whether more complex functions, such as syntactic processing, are selectively impaired, remains controversial. Here we present a cross-sectional study of expressive and receptive language functions in 30 patients who have undergone hemispherectomy (17 left, 13 right). The patients had developed epilepsy-induced pathology either during the pre/perinatal period (19 cases), or after a period of normal development (11 cases; onset range=20 months to 10 years). The patients were assessed at least 1 year post surgery on tests of receptive vocabulary, expressive and receptive grammar, instruction comprehension, and semantic association. Measures of verbal and nonverbal intelligence, short-term verbal memory, and working memory were also obtained. Principal component analysis revealed that two core components could be extracted from the five language measures, one reflecting receptive vocabulary abilities, and the other a composite of the other four measures. Regression analyses revealed that the best predictor of the composite language score was the short-term verbal memory score with some contribution from verbal intelligence, while the only predictor of receptive vocabulary was verbal intelligence. The results suggest that during childhood the lone left and right hemispheres have a similar potential for developing an adequate level of receptive vocabulary. However, congenital pathology affecting either hemisphere, and postnatal damage to the left hemisphere result in substantial language deficits that are reflected also in limitations in short-term verbal memory, and, to a lesser extent, in verbal intelligence.
It has been suggested that the amplitude of parietal event-related potentials (ERPs) provides a neural signature of imaginary object rotation. Here, we evaluated the relationship between the so-called rotation-related negativity and individual performance in the mental rotation of alphanumeric characters. The signals were averaged with respect to two time events, stimulus onset (ERP(ONSET)) and response time (ERP(RT)) indexing, respectively, an early and a late phase of the mental rotation. The amplitude of a slow parietal negativity varied with the rotation angle in both ERP(ONSET) and ERP(RT). The amplitude of this potential correlated negatively with task performance, indexed by response time. This was the case in ERP(RT) but not in ERP(ONSET). We further show that variations of the ERP(ONSET) amplitude with the rotation angle might at least partially result from increased duration/latency jitter among single trials. These results suggest that late rather than early processing supports task solution in mental rotation.
Substantial gains have been made on the neurobiology of attention from systems neuroscience work in animal models and human cognitive neuroscience. However, the integration of rodent-based research on the specific neurotransmitter systems that subserve attention with the results from human behavioral and neuroimaging studies has been hampered by the lack of tasks that validly assess attention in both species. To address this issue, an operant sustained attention task that has been extensively used in research on the neurobiology of attention in rats was redesigned and validated for use in humans. Although humans showed better performance overall, the two species showed similar effects of several attention-related variables, including the introduction of distractor-related challenge. This task provides a useful tool for integrative, cross-species research and may help to determine how specific neurotransmitter systems contribute to the hemodynamic changes observed in human functional neuroimaging experiments.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is often characterized by pronounced impairment in visuospatial skills, attention, and executive functions. However, the strength of the phenotypic expression of DLB varies and may be weaker in patients with extensive concomitant Alzheimer's disease (AD). To determine whether strength of the DLB clinical phenotype impacts cognitive decline, visuospatial and language tests were retrospectively used to predict 2-year rate of global cognitive decline in 22 autopsy-confirmed DLB patients (21 with concomitant AD) and 44 autopsy-confirmed &quot;pure&quot; AD patients. Generalized estimating equations (GEE) revealed a significant interaction such that poor baseline performances on tests of visuospatial skills were strongly associated with a rapid rate of cognitive decline in DLB but not AD (p &lt; .001). No effect of confrontation naming was found. DLB patients with poor visuospatial skills had fewer neurofibrillary tangles and were more likely to experience visual hallucinations than those with better visuospatial skills. These results suggest that the severity of visuospatial deficits in DLB may identify those facing a particularly malignant disease course and may designate individuals whose clinical syndrome is impacted more by Lewy body formation than AD pathology.
Olanzapine (OLZ), one of the second-generation atypical antipsychotics (SGAs), has shown relative advantages in patient adherence and outcomes. However, OLZ has also been associated with a higher incidence of weight gain than most other SGAs. Excessive weight gain may in turn contribute to long-term health concerns for some individuals. Zonisamide (ZNS), a medication approved in the United States as an adjunct in the management of epilepsy, has a diverse pharmacological profile, including sodium channel blockade, monoamine enhancement, and inhibition of carbonic anhydrase. ZNS has also been reported to cause weight loss in both humans and rodents. We hypothesized that this profile might be beneficial when co-administered with OLZ. To test this hypothesis, we evaluated the effects of OLZ on body weight, as well as the pathways known to regulate feeding behavior and arousal in the Sprague-Dawley rat. As indicated via c-Fos expression, we found an OLZ-induced activation in the nucleus accumbens and orexin neurons in the lateral hypothalamus. An OLZ-associated development of hyperphagia, weight gain and elevated blood glucose in the rat was also found. These outcomes were attenuated and reversed in the presence of concomitant ZNS. These results suggest the hypothesis that ZNS may effectively treat or prevent weight gain or metabolic changes associated with the SGAs. Future studies of this combination in patients through appropriately designed human clinical studies are encouraged.
Methylphenidate is the first-choice treatment for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), but its mechanism of action is incompletely understood. The cognitive effects of methylphenidate have been extensively studied, but little is known about its effects on spontaneous social behavior. During adolescence, rats display a characteristic, highly vigorous form of social behavior, termed social play behavior, which is of critical importance for social and cognitive development. We investigated the neurobehavioral mechanisms by which methylphenidate affects social play behavior in rats. Methylphenidate (0.3-3.0 mg/kg, s.c. or p.o.) abolished social play behavior, without altering general social interest. This effect of methylphenidate did not depend upon the baseline level of social play and was not secondary to changes in locomotion. Furthermore, the play-suppressant effect of methylphenidate was not subject to tolerance or sensitization. Methylphenidate blocked both the initiation to play and the responsivity to play initiation. The effect of methylphenidate was mimicked by the noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor atomoxetine, which is also used for the treatment of ADHD, and was blocked by an alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist. In addition, combined administration of subeffective doses of methylphenidate and atomoxetine suppressed social play. However, blockade of alpha-1 adrenoceptors, beta-adrenoceptors, or dopamine receptors did not alter the effect of methylphenidate. These data show that methylphenidate selectively blocks the most vigorous part of the behavioral repertoire of adolescent rats through a noradrenergic mechanism. We suggest that the effect of methylphenidate on social play is a reflection of its therapeutic effect in ADHD, that is, improved behavioral inhibition. However, given the importance of social play for development, these findings may also indicate an adverse side effect of methylphenidate.
Drug addicts have deficits in frontocortical function and cognition even long after the discontinuation of drug use. It is not clear, however, whether the cognitive deficits are a consequence of drug use, or are present prior to drug use, and thus are a potential predisposing factor for addiction. To determine if self-administration of cocaine is capable of producing long-lasting alterations in cognition, rats were allowed access to cocaine for either 1 h/day (short access, ShA) or 6 h/day (long access, LgA) for 3 weeks. Between 1 and 30 days after the last self-administration session, we examined performance on a cognitively demanding test of sustained attention that requires an intact medial prefrontal cortex. The expression levels of dopamine D1 and D2 receptor mRNA and D2 protein in the prefrontal cortex were also examined. Early after discontinuation of drug use, LgA (but not ShA) animals were markedly impaired on the sustained attention task. Although the LgA animals improved over time, they continued to show a persistent pattern of performance deficits indicative of a disruption of cognitive flexibility up to 30 days after the discontinuation of drug use. This was accompanied by a significant decrease in DA D2 (but not D1) mRNA in the medial and orbital prefrontal cortex, and D2 receptor protein in the medial prefrontal cortex of LgA (but not ShA) animals. These findings establish that repeated cocaine use is capable of producing persistent alterations in the prefrontal cortex and in cognitive function, and illustrate the usefulness of extended access self-administration procedures for studying the neurobiology of addiction.
Accumulating evidence suggests the endocannabinoid system modulates environmental cues' ability to induce seeking of drugs, including nicotine and alcohol. However, little attention has been directed toward extending these advances to the growing problem of cannabis use disorders. Therefore, we studied intravenous self-administration of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main psychoactive constituent of marijuana, using a second-order schedule of drug seeking. Squirrel monkeys' lever responses produced only a brief cue light until the end of the session, when the final response delivered THC along with the cue. When a reinstatement procedure was used to model relapse following a period of abstinence, THC-seeking behavior was robustly reinstated by the cue or by pre-session administration of THC, other cannabinoid agonists, or morphine, but not cocaine. The cannabinoid antagonist rimonabant blocked cue-induced drug seeking, THC-induced drug seeking, and the direct reinforcing effects of THC. Thus, rimonabant and related medications might be effective as treatments for cannabinoid dependence.
Escape from the extremely aversive opiate withdrawal symptoms powerfully motivates compulsive drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviors. The corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) system is hypothesized to mediate the motivational properties of drug dependence. CRF signaling is transmitted by two receptor pathways, termed CRF(1) and CRF(2). To investigate the role for the CRF(2) receptor pathway in somatic opiate withdrawal, in the present study we used genetically engineered mice deficient in the CRF(2) receptor (CRF(2)-/-). We employed a novel, clinically relevant mouse model of 'spontaneous' opiate withdrawal as well as a classical opioid receptor antagonist (naloxone)-precipitated opiate withdrawal paradigm. To induce opiate dependence, mice were treated with intermittent escalating morphine doses (20-100 mg/kg, i.p.). We found that 8-128 h after the last opiate injection, CRF(2)-/- mice showed decreased levels of major somatic signs of spontaneous opiate withdrawal, such as paw tremor and wet dog shake, as compared to wild-type mice. Similarly, challenge with naloxone 2 h after the last morphine injection induced lower levels of paw tremor and wet dog shake in CRF(2)-/- mice as compared to wild-type mice. Despite the differences in somatic signs, wild-type and CRF(2)-/- mice displayed similar plasma corticosterone responses to opiate dosing and withdrawal, indicating a marginal role for the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis in the CRF(2) receptor mediation of opiate withdrawal. Our results unravel a novel role for the CRF(2) receptor pathway in opiate withdrawal. The CRF(2) receptor pathway might be a critical target of therapies aimed at alleviating opiate withdrawal symptoms and reducing relapse to drug intake.
Increasing evidence suggests that the activation of medial A10 neurons mediates positive affective encoding. However, little is known about the functions of the inhibition of midbrain dopamine neurons. Here we show evidence suggesting that the inhibition of medial A10 neurons mediates a negative affective state, leading to negative affective encoding, whereas blunting the activation of medial A10 neurons disrupts positive affective encoding involving food reward. We used a microinjection procedure, in which the D(2) dopamine receptor agonist quinpirole was administered into the cell body region of the dopamine neurons, a procedure that reduces dopamine cell firing. Microinjections of quinpirole into the posteromedial ventral tegmental area, but not its more lateral counterparts, led to conditioned place aversion. Quinpirole administration to this site also decreased food intake and basal dopamine concentration in the ventromedial striatum, a major projection area of medial A10 neurons. In addition, moderate quinpirole doses that did not lead to conditioned place aversion or disrupt food intake abolished food-conditioned place preference, suggesting that blunting dopamine impulse activity in response to food reward disrupts positive affective encoding in associated external stimuli. Our data support the hypothesis that activation of medial A10 dopamine neurons mediates a positive affective state, leading to positive affective encoding, while their inhibition mediates a negative affective state, leading to negative affective encoding. Together with previous findings, we propose that medial A10 neurons are an important component of the mechanism via which animals learn to avoid negative incentive stimuli.
Amygdala opioids such as enkephalin appear to play some role in the control of anxiety and the anxiolytic effects of benzodiazepines, although the opioid receptor subtypes mediating such effects are unclear. This study compared the influences of mu-opioid receptor (MOR) activation in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CEA) on unconditioned fear or anxiety-like responses in two models, the elevated plus maze, and the defensive burying test. The role of MORs in the anxiolytic actions of the benzodiazepine agonist diazepam was also examined using both models. Either the MOR agonist [D-Ala(2), NMe-Phe(4), Gly-ol(5)]-enkephalin (DAMGO), or the MOR antagonists Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTAP) or beta-funaltrexamine (FNA) were bilaterally infused into the CEA of rats before testing. The results show that microinjection of DAMGO in the CEA decreased open-arm time in the plus maze, whereas CTAP increased open-arm behaviors. In contrast, DAMGO injections in the CEA reduced burying behaviors and increased rearing following exposure to a predator odor, suggesting a shift in the behavioral response in this context. Amygdala injections of the MOR agonist DAMGO or the MOR antagonist CTAP failed to change the anxiolytic effects of diazepam in either test. Our results demonstrate that MOR activation in the central amygdala exerts distinctive effects in two different models of unconditioned fear or anxiety-like responses, and suggest that opioids may exert context-specific regulation of amygdalar output circuits and behavioral responses during exposure to potential threats (open arms of the maze) vs discrete threats (predator odor).

Bradykinin (BK), a major inflammatory mediator, excites and sensitizes nociceptor neurons/fibers, thus evoking pain and hyperalgesia. The cellular signaling mechanisms underlying these actions have remained unsolved, especially in regard to the identity of channels that mediate acute excitation. Here, to clarify the contribution of transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), a heat-sensitive ion channel, to the BK-evoked nociceptor excitation and pain, we examined the behavioral and physiological BK-responses in TRPV1-deficient (KO) mice. A nocifencive behavior after BK injection (100 pmol/site) into mouse sole was reduced in TRPV1-KO mice compared with wild-type (WT). A higher dose of BK (1 nmol/site), however, induced the response in TRPV1-KO mice indistinguishable from that in the WT. BK-evoked excitation of cutaneous C-fibers in TRPV1-KO mice was comparable to that in WT. BK clearly increased intracellular calcium in cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons of TRPV1-KO mice, although the incidence of BK-sensitive neurons was reduced. BK has been reported to activate TRPA1 indirectly, yet a considerable part of BK-sensitive DRG neurons did not respond to a TRPA1 agonist, mustard oil. These results suggest that BK-evoked nociception/nociceptor response would not be simply explained by activation of TRPV1 and A1, and that BK-evoked nociceptor excitation would be mediated by several ionic mechanisms.
Which brain sites represent the final form of motor commands that encode temporal patterns of muscle activities? Here, we show the possible brain sites which have activity equivalent to the motor commands with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). We hypothesized that short-temporal patterns of movements or stimuli are reflected in blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) responses and we searched for regions representing the response. Participants performed two temporal patterns of tapping and/or listened to the same patterns of auditory stimuli in a 3T fMRI. The patterns were designed to have the same number (11) of events and the same duration, but different temporal distribution of events. The 11 events were divided into two parts (10 repetitive taps and one stand-alone tap) and the interval of the two parts was 3s. The two patterns had reverse order of the two parts. The results revealed that different temporal patterns of auditory stimuli were represented in different temporal features of BOLD responses in the bilateral auditory cortex, whereas different temporal patterns of tapping were reflected in contralateral primary motor cortex and the ipsilateral anterior cerebellum. In bilateral premotor cortex, supplementary motor area, visual cortex, and posterior cerebellum, task-related BOLD responses were exhibited, but their responses did not reflect the temporal patterns of the movement and/or stimuli. One possible explanation is that the neuronal activities were similar for the two patterns in these regions. The sensitivity of the BOLD response to the temporal patterns reflects local differences in functional contributions to the tasks. The present experimental design and analysis may be useful to reveal particular brain regions that participate in multiple functions.


CD-1 mice were exposed to the organophosphate pesticide chlorpyrifos (CPF) throughout postnatal days (PND) 11-14 at the subtoxic dose of 3 mg/kg. At adolescent age, females and males underwent a sociability test in which level of sociability and social preference were measured. At adulthood only females' behavior was analyzed. Maternal behavior of CPF-exposed females was assessed on postpartum day 1 after removal of the pups for 1 h, while anxiety levels were measured in a 5 min dark-light test on postpartum day 2. Nest defense response to an unfamiliar male intruder was assessed on postpartum day 7. In addition, from birth to postpartum day 7 a detailed analysis of nest building activity was carried out. Neonatal CPF exposure does not interfere with social behavior and social preferences at adolescence, whereas at adulthood it induces significant behavioral alterations in lactating females. Motivation to build and defend the nest was decreased in CPF females that were also less anxious than controls in the dark-light paradigm. These results confirm that developmental exposure to CPF induces long-lasting alterations in selected sexual-dimorphic responses of the adult social repertoire, and suggest that early exposure to CPF might interfere with hypothalamic neuroendocrine mechanisms regulating social responses.
It has been recently demonstrated that the reactive nitrogen species (RNS) peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)) is involved in the neurotoxic pattern produced by quinolinic acid in the rat brain [V. Prez-De La Cruz, C. Gonzlez-Corts, S. Galvn-Arzate, O.N. Medina-Campos, F. Prez-Severiano, S.F. Ali, J. Pedraza-Chaverr, A. Santamara, Excitotoxic brain damage involves early peroxynitrite formation in a model of Huntington's disease in rats: protective role of iron porphyrinate 5,10,15,20-tetrakis (4-sulfonatophenyl)porphyrinate iron (III), Neuroscience 135 (2005) 463-474.]. The aim of this work was to investigate whether ONOO(-) can also be responsible for morphological alterations and inflammatory events in the same paradigm. For this purpose, we evaluated the effect of a pre-treatment with the iron porphyrinate Fe(TPPS), a well-known ONOO(-) decomposition catalyst (10 mg/kg, i.p., 120 min before lesion), on the quinolinate-induced striatal cell damage and immunoreactivities to glial-fibrilar acidic protein (GFAP), interleukin 6 (IL-6) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), one and seven days after the intrastriatal infusion of quinolinate (240 nmol/microl) to rats. The striatal tissue from animals lesioned by quinolinate showed a significant degree of damage and enhanced immunoreactivities to GFAP, IL-6 and iNOS, both at 1 and 7 days post-lesion. Pre-treatment of rats with Fe(TPPS) significantly attenuated or prevented all these markers at both post-lesion times tested, except for GFAP immunoreactivity at 7 days post-lesion and iNOS immunoreactivity at 1 day post-lesion. Altogether, our results suggest that ONOO(-) is actively participating in triggering inflammatory events and morphological alterations in the toxic model produced by quinolinate, since the use of agents affecting its formation, such as Fe(TPPS), are effective experimental tools to reduce the brain lesions associated to excitotoxic and oxidative damage.
In this study, the effects of amphetamine exposure during a portion of the brain growth spurt on the total number of hippocampal pyramidal cells (CA1/CA3 subregions) and the granule cells (dentate gyrus) were examined in both neonatal and adult rats. Intragastric intubation was used to administer 5, 15 or 25 mg/kg/day of amphetamine to Sprague-Dawley rat pups from PDs 4-9. Unbiased stereology was used to estimate the total number of cells present within each hippocampal subregion at both PD 9 and PD 68. The results indicated that neonatal amphetamine exposure did not alter the cell number, the reference volume or the density in any of the hippocampal subregions assessed, regardless of age. However, amphetamine significantly altered the rate of neuronal incorporation in both the hippocampal CA3 subregion and the dentate gyrus, and this effect appeared to be dose-related with the most robust effect observed in the highest amphetamine dose. While these findings did not demonstrate significant injurious effects of neonatal amphetamine treatment on the number of hippocampal neurons, these data suggest that amphetamine may interfere with proper hippocampal development. Future studies employing more sensitive measurements or exposing amphetamine during an alternate period of development may provide more information regarding amphetamine-mediated developmental neurotoxicity.
Pharmacological inhibition or genetic deletion of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2, but not COX-1, has been shown to increase susceptibility to kainic acid (KA)-induced excitotoxicity. However, it is unclear if susceptibility to excitotoxins that act through other neurotransmitter receptors is altered by COX-2 inhibition. To further understand the involvement of COX-2 in regulating susceptibility to excitotoxicity, we investigated the effect of COX-2 deletion on excitotoxicity induced by peripheral injection of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA, a specific agonist of the NMDA receptors) or lindane (a GABA(A) receptor antagonist). COX-2(-/-) mice injected intraperitoneally with NMDA (50-100mg/kg) exhibited significantly increased median seizure intensity when compared to COX-2(+/+) mice. Further, COX-2(-/-) mice exposed to NMDA showed neuronal damage, detected by Fluoro Jade B (FJB) staining, in the CA3 region of the hippocampus. There was no FJB staining nor any significant difference in median or maximal seizure intensity in COX-2(+/+) and COX-2(-/-) mice exposed to lindane. LC-MS/MS analysis of brain prostaglandin profile in COX-2(-/-) mice demonstrated a significant increase in PGF(2alpha), TXB(2), PGE(2) and PGD(2) expression 1h after administration of an excitotoxic dose of KA, but not of NMDA. Our findings demonstrate that COX-2 regulates susceptibility to KA and NMDA excitotoxicity, which directly activate glutamatergic neurotransmission, but not to lindane, which indirectly alters glutamatergic neurotransmission. Furthermore, increased levels of prostaglandins after seizures are associated with consistent manifestation of neuronal damage.
It has been postulated that dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), a major dopamine metabolite, and nitric oxide (NO) induce mitochondrial dysfunction in a synergistic manner. We examined the combined effects of NO and DOPAC on PC-12 cells in terms of cell viability, nuclear morphology, mitochondrial parameters and cell death mechanisms. The apoptotic cell death induced by the NO-donor, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), was differently modulated by DOPAC as a function of DOPAC/cell ratios. Whereas below 200nmol/10(6) cells, DOPAC inhibited a typical apoptotic pathway induced by exposure the cells to the NO donor, above 200nmol DOPAC/10(6) cells, the cell death was not only enhanced but encompassed a distinct mechanism. Loading the cells with dopamine mimicked the effects of DOPAC. Specifically, the combination of DOPAC and NO induced an early mitochondrial membrane potential dissipation and ATP depletion followed by loss of cellular membrane integrity. Mitochondrial dysfunction was accompanied by the release of cytochrome c in both cases, NO individually and in combination with DOPAC, but caspase-3 and caspase-9 activation were only observed in the absence of DOPAC. DOPAC alone was ineffective. Thus, our results suggest a role for DOPAC as a modulator of cell fate and point to a pathway of cell death involving DOPAC and NO, via mechanisms that include mitochondrial dysfunction but do not involve the activation of the typical apoptotic caspase cascade. The significance of these results is discussed in connection with the mechanisms of cell death underlying Parkinson's disease.
The ability of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) to modulate methylmercury (MeHg)-induced neurotoxicity was investigated in primary astrocytes and neurons from the cerebellum. Gas chromatography measurements indicated increased DHA content in both cell types after 24h supplementation. After individual or combined treatment with MeHg (10microM) and DHA (30 and 90microM), the cell-associated MeHg measurements were done using (14)C-labelled MeHg. In addition, mitochondrial activity was evaluated by MTT reduction, glutathione (GSH) content was measured with the fluorescent indicator monochlorobimane (MCB) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) were detected with the fluorescent indicator-chloro methyl derivative of di-chloro di-hydro fluorescein diacetate (CMH(2)DCFDA). For all the tested treatments, i.e. DHA, MeHg or DHA+MeHg treatment, the neurons differed significantly (p&lt;0.001) from astrocytes exhibiting increased ROS production and decreased MTT activity. After MeHg and 30microM DHA treatment there were no changes in MTT or GSH content but significant decrease (p&lt;0.001) in ROS was observed in both the cell types when compared to MeHg alone. The cell-associated MeHg measurements indicated reduced MeHg-accumulation in both cell types (p&lt;0.05) upon 30microM DHA exposure. Taken together, this study, for the first time establishes that DHA pretreatment effectively reduces cell-associated MeHg and prooxidant response from MeHg in both cerebellar astrocytes and neurons and thus supports the hypothesis that fish-derived nutrients offer possible neuroprotection from MeHg.
Drug abuse is a risk factor for neurological complications in HIV infection. Cocaine has been shown to exacerbate HIV-associated brain pathology and enhance neurotoxicity of HIV-1 Tat and gp120 proteins. In this study, we found that the selective inhibitor of dopamine transporter (DAT) function, 1-[2-[bis(4-fluorophenyl) methoxy]ethyl]-4-(3-phenylpropyl) piperazine (GBR 12909, vanoxerine), but not the selective inhibitors of serotonin and norepinephrine (SERT and NET) transporters, sertraline and nizoxetine, emulated cocaine-mediated enhancement of Tat neurotoxicity in rat fetal midbrain primary cell cultures. Similar to cocaine, the significant increase of Tat toxicity in midbrain cell cultures was observed at micromolar dose (5microM) of GBR 12909. However, different doses of another selective dopamine uptake inhibitor, WIN 35428 did not affect Tat neurotoxicity. The study supports the hypothesis that changes in control of dopamine (DA) homeostasis are important for the cocaine-mediated enhancement of HIV-1 Tat neurotoxicity. Our results also demonstrate that inhibitors of DA uptake, which can bind to different domains of DAT, differ in their ability to mimic synergistic toxicity of cocaine and HIV-1 Tat in the midbrain cell culture.
Apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1(ASK 1) is one of a growing number of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase kinases identified in the c-Jun N-terminal kinase and p38 MAPK pathways. ASK 1 mediates diverse biological signals leading to cell death, differentiation, survival, and senescence, in response to cellular stress and the innate immune response. In the retina, ASK 1 is mainly expressed in retinal ganglion cells, and loss of ASK 1 leads to mild damage after ischemic injury. Consistently, ASK 1 deficient retinal ganglion cells were resistant to hydrogen peroxide. Our findings suggest that ASK 1 is involved in retinal cell death due to oxidative stress and may be a new therapeutic target for retinal degeneration.
Although modern society is full of stress, we do not yet know how socio-psychological stress is processed in the human brain. Experimental studies suggested that interaction of emotion and stress vulnerability may cause psychiatric conditions such as depression and anxiety. Elucidating this mechanism is one of the important topics in neuroscience. Animal experiments have shown that neural interaction between the amygdala and prefrontal cortex is involved in emotion and aversive conditioning. In the human subjects, functional magnetic resonance imaging is a powerful tool to investigate emotional processing in the brain. In this paper, the author presents the results of several fMRI experiments conducted in our laboratory as well as a review of the previous literature. The relationship between the amygdala activity and emotion/stress responses is investigated by means of neuroimaging and genetic analysis of neurotransmitters.
To elucidate the role of endogenous inducible nitric oxide (NO) on the regulation of NF-kappaB activity in human chondrocytes, we evaluated (i) the pattern of expression of the neuronal (nNOS) and inducible (iNOS) NO synthase isoforms and the basal NF-kappaB activity in normal and osteoarthritic (OA) human chondrocytes, (ii) the role of cytokines and growth factors in modulating the protein levels of the two NOS isoforms, and (iii) the effect of inhibiting endogenous inducible NO production on the ability of interleukin-1beta (IL-1) to induce NF-kappaB activation. nNOS was more frequently expressed in normal than in OA chondrocytes, whereas the opposite was found for iNOS. IL-1 induced the degradation of both enzymes, but iNOS disappeared more rapidly. Although IkappaB-alpha was present in all the normal samples and in the majority of the OA samples, NF-kappaB-DNA binding activity in OA chondrocytes was increased approximately twofold relatively to normal cells. Addition of a NOS inhibitor, after induction of iNOS expression, induced IkappaB-alpha degradation and potenciated the effect of IL-1, indicating that endogenous inducible NO inhibits NF-kappaB activation. Taken together, these findings favor an inhibitory role of high NO levels on the regulation of NF-kappaB activation in chondrocytes, indicating that NF-kappaB activity is regulated, at least in part, by the balanced production of NO resulting from a dynamic process that, at any given moment, determines the availability of the constitutive and inducible NOS isoforms. Moreover, the down-regulatory role of NO on NF-kappaB activation warrants caution as to the possible utilization of NO inhibitors in the therapy of OA.
Most retinal imaging has been performed using optical techniques. This paper reviews alternative retinal imaging methods based on MRI performed with spatial resolution sufficient to resolve multiple well-defined retinal layers. The development of these MRI technologies to study retinal anatomy, physiology (blood flow, blood volume, and oxygenation) and function, and their applications to the study of normal retinas, retinal degeneration and diabetic retinopathy in animal models are discussed. Although the spatiotemporal resolution of MRI is poorer than that of optical imaging techniques, it is unhampered by media opacity and can thus image all retinal and pararetinal structures, and has the potential to provide multiple unique clinically relevant data in a single setting and could thus complement existing retinal imaging techniques. In turn, the highly structured retina with well-defined layers is an excellent model for advancing emerging high-resolution anatomical, physiological and functional MRI technologies.
Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (AD/HD) is a heterogeneous developmental disorder with an etiology that is not fully understood. AD/HD has been considered to occur due to a disturbance in cathecholaminergic neurotransmission, with particular emphasis on dopamine. The neurotransmission of dopamine in subcortical regions such as the basal ganglia and limbic areas is synaptic; on the other hand, dopamine neurotransmission in the frontal cortex is quite different, because there are very few dopamine transporters (DAT) in the frontal cortex that allow dopamine to diffuse away from the dopamine synapse (&quot;volume transmission&quot;). It is now clear that noradrenergic neurons play a key regulatory role in dopaminergic function in the frontal cortex. Furthermore, serotonergic neurons exert an inhibitory effect on midbrain dopamine cell bodies, and they have an influence on dopamine release in terminal regions. There is accumulating neurobiological evidence pointing toward a role of the serotonin system in AD/HD. The etiology of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) is still unclear, but information from genetics, neuropathology, brain imaging, and basic neuroscience has provided insights into the understanding of this developmental disorder. In addition to abnormal circuitry in specific limbic and neocortical areas of the cerebral cortex, impairments in brainstem, cerebellar, thalamic, and basal ganglia connections have been reported. Numerous studies have pointed to abnormalities in serotonin and glutamate neurotransmission. Three important aspects involved in the pathophysiology of ASD have been proposed. The first is cell migration, the second is unbalanced excitatory-inhibitory networks, and the third is synapse formation and pruning, the key factors being reelin, neurexin, and neuroligin. Serotonin is considered to play an important role in all of these aspects of the pathophysiology of ASD. Finally, I would like to emphasize that it is crucial in the field of child neurology medical examination and treatment should be based on the basic neuroscience, always taking &quot;neurons&quot; into consideration.

The DNA damage induced SOS response in Escherichia coli is initiated by cleavage of the LexA repressor through activation of RecA. Here we demonstrate that overexpression of the SOS-inducible tisAB gene inhibits several SOS functions in vivo. Wild-type E. coli overexpressing tisAB showed the same UV sensitivity as a lexA mutant carrying a noncleavable version of the LexA protein unable to induce the SOS response. Immunoblotting confirmed that tisAB overexpression leads to higher levels of LexA repressor and northern experiments demonstrated delayed and reduced induction of recA mRNA. In addition, induction of prophage lambda and UV-induced filamentation was inhibited by tisAB overexpression. The tisAB gene contains antisense sequences to the SOS-inducible dinD gene (16 nt) and the uxaA gene (20 nt), the latter encoding a dehydratase essential for galacturonate catabolism. Cleavage of uxaA mRNA at the antisense sequence was dependent on tisAB RNA expression. We showed that overexpression of tisAB is less able to confer UV sensitivity to the uxaA dinD double mutant as compared to wild-type, indicating that the dinD and uxaA transcripts modulate the anti-SOS response of tisAB. These data shed new light on the complexity of SOS regulation in which the uxaA gene could link sugar metabolism to the SOS response via antisense regulation of the tisAB gene.
The aim of this study was to compare Swedish and Chinese nurses' experiences of ethical dilemmas and workplace distress in order to deepen understanding of the challenges neuroscience nurses encounter in different cultures. Qualitative interviews from two previously performed empirical studies in Sweden and China were the basis of this comparative study. Four common content areas were identified in both studies: ethical dilemmas, workplace distress, quality of nursing and managing distress. The themes formulated within each content area were compared and synthesized into novel constellations by means of aggregated concept analysis. Despite wide differences in the two health care systems, the nurse participants had similar experiences with regard to work stress and a demanding work situation. They were struggling with similar ethical dilemmas, which concerned seriously ill patients and the possibilities of providing good care. This indicates the importance of providing nurses with the tools to influence their own work situation and thereby reducing their work-related stress.
There is evidence that provision for the mental health needs of older people in acute hospitals is generally poor. This article describes a study undertaken over a nine-month period at Perth Royal Infirmary, a 317-bed district general hospital. The study sought to measure the impact of input from an RMN in an acute hospital setting and within a multidisciplinary liaison model. The article examines the implications, preparation, implementation and evaluation of RMN input, and the baseline knowledge and expectations of acute hospital staff when caring for patients with dementia and delirium.

Pterygium is a frequent ocular surface disorder of unknown origin characterized by chronic conjunctival inflammation with a clear central cornea in most patients. A 35-year-old man affected by pterygium in the right eye presented with unremarkable slit-lamp examination of the central cornea, in which in vivo confocal microscopy showed a significant alteration of the superficial epithelial cells, numerous dendritic-like cells in the basal epithelial layer, and loss of keratocytes in the stroma. In vivo confocal microscopy may be helpful in evaluating the immunological and structural changes of the cornea in patients with pterygium and in understanding its pathophysiology.
Diseases of modernism, rather than infectious diseases and chronic medical conditions, increasingly cause childhood morbidity and mortality. Thus, the goal of enhancing life outcomes for all children has become imperative. Paediatricans may begin with a renewed interest in social paediatrics - the care of the disadvantaged child in Canada, requiring a focus on all the complex factors that impact families and the community. New paediatricians need the tools to impact both social determinants of health and political policies to support health for all. Such interest is as old as the field of paediatrics (social medicine began with the great pathologist, Virchow, in the 1800s). The new neuroscience of experience-based brain and biological development has caught up with the social epidemiology literature. It is now known from both domains that a child's poor developmental and health outcomes are a product of early and ongoing socioeconomic and psychological experiences. In the era of epigenetics, it is now understood that both nature and nurture control the genome. Future paediatricians need to understand the science of experience-based brain development, and the interventions demonstrated to improve life trajectories. A challenge is to connect the traditional population health approach with traditional primary care responsibilities. New and enhanced collaborative interdisciplinary networks with, for example, public health, primary care, community resources, education and justice systems are required.

Variants in the Omi/HtrA2 gene have been nominated as a cause of Parkinson's disease. This sequencing study of Omi/HtrA2 in 95 probands with apparent autosomal dominant inheritance of Parkinson's disease did not identify any pathogenic mutations. In addition, there was no association between common variations in the Omi/HtrA2 gene and susceptibility to Parkinson's disease in any of our four patient-control series (n=2373). Taken together our results do not support a role for Omi/HtrA2 variants in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
A single nucleotide polymorphism in the promoter region of the dopamine beta-hydroxylase gene (DBH -1021C&gt;T; rs1611115) is reported to regulate plasma enzyme activity levels. This variant has also been the focus of two large association studies in Parkinson's disease yielding conflicting results. We examined this association in four Caucasian patient-control series (n=2696). A modest protective association was observed in the Norwegian series (OR=0.81, p=0.03; n=1676), however, the effect was in the opposite direction in the Polish series (OR=2.01, p=0.01; n=224). No association was observed for DBH -1021C&gt;T with disease susceptibility in the US and Irish series, or combining all four series (OR=0.91, p=0.16, n=2696). We observed a modest association between DBH -1021C&gt;T and AAO in the combined series (p=0.01). Taken together, these findings indicate that DBH -1021C&gt;T does not play a major role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
Most patients with tremor-dominant Parkinson's disease (PD) have impaired smell function but it is unclear whether this is true for subjects with essential tremor (ET). If ET patients do not exhibit meaningful smell loss, then olfactory testing may help to distinguish PD from ET. We assessed olfactory function in 59 ET and 64 tremor-dominant PD patients using the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT) and olfactory event-related potential (OERP). UPSIT scores were compared to those from 245 healthy controls, and OERPs were compared to those from 74 controls. Unlike the PD test scores, those of ET patients were indistinguishable from controls when the effects of age, age of onset, gender, and smoking were taken into account. ET patients with a family history of tremor scored significantly better than controls on the UPSIT, and their rate of decline with age was slower. The effect was not observed on OERP. Smell testing may help to distinguish between ET and tremor-predominant PD, and patients with family history of tremor may represent a subgroup whose olfactory function is enhanced by some unknown mechanism.
A case of central hypoventilation syndrome was identified in a child with brainstem and cervical cord injury following Haemophilus influenzae type b meningitis and extensive herpes simplex infection. This process resulted in a spastic tetraplegia, and the child continues to require respiratory support. Possible mechanisms of causation are discussed including an evolving, progressive inflammatory or vasculitic process in the setting of transient immunosuppression.
For several years, our laboratory has investigated the role for the HPA axis in cocaine reinforcement. Two classes of drugs that we have studied include corticosterone synthesis inhibitors (e.g., metyrapone) and benzodiazepine receptor agonists (e.g., oxazepam). In the experiments described in this manuscript, we tested the effects of various doses of metyrapone and oxazepam against several doses of self-administered cocaine. Behavioral, endocrine and pharmacokinetic measures of the effects of the combination of metyrapone and oxazepam on cocaine reward are presented. Combinations of metyrapone and oxazepam at doses that produced no observable effects when administered separately significantly reduced cocaine self-administration without affecting food-maintained responding during the same sessions. Changes in pharmacokinetics or endocrine function do not appear to mediate these effects, suggesting a central mechanism of action. Therefore, although these drugs produce their effects through distinct mechanisms, an additive effect on cocaine self-administration is obtained when these drugs are administered together, suggesting that combinations of low doses of metyrapone and oxazepam may be useful in reducing cocaine seeking with a reduced incidence of unwanted side effects and a decreased potential for abuse.
Brain cannabinoid receptors are abundantly distributed in the hippocampus, however their detailed role in learning and memory remains unclear. This study investigated the role of hippocampal cannabinoid receptors for performing two kinds of working memory tasks. In experiment 1, intrahippocampal infusion of cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 (1-2 microg/side) dose-dependently disturbed radial maze performance in rats. In experiment 2, WIN 55,212-2 (2 microg/side) disturbed the performance of delayed alternation in a T-maze by increasing the errors and successive errors, and on the other hand, a cannabinoid receptor antagonist AM 281 (1 microg/side) did not have any significant effects. Disruptive effect of WIN 55,212-2 on the number of errors in delayed alternation was blocked by the pretreatment with intraperitoneal AM 281 (2 mg/kg). Results suggest that hippocampal cannabinoid receptors are involved in the performance of working memory tasks. A possible role of endogenous cannabinoid system in the hippocampus was discussed in terms of an inhibitory adjustment of behavior based on the outcome of animals' previous response.
Parkinson's disease is a progressive age-related neurodegenerative disease with invariant loss of substantia nigra dopamine neurons and striatal projections. This disorder is well known for the associated motoric symptoms including resting tremor and the inability to initiate movement. However, it is now apparent that Parkinson's disease is a multisystem disorder with patients exhibiting symptoms derived from peripheral nervous system and extra-nigral dysfunctions in addition to the prototypical nigrostriatal damage. Although the etiology for sporadic Parkinson's disease is unknown, information gleaned from both familial forms of the disease and animal models places misfolded alpha-synuclein at the forefront. The disease is currently without a cure and most therapies target the motoric symptoms relying on increasing dopamine tone. In this review, the role of alpha-synuclein in disease pathogenesis and as a potential therapeutic target focusing on toxic conformers of this protein is considered. The addition of protofibrillar/oligomer-directed neurotherapeutics to the existing armamentarium may extend the symptom-free stage of Parkinson's disease as well as alleviate pathogenesis.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors stimulate gastrointestinal (GI) motility and are potential treatments of conditions associated with inadequate GI motility. The ability of itopride to facilitate neuronally (predominantly cholinergic) mediated contractions of rat isolated stomach, evoked by electrical field stimulation (EFS), has been compared with other cholinesterase inhibitors and with tegaserod, a clinically effective prokinetic and non-selective 5-HT(4) receptor agonist which also facilitates GI cholinergic function. Neostigmine greatly increased EFS-evoked contractions over a narrow concentration range (0.01-1 microM; 754+/-337% facilitation at 1 microM); higher concentrations (1, 3 microM) also increased muscle tension. Donepezil increased EFS-evoked contractions gradually over the full range of concentrations (0.01-10 microM; maximum increase 516+/-20% at 10 microM). Itopride increased the contractions even more gradually, rising to 188+/-84% at 10 microM. The butyrylcholinesterase inhibitor iso-OMPA 0.01-10 microM also increased EFS-evoked contractions, to a maximum of 36+/-5.0% at 10 microM, similar to that caused by tegaserod (35+/-5.2% increase at 1 microM). The effects of tegaserod, but not itopride were inhibited by the 5-HT(4) receptor antagonist SB-204070A 0.3 microM. In rat isolated colon, neostigmine was again the most efficacious, causing a defined maximum increase in EFS-evoked contractions (343+/-82% at 10 microM), without changing muscle tension. Maximum increases caused by donepezil and itopride were, respectively, 57.6+/-20 and 43+/-15% at 10 microM. These data indicate that the abilities of different AChE inhibitors to increase GI cholinergic activity differ markedly. Understanding the reasons is essential if AChE inhibitors are to be optimally developed as GI prokinetics.
The impact of ostensibly aversive social stresses on triggering, amplifying and prolonging intensely rewarding drug taking is an apparent contradiction in need of resolution. Social stress encompasses various types of significant life events ranging from maternal separation stress, brief episodes of social confrontations in adolescence and adulthood, to continuous subordination stress, each with its own behavioral and physiological profile. The neural circuit comprising the VTA-accumbens-PFC-amygdala is activated by brief episodes of social stress, which is critical for the DA-mediated behavioral sensitization and increased stimulant consumption. A second neural circuit comprising the raphe-PFC-hippocampus is activated by continuous subordination stress and other types of uncontrollable stress. In terms of the development of therapeutics, brief maternal separation stress has proven useful in characterizing compounds acting on subtypes of GABA, glutamate, serotonin and opioid receptors with anxiolytic potential. While large increases in alcohol and cocaine intake during adulthood have been seen after prolonged maternal separation experiences during the first two weeks of rodent life, these effects may be modulated by additional yet to be identified factors. Brief episodes of defeat stress can engender behavioral sensitization that is relevant to escalated and prolonged self-administration of stimulants and possibly opioids, whereas continuous subordination stress leads to anhedonia-like effects. Understanding the intracellular cascade of events for the transition from episodic to continuous social stress in infancy and adulthood may provide insight into the modulation of basic reward processes that are critical for addictive and affective disorders.
Neurons are subject to various kinds of noise. In addition to synaptic noise, the stochastic opening and closing of ion channels represents an intrinsic source of noise that affects the signal-processing properties of the neuron. We study the response of a stochastic Hodgkin-Huxley neuron to transient input subthreshold pulses. It is found that the average response time decreases but variance increases as the amplitude of channel noise increases. In the case of single-pulse detection, we show that channel noise enables one neuron to detect the subthreshold signals and an optimal membrane area (or channel noise intensity) exists for a single neuron to achieve optimal performance. However, the detection ability of a single neuron is limited by large errors. Here, we test a simple neuronal network that can enhance the pulse-detecting abilities of neurons and find that dozens of neurons can perfectly detect subthreshold pulses. The phenomenon of intrinsic stochastic resonance is also found at both the level of single neurons and the level of networks. At the network level, the detection ability of networks can be optimized for the number of neurons comprising the network.
The neuropharmacological activities of the methanolic and aqueous extract of Wedelia calendulacea stem were screened in rats and mice. The extracts effect on pentobarbital-induced sleeping time, pentylenetetrazole- and styrychnine-induced seizure, spontaneous motor activity, exploratory behaviour, and rota-rod performance (motor coordination) were evaluated. The methanolic extract (20 and 50 mg/kg, i.p.) and aqueous extract (200 and 500 mg/kg, i.p.) produced a significant (p&lt;0.001) prolongation of pentobarbital-induced sleeping time, and reduced the SMA and exploratory behaviour. The extract prolonged onset of the phases of seizure activity but did not protect mice against lethality induced by pentylenetetrazole and strychnine. It also failed to affect the motor coordination test. These results suggest that the extract contained an agent with neuropharmacological activity that may be sedative in nature. In addition, from the crude methanolic extract of Wedelia calendulacea stem a HPLC fingerprint profile and liquid chromatography/sequential mass spectrometry (LC/MS) were performed.


The wide range of time scales involved in neural excitability and synaptic transmission might lead to ongoing change in the temporal structure of responses to recurring stimulus presentations on a trial-to-trial basis. This is probably the most severe biophysical constraint on putative time-based primitives of stimulus representation in neuronal networks. Here we show that in spontaneously developing large-scale random networks of cortical neurons in vitro the order in which neurons are recruited following each stimulus is a naturally emerging representation primitive that is invariant to significant temporal changes in spike times. With a relatively small number of randomly sampled neurons, the information about stimulus position is fully retrievable from the recruitment order. The effective connectivity that makes order-based representation invariant to time warping is characterized by the existence of stations through which activity is required to pass in order to propagate further into the network. This study uncovers a simple invariant in a noisy biological network in vitro; its applicability under in vivo constraints remains to be seen.
P21 activated kinase (PAK), PAK interacting exchange factor (PIX), and G protein coupled receptor kinase interactor (GIT) compose a highly conserved signaling module controlling cell migrations, immune system signaling, and the formation of the mammalian nervous system. Traditionally, this signaling module is thought to facilitate the function of RAC and CDC-42 GTPases by allowing for the recruitment of a GTPase effector (PAK), a GTPase activator (PIX), and a scaffolding protein (GIT) as a regulated signaling unit to specific subcellular locations. Instead, we report here that this signaling module functions independently of RAC/CDC-42 GTPases in vivo to control the cell shape and migration of the distal tip cells (DTCs) during morphogenesis of the Caenorhabditis elegans gonad. In addition, this RAC/CDC-42-independent PAK pathway functions in parallel to a classical GTPase/PAK pathway to control the guidance aspect of DTC migration. Among the C. elegans PAKs, only PAK-1 functions in the GIT/PIX/PAK pathway independently of RAC/CDC42 GTPases, while both PAK-1 and MAX-2 are redundantly utilized in the GTPase/PAK pathway. Both RAC/CDC42-dependent and -independent PAK pathways function with the integrin receptors, suggesting that signaling through integrins can control the morphology, movement, and guidance of DTC through discrete pathways. Collectively, our results define a new signaling capacity for the GIT/PIX/PAK module that is likely to be conserved in vertebrates and demonstrate that PAK family members, which are redundantly utilized as GTPase effectors, can act non-redundantly in pathways independent of these GTPases.
PRODH, encoding proline oxidase (POX), has been associated with schizophrenia through linkage, association, and the 22q11 deletion syndrome (Velo-Cardio-Facial syndrome). Here, we show in a family-based sample that functional polymorphisms in PRODH are associated with schizophrenia, with protective and risk alleles having opposite effects on POX activity. Using a multimodal imaging genetics approach, we demonstrate that haplotypes constructed from these risk and protective functional polymorphisms have dissociable correlations with structure, function, and connectivity of striatum and prefrontal cortex, impacting critical circuitry implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Specifically, the schizophrenia risk haplotype was associated with decreased striatal volume and increased striatal-frontal functional connectivity, while the protective haplotype was associated with decreased striatal-frontal functional connectivity. Our findings suggest a role for functional genetic variation in POX on neostriatal-frontal circuits mediating risk and protection for schizophrenia.
Unlike other monoamine neurotransmitters, the mechanism by which the brain's histamine content is regulated remains unclear. In mammals, vesicular monoamine transporters (VMATs) are expressed exclusively in neurons and mediate the storage of histamine and other monoamines. We have studied the visual system of Drosophila melanogaster in which histamine is the primary neurotransmitter released from photoreceptor cells. We report here that a novel mRNA splice variant of Drosophila VMAT (DVMAT-B) is expressed not in neurons but rather in a small subset of glia in the lamina of the fly's optic lobe. Histamine contents are reduced by mutation of dVMAT, but can be partially restored by specifically expressing DVMAT-B in glia. Our results suggest a novel role for a monoamine transporter in glia that may be relevant to histamine homeostasis in other systems.
Electrical recordings from the surface of the skull have a wide range of rhythmic components. A major task of analysis of this EEG is to determine their source and functional significance. The hippocampal &quot;theta rhythm&quot; has been extensively studied in rats and its rhythmicity has recently been shown to be functionally significant, per se. Here, we use relevant aspects of the hippocampal literature to provide perspective on one of the most studied human EEG rhythms: frontal-midline theta. We review its electrographic features, localization, prevalence, age distribution, behavioural modulation (particularly in relation to working memory, spatial navigation, episodic memory, internalised attention and meditation), relationship to personality, drug interactions, neurochemical relationships, and coherence with rhythmic activity at other sites. We conclude that FM-theta, like hippocampal theta, appears to play a role in (or at least occur during) processing of memory and emotion. It is correlated with working memory and/or sustained attention; but this does not entail a role in function since clear behavioural correlates of hippocampal theta have been demonstrated that are not sensitive to hippocampal damage. FM-theta is increased by anxiolytic drug action and personality-related reductions in anxiety, whereas hippocampal theta is decreased by anxiolytic drugs. In animals, frontal theta and hippocampal theta can be phase-locked or independent, depending on behavioural state. So, the cognitive functions of FM-theta, and their relationship to hippocampal theta, are unclear and definitive evidence for functional involvement in cognitive or emotional processing is lacking. One possible solution to this problem is analysis of FM-theta in animals-provided homology can be determined. The issues of sporadicity and low incidence of FM-theta also need to be addressed in the future. Changes in functional connectivity, indicated by changes in coherence, are also a largely untapped resource. We suggest that the most hopeful path to assessing the functions of FM-theta will be through the use of drugs, and the variation of their effects depending on baseline levels of FM-theta. Finally, we review some theories of theta function. Despite the apparent richness of the current data, we conclude that it is difficult (and may ultimately be impossible) to formulate a theory that attributes a specific cognitive function to FM-theta. However, the theories share some general computational assumptions and these should be a useful guide to future work and, ultimately, a definite theory of the function or functions of FM-theta.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is widely recognized as a potent survival factor for dopaminergic neurons of the nigrostriatal pathway that degenerate in Parkinson's disease (PD). In animal models of PD, GDNF delivery to the striatum or the substantia nigra protects dopaminergic neurons against subsequent toxin-induced injury and rescues previously damaged neurons, promoting recovery of the motor function. Thus, GDNF was proposed as a potential therapy to PD aimed at slowing down, halting or reversing neurodegeneration, an issue addressed in previous reviews. However, the use of GDNF as a therapeutic agent for PD is hampered by the difficulty in delivering it to the brain. Another potential strategy is to stimulate the endogenous expression of GDNF, but in order to do that we need to understand how GDNF expression is regulated. The aim of this review is to do a comprehensive analysis of the state of the art on the control of endogenous GDNF expression in the nervous system, focusing mainly on the nigrostriatal pathway. We address the control of GDNF expression during development, in the adult brain and after injury, and how damaged neurons signal glial cells to up-regulate GDNF. Pharmacological agents or natural molecules that increase GDNF expression and show neuroprotective activity in animal models of PD are reviewed. We also provide an integrated overview of the signalling pathways linking receptors for these molecules to the induction of GDNF gene, which might also become targets for neuroprotective therapies in PD.

Under heightened emotional states, individuals are more inclined to engage in ill-considered or rash actions than at other times. The authors present evidence for the existence of 2 related traits called positive and negative urgency. The traits refer to individual differences in the disposition to engage in rash action when experiencing extreme positive and negative affect, respectively. The authors provide evidence that these traits are distinct from other dispositions toward rash action and that they play distinct roles in predicting problem levels of involvement in behaviors such as alcohol consumption, binge eating, drug use, and risky sexual behavior. The authors identify facilitative conditions for the emergence of the urgency traits from neuroscience. Certain gene polymorphisms are associated with low levels of serotonin and high levels of dopamine; that pattern of neurotransmitter activity in a brain system linking the orbitofrontal cortex and the amygdala appears to facilitate the development of positive and negative urgency. The authors discuss the implications of this theory.
Which cognitive processes are accessible to conscious report? To study the limits of conscious reportability, we designed a novel method of quantified introspection, in which subjects were asked, after each trial of a standard cognitive task, to estimate the time spent completing the task. We then applied classical mental-chronometry techniques, such as the additive-factors method, to analyze these introspective estimates of response time. We demonstrate that introspective response time can be a sensitive measure, tightly correlated with objective response time in a single-task context. In a psychological-refractory-period task, however, the objective processing delay resulting from interference by a second concurrent task is totally absent from introspective estimates. These results suggest that introspective estimates of time spent on a task tightly correlate with the period of availability of central processing resources.
A fundamental assumption underlying research in translational neuroscience is that animal models represent many of the same neurocognitive mechanisms and decision processes used by humans. Clear demonstrations of such correspondences will be crucial to the discovery of the neurobiological underpinnings of higher-level cognition. One domain likely to support fruitful comparisons is interval timing, because humans and other animals appear to share basic similarities in their ability to discriminate the durations of events in the seconds-to-minutes range. Here, we report that in a duration-bisection procedure using a series of anchor durations ranging from 2 through 5 s, pigeon, mouse, and human subjects classified a given signal duration as subjectively shorter than an adjacent, physically shorter signal duration when the two durations lay on opposite sides of a putative category boundary. These bisection reversals provide strong evidence for continuity of temporal cognition across a wide range of vertebrate species.
Dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function is associated with suicidal behaviour and age-associated alterations in HPA axis functioning may render elderly individuals more susceptible to HPA dysregulation related to mood disorders. Research on HPA axis function in suicide prediction in elderly mood disorder patients is sparse. The study sample consisted of 99 depressed elderly inpatients 65 years of age or older admitted to the department of Psychiatry at the Karolinska University Hospital between 1980 and 2000. The hypothesis was that elderly mood disorder inpatients who fail to suppress cortisol in the dexamethasone suppression test (DST) are at higher risk of suicide. The DST non-suppression distinguished between suicides and survivors in elderly depressed inpatients and the suicide attempt at the index episode was a strong predictor for suicide. Additionally, the DST non-suppression showed higher specificity and predictive value in the suicide attempter group. Due to age-associated alterations in HPA axis functioning, the optimal cut-off for DST non-suppression in suicide prediction may be higher in elderly mood disorder inpatients. These data demonstrate the importance of attempted suicide and DST non-suppression as predictors of suicide risk in late-life depression and suggest the use for neuroendocrine testing of HPA axis functioning as a complementary tool in suicide prevention.



Using a water maze, it has been shown that both wild-type and apoE4-expressing female mice are at greater risk of developing age-related hippocampal-dependent impairments in spatial learning and memory than age-matched male mice of the same genotype. In addition, apoE4-expressing female mice were more sensitive to 137Cs gamma-radiation-induced impairment in spatial learning and memory than age-matched male mice of the same genotype. These findings imply that androgen receptors (ARs) contribute to spatial learning and memory, posing the question as to whether transgenic expression of AR in female mice might modulate hippocampal-dependent learning and memory under baseline conditions and after local brain irradiation. Hippocampal-dependent novel location recognition was comparable in wild-type and AR-Tg female mice. This function was impaired after irradiation in AR-Tg but not wild-type mice. In contrast, sham-irradiated wild-type and AR-Tg female mice showed hippocampal-independent novel location recognition, and this was not affected by radiation. After the second day of hidden platform training, in a water maze probe trial, sham-irradiated and irradiated AR-Tg female mice showed spatial memory retention but irradiated wild-type mice did not. After the third day of hidden platform training, only irradiated wild-type female mice did not show spatial memory retention in the water maze probe trial. Both sham-irradiated and irradiated wild-type and AR-Tg female mice showed passive avoidance learning and memory. These data support an important role for AR in spatial memory retention in water maze probe trials in female mice under baseline conditions and after cranial irradiation.
The gap between basic neuroscience and clinical psychiatry in the treatment of anxiety disorders has been steadily diminishing over recent years. Among the leading advances in this field of translation research is the application of knowledge on the neurobiology of fear memory to the treatment of anxiety disorders in humans. Animal studies have identified N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors as crucial in fear memory acquisition and consolidation, as well as in its extinction and reconsolidation. Based on this, the NMDA receptor partial agonist D-cycloserine, which facilitates fear extinction in rodents, has been shown to increase the effect of exposure therapy in psychiatric patients for conditions such as phobias, social anxiety and obsessive-compulsive disorder. In this article, we review current strategies for targeting the NMDA receptor in the treatment of fear-related disorders, analyzing experimental results, clinical data, and recent patents in the field, while also addressing potential new approaches to explore this field of drug discovery.



The blood-nerve barrier (BNB) is one of the functional barriers sheltering the nervous system from systemic blood. Although BNB is effective in controlling the endoneurial environment in normal condition, it may interfere the entrance of beneficial substances including various growth factors into the endoneurial space and inhibit the axonal regeneration in peripheral neuropathy. Since endothelial cells and pericytes of endoneurial microvascular origin are structural basis of BNB, investigation of the characteristics of these two cells using cell culture technique may provide novel strategies to modify BNB functions to promote peripheral nerve regeneration; however, no adequate cell lines possessing in vivo BNB characteristics were present so far. Recently we successfully established cell lines of endothelial cells and pericytes of endoneurial microvessel origin using transgenic rats harboring the temperature-sensitive simian virus 40 large T antigen. We also obtained immortal endothelial and pericyte cell lines originating from human BNB. Analyses of physiological characteristics and protein profiles in these BNB-forming cells are underway in our laboratory.
Mitochondrial diseases have a peculiar character of variability that expands from DNA, cell and tissue/organ levels to family/society level. These kinds of variability seem an obstacle to prevent us from developing new and effective therapies for this disease. Selective delivery system to mitochondria can make us get a promising new strategy to treat and prevent the disease. MITO-Porter may be a powerful system in which we can introduce a various kind of materials including DNA, RNA, enzyme and drugs to mitochondria in vivo.
To explore pathogenesis of synucleinopathy including Parkinson's disease and multiple system atrophy, we developed cellular model for synucleinopathy. In this experimental model, alpha-synuclein was overexpressed in SH-SY5Y cells, which were then exposed to mitochondrial toxins. The data thus obtained suggested the followings. (1) By the treatment with rotenone, wild type alpha-synuclein overexpressing cells demonstrated intracellular aggregations, which shared a number of features with Lewy bodies. (2) The aggregate formation of alpha-synuclein may be cytoprotective. (3) The catechol-derived quinones are candidate molecules to facilitate the oligomer formation of a-synuclein. (4) The cells overexpressing S129A mutant showed few aggregations. It is suggested that phosphorylation at serine 129 is essential for aggregate formation. (5) In wild-type alpha-synuclein cells treated with rotenone, unfolded protein response (UPR) markers were induced prior to the induction of mitochondrial disruption and caspase-3 activation. (6) On the other hand, the S129A mutant failed to activate these UPRs. Thus it seems plausible that alpha-synuclein toxicity is dependent on the phosphorylation at S129.

Higher cognitive function in human brain is one of well-developed fields of neuroscience research in the 21st century. Especially functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and near infrared recording system have brought so many non-clinical researchers whose background is such as cognitive psychology, economics, politics, pedagogy, and so on, to the human brain mapping study. Authors have introduced the ethical issues related to incidental findings during the fMRI recording for non-clinical purpose, which is a typical problem derived from such expanded human brain research under non clinical condition, that is, neuroethics. In the present article we would introduce neuroethical issues in contexts of &quot;out of clinic&quot; and &quot;beyond academia&quot;.
Diffusion tensor imaging of magnetic resonance imaging, including diffusion tensor tractography, is a unique tool to visualize and segment the white matter pathways in vivo and one can evaluate the segmented trace quantitatively. Three dimensional visualization of the white matter fibers, such as corticospinal (pyramidal) tracts, with relationship to brain lesions (infarcts, vascular malformations and brain tumors) is extremely helpful for stereotactic radiosurgery, preoperative evaluation and intraoperative navigation. Quantitative measurement of the tract is a very sensitive method to detect differences in the tract in neurodegenerative/neurocognitive/psychiatric patients such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, schizophrenia and Alzheimer diseases. Importance of this tool will become more significant in clinical and neuroscience fields in the future.
Genetic and biological studies provide evidence that the production and deposition of amyloid-beta peptides (Abeta) contribute to the etiology of Alzheimer's disease. Thus, beta- and gamma-secretases, that are involved in the Abeta generation, are plausible molecular targets for Alzheimer's disease treatment. gamma-Secretase is an unusual aspartic protease that cleaves the scissile bond within the transmembrane domain. This unusual enzyme is composed of a high molecular weight membrane protein complex containing presenilin, nicastrin, Aph-1 and Pen-2. Drugs that regulate the production of Abeta by inhibiting or modulating gamma-secretase activity could provide a disease-modifying effect on AD, although recent studies suggest that gamma-secretase plays important roles in cellular signaling including Notch pathway. Thus, understanding the molecular mechanism whereby gamma-secretase recognizes and cleaves its substrate is a critical issue for the development of compounds that specifically regulate Abeta-generating gamma-secretase activity. I will review our structural studies on the gamma-secretase complex, and envision the direction for developing effective and selective gamma-secretase inhibitors as therapeutics for AD.
Brain is highly organized organ important for learning and memory, emotion and behavior in social life. We are confronted to suffering from various brain disorders. I here present some of the research strategy for the analysis of brain disorder by molecular technique to find ways to cure the disorders. It is surprising to know that the important molecules involved in development and differentiation of the brain are all involved in the neurodegenerative disorder or neuropsychiatric disorders. I here stress the importance of the collaborative approach with other fields to analyze the brain structure and function at various levels at molecule-cell-tissue-organ-body-society.

The Japanese Society of Neurology (JSN), founded in 1960, gained the momentum after the 12th World Congress of Neurology (WCN) held in Kyoto (1981) and currently enjoys an indisputable reputation as a major contributor to neuroscience. Despite this achievement, we often find it difficult to debate with an English-speaking opponent. Our traditional teaching emphasizes silence rather than eloquence as the virtue with the dictum not to dwell upon your knowledge base (learn 10, speak 1). This practice would make it difficult for us to compete against those trained to elaborate even on limited information (learn 1, speak 10). To counter our timidity, we must develop self-confidence, learn to express our views fully and abandon the impractical spirit of perfection in favor of candor. From my vantage point working with the World Federation of Neurology (WFN), science talks &quot;broken&quot; English at an international conference such as WCN. Thus, it suffices that we speak clearly, if not fluently, to effectively participate in global affairs. Last but not least, we must seek the sovereignty of neurology world wide as advocated by WFN. I hope members of the JSN will have a continued success in their pursuit of international recognition, which they so justifiably deserve.

Now that schizophrenia researchers may be moving from unilateral molecular genetic approaches to models including so-called gene-environment interactions, the question rises which environments may be considered for such research and how a user perspective may inform the field. It is argued that trauma and stigma, or perhaps better structural discrimination, represent 2 important environmental factors that deserve more attention. Experiential evidence, collected by users, suggests that trauma in childhood and/or adulthood, before, during, and after the onset of schizophrenia, as well as stigma/structural discrimination, may play important roles in the onset and course of the disorder. A certain reluctance on the part of the professional schizophrenia research community to take these variables as serious as, eg, interesting but inconclusive etiological signals from prenatal hypoxia, prenatal folate deficiency, and prenatal toxoplasmosis is suggested. This article outlines the concepts of trauma and stigma and their negative consequences for the onset and course of schizophrenia. The importance of research into these factors and their possible relevance for gene-environment interactions is discussed. While gene-environment interaction research using these variables is indicated and may possibly prove productive, it is argued that such efforts may not be useful if no subsequent attempt is made to translate the results to the level of interventions, codeveloped by users, eg, in the area of coping with the vicious circle of environmental adversity that users can become exposed to.
Concern is building about high rates of schizophrenia in large cities, and among immigrants, cannabis users, and traumatized individuals, some of which likely reflects the causal influence of environmental exposures. This, in combination with very slow progress in the area of molecular genetics, has generated interest in more complicated models of schizophrenia etiology that explicitly posit gene-environment interactions (EU-GEI. European Network of Schizophrenia Networks for the Study of Gene Environment Interactions. Schizophrenia aetiology: do gene-environment interactions hold the key? [published online ahead of print April 25, 2008] Schizophr Res; S0920-9964(08) 00170-9). Although findings of epidemiological gene-environment interaction (G x E) studies are suggestive of widespread gene-environment interactions in the etiology of schizophrenia, numerous challenges remain. For example, attempts to identify gene-environment interactions cannot be equated with molecular genetic studies with a few putative environmental variables &quot;thrown in&quot;: G x E is a multidisciplinary exercise involving epidemiology, psychology, psychiatry, neuroscience, neuroimaging, pharmacology, biostatistics, and genetics. Epidemiological G x E studies using indirect measures of genetic risk in genetically sensitive designs have the advantage that they are able to model the net, albeit nonspecific, genetic load. In studies using direct molecular measures of genetic variation, a hypothesis-driven approach postulating synergistic effects between genes and environment impacting on a final common pathway, such as &quot;sensitization&quot; of mesolimbic dopamine neurotransmission, while simplistic, may provide initial focus and protection against the numerous false-positive and false-negative results that these investigations engender. Experimental ecogenetic approaches with randomized assignment may help to overcome some of the limitations of observational studies and allow for the additional elucidation of underlying mechanisms using a combination of functional enviromics and functional genomics.

The management of severe brain injury requires a comprehensive approach in which imaging is an indispensable complement to the clinical and physiological information acquired at the bedside. Neuroimaging methods are routinely used in the diagnosis and prognosis of a broad spectrum of patients with acute neurological dysfunction. With incremental theoretical and technological refinements, imaging modalities are helping to unravel fundamental questions regarding the pathophysiology and neuroplasticity associated with critical neurological injury, and it is anticipated that this knowledge will lead to new and effective therapeutic interventions. We review some of the established and emerging structural and physiological imaging methods, and discuss their applications in patients with critical injuries including trauma and encephalopathy due to anoxia, liver failure, and sepsis.
The optimum provision of pharmacological sedation of the critically ill neurological patient requires defining the underlying etiology of agitation or need for sedation to determine the optimal agent: pain management, anxiolysis, or treatment of delirium. An appropriate regimen can then be decided upon based on the profiles of action of the several common classes of sedative agents. Methods to both evaluate the efficacy of sedation as well as titration to a predefined clinical goal are important tools toward safe administration of drugs that often have serious adverse effects. Recognition of an individualized approach is also necessary as patients will vary considerably with respect to the kinetics and pharmacodynamics of sedative therapy. The drug classes often selected for sedation in an intensive care unit will be reviewed as well as the metrics by which physicians can achieve their objectives in a safe manner.


The mechanisms underlying the regulation of neural stem cell (NSC) renewal and maintenance of their multipotency are still not completely understood. Self-renewal of stem cells in general implies repression of genes that encode for cell lineage differentiation. Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (Ezh2) is a Polycomb group protein involved in stem cell renewal and maintenance by inducing gene silencing via histone methylation and deacetylation. To establish the role of Ezh2 in the maintenance and differentiation of NSCs, we have examined the expression of Ezh2 in NSCs isolated from embryonic (embryonic day 14) mice during proliferation and differentiation in vitro. Our results show that Ezh2 is highly expressed in proliferating NSCs. In accordance with its suggested role as a transcription repressor, the expression of Ezh2 decreased when the NSCs differentiated into neurons and was completely suppressed during differentiation into astrocytes. Surprisingly, Ezh2 remained highly expressed in NSCs that differentiated into an oligodendrocytic cell lineage, starting from oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) up to the immature (premyelinating) oligodendrocyte stage. To further establish the role of Ezh2 in NSC differentiation, we silenced and induced overexpression of the Ezh2 gene in NSCs. High levels of Ezh2 in differentiating NSCs appeared to be associated with an increase in oligodendrocytes and a reduction in astrocytes, whereas low levels of Ezh2 led to completely opposite effects. The increase in the number of oligodendrocytes induced by enhanced expression of Ezh2 could be ascribed to stimulation of OPC proliferation although stimulation of oligodendrocyte differentiation cannot be excluded. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.
The stress associated with transportation of non-human primates used in scientific research is an important but almost unexplored part of laboratory animal husbandry. The procedures and routines concerning transport are not only important for the animals' physical health but also for their mental health as well. The transport stress in cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) was studied in two experiments. In Experiment 1, 25 adult female cynomolgus monkeys were divided into five groups of five animals each that received different diets during the transport phase of the experiment. All animals were transported in conventional single animal transport cages with no visual or tactile contact with conspecifics. The animals were transported by lorry for 24 h at ambient temperatures ranging between 20 degrees C and 35 degrees C. Urine produced before, during and after transport was collected and analysed for cortisol by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). All monkeys exhibited a significant increase in cortisol excretion per time unit during the transport and on the first day following transport.Although anecdotal reports concerning diet during transport, including the provision of fruits and/or a tranquiliser, was thought likely to influence stress responses, these were not corrobated by the present study. In Experiment 2, behavioural data were collected from 18 cynomolgus macaques before and after transfer from group cages to either single or pair housing, and also before and after a simulated transport, in which the animals were housed in transport cages. The single housed monkeys were confined to single transport cages and the pair housed monkeys were kept in their pairs in double size cages. Both pair housed and singly housed monkeys showed clear behavioural signs of stress soon after their transfer out of their group cages.However, stress-associated behaviours were more prevalent in singly housed animals than in pair housed animals, and these behaviours persisted for a longer time after the simulated transport housing event than in the pair housed monkeys. Our data confirm that the transport of cynomolgus monkeys is stressful and suggest that it would be beneficial for the cynomolgus monkeys to be housed and transported in compatible pairs from the time they leave their group cages at the source country breeding facility until they arrive at their final laboratory destination in the country of use.





Topical prostaglandin analogs, which have become first-line therapy in the medical management of glaucoma, have an excellent safety profile with regard to systemic side effects, but are associated with several ocular side effects. Some of these are common, with no apparent serious consequences other than cosmetic, whereas others are much less common but represent potentially sight-threatening side effects. The former group includes conjunctival hyperemia, elongation and darkening of eyelashes, induced iris darkening, and periocular skin pigmentation. The latter group of side effects, which are relatively rare and lack definitive causal relationship to prostaglandin analog therapy, includes iris cysts, cystoid macular edema, anterior uveitis, and reactivation of herpes simplex keratitis. Most of the literature regarding side effects associated with prostaglandin analogs involves the use of latanoprost, probably because it was the first to be studied. There is no evidence, however, aside from less conjunctival hyperemia with latanoprost, that the commercially available prostaglandin analogs differ significantly with regard to side effects.
Dopamine-induced neuronal cytotoxicity has been proposed as a leading pathological mechanism underlying many neuronal degenerative disorders including Parkinson disease. Various hypotheses have been proposed including oxidative stress and dopamine (DA)-induced intracellular signal disorder via DA D1 and D2 receptors. The exact mechanism involved in this process is far from clear. In this study, employing a neuronal blastoma cell line, SH-SY5Y, we tried to elucidate the roles of these different suggested mechanisms in this pathological process. The results showed that DA induced cell toxicity in a dose- and time-dependent way. Selective D1 and D2 DA receptor antagonist could not block the cytotoxic effects, whereas reductive reagent ascorbic acid but not GSH could effectively rescue the cell death, suggesting that DA-induced cell toxicity was caused by an extracellular oxidative stress. This was further supported by the enhancing effects of DA transporter blocker, GBR, which could increase the cell death when pretreated. Finally, ascorbic acid could also protect SY5Y cells from DA-induced cellular apoptotic signal changes including PARP and P53. Our studies suggested that DA exerted its cytotoxic effects via an extracellular metabolism, whereas intracellular transportation could reduce its oxidative stress. Cytotoxicity effects induced by extracellular DA could be protected by reductive agents as ascorbic acid. These results help to broaden our understanding of the mechanisms of DA-induced cell death and may provide potentially therapeutical alternative for the neurodegenerative disorders.
Convergent lines of evidence suggest potentiation of glutamatergic synapses after chronic ethanol exposure, and indicate that the presynaptic effect hereof is on modulators of synaptic strength rather than on executors of glutamate release. To address this hypothesis in the context of ethanol dependence in humans, we used semiquantitative immunoblotting to compare the immunoreactivities of synaptophysin I, syntaxin 1A, synaptosome-associated protein 25, and vesicle-associated membrane protein in the prefrontal and motor cortices between chronic alcoholics and control subjects. We found a region-specific elevation in synaptophysin I immunoreactivity in the prefrontal cortex of alcoholics, but detected no significant differences between the groups in the immunoreactivities of the other three proteins. Our findings are consistent with an effect of repeated ethanol exposure on modulators of synaptic strength but not on executors of glutamate release, and suggest a role for synaptophysin I in the enduring neuroplasticity in the prefrontal cortical glutamate circuitry that is associated with ethanol dependence.
Ion channels have been assigned a pivotal importance in various sperm functions and are therefore promising targets for contraceptive development. The lack of data on channel functionality and pharmacology has hampered this goal. This is a consequence of technical problems of applying electrophysiological techniques to spermatozoa due to their small size and form. By using a laminin coating to increase adherence of spermatozoa and nystatin in the patch pipette for pore formation, we have adapted the whole-cell recording technique to study currents in mature uncapacitated bovine spermatozoa. Employing these conditions, in the head region, patched spermatozoa could be transferred into the whole-cell configuration. For the first time we document an outward rectifying current in mature bovine spermatozoa was blocked by tetraethyl ammonium (TEA) chloride. The observation of a shift in the reversal potential as a response to changes in the extracellular concentration of K(+) ions allowed us to identify this current as K(+) selective. This result shows that K(+) channels in the head region of mature uncapacitated bovine spermatozoa can be suitably investigated using the whole-cell recording patch-clamp technique.
Treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS) is still unsatisfactory and essentially non-existing for the progressive course of the disease. Recombinant human erythropoietin (EPO) may be a promising neuroprotective/neuroregenerative treatment of MS. In the nervous system, EPO acts anti-apoptotic, antioxidative, anti-inflammatory, neurotrophic and plasticity-modulating. Beneficial effects have been shown in animal models of various neurological and psychiatric diseases, including different models of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. EPO is also effective in human brain disease, as shown in double-blind placebo-controlled clinical studies on ischemic stroke and chronic schizophrenia. An exploratory study on chronic progressive MS yielded lasting improvement in motor and cognitive performance upon high-dose long-term EPO treatment.
The past decade has seen remarkable advances in our understanding of mechanisms that drive functional neuroplastic change after brain injury and the mirror neuron system that appears essential for language learning and communicative interaction. This article describes five neuroscience-based interventions available for clinical practice, with a discussion of the potential value of mirror neurons in stroke rehabilitation. Case-study data on three adults with aphasia who received various combinations of neuroscience-derived technological interventions are provided to inform the clinician of the potential advantages of technology as an adjunct to, not a substitution for, conventional therapeutic intervention.
The angiotensin II type 1 (AT(1)) receptor plays a key role in cardiovascular pathophysiology, and it is a major pharmacologic target in the treatment of many cardiovascular disorders. However, AT(1) receptor activation is also involved in adaptive responses to altered hemodynamic demands and to sudden injury occurring in the circulatory system. Hence, current drugs that block all AT(1) receptor actions most likely leave room for improvement. Recent developments show that two major signaling pathways used by the AT(1) receptor may be dissected by pharmacologic means. Key pathologic responses such as aldosterone secretion, vasoconstriction, and detrimental cardiac hypertrophy are known to result from G protein-dependent or -independent signal transduction, whereas mechanisms have been connected with more adaptive cardiac cell survival, migration, and regeneration phenotypes. Selective blockade of G protein actions and simultaneous activation of G protein-dependent or -independent signaling could therefore be desirable in certain situations. The previously unappreciated concept of &quot;functional selectivity&quot; makes this exact strategy feasible and may yield improved drugs for cardiovascular therapy.
Most of our knowledge about the neurobiological bases of language comes from studies of spoken languages. By studying signed languages, we can determine whether what we have learnt so far is characteristic of language per se or whether it is specific to languages that are spoken and heard. Overwhelmingly, lesion and neuroimaging studies indicate that the neural systems supporting signed and spoken language are very similar: both involve a predominantly left-lateralised perisylvian network. Recent studies have also highlighted processing differences between languages in these different modalities. These studies provide rich insights into language and communication processes in deaf and hearing people.
Adolescence is a period of life in which the sense of 'self' changes profoundly. Here, we review recent behavioural and neuroimaging studies on adolescent development of the self-concept. These studies have shown that adolescence is an important developmental period for the self and its supporting neural structures. Recent neuroimaging research has demonstrated that activity in brain regions associated with self-processing, including the medial prefrontal cortex, changes between early adolescence and adulthood. These studies indicate that neurocognitive development might contribute to behavioural phenomena characteristic of adolescence, such as heightened self-consciousness and susceptibility to peer influence. We attempt to integrate this recent neurocognitive research on adolescence with findings from developmental and social psychology.
Response inhibition is a hallmark of executive control. The concept refers to the suppression of actions that are no longer required or that are inappropriate, which supports flexible and goal-directed behavior in ever-changing environments. The stop-signal paradigm is most suitable for the study of response inhibition in a laboratory setting. The paradigm has become increasingly popular in cognitive psychology, cognitive neuroscience and psychopathology. We review recent findings in the stop-signal literature with the specific aim of demonstrating how each of these different fields contributes to a better understanding of the processes involved in inhibiting a response and monitoring stopping performance, and more generally, discovering how behavior is controlled.
Neuroscientists have become increasingly aware of the complexities and subtleties of sensory processing. This applies particularly to the complex elaborations of nerve signals that occur in the sensory circuits, sometimes at the very initial stages of sensory pathways. Sensory processing is now known to be very different from a simple neural copy of the physical signal present in the external world, and this accounts for the intricacy of neural organization that puzzled great investigators of neuroanatomy such as Santiago Ramn Y Cajal a century ago. It will surprise present-day sensory neuroscientists, applying their many modern methods, that the conceptual basis of the contemporary approach to sensory function had been recognized four centuries ago by Galileo Galilei.
Noise contributed by the probabilistic spiking times of neurons has an important and advantageous role in brain function. We go beyond the deterministic noiseless description of the dynamics of cortical networks and show how the properties of the system are influenced by the spiking noise. We review here recent results that show the direct link between brain activity and psychophysically quantified behaviors during a somatosensory detection task. We focus on the following remarkable observation in this somatosensory task: when a near-threshold stimulus is presented, a sensory percept may or may not be produced. These perceptual judgments are believed to be determined by the fluctuation in activity of early sensory cortices. We show, however, that the behavioral outcomes associated with near-threshold stimuli depend on the neuronal fluctuations of more central areas to early somatosensory cortices. Furthermore, we show that the behavioral correlate of perceptual detection is given by a noise-driven transition in a multistable neurodynamical system. Thus, neuronal fluctuations can be an advantage for brain processing because they lead to probabilistic behavior in decision making in this and other sensory tasks.
How does the brain encode life experiences? Recent results derived from vital imaging, computational modeling, cellular physiology and systems neuroscience have pointed to local changes in synaptic connectivity as a powerful substrate, here termed micro-rewiring. To examine this hypothesis, I first review findings on micro-structural dynamics with focus on the extension and retraction of dendritic spines. Although these observations demonstrate a biological mechanism, they do not inform us of the specific changes in circuit configuration that might occur during learning. Here, computational models have made testable predictions for both the neuronal and circuit levels. Integrative approaches in the mammalian neocortex and the barn owl auditory localization pathway provide some of the first direct evidence in support of these 'synaptic-clustering' mechanisms. The implications of these data and the challenges for future research are discussed.
Agonists of the transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 (TRPV1), such as capsaicin, cause pain and a drop in body temperature (hypothermia). Conversely, antagonists of TRPV1 block pain behaviors in rodent models of inflammation, osteoarthritis and cancer. Efforts that evaluate TRPV1 antagonists in on-target challenge models have uncovered that TRPV1 blockade elicits an increase in body temperature (hyperthermia) from rodents to primates, revealing the intimate relationship between the role of TRPV1 in pain and body-temperature maintenance. This evolutionarily conserved function of TRPV1 in body-temperature maintenance became a hurdle for clinical development of one antagonist, AMG 517. However, several other TRPV1 antagonists are currently being evaluated in the clinic and soon-to-be-published results should shed light on the potential of managing antagonist-induced hyperthermia while developing them as therapeutics.
Regulator of G-protein signaling (RGS) proteins are strong modulators of G-protein-mediated pathways in the nervous system. One function of RGS proteins is to accelerate the activation-deactivation kinetics of G-protein-coupled inwardly rectifying potassium (GIRK) channels. The opening of GIRK channels reduces the firing rates of neurons. Recent studies indicate that RGS proteins also modulate the coupling efficiency between gamma-aminobutyric acid type B (GABA(B)) receptors and GIRK channels in dopamine neurons of the ventral tegmental area (VTA), the initial target for addictive drugs in the brain reward pathway. Chronic drug exposure can dynamically regulate the expression levels of RGS. Functional and behavioral studies now reveal that levels of RGS2 protein, through selective association with GIRK3, critically determine whether GABA(B) agonists are excitatory or inhibitory in the VTA. The regulation of RGS protein in the reward pathway might underlie adaptation to different types of addictive drugs.
Vulnerability to abused drugs is influenced by multiple genes unique to each drug and to risk genes for polydrug abuse. If several inbred mouse strains respond to different drugs similarly, this implies the action of a common group of genes. Simultaneous analysis of multiple responses to multiple drugs has been attempted infrequently. We performed multivariate analyses of published strain responses to four drugs. Genetic similarity in responses did not simply track pharmacological class. Withdrawal severity and preference for ethanol and diazepam were affected by many genes in common, although inversely. We focused on behavioral responses, but there is a growing archival database of physiological, pharmacological and biochemical strain traits. The genomics community is increasingly focusing on single-nucleotide polymorphism and haplotype-based gene mapping approaches, for which inbred strain data are also useful. Thus, similar analyses should be applicable to other laboratories, traits and genotypes.
The orientation disparity field from two orthographic views of an inclined planar surface patch (covered by straight lines) is analyzed, and a new tool to extract the patch orientation is provided: the function coupling the average orientation of each pair of corresponding surface contours with their orientation disparity. This function allows identifying the tilt of the surface, and two indeterminacy functions describing the set of surface inclinations (around the vertical and horizontal axes) over convergence angle values compatible with the orientation disparity field. Results of simulations show that the selection of inclination values matching the difference between the areas below the indeterminacy functions are consistent with some surface orientation effects found in psychophysical and computational experiments, like: the unbiased tilt vs. biased slant estimates, the slant underestimation, the surface orientation anisotropy, and the slant/tilt covariation.
Perceptual misbinding of color during binocular rivalry reveals separate neural representations of color and form followed by a neural binding process. The misbinding shows that the neural representation of color from a suppressed form can be expressed within a non-retinotopic location within the dominant form. Misbinding during rivalry is known to be affected by luminance edges within the stimulus: increasing luminance-contrast at edges decreases perceptual misbinding (Hong, S.W. &amp; Shevell, S.K. (2006). Resolution of binocular rivalry: Perceptual misbinding of color. Visual Neuroscience, 23, 561-566.). Previous work, however, did not address the question of whether misbinding depends on equiluminance (i) in the eye of the suppressed form, which contributes the misbound color to the dominant form from the opposite eye, or (ii) in the eye of the dominant form, which incorporates the misbound color. This study answered this question. Misbinding of the chromatic response from a suppressed form that contains high luminance-contrast shows that location information provided by luminance-contrast edges does not inhibit misbinding of color to a non-retinotopic location within an equiluminant form presented to the opposite eye. If filling-in of color is constrained within regions defined by luminance edges, these edges must be perceived; retinal encoding of luminance edges by itself is not sufficient to constrain the perceived location of color.
A contrast gauge consists of a narrow bar shaded from dark on bottom to light on top [Shapiro, A. G., Charles, J. P., &amp; Shear-Heyman, M. (2005). Visual illusions based on single-field contrast asynchronies. Journal of Vision, 5(10), 764-782]. The perceptual division between dark and light on the bar depends on the luminance level of the surround: when the surround has a high luminance level, the perceptual divider moves up the bar; when the surround has a low luminance level, the perceptual divider moves down the bar. This paper examines the extent to which the perceptual division between light and dark can be used as an indicator to mark the zero contrast level between the bar and the surround. In the experiments, the bar was surrounded by a field whose luminance modulated in time. Three observers marked the maximum and minimum levels of the perceptual divider as a function of modulation amplitude, chromaticity (R, G, B, W), temporal frequency, and width of the surround. Linear changes in the modulation amplitude of the surround produced linear changes in the observers' settings of the indicator. Observer settings matched zero luminance contrast when the surround was wide (12.5deg), was modulating at less than or equal to 1Hz, and had W or G chromaticity, but not when the surround was narrow, or was modulating faster than 1Hz, or had R or B chromaticity. The effects of surround size suggest that the perceived minimum contrast results from processes that operate over multiple spatial scales. To test this hypothesis, the paper presents a new configuration in which near and far contrast information create different perceptual signatures. Under normal viewing conditions, the motion of the indicator follows the contrast information from the nearest edge, but when high spatial frequency information is removed (through image blur), the motion follows the contrast from the far spatial edge. It is therefore likely that the setting for the indicator for the contrast gauge depends on multiple processes and is not a simple indicator of luminance contrast. The perceptual response to low spatial frequency contrast appears to be given less perceptual weight when high spatial frequencies are present in the image.
Motoneuronotrophic factor (MNTF) is an endogenous neurotrophin that is highly specific for the human nervous system, and some of the observed effects of MNTF include motoneuron differentiation, maintenance, survival, and reinnervation of target muscles and organs. MNTF is a neuro-signaling molecule that binds to specific receptors. Using In Silico Analysis, one of the active sites of MNTF was identified as an analog of six amino acids (GM6). The effect of chemically synthesized GM6 on ischemic stroke was studied in the middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) mouse model. Mice were subjected to 1 hur of ischemia followed by 24 h of reperfusion. Mice were injected intravenously with a bolus of GM6, at various doses (1 and 5 mg/kg) immediately after the start of reperfusion and examined for changes in physiological parameters, neurological deficits and infarct volume. GM6 was able to penetrate the blood brain barrier, and at both 1 and 5 mg/kg showed a significant protection from infarct damage, which translated to improvement of neurological deficits. Administration of GM6 demonstrated no changes in HR, BP, pO(2), pCO(2), or pH. A significant increase over the control group in CBF after reperfusion was observed with GM6 administration, which helped to mitigate the ischemic effect caused by the blockage of blood flow. The time window of treatment was assessed at various times following cerebral ischemia with GM6 demonstrating a significant protective effect up to 6-12 h post ischemia. In addition, GM6 increased neurogenesis, and decreased apoptosis and inflammation in the mouse brain following cerebral ischemic injury. These data suggest that GM6 is neuroprotective to the brain following IV injection in the mouse model of MCAo.
Although glucocorticoid feedback sensitivity of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is frequently impaired in depression, atypical depression may exhibit increased feedback sensitivity. Because monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOI) are often more effective than tricyclic antidepressants (TCA) for atypical depression, we hypothesized that to normalize HPA function in atypical depression, MAOI would differ from TCA in decreasing rather than increasing feedback sensitivity. Consistent with this hypothesis and prior evidence for opposing effects on HPA feedback in mice, we report contrasting effects of chronic MAOI (phenelzine) and TCA (imipramine) treatment on neural corticosteroid receptor gene expression in adrenalectomized male C57BL/6 mice with fixed glucocorticoid levels. Our findings corroborate prior reports of antidepressant-induced increases in hippocampal mineralocorticoid (MR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression. However, hippocampal effects were neither sustained nor representative of effects in other brain regions. Imipramine typically increased and phenelzine decreased GR expression in other feedback-related brain regions such as the paraventricular hypothalamus and prefrontal cortex. Imipramine effects were limited to feedback-related regions, whereas phenelzine had additional effects to decrease accumbens GR and central amygdala MR expression. Our results suggest an expansion of the corticosteroid receptor hypothesis of depression to include drug- and brain region-specific actions of antidepressants to decrease as well as increase corticosteroid receptor expression and feedback sensitivity. Our findings further suggest how antidepressants could improve glucocorticoid regulation of HPA activity without also facilitating the adverse effects of glucocorticoids on mood.
Carbamylated erythropoietin (CEPO) is a novel neuroprotective agent that does not bind to the classical erythropoietin receptor or affect hematocrit. Since CEPO has not been systematically studied in a fully blinded and randomized manner in an embolic stroke model, we determined if CEPO would be useful to attenuate clinical deficits associated with multiple infarct ischemia using the rabbit small clot embolic stroke model (RSCEM). Rabbits were embolized and treated with vehicle or CEPO within 6 h of embolization and behavioral analysis was conducted 48 h after embolization. Using quantal analysis, we determined the quantity of blood clot (mg) in brain that produce neurologic dysfunction in 50% of the rabbits (P(50)), with intervention considered beneficial if it increased the P(50) compared to controls. CEPO administered between 5 min and 3 h after embolization significantly (p&lt;0.05) improved behavioral function and increased the P(50) value by 55-216%. However, CEPO administration did not improve behavior when administered 6 h following embolization. In conclusion, in the RSCEM, CEPO had a therapeutic window of at least 3 h, where it effectively improved clinical rating scores and motor function. Our results suggest that CEPO may be useful to treat acute ischemic stroke and supports the study of CEPO in stroke patients.
Data from quantitative three-dimensional analysis of primate striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) and pallidal type I and type II neurons were used to search for possible rules underlying the dendritic architecture of these cells. Branching and terminating probabilities per unit length of dendrite were computed from all available measurement points. In the three neuronal groups, terminating probabilities were found to be exponentially increasing functions of the path distance to soma. MSNs and type II branching probabilities could be accurately modelled with decreasing functions of both the metrical (exponential functions) and topological (power functions of the centrifugal branch order) distances to soma. Additionally, type II branching also slightly depended on the distance to the proximal tip of the supporting branches. Type I branching probabilities did not follow these rules accurately. Embedding the modelled probability functions in a stochastic algorithm allowed generation of dendrograms close to those of the real MSNs and pallidal type II neurons, while the algorithm failed to simulate type I dendrites. MSN and pallidal type II neuron branching and terminating probabilities are thus highly dependent on the position in the dendritic arbor. This relationship can be modelled with simple functions and has a strong incidence on the dendrogram structure of the cells concerned. The additional dependence of the branching probability on the within-branch position led us to propose an extension of a previous modelling study by Nowakowski and co-workers which could account for a large range of topological and metrical (length) dendritic tree structures.
Although its effect on cognitive functions has been one of the hot topics in the present neuroscience research, the mechanism of epilepsy related cognitive impairment is not clearly revealed. Intracellular Ca(2+) plays an important role in regulating many cellular functions including learning and memory, this experiment was therefore conducted, in which, we observed the behaviors of chronic epileptic rats kindled by pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) through Morris water maze (MWM), examined the concentration of intracellular free calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) with flow cytometry, and tested the expression of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIalpha (CaMKII(alpha)) and cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB) in hippocampus of those rats using western blot and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The results demonstrate impaired ability of spatial learning and memory, increased concentration of [Ca(2+)](i), decreased expression levels of total CaMKII(alpha), phosphorylated CaMKII(alpha) (P-CaMKII(alpha)) and phosphorylated CREB (P-CREB) and decreased levels of CaMKII(alpha) mRNA and CREB mRNA of the epileptic rats compared with the normal control rats. Moreover, Nimodipine, an inhibitor of voltage-dependent L-type Ca(2+) channels (VDCCs), reduced the Racine's stage, improved the ability of spatial learning and memory, reversed the effect of Ca(2+) influx and expression levels of CaMKII(alpha) and CREB of the epileptic rats. We concluded that Ca(2+) influx, CaMKII(alpha) and CREB expression levels in hippocampus of chronic epileptic rats may be related with their impaired spatial learning and memory.
Autism is a complex genetic disorder, but single-gene disorders with a high prevalence of autism offer insight into its pathogenesis. Recent evidence suggests that some molecular defects in autism may interfere with the mechanisms of synaptic protein synthesis. We propose that aberrant synaptic protein synthesis may represent one possible pathway leading to autistic phenotypes, including cognitive impairment and savant abilities.
The principal 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-Hydroxy-2-(dipropylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) impairs several different types of learning. Besides 5-HT(1A) receptors, 8-OH-DPAT stimulates 5-HT(7) receptors, but it is not known whether 5-HT(7) receptors contribute to the impairments. The 5-HT(7) receptor antagonist (2R)-1-[(3-Hydroxyphenyl)sulfonyl]-2-[2-(4-methyl-1-piperidinyl)ethyl] pyrrolidine (SB-269970) was combined with 8-OH-DPAT to dissociate 5-HT(1A) from 5-HT(7) receptor-mediated effects, in the passive avoidance task for emotional learning. SB-269970 intensified impairments caused by 8-OH-DPAT. SB-269970 alone had no effect on memory performance, but moderately decreased retention under suboptimal learning conditions. These findings indicate that 5-HT(7) receptor stimulation by 8-OH-DPAT counteracts 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated impairments in hippocampal-dependent contextual learning.
Balaglitazone is a novel thiazolidinedione in clinical development for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Common side effects associated with PPARgamma receptor agonists are weight gain, oedema and adipogenesis. Balaglitazone is a selective partial PPARgamma agonist and it has been speculated that such compounds have a more favourable safety margin than full agonists. We have compared impact of equi-efficacious antihyperglycaemic doses of balaglitazone with full PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone on body fluid accumulation, cardiac enlargement, and adipogenesis. Equi-efficacious antihyperglycaemic doses (ED(90)) of balaglitazone (3 mg/kg/day) and rosiglitazone (6 mg/kg/day) were determined in male diabetic db/db mice. In adult male rats treated for up to 42 days, feeding, drinking, anthropometry, and plasma volumes were measured. Total plasma volume was measured with dye dilution technique. Compared to vehicle, rosiglitazone consistently increased food intake throughout the 42 day treatment period. In contrast, balaglitazone increased food intake in the last week of the experiment. However, both rosiglitazone and balaglitazone increased water intake. After 42 days, rosiglitazone treated rats displayed significantly elevated adiposity. Rosiglitazone increased total blood and plasma volumes throughout the treatment. Twenty-one days of balaglitazone treatment had no significant impact on blood or plasma volumes, whilst 42 days of balaglitazone increased plasma volume but to a significantly lesser extent than seen for rosiglitazone (vehicle: 46.1+/-1.5; balaglitazone: 50.8+/-1.21; rosiglitazone: 54.6+/-1.6 ml/kg). Heart weight was significantly elevated only in rosiglitazone treated animals. At doses inducing comparable antihyperglycaemic control, the full PPARgamma agonist, rosiglitazone, induces more pronounced body fluid retention and heart enlargement than seen for the partial PPARgamma agonist, balaglitazone. Thus, partial agonists may pose safer alternative to current anti-diabetic therapy with full PPARgamma agonist.
1-isoquinolin-5-yl-3-(4-trifluoromethyl-benzyl)-urea (A-425619), a novel, potent, and selective transient receptor potential type V1 (TRPV1) antagonist, attenuates pain associated with inflammation and tissue injury in rats. The purpose of this study was to extend the in vitro characterization of A-425619 to native TRPV1 receptors and to compare the pharmacological properties of TRPV1 receptors in the dorsal root ganglion with trigeminal ganglion neurons. A robust increase in intracellular Ca(2+) was elicited by a variety of TRPV1 agonists with similar rank order of potency between both cultures: resiniferatoxin&gt;tinyatoxin&gt;capsaicin&gt;N-arachidonoyl-dopamine (NADA). A-425619 blocked the 500 nM capsaicin response in both dorsal root ganglion with trigeminal ganglion cultures with IC(50) values of 78 nM and 115 nM, respectively, whereas capsazepine was significantly less potent (dorsal root ganglia: IC(50)=2.63 microM; trigeminal ganglia: IC(50)=6.31 microM). Furthermore, A-425619 was more potent in blocking the 3 microM NADA-evoked response in both dorsal root ganglia (IC(50)=36 nM) and trigeminal ganglia (IC(50)=37 nM) than capsazepine (dorsal root ganglia, IC(50)=741 nM; trigeminal ganglia, IC(50)=708 nM). Electrophysiology studies showed that 100 nM A-425619 completely inhibited TRPV1-mediated acid activated currents in dorsal root ganglia and trigeminal ganglia neurons. In addition, A-425619 blocked capsaicin- and NADA-evoked calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) release in both cultures more effectively than capsazepine. These data show that A-425619 is a potent TRPV1 antagonist at the native TRPV1 receptors, and suggest that the pharmacological profile for TRPV1 receptors on dorsal root ganglia and trigeminal ganglia is very similar.
The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) chloride channel is a membrane-integral protein that belongs to an ATP-binding cassette superfamily. Mutations in the CFTR gene cause cystic fibrosis in which salt, water, and protein transports are defective in various tissues. Here we expressed wild-type human CFTR as a FLAG-fused protein in HEK293 cells heterologously and purified it in three steps: anti-FLAG and wheat germ agglutinin affinity chromatographies and size exclusion chromatography. The stoichiometry of the protein was analyzed using various biochemical approaches, including chemical cross-linking, blue-native PAGE, size exclusion chromatography, and electron microscopy (EM) observation of antibody-decorated CFTR. All these data support a dimeric assembly of CFTR. Using 5,039 automatically selected particles from negatively stained EM images, the three-dimensional structure of CFTR was reconstructed at 2-nm resolution assuming a 2-fold symmetry. CFTR, presumably in a closed state, was shown to be an ellipsoidal particle with dimensions of 120 x 106 x 162 A. It comprises a small dome-shaped extracellular and membrane-spanning domain and a large cytoplasmic domain with orifices beneath the putative transmembrane domain. EM observation of CFTR.anti-regulatory domain antibody complex confirmed that two regulatory domains are located around the bottom end of the larger oval cytoplasmic domain.
The amyloid beta-protein (Abeta), which accumulates abnormally in Alzheimer disease (AD), is degraded by a diverse set of proteolytic enzymes. Abeta-cleaving proteases, largely ignored until only recently, are now known to play a pivotal role in the regulation of cerebral Abeta levels and amyloid plaque formation in animal models, and accumulating evidence suggests that defective Abeta proteolysis may be operative in many AD cases. This review summarizes the growing body of evidence supporting the involvement of specific Abeta-cleaving proteases in the etiology and potential treatment of AD. Recognition of the importance of Abeta degradation to the overall economy of Abeta has revised our thinking about the mechanistic basis of AD pathogenesis and identified a novel class of enzymes that may serve as both therapeutic targets and therapeutic agents.
Members of the Cys-loop superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels, which mediate fast synaptic transmission in the nervous system, are assembled as heteropentamers from a large repertoire of neuronal subunits. Although several motifs in subunit N-terminal domains are known to be important for subunit assembly, increasing evidence points toward a role for C-terminal domains. Using a combination of flow cytometry, patch clamp recording, endoglycosidase H digestion, brefeldin A treatment, and analytic centrifugation, we identified a highly conserved aspartate residue at the boundary of the M3-M4 loop and the M4 domain that was required for binary and ternary gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor surface expression. Mutation of this residue caused mutant and partnering subunits to be retained in the endoplasmic reticulum, reflecting impaired forward trafficking. Interestingly although mutant and partnering wild type subunits could be coimmunoprecipitated, analytic centrifugation studies demonstrated decreased formation of pentameric receptors, suggesting that this residue played an important role in later steps of subunit oligomerization. We thus conclude that C-terminal motifs are also important determinants of Cys-loop receptor assembly.
Amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP), a type I membrane protein, is cleaved by primary alpha-or beta-secretase and secondary gamma-secretase. Cleavage of APP by beta- and gamma-secretases generates amyloid beta-protein, the main constituent of the cerebrovascular amyloid that accompanies Alzheimer disease. The generation and aggregation of amyloid beta-protein in the brain are believed to be a primary cause of Alzheimer disease pathogenesis, and indeed, early onset Alzheimer disease is genetically linked to APP and also to presenilins 1 and 2, which are components of gamma-secretase. Proteolytic cleavage of APP has been investigated as a candidate target for Alzheimer disease therapy, but the mechanisms regulating APP metabolism are still unclear. APP is a type I membrane protein with a short cytoplasmic region consisting of 47 amino acids. Recent research has elucidated the significance of the cytoplasmic region in the metabolism, trafficking, and physiological function of APP. The structure and function of the APP cytoplasmic domain can be modified by phosphorylation and through interaction with cytoplasmic proteins. This minireview summarizes a large body of recent information on the regulation of APP by phosphorylation and protein interaction, along with some of the physiological functions of APP. Recent findings regarding the regulation of APP processing contribute to the development of novel drugs and/or therapies for Alzheimer disease.
Amblyopia is a disorder of visual acuity in one eye, thought to arise from suppression by the other eye during development of the visual cortex. In the attentional blink, the second of two targets (T2) in a Rapid Serial Visual Presentation (RSVP) stream is difficult to detect and identify when it appears shortly but not immediately after the first target (T1). We investigated the attentional blink seen through amblyopic eyes and found that it was less finely tuned in time than when the 12 amblyopic observers viewed the stimuli with their preferred eyes. T2 performance was slightly better through amblyopic eyes two frames after T1 but worse one frame after T1. Previously (A. V. Popple &amp; D. M. Levi, 2007), we showed that when the targets were red letters in a stream of gray letters (or vice versa), normal observers frequently confused T2 with the letters before and after it (neighbor errors). Observers viewing through their amblyopic eyes made significantly fewer neighbor errors and more T2 responses consisting of letters that were never presented. In normal observers, T1 (on the rare occasions when it was reported incorrectly) was often confused with the letter immediately after it. Viewing through their amblyopic eyes, observers with amblyopia made more responses to the letter immediately before T1. These results suggest that childhood suppression of the input from amblyopic eyes disrupts attentive processing. We hypothesize reduced connectivity between monocularly tuned lower visual areas, subcortical structures that drive foveal attention, and more frontal regions of the brain responsible for letter recognition and working memory. Perhaps when viewing through their amblyopic eyes, the observers were still processing the letter identity of a prior distractor when the color flash associated with the target was detected. After T1, unfocused temporal attention may have bound together erroneously the features of succeeding letters, resulting in the appearance of letters that were not actually presented. These findings highlight the role of early (monocular) visual processes in modulating the attentional blink, as well as the role of attention in amblyopic visual deficits.
The consequences of inflammation of a short region of the guinea-pig ileum on the properties of neurons in the celiac ganglia were investigated. Inflammation (ileitis) was induced in 5-8 cm of intestine by the intralumenal injection of trinitrobenzene sulfonate, 6-7 days before tissue was taken. Celiac ganglion neurons were investigated using intracellular microelectrodes and the cells were filled with dye from the recording electrode, to determine their morphologies. Tonic and phasic neurons were identified. In ganglia from normal guinea-pigs and from guinea-pigs with ileitis, cell bodies of tonic neurons were larger and their dendrites were longer and more numerous than those of phasic neurons. Tonic neurons were selectively affected by intestinal inflammation. The number of action potentials elicited by the same intensity of depolarizing current for neurons after ileal inflammation was twice that of neurons from control animals, the threshold current to evoke action potentials was about half, and some of the neurons were spontaneously active. Neurons from untreated or sham-operated animals were never spontaneously active. Many more neurons were affected than project to the 5-8 cm of intestine that was inflamed. We conclude that inflammation of a segment of the ileum causes a selective, humorally mediated, increase in excitability of tonic neurons in the celiac ganglion that control motility and secretion, but not of phasic neurons that project to the intestinal vasculature and other targets.
A marked heterogeneity exists among stressors in their ability to reinstate alcohol seeking in rats. We have reported that the pharmacological stressor yohimbine, an alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist, potently reinstated alcohol seeking, but FG-7142, a benzodiazepine inverse agonist was ineffective. In rats, we determined that yohimbine elicits patterns of brain expression of the mRNAs for c-fos, a marker of neuronal activation, and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) a stress-related peptide, distinct from that produced by FG-7142. The purpose of the present experiment is to determine if these differential effects of yohimbine and FG-7142 on regional c-fos and CRF mRNA expression generalize to another animal commonly used in alcohol research, the C57 BL/6J mouse. In comparing the results of the present study to those of our previous one, we found a number of commonalities in the patterns of activation elicited by yohimbine and FG-7142 between the two species, and some notable differences. As we found in the rat, yohimbine selectively increased c-fos mRNA in the mouse NACs, BLA and CeA. Yohimbine increased CRF mRNA only in the mouse PVN, but was without effect on CRF mRNA in extrahypothalamic sites, the BNST and CeA. This differs from what we saw in the rat, where yohimbine increased CRF mRNA in these extrahypothalamic regions, but not the PVN. The selective induction of c-fos in the NACs, BLA and CeA of mice and rats by yohimbine offers further support for the idea that activation of these structures participates in reinstatement induced by such stressors.
Fast Inhibitory controls mediated by glycine (GlyRs) and GABAA receptors (GABAARs) play an important role to prevent the apparition of pathological pain symptoms of allodynia and hyperalgesia. The use of positive allosteric modulators of these receptors, specifically expressed in the spinal cord, may represent an interesting strategy to limit or block pain expression. In this study, we have used stereoisomers of progesterone metabolites, acting only via non-genomic effects, in order to evaluate the contribution of GlyRs and GABAARs for the reduction of mechanical and thermal heat hypernociception. We show that 3alpha neurosteroids were particularly efficient to elevate nociceptive thresholds in naive animal. It also reduced mechanical allodynia and thermal heat hyperalgesia in the carrageenan model of inflammatory pain. This effect is likely to be mediated by GABAA receptors since 3beta isomer was inefficient. More interestingly, 3alpha5beta neurosteroid was only efficient on mechanical allodynia while having no effect on thermal heat hyperalgesia. We characterized these paradoxical effects of 3alpha5beta neurosteroid using the strychnine and bicuculline models of allodynia. We clearly show that 3alpha5beta neurosteroid exerts an antinociceptive effect via a positive allosteric modulation of GABAARs but, at the same time, is pronociceptive by reducing GlyR function. This illustrates the importance of the inhibitory amino acid receptor channels and their allosteric modulators in spinal pain processing. Moreover, our results indicate that neurosteroids, which are synthesized in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord and have limited side effects, may be of significant interest in order to treat pathological pain symptoms.


Optical uncaging of caged compounds is a well-established method to study the functional anatomy of a brain region on the circuit level. We present an alternative approach to existing experimental setups. Using a low-magnification objective we acquire images for planning the spatial patterns of stimulation. Then high-magnification objectives are used during laser stimulation providing a laser spot between 2 microm and 20 microm size. The core of this system is a video-based control software that monitors and controls the connected devices, allows for planning of the experiment, coordinates the stimulation process and manages automatic data storage. This combines a high-resolution analysis of neuronal circuits with flexible and efficient online planning and execution of a grid of spatial stimulation patterns on a larger scale. The software offers special optical features that enable the system to achieve a maximum degree of spatial reliability. The hardware is mainly built upon standard laboratory devices and thus ideally suited to cost-effectively complement existing electrophysiological setups with a minimal amount of additional equipment. Finally, we demonstrate the performance of the system by mapping the excitatory and inhibitory connections of entorhinal cortex layer II stellate neurons and present an approach for the analysis of photo-induced synaptic responses in high spontaneous activity.
The Mauthner (M-) cells are pair of large reticulospinal neurons that mediate tail-flip escape responses in fish. Exploring the co-localization of scaffold and gap junction proteins at mixed (electrical and chemical) synapses, we found that the use of a particular antibody against the scaffold protein Zonula Occludens-2 (ZO-2) resulted in labeling of these cells. We show here that this staining is restricted to the Mauthner cell and evenly distributed along its dendrites and axon, also prominent in small dendritic and axonal processes. Because the observed labeling is non-specific, we suggest that the antibody might recognize a soluble protein that is primarily expressed in the Mauthner cells. While the identity of this protein is presently unknown, the use of this antibody should facilitate the identification of the Mauthner cell and its fine processes during anatomical and immunohistochemical studies, which otherwise require intracellular injection of tracer molecules during electrophysiological recordings.
The Biopsychology-Toolbox is a free, open-source Matlab-toolbox for the control of behavioral experiments. The major aim of the project was to provide a set of basic tools that allow programming novices to control basic hardware used for behavioral experimentation without limiting the power and flexibility of the underlying programming language. The modular design of the toolbox allows portation of parts as well as entire paradigms between different types of hardware. In addition to the toolbox, this project offers a platform for the exchange of functions, hardware solutions and complete behavioral paradigms.
Synaptic loss represents one of the earliest signs of neuronal damage and is observed within both Alzheimer's disease patients and transgenic mouse models of the disease. We have developed a novel in vitro assay using high content screening technology to measure changes in a number of cell physiological parameters simultaneously within a neuronal population. Using Hoechst-33342 to label nuclei, betaIII-tubulin as a neuron-specific marker, and synapsin-I as an indicator of pre-synaptic sites, we have designed software to interrogate triple-labelled images, counting only those synaptic puncta associated with tubulin-positive structures. Here we demonstrate that addition of amyloid beta peptide (Abeta(1-42)), to either primary hippocampal or cortical neurons for 4 days in vitro has deleterious effects upon synapse formation, neurite outgrowth and arborisation in a concentration-dependent manner. Control reverse peptide showed no effect over the same concentration range. The effects of Abeta(1-42) were inhibited by D-KLVFFA, which contains residues 16-20 of Abeta that function as a self-recognition element during Abeta assembly and bind to the homologous region of Abeta and block its oligomerisation. These effects of Abeta(1-42) on synapse number and neurite outgrowth are similar to those described within AD patient pathology and transgenic mouse models.
Optical stimulation is a promising approach to investigate the local dynamic responses of cultured neurons. In particular, flash photolysis of caged compounds offers the advantage of allowing the rapid change of concentration of either extracellular or intracellular molecules, such as neurotransmitters or second messengers, for the stimulation or modulation of neuronal activity. We describe here the use of an ultra-violet (UV) laser diode coupled to an optical fibre for the local activation of caged compounds combined with a Micro-Electrode Array (MEA) device. Local uncaging was achieved by UV irradiation through the optical fibre previously positioned by using a red laser diode. The size of the stimulation was determined using caged fluorescein, whereas its efficacy was tested by studying the effect of uncaging the neurotransmitter glutamate. Uncaged glutamate evoked neuronal responses that were recorded using either fluorescence measurements or electrophysiological recordings with MEAs, thus showing the ability of our system to induce local neuronal excitation. This method allows overcoming the limitations of the MEA system related to unfocused electrical stimulation and induction of electrical artefacts. In addition, the coupling of a UV laser diode to an optical fibre allows a precise local stimulation and a quick change of the stimulation point.
The overlap among tremor disorders is wide and complex because essential tremor patients may present resting tremor coexisting with postural tremor, while postural may coexist with resting tremor in Parkinson's disease. We investigated dopamine transporter binding in 61 subjects presenting with isolated atypical tremors defined as unilateral either postural, resting, or mixed (i.e. resting and postural) tremor, without rigidity or bradykinesia, by means of 123I-FPCIT SPECT imaging at baseline. Patients were followed-up clinically for 28.4 +/- 7.2 months. Twenty-five patients with baseline normal SPECT continued to present only tremor at follow-up. Among 36 patients with abnormal SPECT, 23 (64%) developed PD, while the remaining 13 continued to present only tremor at follow-up. The value of 123I-FPCIT SPECT in predicting the evolution to PD was very high in a way independent from the first clinical presentation of tremor (Rest tremor, P = 0.015; Mixed tremor, P = 0.015; Postural tremor, P = 0.039; chi-square test). Our data suggest that the clinical presentation of isolated tremors is insufficient to allow a precise early-stage diagnosis, whereas the detection of presynaptic nigrostriatal dopaminergic dysfunction could lead to diagnosis of atypical tremor disorders at a very early stage. We suggest this disorder to be labeled as &quot;isolated tremor with dopaminergic presynaptic dysfunction&quot;.
Mutations in the epsilon-sarcoglycan (SGCE) gene have been associated with DYT11 myoclonus-dystonia syndrome (MDS). The aim of this study was to characterize myoclonus in 9 patients with DYT11-MDS presenting with predominant myoclonus and mild dystonia by means of neurophysiological techniques. Variously severe multifocal myoclonus occurred in all of the patients, and included short (mean 89.1 +/- 13.3 milliseconds) electromyographic bursts without any electroencephalographic correlate, sometimes presenting a pseudo-rhythmic course. Massive jerks could be evoked by sudden stimuli in 5 patients, showing a &quot;startle-like&quot; muscle spreading and latencies consistent with a brainstem origin. Somatosensory evoked potentials and long-loop reflexes were normal, as was silent period and long-term intracortical inhibition evaluated by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation; however, short-term intracortical inhibition revealed subtle impairment, and event-related synchronization (ERS) in the beta band was delayed. Blink reflex recovery was strongly enhanced. Myoclonus in DYT11-MDS seems to be generated at subcortical level, and possibly involves basal ganglia and brainstem circuitries. Cortical impairment may depend from subcortical dysfunction, but it can also have a role in influencing the myoclonic presentation. The wide distribution of the defective SCGE in DYT11-MDS may justify the involvement of different brain areas.
Cerebral metabolic rates were assessed using [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in six naturally postmenopausal women with untreated unipolar depression and 11 matched controls. All subjects were hormone therapy-naive and medication-free. Findings include hypermetabolism in the middle frontal gyrus and Broca regions, and hypometabolism in the pons among depressed compared with non-depressed women.
The medial temporal cortex (MTC) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of pediatric major depressive disorder (MDD). Eleven MDD case-control pairs underwent proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging. N-acetyl-aspartate was lower in the left MTC (27%) in MDD patients versus controls. Lower N-acetyl-aspartate concentrations in MDD patients may reflect reduced neuronal viability.


Birdsong, like human speech, relies critically on auditory feedback to provide information about the quality of vocalizations. Although the importance of auditory feedback to vocal learning is well established, whether and how feedback signals influence vocal premotor circuitry has remained obscure. Previous studies in singing birds have not detected changes to vocal premotor activity after perturbations of auditory feedback, leading to the hypothesis that contributions of feedback to vocal plasticity might rely on&quot;offline&quot; processing. Here, we recorded single and multiunit activity in the premotor nucleus HVC (proper name) of singing Bengalese finches in response to feedback perturbations that are known to drive plastic changes in song. We found that transient feedback perturbation caused reliable decreases in HVC activity at short latencies (20-80 ms). Similar changes to HVC activity occurred in awake, nonsinging finches when the bird's own song was played back with auditory perturbations that simulated those experienced by singing birds. These data indicate that neurons in avian vocal premotor circuitry are rapidly influenced by perturbations of auditory feedback and support the possibility that feedback information in HVC contributes &quot;online&quot; to the production and plasticity of vocalizations.
Using 24 h of total sleep deprivation to perturb normal cognitive function, we conducted a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study to evaluate the effect of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, donepezil, on behavioral performance and task-related brain activation in 28 healthy, young, adult volunteers. The behavioral tasks involved the parametric manipulation of visual short-term memory load and perceptual load in separate experiments indirectly evaluating attention. Sleep deprivation significantly reduced posterior cortical activation (intraparietal sulcus and extrastriate cortex) at all levels of visual memory as well as perceptual load. Donepezil modulated an individual's performance in both tasks in accordance to whether accuracy declined after sleep deprivation without treatment. Critically, there were significant correlations between donepezil-induced increases in neural activation in the posterior cortical areas and improvement in accuracy. Reduced visual short-term memory after sleep deprivation may thus originate from a decline in visual attention and/or visual processing. Cholinergic augmentation can alleviate these deficits in individuals vulnerable to the effects of sleep deprivation, but it may have neutral or negative effects on those resistant to sleep deprivation.
The serotonergic system, including the serotonin 1A (5-HT(1A)) receptor, has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a number of neuropsychiatric disorders. Current data show substantial interindividual variation in the regional concentration of this receptor site, the source of which is unclear. Monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) is a key regulator of serotonin metabolism, and polymorphic variation in the X-linked MAO-A gene influences its expression. We hypothesized that polymorphism in the MAO-A gene would be associated with sex-specific variation in 5-HT(1A) receptor expression. We used positron emission tomography and [(11)C]WAY-100635 to quantify 5-HT(1A) receptors in a group of 31 healthy and unmedicated depressed individuals. The same individuals were genotyped for an upstream variable number tandem repeat polymorphism in the promoter of the MAO-A gene. ANOVA of 5-HT(1A) receptor availability demonstrated a significant effect of MAO-A genotype in the raphe nuclei, medial and inferior temporal cortex, insula, medial prefrontal cortex, and anterior cingulate (p &lt; 0.05). The effect persisted when age, race, body mass index, and diagnosis were included in the model. Genotypes with greater putative MAO-A activity were associated with greater 5-HT(1A) receptor availability in women, but not in men. Genotype predicted a substantial 42-74% of the variance in receptor availability in women, depending on the brain region (p &lt; 0.05). Depression diagnosis was not associated with MAO-A genotype or 5-HT(1A) receptor availability in these regions. These results demonstrate a sex-specific interaction between two key molecules of the human serotonergic system, and suggest a neurobiological basis for sexual dimorphism in serotonin-modulated phenotypes.
Ca(v)2.2 channels are localized at nerve terminals where they play a critical role in neurotransmission. However, the determinant that controls surface retention of these channels has not been identified. Here, we report that presynaptic surface localization of Ca(v)2.2 is mediated through its interaction with light chain 2 (LC2) of microtubule-associated protein MAP1A. Deletion of a 23-residue binding domain within the Ca(v)2.2 C terminus resulted in reduced synaptic distribution of the mutant channels. Using an antibody generated against an extracellular epitope of Ca(v)2.2, we demonstrate that interfering the interaction with LC2 reduced surface expression of endogenous Ca(v)2.2 at presynaptic boutons. In addition, the disruption of LC2-Ca(v)2.2 coupling reduced Ca(2+)-influx into nerve terminals through Ca(v)2.2 and impaired activity-dependent FM4-64 uptake. The treatments of neurons with Latrunculin A to disrupt actin filaments resulted in reduced density of surface Ca(v)2.2-positive boutons. Furthermore, LC2NT, a LC2 truncated mutant lacking the actin-binding domain, could not rescue Ca(v)2.2 surface expression after suppressing LC2 expression with RNAi. Because actin filaments are major cytomatric components at the presynaptic boutons, these observations suggest a mechanism by which LC2 provides anchoring of surface Ca(v)2.2 to the actin cytoskeleton, thus contributing to presynaptic function.
The mammalian cerebral cortex consists of multiple areas specialized for processing information for many different sensory modalities. Although the basic structure is similar for each cortical area, specialized neural connections likely mediate unique information processing requirements. Relative to primary visual (V1) and somatosensory (S1) cortices, little is known about the intrinsic connectivity of primary auditory cortex (A1). To better understand the flow of information from the thalamus to and through rat A1, we made use of a rapid, high-throughput screening method exploiting laser-induced uncaging of glutamate to construct excitatory input maps of individual neurons. We found that excitatory inputs to layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons were similar to those in V1 and S1; these cells received strong excitation primarily from layers 2-4. Both anatomical and physiological observations, however, indicate that inputs and outputs of layer 4 excitatory neurons in A1 contrast with those in V1 and S1. Layer 2/3 pyramids in A1 have substantial axonal arbors in layer 4, and photostimulation demonstrates that these pyramids can connect to layer 4 excitatory neurons. Furthermore, most or all of these layer 4 excitatory neurons project out of the local cortical circuit. Unlike S1 and V1, where feedback to layer 4 is mediated exclusively by indirect local circuits involving layer 2/3 projections to deep layers and deep feedback to layer 4, layer 4 of A1 integrates thalamic and strong layer 4 recurrent excitatory input with relatively direct feedback from layer 2/3 and provides direct cortical output.
We propose a new model of motor learning to explain the exceptional dexterity and rapid adaptation to change, which characterize human motor control. It is based on the brain simultaneously optimizing stability, accuracy and efficiency. Formulated as a V-shaped learning function, it stipulates precisely how feedforward commands to individual muscles are adjusted based on error. Changes in muscle activation patterns recorded in experiments provide direct support for this control scheme. In simulated motor learning of novel environmental interactions, muscle activation, force and impedance evolved in a manner similar to humans, demonstrating its efficiency and plausibility. This model of motor learning offers new insights as to how the brain controls the complex musculoskeletal system and iteratively adjusts motor commands to improve motor skills with practice.
The diaphanous gene is the founding member of a family of Diaphanous-related formin proteins (DRFs). We identified diaphanous in a screen for genes that are necessary for the normal growth and stabilization of the Drosophila neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Here, we demonstrate that diaphanous mutations perturb synaptic growth at the NMJ. Diaphanous protein is present both presynaptically and postsynaptically. However, genetic rescue experiments in combination with additional genetic interaction experiments support the conclusion that dia is necessary presynaptically for normal NMJ growth. We then document defects in both the actin and microtubule cytoskeletons in dia mutant nerve terminals. In so doing, we define and characterize a population of dynamic pioneer microtubules within the NMJ that are distinct from the bundled core of microtubules identified by the MAP1b-like protein Futsch. Defects in both synaptic actin and dynamic pioneer microtubules are correlated with impaired synaptic growth in dia mutants. Finally, we present genetic evidence that Dia functions downstream of the presynaptic receptor tyrosine phosphatase Dlar and the Rho-type GEF (guanine nucleotide exchange factor) trio to control NMJ growth. Based on the established function of DRFs as Rho-GTPase-dependent regulators of the cell cytoskeleton, we propose a model in which Diaphanous links receptor tyrosine phosphatase signaling at the plasma membrane to growth-dependent modulation of the synaptic actin and microtubule cytoskeletons.
Everyday visual scenes contain a vast quantity of information, only a fraction of which can guide our behavior. Properties such as the location, color and orientation of stimuli help us extract relevant information from complex scenes (Treisman and Gelade, 1980; Livingstone and Hubel, 1987). But how does the brain coordinate the selection of such different stimulus characteristics? Neuroimaging studies have revealed significant regions of overlapping activity in frontoparietal cortex during attention to locations and features, suggesting a global component to visual selection (Vandenberghe et al., 2001; Corbetta and Shulman, 2002; Giesbrecht et al., 2003; Slagter et al., 2007). At the same time, the neural consequences of spatial and feature-based attention differ markedly in early visual areas (Treue and Martinez-Trujillo, 2007), implying that selection may rely on more specific top-down processes. Here we probed the balance between specialized and generalized control by interrupting preparatory attention in the human parietal cortex with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). We found that stimulation of the supramarginal gyrus (SMG) impaired spatial attention only, whereas TMS of the anterior intraparietal sulcus (aIPS) disrupted spatial and feature-based attention. The selection of different stimulus characteristics is thus mediated by distinct top-down mechanisms, which can be decoupled by cortical interference.
This paper indicates that the human product-preference relationship can, using a product selection task, be predicted to an extent on the basis of changes in the oxygenated hemoglobin concentration in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and that functional near-infrared spectroscopy allows this prediction despite the shallow depth at which brain information is measured. A Bayesian three-layer perceptron was used as a predictive model. Results of this work help to lay the foundations for the concept of utility in economics and marketing theories from the perspective of neuroscience and have important significance from a practical standpoint as well.
The metabotropic glutamate receptors type 1 (mGluR1s) are required for a normal function of the mammalian cerebellum. These G-protein coupled receptors are abundantly expressed in the principle cerebellar cells, namely the Purkinje neurons. Under physiological conditions, mGluR1s are activated during repetitive activity of both afferent glutamatergic synaptic inputs provided by the climbing and parallel fibers, respectively. Unlike the common ionotropic glutamate receptors that underlie rapid synaptic excitation, mGluR1s produce a complex postsynaptic response consisting of a Ca(2+) release signal from intracellular stores and a slow excitatory postsynaptic potential. While it is well established that the mGluR1-dependent Ca(2+) release signal from intracellular stores involves the activation of inositol-trisphosphate (IP(3)) receptors, the mechanisms underlying the slow synaptic excitation remained unclear. Here we will review recent evidence indicating an essential role of C type transient receptor potential (TRPC) cation channels, especially that of the subunit TRPC3, for the generation of the mGluR1-dependent synaptic current. For the signaling pathways underlying both, Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores and the slow synaptic potential, we present current knowledge about the activators, downstream effectors and possible roles for mGluR1-dependent signaling in Purkinje neurons.


Cerebellar Purkinje neurons generate characteristic complex spikes; but are these bursts of activity generated by somatic or dendritic excitability? A recent study may have settled this debate by giving the soma the dominant role, but it does not fully resolve the question of what information is transmitted downstream of the Purkinje cells.
People simply cannot do two things at once, as shown by research on the so-called psychological refractory period. A new neuroimaging study has now localized the response-selection bottleneck underlying the psychological refractory period to a frontoparietal network.

In addition to classic motor symptoms, Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by cognitive and emotional deficits, which have been demonstrated to precede motor impairments. The present study addresses the question of whether a partial degeneration of dopaminergic neurons using 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) in rats is able to induce premotor behavioral signs. The time-course of nigrostriatal damage was evaluated by tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry and the levels of dopamine, noradrenaline, and 5-HT in various brain regions were analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Behavioral tests that assessed a variety of psychological functions, including locomotor activity, emotional reactivity and depression, anxiety and memory were conducted on 6-OHDA lesioned rats. Bilateral infusion of 6-OHDA in the striatum of rats caused early (1 week) damage of dopaminergic terminals in striatum and in cell bodies in substantia nigra pars compacta. The nigrostriatal lesion was accompanied by early loss of dopamine in the striatum, which remained stable through a 3-week period of observation. In addition, a late (3 weeks) loss of dopamine in the prefrontal cortex, but not in the hippocampus, was seen. Additional noradrenergic and serotonergic alterations were observed after 6-OHDA administration. The results indicated that 6-OHDA lesioned rats show decreased sucrose consumption and an increased immobility time in the forced swimming test, an anhedonic-depressive-like effect. In addition, an anxiogenic-like activity in the elevated plus maze test and cognitive impairments were observed on the cued version of the Morris water maze and social recognition tests. These findings suggest that partial striatal dopaminergic degeneration and parallel dopaminergic, noradrenergic and serotonergic alterations in striatum and prefrontal cortex may have caused the emotional and cognitive deficits observed in this rat model of early phase PD.
Protein kinase C (PKC) signal transduction pathways have been implicated in mechanisms of synaptic plasticity and learning, however, the roles of the different PKC family isoforms remain to be clarified. Previous studies showed that NMDAR-mediated trafficking of GluR4-containing AMPARs supports conditioning and that the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) have a central role in the synaptic delivery of GluR4 subunits. Here, an in vitro model of classical conditioning in pond turtles, Pseudemys scripta elegans, was used to assess the role of PKC isoforms in mechanisms underlying this form of learning. We show that the PKC antagonists chelerythrine and bisindolylmaleimide I attenuated conditioned response (CR) acquisition and expression, as did the PKCzeta pseudosubstrate peptide inhibitor ZIP. Analysis of protein expression revealed that PKCzeta is activated in early stages of conditioning followed shortly afterward by increased levels of PKCalpha/beta and activation of ERK MAPK. Data also suggest that PKCzeta is upstream from and activates ERK. Finally, protein localization studies using confocal imaging indicate that inhibitors of ERK, but not PKC, suppress colocalization of GluR1 with synaptophysin while inhibitors of PKC and ERK attenuate colocalization of GluR4 with synaptophysin. Together, these data suggest that acquisition of conditioning proceeds by two stages of AMPAR trafficking. The first is PKC-independent and ERK-dependent synaptic delivery of GluR1 subunits to activate silent synapses. This is followed by PKC-dependent and ERK-dependent synthesis and delivery of GluR4 subunits that supports the acquisition of CRs. Therefore, there is a selective role for PKC and MAPK signaling pathways in multistep AMPAR trafficking that mediates acquisition of classical conditioning.
The contribution of (R)-enantiomer of N-methyl-salsolinol (1,2-dimethyl-6,7-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline; NMSal) to the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the course of Parkinson's disease (PD) has been predominantly suggested by in vitro experiments in cell culture and by an in vivo study in which this compound has been directly injected into the rat striatum. The aim of the present study was to examine the effects of racemic NMSal (50 and 100 mg/kg) administered systemically, acutely and chronically for 21 days to rats, on the neurochemical and behavioral markers of PD. Our results showed that racemic NMSal easily penetrated the blood-brain barrier. Its brain level was relatively high 2-6 h after a single injection than gradually decreased. NMSal was quickly eliminated from the rat brain, its concentration 24 h after withdrawal from chronic treatment was very low. NMSal at both examined doses did not affect striatal and nigral levels of dopamine (DA) 2 h after the first and last chronic injections, however, it markedly changed DA catabolism. In the striatum both its doses evoked a significant acceleration of the total and oxidative, monoamine oxidase (MAO)-dependent DA catabolism without affecting the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT)-dependent O-methylation. In the substantia nigra (SN), only the higher dose of NMSal produced such effect. DA catabolism in either structure was the same as in control 24 h after cessation of chronic treatment. The second characteristic marker of PD, the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-ir) neurons in the SN, was not affected by chronic NMSal treatment as revealed by the stereological counting. In the behavioral study, it was found that racemic NMSal significantly suppressed spontaneous locomotor activity and effectively prevented that stimulated by apomorphine. Our results suggest that NMSal may play an important role in the regulation of dopaminergic activity rather than in inducing changes of parkinsonian type.
Melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) is a hypothalamic neuropeptide that has been implicated in energy homeostasis. Pharmacological studies with MCH and its receptor antagonists have suggested additional behavioral roles for the neuropeptide in the control of mood and vigilance states. These suggestions have been supported by a report of modified sleep in the MCH-1 receptor knockout mouse. Here we found that MCH knockout (MCH(-)(/)(-)) mice slept less during both the light and dark phases under baseline conditions. In response to fasting, MCH(-)(/)(-) mice exhibited marked hyperactivity, accelerated weight loss and an exaggerated decrease in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Following a 6-h period of sleep deprivation, however, the sleep rebound in MCH(-)(/)(-) mice was normal. Thus MCH(-)(/)(-) mice adapt poorly to fasting, and their loss of bodyweight under this condition is associated with behavioral hyperactivity and abnormal expression of REM sleep. These results support a role for MCH in vigilance state regulation in response to changes in energy homeostasis and may relate to a recent report of initial clinical trials with a novel MCH-1 receptor antagonist. When combined with caloric restriction, the treatment of healthy, obese subjects with this compound resulted in some subjects experiencing vivid dreams and sleep disturbances.
The effects of electrical stimulation to the septum on penile erections in rats were examined to clarify the mechanisms for regulation of erectile responses during different states of vigilance. Penile responses were assessed by changes in pressure in the corpus spongiosum of penis (CSP) and electromyography (EMG) of the bulbospongiosus (BS) muscle. In anesthetized and un-anesthetized rats, stimulation in and around the septum induced three erectile patterns; 1) a Normal type response, which was indistinguishable from a spontaneous erection, characterized by a slow increase in CSP pressure with sharp CSP pressure peaks associated with BS muscle bursts, 2) Mixed type response, in which high frequency CSP pressure peaks were followed by a Normal type response, and 3) a Prolonged type response, evoked only in the anesthetized rat, consisting of a single sharp CSP peak followed by a slow increase in CSP pressure and a return to baseline with multiple subsequent events repeated for up to 960 s. In addition, a Micturition type response was also observed involving high frequency CSP pressure oscillations similar to the pressure pattern seen during spontaneous micturition. We found that erections were induced after stimulation to the lateral septum (LS), but not from the medial septum (MS). In anesthetized rats, a few responses were also obtained following stimulation of the horizontal limb of diagonal band (HDB). In un-anesthetized rats, responses were also induced from the HDB and the ventral limb of diagonal band (VDB) and the adjoining areas. The effective sites for eliciting erection during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep were located in the dorsal and intermediate parts of the LS, whereas the ventral part of the LS was the most effective site for eliciting erections during wakefulness. These results suggest a functional role for penile erection in the septum, and further suggest that subdivisions of the LS may have different roles in the regulation of penile erection during wakefulness and REM sleep.
Behavioral sensitization to ethanol is characterized by an increased locomotor activity after repeated exposure. A great variability exists among species and strains in the development of sensitization. There is a growing amount of evidence to indicate that the opioid system is involved in alcoholism; it is possible, therefore, that this system also modulates the sensitization to ethanol. In this study we evaluated the role of the opioid system in determining the variability of the sensitized response to ethanol. Mice received repeated administrations of ethanol (2.2 g/kg) or saline every other day for 10 days. According to their locomotor response on the last day of treatment, ethanol-treated animals were classified into two groups: sensitized or non-sensitized mice. After the treatment, mice were submitted to four challenges 48 h apart. In experiments 1 and 2, mice were challenged, respectively, with i.p. administration of opioid antagonists (naloxone or naltrexone) or an opioid agonist (morphine), followed immediately by 2.2 g/kg ethanol. In experiment 3, animals received morphine by i.c.v., followed by 2.2 g/kg of ethanol (i.p.). Pretreatment with opioid antagonists (naloxone or naltrexone) did not block the expression of ethanol sensitization; however pretreatment with morphine attenuated the increased locomotor activity after ethanol administration in sensitized mice. In experiment 4, after the ethanol or saline treatment, mice brains were processed and brain mu opioid binding was assessed by autoradiography using [3H]D-Ala2,N-mePhe4, Gly-ol5-enkephalin ([3H]DAMGO). No differences were seen between any of the groups of mice, so the agonist effect is not likely to be mediated by differences in binding to mu opioid receptors.
During hunting, insectivorous bats such as Eptesicus fuscus progressively vary the repetition rate, duration, frequency and amplitude of emitted pulses such that analysis of an echo parameter by bats would be inevitably affected by other co-varying echo parameters. The present study is to determine the variation of echo frequency selectivity of duration-tuned inferior collicular neurons during different phases of hunting using pulse-echo (P-E) pairs as stimuli. All collicular neurons discharge maximally to a tone at a particular frequency which is defined as the best frequency (BF). Most collicular neurons also discharge maximally to a BF pulse at a particular duration which is defined as the best duration (BD). A family of echo iso-level frequency tuning curves (iso-level FTC) of these duration-tuned collicular neurons is measured with the number of impulses in response to the echo pulse at selected frequencies when the P-E pairs are presented at varied P-E duration and gap. Our data show that these duration-tuned collicular neurons have narrower echo iso-level FTC when measured with BD than with non-BD echo pulses. Also, IC neurons with low BF and short BD have narrower echo iso-level FTC than IC neurons with high BF and long BD have. The bandwidth of echo iso-level FTC significantly decreases with shortening of P-E duration and P-E gap. These data suggest that duration-tuned collicular neurons not only can facilitate bat's echo recognition but also can enhance echo frequency selectivity for prey feature analysis throughout a target approaching sequence during hunting. These data also support previous behavior studies showing that bats prepare their auditory system to analyze expected returning echoes within a time window to extract target features after pulse emission.
The hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis shows functional changes in alcoholics, with raised glucocorticoid release during alcohol intake and during the initial phase of alcohol withdrawal. Raised glucocorticoid concentrations are known to cause neuronal damage after withdrawal from chronic alcohol consumption and in other conditions. The hypothesis for these studies was that chronic alcohol treatment would have differential effects on corticosterone concentrations in plasma and in brain regions. Effects of chronic alcohol and withdrawal on regional brain corticosterone concentrations were examined using a range of standard chronic alcohol treatments in two strains of mice and in rats. Corticosterone was measured by radioimmunoassay and the identity of the corticosterone extracted from brain was verified by high performance liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. Withdrawal from long term (3 weeks to 8 months) alcohol consumption induced prolonged increases in glucocorticoid concentrations in specific regions of rodent brain, while plasma concentrations remained unchanged. This effect was seen after alcohol administration via drinking fluid or by liquid diet, in both mice and rats and in both genders. Shorter alcohol treatments did not show the selective effect on brain glucocorticoid levels. During the alcohol consumption the regional brain corticosterone concentrations paralleled the plasma concentrations. Type II glucocorticoid receptor availability in prefrontal cortex was decreased after withdrawal from chronic alcohol consumption and nuclear localization of glucocorticoid receptors was increased, a pattern that would be predicted from enhanced glucocorticoid type II receptor activation. This novel observation of prolonged selective increases in brain glucocorticoid activity could explain important consequences of long term alcohol consumption, including memory loss, dependence and lack of hypothalamo-pituitary responsiveness. Local changes in brain glucocorticoid levels may also need to be considered in the genesis of other mental disorders and could form a potential new therapeutic target.
The NK(3) subtype of tachykinin receptor has been implicated as a modulator of synaptic transmission in several brain regions, including the cerebral cortex. The localization and expression of NK(3) receptors within the brain vary from species to species. In addition, the pharmacology of NK(3) receptor-specific antagonists shows significant species variability. Among commonly used animal models, the pharmacology of the guinea-pig NK(3) receptor most closely resembles that of the human NK(3) receptor. Here, we provide anatomical localization studies, receptor binding studies, and studies of the electrophysiological effects of NK(3) receptor ligands of guinea-pig cortex using two commercially available ligands, the NK(3) receptor peptide analog agonist senktide, and the quinolinecarboxamide NK(3) receptor antagonist SB-222,200. Saturation binding studies with membranes isolated from guinea-pig cerebral cortex showed saturable binding consistent with a single high affinity site. Autoradiographic studies revealed dense specific binding in layers II/III and layer V of the cerebral cortex. For electrophysiological studies, brain slices were prepared from prefrontal cortex of 3- to 14-day-old guinea pigs. Whole cell recordings were made from layer V pyramidal neurons. In current clamp mode with a K(+)-containing pipette solution, senktide depolarized the pyramidal neurons and led to repetitive firing of action potentials. In voltage clamp mode with a Cs(+)-containing pipette solution, senktide application produced an inward current and a concentration-dependent enhancement of the amplitude and the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials. The glutamatergic nature of these events was demonstrated by block by glutamate receptor antagonists. The effects of senktide were blocked by SB-222,200, an NK(3) receptor antagonist. Taken together, these results are consistent with a functional role for NK(3) receptors located on neurons in the cerebral cortex. In layer V pyramidal neurons of the medial prefrontal cortex, activation of the NK(3) receptor system plays an excitatory role in modulating synaptic transmission.
Gangliosides are a family of sialylated glycosphingolipids enriched in the outer leaflet of neuronal membranes, in particular at synapses. Therefore, they have been hypothesized to play a functional role in synaptic transmission. We have measured in detail the electrophysiological parameters of synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) ex vivo of a GD3-synthase knockout mouse, expressing only the O- and a-series gangliosides, as well as of a GM2/GD2-synthase*GD3-synthase double-knockout (dKO) mouse, lacking all gangliosides except GM3. No major synaptic deficits were found in either null-mutant. However, some extra degree of rundown of acetylcholine release at high intensity use was present at the dKO NMJ and a temperature-specific increase in acetylcholine release at 35 degrees C was observed in GD3-synthase knockout NMJs, compared with wild-type. These results indicate that synaptic transmission at the NMJ is not crucially dependent on the particular presence of most ganglioside family members and remains largely intact in the sole presence of GM3 ganglioside. Rather, presynaptic gangliosides appear to play a modulating role in temperature- and use-dependent fine-tuning of transmitter output.
Systemic administration of selective 5-HT1A agonists, such as 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin (8-OHDPAT), stimulates the electrical activity of ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine neurons by a mechanism which remains unknown. We have examined if this activation is dependent on glutamatergic, serotonergic and GABAergic neurotransmission and if 5-HT1A receptors located within the VTA or within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) could contribute. In vivo electrophysiological recordings were obtained from VTA dopamine neurons from anesthetized rats. The i.v. administration of the 5-HT1A agonist 8-OHDPAT induced a strong stimulation of burst and firing activity of dopamine neurons. This activation remained unchanged in rats pre-treated with the 5-HT depleting agent parachlorophenylalanine. However, pre-administration of the GABAB receptor antagonist phaclophen, but not of the GABAA antagonist picrotoxin, significantly reduced the 8-OHDPAT-induced activation. The N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist MK 801 (dizocilpine), but not the AMPA/kainate antagonist [1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-7-morpholinyl-2,3-dioxo-6-(fluoromethyl)quinoxalin-1-yl] methyl-phosphonate (ZK 200775), partially prevented or reversed the effects of 8-OHDPAT. However, only the combined pre-administration of the two glutamate antagonists did completely prevent the activatory response to 8-OHDPAT and even converted the effect of 8-OHDPAT into an inhibition, in half of the dopamine neurons tested. Inactivation of the local 5-HT1A receptors by the microinfusion within the VTA of the selective 5-HT1A antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamide maleate (WAY 100,635), or of pertussis toxin, reduced the ability of 8-OHDPAT to stimulate the firing of dopamine neurons but not their burst activity. On the other hand, burst activation elicited by 8-OHDPAT was strongly reduced following the inactivation of prefrontal 5-HT1A receptors achieved by the microinfusion of WAY 100,635 within the PFC. These results show that activation of midbrain dopamine neurons by the systemic administration of 5-HT1A agonists does involve the inactivation of a tonic GABAergic tone, involving mainly the GABAB receptors, probably leading to the stimulation of a glutamatergic excitatory drive from the PFC to the VTA and an increase in glutamate release. This will excite dopamine neurons, preferentially through NMDA receptors. Furthermore, our results suggest that some 5-HT1A receptors located within the VTA may also participate in this activation.
The preoptic area orchestrates thermoregulatory responses in homeotherm animals and humans. This thermoregulatory center receives thermal information about core body and skin temperatures, and in turn, it induces thermogenic responses. The physiology of effector mechanisms has been described in detail outlining the brain areas participating in the execution of thermal responses. Previous studies have presented evidence of peripheral thermosensation, existence of skin thermoreceptors, participation of spinal and brainstem sensory neurons in thermal stress, but only recently has been identified the first evidence of an ascending neuronal pathway transmitting thermal signal to the preoptic thermoregulatory center. Nevertheless, a few brainstem areas have not been linked to an afferent or efferent thermal pathway and the neuronal network of thermoafferent signals has only partially been identified. In the present study, we identified a distinct ascending neuronal projection that originates from the thermoreactive cells of the peritrigeminal nucleus in the medulla oblongata, and projects to the thermoreactive cells of the medial preoptic area in the hypothalamus of rats. First, we have demonstrated retrogradely labeled thermoreactive neurons in the parabrachial, pontine and peritrigeminal cells following the injection of pseudorabies virus, a retrograde multi-synaptic tract tracer, into the ventrolateral subdivision of the medial preoptic area. Confirming the existence of a direct neuronal connection, we detected biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) containing axonal fibers and boutons around thermoreactive cells of the ventrolateral subdivision of the medial preoptic area after BDA injection into the peritrigeminal nucleus that is known to respond the temperature changes. Our findings indicate the existence of a so far unrecognized ascending direct neuronal pathway that transmits thermal signal from the lower brainstem to the thermoregulatory preoptic center.
Learning potential and memory capacity are factors that strongly predict the level of rehabilitation and the long-term functional outcome in patients with schizophrenia. Unfortunately, however, the effects of antipsychotic drugs (i.e. the primary treatments for schizophrenia) on these components of cognition are unclear, particularly when they are administered chronically (i.e. a standard clinical practice). In this rodent study we evaluated the effects of different time periods (ranging from 2 weeks to 6 months) of oral treatment with the first generation antipsychotic chlorpromazine (10.0 mg/kg/day), or the second generation antipsychotic olanzapine (10.0 mg/kg/day) on the repeated acquisition of a water maze task (i.e. a method of assessing spatial learning potential in a repeated testing format). We assessed locomotor function (in an open field) and employed a radial arm maze (RAM) task to assess antipsychotic effects (5.0 and 10.0 mg/kg/day doses) on spatial working memory during the treatment period between 15 days and 2 months. Finally, we conducted experiments using liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to evaluate the therapeutic relevance of our method of drug delivery (oral administration in drinking water). In the water maze experiments, both antipsychotics were associated with impairments in acquisition in the earlier test sessions that could eventually be overcome with repeated testing while olanzapine also impaired retention in probe trials. Both antipsychotics were also associated with impairments in delayed non-match-to-position trials in the RAM and some impairments of motor function (especially in the case of olanzapine) as indicated by slightly reduced swim speeds in the water maze and decreased activity in some components of the open field assessment. Finally, LC-MS/MS studies indicated that the method of antipsychotic administration generated clinically relevant plasma levels in the rat. These animal data indicate that chronic oral treatment with chlorpromazine or olanzapine can impair the performance of tasks designed to assess specific components of cognition that are affected in schizophrenia.
Hereditary hearing loss is one of the most prevalent inherited human birth defects, affecting one in 2000. A strikingly high proportion (50%) of congenital bilateral nonsyndromic sensorineural deafness cases have been linked to mutations in the GJB2 coding for the connexin26. It has been hypothesized that gap junctions in the cochlea, especially connexin26, provide an intercellular passage by which K(+) are transported to maintain high levels of the endocochlear potential essential for sensory hair cell excitation. We previously reported the generation of a mouse model carrying human connexin26 with R75W mutation (R75W+ mice). The present study attempted to evaluate postnatal development of the organ of Corti in the R75W+ mice. R75W+ mice have never shown auditory brainstem response waveforms throughout postnatal development, indicating the disturbance of auditory organ development. Histological observations at postnatal days (P) 5-14 were characterized by i) absence of tunnel of Corti, Nuel's space, or spaces surrounding the outer hair cells, ii) significantly small numbers of microtubules in inner pillar cells, iii) shortening of height of the organ of Corti, and iv) increase of the cross-sectional area of the cells of the organ of Corti. Thus, morphological observations confirmed that a dominant-negative Gjb2 mutation showed incomplete development of the cochlear supporting cells. On the other hand, the development of the sensory hair cells, at least from P5 to P12, was not affected. The present study suggests that Gjb2 is indispensable in the postnatal development of the organ of Corti and normal hearing.
The purpose of the present study was to verify our assumption that rhythmic respiratory activity may be regulated by endogenous hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) in the medullary slices of neonatal rats. We found that a moderate concentration of donor of H(2)S, NaHS, mainly induced diphasic respiratory responses indicated by changes of discharge frequency (DF) of hypoglossal rootlets, an initial inhibitory stage followed by a later excitatory one. Cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) substrate, cysteine (CYS), exerted similar effects. CBS inhibitor, NH(2)OH, could eliminate both inhibitory and excitatory effects in the two stages induced by CYS. K(ATP) channel blocker, glibenclamide (Gl), could eliminate the decrease in DF in the initial stage, but not the increase in the later one. On the other hand, adenyl cyclase (AC) inhibitor, SQ-22536 (SQ) could eliminate the increase in DF in the later stage, but not the decrease in the initial one, of the rootlets caused by NaHS. Co-application of Gl and SQ eliminated both inhibitory and excitatory effect induced by NaHS. The cAMP level was increased in the later stage but not in the initial one by NaHS, and the increase in the cAMP level could be eliminated by SQ. It can be concluded that the endogenous H(2)S could be produced through the CBS-H(2)S pathway and could be involved in the control of the central rhythmic respiration in the in vitro medullary slices of neonatal rats by opening K(ATP) channels and activating AC-cAMP pathway of the neurons.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder primarily characterized by excessive deposition of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides in the brain. One of the earliest neuropathological changes in AD is the presence of a high number of reactive astrocytes at sites of Abeta deposition. Disturbance of glutamatergic neurotransmission and consequent excitotoxicity is also believed as implicated in the progression of this dementia. Therefore, the study of astrocyte responses to Abeta, the main cellular type involved in the maintenance of synaptic glutamate concentrations, is crucial for understanding the pathogenesis of AD. This study aims to investigate the effect of Abeta on the astrocytic glutamate transporters, glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1) and glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST), and their relative participation to glutamate clearance. In addition we have also investigated the involvement of mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases in the modulation of GLT-1 and GLAST levels and activity and the putative contribution of oxidative stress induced by Abeta to the astrocytic glutamate transport function. Therefore, we used primary cultures of rat brain astrocytes exposed to Abeta synthetic peptides. The data obtained show that Abeta(1-40) peptide decreased astroglial glutamate uptake capacity in a non-competitive mode of inhibition, assessed in terms of tritium radiolabeled d-aspartate (d-[(3)H]aspartate) transport. The activity of GLT-1 seemed to be more affected than that of GLAST, and the levels of both transporters were decreased in Abeta(1-40)-treated astrocytes. We demonstrated that MAP kinases, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), p38 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase, were activated in an early phase of Abeta(1-40) treatment and the whole pathways differentially modulated the glutamate transporters activity/levels. Moreover it was shown that oxidative stress induced by Abeta(1-40) may lead to the glutamate uptake impairment observed. Taken together, our results suggest that Abeta peptide downregulates the astrocytic glutamate uptake capacity and this effect may be in part mediated by oxidative stress and the differential activity and complex balance between the MAP kinase signaling pathways.
Transient global cerebral ischemia causes delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 region. It also induces an increase in cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), which generates several metabolites of arachidonic acid, known as prostanoids, including prostacyclin (PGI(2)). To determine the role of the PGI(2) receptor (IP) in post-ischemic delayed cell death, wild-type and IP knockout (IP(-/-)) C57Bl/6 mice were subjected to 12-min bilateral common carotid artery occlusion or sham surgery, followed by 7 days of reperfusion. In the sham-operated mice, no statistical difference in CA1 hippocampal neuronal density was observed between the wild-type (2836+/-18/mm(2)) and IP(-/-) (2793+/-43/mm(2)) mice. Interestingly, in animals subjected to ischemia, surviving neuronal density in wild-type mice decreased to 50.5+/-7.9% and that of IP(-/-) mice decreased to 23.0+/-4.5% of their respective sham-operated controls (P&lt;0.05). The results establish a role for the IP receptor in protecting pyramidal hippocampal neurons after this global ischemic model and suggest that IP receptor agonists could be developed to prevent delayed pyramidal neuronal cell death.
The present study tested whether rats release more accumbens dopamine (DA) during a sugar binge when they are underweight vs. normal weight. Since acetylcholine (ACh) in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) normally increases as a meal progresses and satiety ensues, we also tested whether ACh release is altered when an animal has lost weight. Rats were maintained on daily 8-h access to chow, with 10% sucrose solution available for the first 2 h. Microdialysis performed on day 21, at normal body weight, revealed an increase in extracellular DA to 122% of baseline in response to drinking sucrose. Extracellular ACh peaked at the end of the meal. Next, the rats were food and sucrose restricted so that by day 28 they were at 85% body weight. When retested, these animals released significantly more DA when drinking sucrose (179%), but ACh release failed to rise. A control group was tested in the same manner but given sugar only on days 1, 21 and 28. At normal body weight, control animals showed a non-significant rise in DA when drinking sucrose on day 21. On day 28, at 85% body weight, the controls showed a small increase (124%) in DA release; however, this was significantly lower than the 179% observed in the underweight rats with daily sugar access. These findings suggest that when an animal binges on sugar and then loses weight, the binge releases significantly more DA and less ACh than when animals are at a normal body weight.
Weaning is one of the most important events that occur during the early stages of life. For example, precocious weaning is known to increase anxiety-related behaviors in rodents. Here, we demonstrate that in addition to increasing anxiety, early-weaning manipulations alter the accumulation of galactosylceramide, a specific myelin constituent, and the axonal structure of myelinated fibers in the amygdala of male Balb/c mice. We found that early-weaned male mice entered the open arms of an elevated plus-maze less frequently than normally weaned mice at 3 and 5 weeks of age, which indicates persistently higher anxiety levels. However, early-weaned females exhibited fewer entries into the open arms only at 5 weeks of age. Lipid analysis of mice amygdalas showed the early accumulation of galactosylceramide in early-weaned male, but not female, mice at 5 weeks. The precocious accumulation of galactosylceramide was observed only in the amygdala; galactosylceramide accumulation was not observed in the prefrontal cortex or hippocampus of early-weaned male mice. Electron microscopy showed an increase in the number and a decrease in the diameter of myelinated axons in the anterior part of the basolateral amygdala in early-weaned male mice at 5 weeks. These results suggest that the higher anxiety levels observed in early-weaned male mice could be related to precocious myelin formation in the anterior part of the basolateral amygdala.
Studies in mammalian systems have shown an array of changes in transmitter signaling in diverse brain regions in response to stress, which differ depending on the age and genetic makeup of the animal, as well as the type of stress. Here, we exploit the genetic tractability of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, a comparatively simple but useful model in which to elucidate conserved components of stress response pathways. We show that structures within the mushroom bodies and central complex, two distinct anatomical regions within the Drosophila brain, modulate behavioral responses to two different environmental stressors. Modification of behavioral output after exposure to these stressors was dependent on the sex, sexual maturity, and reproductive status of the animal. These parameters also affected whether a mutant Drosophila strain carrying specific defects within the mushroom bodies and/or central complex modified its response to stress relative to wild-type flies. Our results suggest that for each population, unique subsets of neurons are recruited into the stress response circuitry and differentially affect locomotor behavior and cardiac function. These data also provide evidence for neural plasticity in the adult insect brain.
Amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) plays a major role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Abeta is toxic to neurons, possibly through causing initial synaptic dysfunction and neuronal membrane dystrophy, promoted by increased cellular Ca(2+). Calpain (Ca(2+)-dependent protease) and caspase have been implicated in AD. Previously, we used calpain and caspase pharmacological inhibitors to study effects of Abeta25-35 (sAbeta) on neuronal-like differentiated PC12 cells. We reported that sAbeta-treated cells exhibited calpain activation and protein degradation (due to both calpain and caspase-8). We have now found that overexpression of the calpain specific inhibitor calpastatin in differentiated PC12 cells significantly inhibited the sAbeta-induced calpain activation and decreased the protease activity. Calpastatin overexpression inhibited the sAbeta-promoted degradation of fodrin, protein kinase Cepsilon, beta-catenin (membrane structural proteins and proteins involved in signal transduction pathways), and prevented the sAbeta-induced alteration of neurite structure (manifested by varicosities). Overexpression of calpastatin also inhibited Ca(2+)-promoted calpain activation and protein degradation; this is consistent with the notion that the Abeta-induced increase in calpain activity results from a rise in cellular Ca(2+), provided the calpastatin level is not so high as to strongly inhibit calpain. Carrying out transfection without selection allowed the comparison in the same culture of calpastatin-overexpressing with non-overexpressing cells. In cultures transfected with green fluorescent protein (GFP)-calpastatin plasmid, calpastatin overexpression (indicated by GFP-labeling) led to inhibition in sAbeta-induced membrane propidium iodide (PI) permeability, whereas non-transfected, GFP-unlabeled cells exhibited PI permeability. Overall, the results demonstrate that the effects of Abeta-toxicity studied here were attenuated to a large extent by calpastatin overexpression, indicating that the protease calpain is involved in Abeta-toxicity (obviating a primary, direct role for caspases). Increased expression of calpastatin and/or decrease in calpain may serve as one of the means for ameliorating some of the early symptoms of AD.
Hyperoxic therapy for cerebral ischemia is suspected to reduce cerebral blood flow (CBF), due to the vasoconstrictive effect of oxygen on cerebral arterioles. We hypothesized that vasodilation predominates when 5% CO(2) is added to the inhaled oxygen (carbogen). Therefore, we used positron emission tomography (PET) to measure CBF and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)) during inhalation of test gases (O(2), CO(2), carbogen and atmospheric air) in 10 healthy volunteers. Arterial blood gases were recorded during administration of each gas. The data were analyzed with volume-of-interest and voxel-based statistical methods. Inhalation of CO(2) or carbogen significantly increased global CBF, whereas pure oxygen decreased global CBF. The CMRO(2) generally remained unchanged, except in white matter during oxygen inhalation relative to condition of atmospheric air inhalation. The volume-of-interest results were confirmed by statistical cluster analysis. Oxygen and carbogen were equally potent in increasing oxygen saturation of arterial blood (Sa(O2)). The present data demonstrate that inhalation of carbogen increases both CBF and Sa(O2) in healthy adults. In conclusion we speculate that carbogen inhalation is sufficient for optimal oxygenation of healthy brain tissue, whereas carbogen induces concomitant increases of CBF and Sa(O2).
Spatial updating is the means by which we keep track of the locations of objects in space even as we move. Four decades of research have shown that humans and non-human primates can take the amplitude and direction of intervening movements into account, including saccades (both head-fixed and head-free), pursuit, whole-body rotations and translations. At the neuronal level, spatial updating is thought to be maintained by receptive field locations that shift with changes in gaze, and evidence for such shifts has been shown in several cortical areas. These regions receive information about the intervening movement from several sources including motor efference copies when a voluntary movement is made and vestibular/somatosensory signals when the body is in motion. Many of these updating signals arise from brainstem regions that monitor our ongoing movements and subsequently transmit this information to the cortex via pathways that likely include the thalamus. Several issues of debate include (1) the relative contribution of extra-retinal sensory and efference copy signals to spatial updating, (2) the source of an updating signal for real life, three-dimensional motion that cannot arise from brain areas encoding only two-dimensional commands, and (3) the reference frames used by the brain to integrate updating signals from various sources. This review highlights the relevant spatial updating studies and provides a summary of the field today. We find that spatial constancy is maintained by a highly evolved neural mechanism that keeps track of our movements, transmits this information to relevant brain regions, and then uses this information to change the way in which single neurons respond. In this way, we are able to keep track of relevant objects in the outside world and interact with them in meaningful ways.
The central extended amygdala (EAc) is an ensemble of highly interconnected limbic structures of the anterior brain, and forms a cellular continuum including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) and the nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh). This neural network is a key site for interactions between brain reward and stress systems, and has been implicated in several aspects of drug abuse. In order to increase our understanding of EAc function at the molecular level, we undertook a genome-wide screen (Affymetrix) to identify genes whose expression is enriched in the mouse EAc. We focused on the less-well known BNST-CeA areas of the EAc, and identified 121 genes that exhibit more than twofold higher expression level in the EAc compared with whole brain. Among these, 43 genes have never been described to be expressed in the EAc. We mapped these genes throughout the brain, using non-radioactive in situ hybridization, and identified eight genes with a unique and distinct rostro-caudal expression pattern along AcbSh, BNST and CeA. Q-PCR analysis performed in brain and peripheral organ tissues indicated that, with the exception of one (Spata13), all these genes are predominantly expressed in brain. These genes encode signaling proteins (Adora2, GPR88, Arpp21 and Rem2), a transcription factor (Limh6) or proteins of unknown function (Rik130, Spata13 and Wfs1). The identification of genes with enriched expression expands our knowledge of EAc at a molecular level, and provides useful information to toward genetic manipulations within the EAc.
Infragranular layers constitute the main output of the primary somatosensory cortex and represent an important stage of cortico-cortical and cortico-subcortical integration. We have previously used chronic multiple single-unit recordings to study the spatiotemporal structure of tactile responses of infragranular neurons within the forepaw cortical representation in rats [Tutunculer B, Foffani G, Himes BT, Moxon KA (2006) Structure of the excitatory receptive fields of infragranular forelimb neurons in the rat primary somatosensory cortex responding to touch. Cereb Cortex 16:791-810]. Here we extend our understanding of this structure by studying the overlap between the forepaw and hindpaw cortical representations. We recorded 204 responsive neurons in chronic experiments from eight anesthetized rats. Overall, only 23% of neurons responded exclusively to one paw, 52% of neurons responded to two paws, 19% of neurons responded to three paws, and 5% of neurons responded to all four paws. Quantitative measures of response magnitudes and latencies revealed the following main results. (1) The responses of forepaw neurons overall displayed greater magnitudes and shorter latencies than the responses of hindpaw neurons. (2) The responses to ipsilateral stimuli displayed smaller magnitudes, and longer-and more variable-latencies than the responses to contralateral stimuli. (3) The responses of forepaw neurons to hindpaw stimuli displayed smaller magnitudes and longer latencies than the responses to forepaw stimuli, whereas the responses of hindpaw neurons to forepaw stimuli displayed smaller magnitudes but similar latencies compared with the responses to hindpaw stimuli. These results show that the spatiotemporal structure of tactile responses of infragranular neurons extends across all four paws, and provide the basic architecture for studying physiological integration and pathophysiological reorganization of tactile information in the infragranular layers of the rat primary somatosensory cortex.
Noradrenergic (NA) neurons within the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) and caudal ventrolateral medulla (VLM) innervate the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) to initiate and modulate hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis responses to interoceptive stress. Systemic endotoxin (i.e. bacterial lipopolysaccharide, LPS) activates NA neurons within the NST and VLM that project to the PVN and other brain regions that receive interoceptive signals. The present study examined whether NA neurons with axonal inputs to the PVN are necessary for LPS to activate Fos expression within the PVN and other interoceptive-related brain regions, and to increase plasma corticosterone. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received bilateral stereotaxic microinjections of DSAP (saporin toxin conjugated to an antibody against dopamine-beta-hydroxylase, DbH) into the PVN to destroy NA inputs. Control rats were microinjected with vehicle into the PVN or received no PVN injections. Two weeks later, DSAP and control rats were injected i.p. with LPS (200 microg/kg BW) or saline vehicle, and perfused with fixative 2.5-3 h later. Brain tissue sections were processed to reveal nuclear Fos protein and cytoplasmic DbH immunolabeling. DSAP lesions depleted NA terminals in the PVN and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, reduced the number of NA cell bodies in the NST and VLM, attenuated PVN Fos activation after LPS, and attenuated LPS-induced increases in plasma corticosterone. These findings support the view that NA projections from hindbrain to hypothalamus are necessary for a full HPA axis response to systemic immune challenge.
An odorant's code is represented by activity in a dispersed ensemble of olfactory sensory neurons in the nose, activation of a specific combination of groups of mitral cells in the olfactory bulb and is considered to be mapped at divergent locations in the olfactory cortex. We present here an in vitro model of the mammalian olfactory system developed to gain easy access to all stations of the olfactory pathway. Mouse olfactory epithelial explants are cocultured with a brain slice that includes the olfactory bulb and olfactory cortex areas and maintains the central olfactory pathway intact and functional. Organotypicity of bulb and cortex is preserved and mitral cell axons can be traced to their target areas. Calcium imaging shows propagation of mitral cell activity to the piriform cortex. Long term coculturing with postnatal olfactory epithelial explants restores the peripheral olfactory pathway. Olfactory receptor neurons renew and progressively acquire a mature phenotype. Axons of olfactory receptor neurons grow out of the explant and rewire into the olfactory bulb. The extent of reinnervation exhibits features of a postlesion recovery. Functional imaging confirms the recovery of part of the peripheral olfactory pathway and shows that activity elicited in olfactory receptor neurons or the olfactory nerves is synaptically propagated into olfactory cortex areas. This model is the first attempt to reassemble a sensory system in culture, from the peripheral sensor to the site of cortical representation. It will increase our knowledge on how neuronal circuits in the central olfactory areas integrate sensory input and counterbalance damage.
Glioblastoma is the most frequent primary brain tumor, and for which standard therapies have not significantly increased the survival of patients. Recently, chromatin alterations have been linked to the pathogenesis of cancer, and drugs that modify chromatin structure, such as inhibitors of histone deacetylases (iHDAC), are now considered as a valuable strategy for the treatment of cancer. For instance, valproic acid (VPA), an iHDAC originally used for the treatment of bipolar disorders and epilepsy, is now being used in cancer therapy. In this work we show that VPA induces morphological changes in murine astrocytoma C6 cells, which are associated with inhibition of cell proliferation, growth arrest, decreased cell migration, cell death and histone 4 hyperacetylation. VPA-treated cells extended processes with characteristics similar to the structure of a growth cone, and we also observed both a down-regulation of glial protein markers and increased expression of a neuronal specific protein after VPA treatment. Finally, there is an increase in the expression of a reporter transgene driven by a neuronal-specific promoter and a decrease of gene expression using a glial specific promoter in VPA-treated cells. These results indicate that VPA induces a specific differentiation of C6 cells toward a neuronal-like phenotype. The present data highlight the importance of epigenetic phenomena in the development and differentiation of the nervous system.
Amputees may experience stump pain (SP), phantom limb (PL) sensations, pain, and/or a general awareness of the missing limb. The mechanisms underlying these perceptions could involve nervous system neuroplasticity and be reflected in altered sensory function of the residual limb. Since little is known about the progression of post-amputation sensory phenomena over time, we longitudinally evaluated the stability of, and relationships among: 1) subjective reports of PL sensations, pain, awareness, and SP, 2) stump tactile and tactile spatial acuity thresholds, and 3) use of a functional vs. a cosmetic prosthesis in 11 otherwise healthy individuals with recent unilateral, traumatic upper-extremity amputation. Subjects were evaluated within 6 months and at 1-3 years after amputation. Processing of tactile sensory information from the stump remained stable over the study time period. PL awareness was frequent, stable over time, intense, and occurred with or without PL sensations. Functional prosthetic use correlated with stable vividness of PL awareness whereas subjects who used a cosmetic prosthesis had less vivid PL awareness at follow-up. Initial SP correlated with follow-up SP, the initial PL pain correlated with follow-up PL pain but neither initial nor follow-up SP appear to be related to follow-up PL pain after accounting for initial PL pain intensity. Neither limb temperature nor prosthesis-use correlated with the initial vs. follow-up change in PL pain intensity. These data provide evidence that PL pain described 1-3 years after an amputation is not related in any simple way to peripheral sensory function, SP, or limb temperature; and PL awareness but not PL pain may be influenced by the frequent use of a functional prosthesis.
To investigate the neural mechanisms of motion-defined shape processing, we recorded single unit activity in the middle temporal area (MT) while monkeys performed a shape discrimination task under the shape-from-motion (SFM) condition, where a motion cue is critical for shape perception. About 40% of MT neurons responded differentially to shapes under the SFM condition. The differential responses to shapes could not be explained by either the heterogeneous structure of the receptive field or the amount of motion signal. On the other hand, under the shape-from-luminance (SFL) condition, where a luminance cue is critical for shape perception, the proportion of neurons showing differential responses to shapes was smaller than that under the SFM condition and the magnitudes of differential responses themselves were weaker. Thus, the requirement for motion processing for shape perception may facilitate a differential response to shapes under the SFM condition. We compared neuronal activities during the shape discrimination task with those during the direction discrimination task under the SFM condition. Differential responses to shapes were observed more frequently during the shape discrimination task than during the direction discrimination task. Thus, the motion-defined shape processing influenced MT activity.

On the basis of its primary circuit it has been postulated that the olfactory bulb (OB) is analogous to the retina in mammals. In retina, repeated exposure to the same visual stimulus results in a neural representation that remains relatively stable over time, even as the meaning of that stimulus to the animal changes. Stability of stimulus representation at early stages of processing allows for unbiased interpretation of incoming stimuli by higher order cortical centers. The alternative is that early stimulus representation is shaped by previously derived meaning, which could allow more efficient sampling of odor space providing a simplified yet biased interpretation of incoming stimuli. This study helps place the olfactory system on this continuum of subjective versus objective early sensory representation. Here we show that odor responses of the output cells of the OB, mitral cells, change transiently during a go-no-go odor discrimination task. The response changes occur in a manner that increases the ability of the circuit to convey information necessary to discriminate among closely related odors. Remarkably, a switch between which of the two odors is rewarded causes mitral cells to switch the polarity of their divergent responses. Taken together these results redefine the function of the OB as a transiently modifiable (active) filter, shaping early odor representations in behaviorally meaningful ways.
Purinergic ionotropic P2X7 receptors (P2X7Rs) are closely associated with excitotoxicity and nociception. Inhibition of P2X7R activation has been considered as a potentially useful strategy to improve recovery from spinal cord injury and reduce inflammatory damage to trauma. The physiological functions of P2X7Rs, however, are poorly understood, even though such information is essential for making the P2X7R an effective therapeutic target. We show here that P2X7Rs in satellite cells of dorsal root ganglia tonically inhibit the expression of P2X3Rs in neurons. Reducing P2X7R expression using siRNA or blocking P2X7R activity by antagonists elicits P2X3R up-regulation, increases the activity of sensory neurons responding to painful stimuli, and evokes abnormal nociceptive behaviors in rats. Thus, contrary to the notion that P2X7R activation is cytotoxic, P2X7Rs in satellite cells play a crucial role in maintaining proper P2X3R expression in dorsal root ganglia. Studying the mechanism underlying the P2X7R-P2X3R control, we demonstrate that activation of P2X7Rs evokes ATP release from satellite cells. ATP in turn stimulates P2Y1 receptors in neurons. P2Y1 receptor activation appears to be necessary and sufficient for the inhibitory control of P2X3R expression. We further determine the roles of the P2X7R-P2Y1-P2X3R inhibitory control under injurious conditions. Activation of the inhibitory control effectively prevents the development of allodynia and increases the potency of systemically administered P2X7R agonists in inflamed rats. Thus, direct blocking P2X7Rs, as proposed before, may not be the best strategy for reducing pain or lessening neuronal degeneration because it also disrupts the protective function of P2X7Rs.
During postnatal development, altered sensory experience triggers the rapid reorganization of neuronal responses and connections in sensory neocortex. This experience-dependent plasticity is disrupted by reductions of intracortical inhibition. Little is known about how the responses of inhibitory cells themselves change during plasticity. We investigated the time course of inhibitory cell plasticity in mouse primary visual cortex by using functional two-photon microscopy with single-cell resolution and genetic identification of cell type. Initially, local inhibitory and excitatory cells had similar binocular visual response properties, both favoring the contralateral eye. After 2 days of monocular visual deprivation, excitatory cell responses shifted to favor the open eye, whereas inhibitory cells continued to respond more strongly to the deprived eye. By 4 days of deprivation, inhibitory cell responses shifted to match the faster changes in their excitatory counterparts. These findings reveal a dramatic delay in inhibitory cell plasticity. A minimal linear model reveals that the delay in inhibitory cell plasticity potently accelerates Hebbian plasticity in neighboring excitatory neurons. These findings offer a network-level explanation as to how inhibition regulates the experience-dependent plasticity of neocortex.

Choline supplementation of the maternal diet has a long-term facilitative effect on the interval-timing ability and temporal memory of the offspring. Here, we examined whether prenatal-choline supplementation has modality-specific effects on duration discrimination in aged (20 mo) male rats. Adult offspring of rats that were given sufficient choline in their chow (CON: 1.1 g/kg) or supplemental choline added to their drinking water (SUP: 3.5 g/kg) during embryonic days (ED) 12-17 were trained and tested on a two-modality (auditory and visual signals) duration bisection procedure (2 s vs. 8 s). Intensity (high vs. low) of the auditory and visual timing signals was systematically manipulated across test sessions such that all combinations of signal intensity by modality were tested. Psychometric response functions indicated that prenatal-choline supplementation systematically increased sensitivity to auditory signals relative to visual signals, thereby magnifying the modality effect that sounds are judged to be longer than lights of equivalent duration. In addition, sensitivity to signal duration was greater in rats given prenatal-choline supplementation, particularly at low intensities of both the auditory and visual signals. Overall, these results suggest that prenatal-choline supplementation impacts interval timing by enhancing the differences in temporal integration between auditory and visual stimuli in aged subjects.
Choline supplementation of the maternal diet has long-term facilitative effects on spatial and temporal memory processes in the offspring. To further delineate the impact of early nutritional status on brain and behavior, we examined effects of prenatal-choline availability on hippocampal oscillatory frequency bands in 12 month-old male and female rats. Adult offspring of time-pregnant dams that were given a deficient level of choline (DEF=0.0 g/kg), sufficient choline (CON=1.1 g/kg) or supplemental choline (SUP=3.5 g/kg) in their chow during embryonic days (ED) 12-17 were implanted with an electroencephalograph (EEG) electrode in the hippocampal dentate gyrus in combination with an electromyograph (EMG) electrode patch implanted in the nuchal muscle. Five consecutive 8-h recording sessions revealed differential patterns of EEG activity as a function of awake, slow-wave sleep (SWS) and rapid-eye movement (REM) sleep states and prenatal choline status. The main finding was that SUP rats displayed increased power levels of gamma (30-100 Hz) band oscillations during all phases of the sleep/wake cycle. These findings are discussed within the context of a general review of neuronal oscillations (e.g., delta, theta, and gamma bands) and synchronization across multiple brain regions in relation to sleep-dependent memory consolidation in the hippocampus.
Supplemental choline in the maternal diet produces a lasting enhancement in memory in offspring that resists age-related decline and is accompanied by neuroanatomical, neurophysiological and neurochemical changes in the hippocampus. The present study was designed to examine: 1) if prenatal choline supplementation alters behaviors that contribute to risk or resilience in cognitive aging, and 2) whether, at old age (25 months), prenatally choline-supplemented rats show evidence of preserved hippocampal plasticity. A longitudinal design was used to look at exploration of an open field, with and without objects, at 1 and 24 months of age in male and female rats whose mothers were fed a diet supplemented with choline (SUP; 5 mg/kg choline chloride) or not supplemented (CON; 1.1 mg/kg choline chloride) on embryonic days 12-17. Aging caused a significant decline in open field exploration that was more pronounced in males but interest in novel objects was maintained in both sexes. Prenatal choline supplementation attenuated, but did not prevent age-related decline in exploration in males and increased object exploration in young females. Following behavioral assessment, rats were euthanized to assess markers of hippocampal plasticity. Aged SUP males and females had more newly proliferated cells in the hippocampal dentate gyrus and protein levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) were significantly elevated in female SUP rats in comparison to all other groups. Taken together, these findings provide the first evidence that prenatal choline supplementation causes changes in exploratory behaviors over the lifespan and preserves some features of hippocampal plasticity that can be seen even at 2 years of age.
The potential importance of stem cells in the adult central nervous system (CNS) that cannot only divide, but also participate in neurogenesis, is now widely appreciated. While we know that the trace element zinc is needed for brain development, the role of this essential nutrient in adult stem cell proliferation and neurogenesis has not been investigated. Adult male rats fed a zinc-restricted diet had approximately 50% fewer Ki67-positive stem cells in the subgranular zone (SGZ) and granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus compared to both zinc-adequate and pair-fed controls (p&lt;0.05). Zinc-deficient rats also had a significant increase the number of TUNEL-labeled cells in the SGZ compared to pair-fed rats (p&lt;0.05). To explore the mechanisms responsible for the effects of zinc deficiency, cultured human Ntera-2 (NT2) neuronal precursor cells were deprived of zinc using the chelator N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine (TPEN). Consistent with the effects of deficiency in vivo, TPEN treatment resulted in a significant decrease in cellular proliferation, as measured by bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) uptake, and an increase in caspase3/7-dependent apoptosis. These changes were accompanied by increases in nuclear p53. Oligonucleotide arrays, coupled with use of a dominant-negative p53 construct in NT2 cells, identified 14 differentially regulated p53 target genes. In the early phases zinc deficiency, p53 targets responsible for cell cycle arrest were induced. Continuation of deficiency resulted in the induction of a variety of pro-apoptotic genes such as transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and retinoblastoma-1 (Rb-1), as well as cellular protection genes such as glutathione peroxidase (GPx). These data suggest that zinc plays a role in neurogenesis by regulating p53-dependent molecular mechanisms that control neuronal precursor cell proliferation and survival.
Altered dietary choline availability early in life leads to persistent changes in spatial memory and hippocampal plasticity in adulthood. Developmental programming by early choline nutrition may determine the range of adult choline intake that is optimal for the types of neural plasticity involved in cognitive function. To test this, male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to a choline chloride deficient (DEF), sufficient (CON), or supplemented (SUP) diet during embryonic days 12-17 and then returned to a control diet (1.1 g choline chloride/kg). At 70 days of age, we found that DEF and SUP rats required fewer choices to locate 8 baited arms of a 12-arm radial maze than CON rats. When switched to a choline-deficient diet (0 g/kg), SUP rats showed impaired performance while CON and DEF rats were unaffected. In contrast, when switched to a choline-supplemented diet (5.0 g/kg), DEF rats' performance was significantly impaired while CON and SUP rats were less affected. These changes in performance were reversible when the rats were switched back to a control diet. In a second experiment, DEF, CON, and SUP rats were either maintained on a control diet, or the choline-supplemented diet. After 12 weeks, DEF rats were significantly impaired by choline supplementation on a matching-to-place water-maze task, which was also accompanied by a decrease in dentate cell proliferation in DEF rats only. IGF-1 levels were elevated by both prenatal and adult choline supplementation. Taken together, these findings suggest that the in utero availability of an essential nutrient, choline, causes differential behavioral and neuroplastic sensitivity to the adult choline supply.
The effects of prenatal choline availability on contextual processing in a 30-s peak-interval (PI) procedure with gaps (1, 5, 10, and 15 s) were assessed in adult male rats. Neither supplementation nor deprivation of prenatal choline affected baseline timing performance in the PI procedure. However, prenatal choline availability significantly altered the contextual processing of gaps inserted into the to-be-timed signal (light on). Choline-supplemented rats displayed a high degree of context sensitivity as indicated by clock resetting when presented with a gap in the signal (light off). In contrast, choline-deficient rats showed no such effect and stopped their clocks during the gap. Control rats exhibited an intermediate level of contextual processing in between stop and full reset. When switched to a reversed gap condition in which rats timed the absence of the light and the presence of the light served as a gap, all groups reset their clocks following a gap. Furthermore, when filling the intertrial interval (ITI) with a distinctive stimulus (e.g., sound), both choline-supplemented and control rats rightward shifted their PI functions less on trials with gaps than choline-deficient rats, indicating greater contextual sensitivity and reduced clock resetting under these conditions. Overall, these data support the view that prenatal choline availability affects the sensitivity to the context in which gaps are inserted in the to-be-timed signal, thereby influencing whether rats run, stop, or reset their clocks.

Multiple sclerosis is primarily an inflammatory disorder of the brain and spinal cord in which focal lymphocytic infiltration leads to damage of myelin and axons. Initially, inflammation is transient and remyelination occurs but is not durable. Hence, the early course of disease is characterised by episodes of neurological dysfunction that usually recover. However, over time the pathological changes become dominated by widespread microglial activation associated with extensive and chronic neurodegeneration, the clinical correlate of which is progressive accumulation of disability. Paraclinical investigations show abnormalities that indicate the distribution of inflammatory lesions and axonal loss (MRI); interference of conduction in previously myelinated pathways (evoked electrophysiological potentials); and intrathecal synthesis of oligoclonal antibody (examination by lumbar puncture of the cerebrospinal fluid). Multiple sclerosis is triggered by environmental factors in individuals with complex genetic-risk profiles. Licensed disease modifying agents reduce the frequency of new episodes but do not reverse fixed deficits and have questionable effects on the long-term accumulation of disability and disease progression. We anticipate that future studies in multiple sclerosis will provide a new taxonomy on the basis of mechanisms rather than clinical empiricism, and so inform strategies for improved treatment at all stages of the disease.
Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons have peripheral terminals in skin, muscle, and other peripheral tissues, and central terminals in the spinal cord dorsal horn. Hyperpolarization-activated current (I(h)) of the hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels are present in the DRG. The genes encoding HCN channels have four subtypes named HCN1 to HCN4. HCN channels are permeable to both K(+) and Na(+). They underlie the depolarization that modulates the rhythmic generations of action potentials (APs), contribute to the resting membrane potential, and modify the waveform of propagated synaptic and generator potentials. Neuropathic pain is characterized by spontaneous pain, hyperalgesia and allodynia. After spinal nerve injury, the cell bodies of the primary sensory neurons in segmental DRG become hyperexcitable, characterized for some neurons by the presence of spontaneous firing (or ectopic discharge). In the following, we summarize our observations on the role of HCN channels in DRG neurons in neuropathic pain. 1 HCN subtypes and I(h) in DRG neurons Immunohistochemical staining revealed a subgroup of neurons in the DRG that were stained with rabbit polyclonal antibodies specific for HCN1, 2, 3 and 4. The most prominently expressed HCN subtype was HCN1. HCN1-positive cells in DRG were medium to large in size and doubly labeled with neurofilament-200 (NF-200), and were not labeled with isolectin B4 (IB4), a C fiber marker. In contrast, HCN2, 3 or 4 was expressed in all DRG neurons at a lower level. HCN4 was confined to small neurons. DRG neurons expressed I(h). When membrane was hyperpolarized, the channel was activated, mediating a slowly activated, inward current. I(h) was distributed mainly in large and medium-sized DRG neurons. 2 Changes in expression of HCN in DRG after spinal nerve ligation Western blotting was used to detect the changes in the expression of HCN subtypes in the DRG after spinal nerve ligation. HCN1 mRNA and protein were reduced in the DRG whose spinal nerve had been ligated. HCN1 expression was decreased to the lowest level at day 14 and restored at day 28 after spinal nerve ligation. HCN2 mRNA and medium molecular weight protein was also decreased in spinal-nerve ligated DRG. HCN3 and 4 in the same ganglion remained unchanged as evidenced by immunohistochemical staining, until day 28 when they became significantly decreased. HCN4 mRNA in DRG did not change, and protein expression slightly increased. Interestingly, abundant axonal accumulation of HCN channel protein at the injured sites in chronic constriction injury (CCI) rats. Electron immunomicroscopy showed strong positive immunolabeling on the axolemma of myelinated thick axons. 3 Role of I(h) in neuronal excitability and ectopic discharges after spinal nerve ligation ZD7288, a specific I(h) blocker, inhibited I(h) in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. With patch-clamp recording on acutely isolated DRG neurons, it was found that ZD7288 perfusion resulted in a decrease of both I(h) activity and the activation time constant. ZD7288 decreased the number of repetitive APs and caused an increase in AP rise time, accompanied by a small hyperpolarization of the membrane resting potential. The results demonstrated that I(h) was involved in AP firing, and possessed the physiological functions to facilitate neuronal excitability and ectopic firing. Extracellular electrophysiological recording from dorsal root fibers associated with the spinal nerve-ligated ganglion revealed three different firing patterns of ectopic discharges: tonic or regular, bursting and irregular. The average frequency of ectopic discharges and the proportions of active filaments also changed rapidly, both parameters reaching a peak within 24 h then declining gradually in the following days. It was also found that proportions of three different firing patterns changed dynamically over time. The tonic and bursting types were dominant patterns in the first 24 h, while the irregular became the only pattern at day 14. We found that all three firing patterns (tonic, bursting and irregular) were dose- and time-dependently inhibited by local application of ZD7288 to DRG. The rate of suppression was negatively related to the frequency of firing prior to the application of ZD7288. We also found that, while the tonic firing pattern was gradually transformed to bursting type by application of 100 mumol/L ZD7288, it could be transformed to integer multiples firing by 1000 mumol/L ZD7288. 4 Effects of administration of ZD7288 on mechanical allodynia after spinal nerve ligation or CCI After spinal nerve ligation, i.t. injection of 30 mug ZD7288 significantly increased the 50% paw withdrawal threshold, ipsilateral to the ligated nerve. ZD7288 had no effect if the dose was lower than 15 mug, but resulted in motor deficits if the dose was higher than 60 mug. ZD7288 produced much better effects in the early stage (5 or 14 days after spinal nerve ligation) than that in the late stage (28 days after spinal nerve ligation). In CCI rats, ZD7288 application to the injured sited also significantly suppressed the ectopic discharges from injured nerve fibers with no effect on impulse conduction. Moreover, mechanical allodynia was inhibited. In conclusion, these results demonstrated that I(h) participated in the development and maintenance of peripheral sensitivity associated with neuropathic pain and that it is a potential target for the design of novel analgesics in the future.
Integrins govern cellular adhesion and transmit signals leading to activation of intracellular signaling pathways aimed to prevent apoptosis. Herein we report that attachment of oligodendrocytes (OLs) to fibronectin via alpha(v)beta(3) integrin receptors rendered the cells more resistant to apoptosis than the cells attached to laminin via alpha(6)beta(1) integrins. Investigation of molecular mechanisms involved in alpha(v)beta(3) integrin-mediated cell survival revealed that ligation of the integrin with fibronectin results in higher expression of activated Lyn kinase. Both in OLs and in the mouse brain, Lyn selectively associates with alpha(v)beta(3) integrin, not with alpha(v)beta(5) integrin, leading to suppression of acid sphingomyelinase activity and preventing ceramide-mediated apoptosis. In OLs, knockdown of Lyn with small interfering RNA resulted in OL apoptosis with concomitant accumulation of C(16)-ceramide due to activation of acid sphingomyelinase (ASMase) and sphingomyelin hydrolysis. Knocking down ASMase partially protected OLs from apoptosis. In the brain, ischemia/reperfusion (IR) triggered rearrangements in the alpha(v)beta(3) integrin-Lyn kinase complex leading to disruption of Lyn kinase-mediated suppression of ASMase activity. Thus, co-immunoprecipitation studies revealed an increased association of alpha(v)beta(3) integrin-Lyn kinase complex with ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits, GluR2 and GluR4, after cerebral IR. Sphingolipid analysis of the brain demonstrated significant accumulation of ceramide and sphingomyelin hydrolysis. The data suggest a novel mechanism for regulation of ASMase activity during cell adhesion in which Lyn acts as a key upstream kinase that may play a critical role in cerebral IR injury.
The crystal structure of the first immunoglobulin (Ig1) domain of neural cell adhesion molecule 2 (NCAM2/OCAM/RNCAM) is presented at a resolution of 2.7 A. NCAM2 is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell adhesion molecules (IgCAMs). In the structure, two Ig domains interact by domain swapping, as the two N-terminal beta-strands are interchanged. beta-Strand swapping at the terminal domain is the accepted mechanism of homophilic interactions amongst the cadherins, another class of CAMs, but it has not been observed within the IgCAM superfamily. Gel-filtration chromatography demonstrated the ability of NCAM2 Ig1 to form dimers in solution. Taken together, these observations suggest that beta-strand swapping could have a role in the molecular mechanism of homophilic binding for NCAM2.
Recent studies have revealed extensive axonal damage in patients with progressive multiple sclerosis (MS). Axonal damage can be caused by a plethora of factors including the release of proteolytic enzymes and cytotoxic oxidants by activated immune cells and glia within the lesion. Macrophages and microglia are known to express myeloperoxidase (MPO) and generate reactive oxygen species during myelin phagocytosis in the white matter. In the present study we have measured MPO levels in post-mortem homogenates of demyelinated and non-demyelinated regions of white matter from nine patients with MS and seven controls, and assessed MPO immunoreactivity within MS brain. In homogenates of MS white matter, demyelination was associated with significantly elevated MPO activity when compared to controls. Immunohistochemistry showed MPO to be expressed mainly by macrophages within and adjacent to plaques. Demyelination in MS is associated with increased activity of MPO, suggesting that this production of reactive oxygen species may contribute to axonal injury within plaques.
Growth cone guidance and axon elongation require the dynamic coordinated regulation of the actin cytoskeleton. As the growth cone moves, actin-dependent forces generate tension that enables protrusive activity in the periphery and drives growth cone translocation. This dynamic remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton in response to membrane tension requires activation of Src kinase. Although it has been proposed that these actin-dependent forces vary with the extent of actin cross-linking, the identity of the cross-linking protein(s) remains unknown. AFAP120 is a nervous system specific actin cross-linking protein that is regulated by Src kinase phosphorylation. Here, we report that AFAP120 is expressed and tyrosine phosphorylated in differentiating cerebellar granule cells, where it is enriched in the axon and growth cone. Over-expression of AFAP120 enhances neurite elongation in a tyrosine phosphorylation-dependent manner. These findings suggest that AFAP120 may coordinate Src signaling with the dynamic changes in the actin cytoskeleton that drive growth cone motility and axon elongation.
The extensive clinical experience of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin AT(1) receptor antagonists as antihypertensive agents provide numerous examples of anecdotal evidence of improvements in cognition and mood. This study aimed to determine the effect of chronic treatment with the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor, perindopril, and the angiotensin AT(1) receptor antagonist, candesartan, on central neurotransmitter levels in the rat. Perindopril (1.0mg/kg/day) or candesartan (10mg/kg/day) was administered via the drinking water at for 1 week, while controls received water alone. At the end of treatment rats were sacrificed, brains removed and discrete regions dissected and analysed for noradrenaline, dopamine and its major metabolites, and serotonin content. As shown previously we found an increase in striatal dopamine levels after perindopril treatment, though this did not extend to the mesolimbic system with neurotransmitter levels unchanged in the hippocampus, nucleus accumbens and frontal cortex. Conversely, candesartan administration produced no change in dopamine, but significant decreases in both DOPAC and HVA in the striatum. In addition chronic candesartan infusion produced a significant increase in the levels of hippocampal noradrenaline and serotonin; and frontal cortex serotonin content. These results demonstrate that while angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin AT(1) receptor antagonists act as antihypertensives by affecting the renin-angiotensin system, they have divergent actions on brain neurochemistry.

A new structural class of histamine H 4 receptor antagonists (6-14) was designed based on rotationally restricted 2,4-diaminopyrimidines. Series compounds showed potent and selective in vitro H 4 antagonism across multiple species, good CNS penetration, improved PK properties compared to reference H 4 antagonists, functional H 4 antagonism in cellular and in vivo pharmacological assays, and in vivo anti-inflammatory and antinociceptive efficacy. One compound, 10 (A-943931), combined the best features of the series in a single molecule and is an excellent tool compound to probe H 4 pharmacology. It is a potent H 4 antagonist in functional assays across species (FLIPR Ca (2+) flux, K b &lt; 5.7 nM), has high (&gt;190x) selectivity for H 4, and combines good PK in rats and mice (t 1/2 of 2.6 and 1.6 h, oral bioavailability of 37% and 90%) with anti-inflammatory activity (ED 50 = 37 micromol/kg, mouse) and efficacy in pain models (thermal hyperalgesia, ED 50 = 72 micromol/kg, rat).
A series of 2-aminopyrimidines was synthesized as ligands of the histamine H4 receptor (H4R). Working in part from a pyrimidine hit that was identified in an HTS campaign, SAR studies were carried out to optimize the potency, which led to compound 3, 4- tert-butyl-6-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)pyrimidin-2-ylamine. We further studied this compound by systematically modifying the core pyrimidine moiety, the methylpiperazine at position 4, the NH2 at position 2, and positions 5 and 6 of the pyrimidine ring. The pyrimidine 6 position benefited the most from this optimization, especially in analogs in which the 6- tert-butyl was replaced with aromatic and secondary amine moieties. The highlight of the optimization campaign was compound 4, 4-[2-amino-6-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)pyrimidin-4-yl]benzonitrile, which was potent in vitro and was active as an anti-inflammatory agent in an animal model and had antinociceptive activity in a pain model, which supports the potential of H 4R antagonists in pain.
Localization of a brief visual target is inaccurate when presented around saccade onset. Perisaccadic mislocalization is maximal in the saccade direction and varies systematically with the target-saccade onset disparity. It has been hypothesized that this effect is either due to a sluggish representation of eye position, to low-pass filtering of the visual event, to saccade-induced compression of visual space, or to a combination of these effects. Despite their differences, these schemes all predict that the pattern of localization errors varies systematically with the saccade amplitude and kinematics. We tested these predictions for the double-step paradigm by analyzing the errors for saccades of widely varying amplitudes. Our data show that the measured error patterns are only mildly influenced by the primary-saccade amplitude over a large range of saccade properties. An alternative possibility, better accounting for the data, assumes that around saccade onset perceived target location undergoes a uniform shift in the saccade direction that varies with amplitude only for small saccades. The strength of this visual effect saturates at about 10 deg and also depends on target duration. Hence, we propose that perisaccadic mislocalization results from errors in visual-spatial perception rather than from sluggish oculomotor feedback.
The vestibular system is responsible for transforming head motion into precise eye, head, and body movements that rapidly stabilize gaze and posture. How do central excitatory synapses mediate behavioral outputs accurately matched to sensory inputs over a wide dynamic range? Here we demonstrate that vestibular afferent synapses in vitro express frequency-independent transmission that spans their in vivo dynamic range (5-150 spikes/s). As a result, the synaptic charge transfer per unit time is linearly related to vestibular afferent activity in both projection and intrinsic neurons of the vestibular nuclei. Neither postsynaptic glutamate receptor desensitization nor saturation affect the relative amplitude or frequency-independence of steady-state transmission. Finally, we show that vestibular nucleus neurons can transduce synaptic inputs into linear changes in firing rate output without relying on one-to-one calyceal transmission. These data provide a physiological basis for the remarkable linearity of vestibular reflexes.
Decision making has recently emerged as a central theme in neurophysiological studies of cognition, and experimental and computational work has led to the proposal of a cortical circuit mechanism of elemental decision computations. This mechanism depends on slow recurrent synaptic excitation balanced by fast feedback inhibition, which not only instantiates attractor states for forming categorical choices but also long transients for gradually accumulating evidence in favor of or against alternative options. Such a circuit endowed with reward-dependent synaptic plasticity is able to produce adaptive choice behavior. While decision threshold is a core concept for reaction time tasks, it can be dissociated from a general decision rule. Moreover, perceptual decisions and value-based economic choices are described within a unified framework in which probabilistic choices result from irregular neuronal activity as well as iterative interactions of a decision maker with an uncertain environment or other unpredictable decision makers in a social group.
Lbx1 is a transcription factor that determines neuronal cell fate and identity in the developing medulla and spinal cord. Newborn Lbx1 mutant mice die of respiratory distress during the early postnatal period. Using in vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparations we tested the hypothesis that Lbx1 is necessary for the inception, development and modulation of central respiratory rhythmogenesis. The inception of respiratory rhythmogenesis at embryonic day 15 (E15) was not perturbed in Lbx1 mutant mice. However, the typical age-dependent increase in respiratory frequency observed in wild-type from E15 to P0 was not observed in Lbx1 mutant mice. The slow respiratory rhythms in E18.5 Lbx1 mutant preparations were increased to wild-type frequencies by application of substance P, thyrotropin releasing hormone, serotonin, noradrenaline, or the ampakine drug 1-(1,4-benzodioxan-6-yl-carbonyl) piperidine. Those data suggest that respiratory rhythm generation within the pre-Btzinger complex (preBtC) is presumably functional in Lbx1 mutant mice with additional neurochemical drive. This was supported by anatomical data showing that the gross structure of the preBtC was normal, although there were major defects in neuronal populations that provide important modulatory drive to the preBtC including the retrotrapezoid nucleus, catecholaminergic brainstem nuclei, nucleus of the solitary tract, and populations of inhibitory neurons in the ventrolateral and dorsomedial medullary nuclei. Finally, we determined that those defects were caused by abnormalities of neuronal specification early in development or subsequent neuronal migration.
The ability to switch responding between two visual stimuli based on their changing relationship with reward is dependent on the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). OFC lesions in humans, monkeys, and rats disrupt performance on a common test of this ability, the visual serial discrimination reversal task. This finding is of particular significance to our understanding of psychiatric disorders such as obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and schizophrenia, in which behavioral inflexibility is a prominent symptom. Although OFC dysfunction can occur in these disorders, there is considerable evidence for more widespread dysfunction within frontostriatal and frontoamygdalar circuitry. Because the contribution of these subcortical structures to behavioral flexibility is poorly understood, the present study compared the effects of excitotoxic lesions of the medial striatum (MS), amygdala, and OFC in the marmoset monkey on performance of the serial reversal task. All monkeys were able to learn a novel stimulus-reward association but, compared with both control and amygdala-lesioned monkeys, those with MS or OFC lesions showed a perseverative impairment in their ability to reverse this association. However, whereas both MS and OFC groups showed insensitivity to negative feedback, only OFC-lesioned monkeys showed insensitivity to positive feedback. These findings suggest that, for different reasons, both the MS and OFC support behavioral flexibility after changes in reward contingencies, and are consistent with the hypothesis that striatal and OFC dysfunction can contribute to pathological perseveration.
The selectivity for object-specific grasp in local field potentials (LFPs) was investigated in two awake macaque monkeys trained to observe, reach out, grasp and hold one of six objects presented in a pseudorandom order. Simultaneous, multiple electrode recordings were made from the hand representations of primary motor cortex (M1) and ventral premotor cortex (area F5). LFP activity was well developed during the observation and hold periods of the task, especially in the beta-frequency range (15-30 Hz). Selectivity of LFP activity for upcoming grasp was rare in the observation period, but common during stable grasp. The majority of M1 (90 of 92) and F5 (81 of 97) sites showed selectivity for at least one frequency, which was maximal in the beta range but also present at higher frequencies (30-50 Hz). When the LFP power associated with grasp of a specific object was large in the beta-frequency range, it was usually of low power in the higher 30-50 Hz range, and vice-versa. Simple hook grips involving flexion of one or more fingers were associated with large beta power, whereas more complex grips involving the thumb (e.g., precision grip) were associated with small beta power. At many M1 sites, there was a highly significant inverse relationship between the tuning of spikes (including those of identified pyramidal tract neurons) and beta-range LFP for different grasps, whereas a positive correlation was found at higher frequencies (30-50 Hz). High levels of beta LFP and low pyramidal cell spike rate may reflect a common mechanism used to control motor set during different types of grasp.
The default mode network is a functionally connected network of brain regions that show highly synchronized intrinsic neuronal activation during rest. However, less is known about the structural connections of this network, which could play an important role in the observed functional connectivity patterns. In this study, we examined the microstructural organization of the cingulum tract in relation to the level of resting-state default mode functional synchronization. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging and diffusion tensor imaging data of 45 healthy subjects were acquired on a 3 tesla scanner. Both structural and functional connectivity of the default mode network were examined. In all subjects, the cingulum tract was identified from the total collection of reconstructed tracts to interconnect the precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex and medial frontal cortex, key regions of the default mode network. A significant positive correlation was found between the average fractional anisotropy value of the cingulum tract and the level of functional connectivity between the precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex and medial frontal cortex. Our results suggest a direct relationship between the structural and functional connectivity measures of the default mode network and contribute to the understanding of default mode network connectivity.
How the visual cortex responds to specific stimuli is strongly influenced by visual experience during development. Monocular deprivation, for example, changes the likelihood of neurons in the visual cortex to respond to input from the deprived eye and reduces its visual acuity. Because these functional changes are accompanied by extensive reorganization of neurite morphology and dendritic spine turnover, genes regulating neuronal morphology are likely to be involved in visual plasticity. In recent years, Notch1 has been shown to mediate contact inhibition of neurite outgrowth in postmitotic neurons and implicated in the pathogenesis of various degenerative diseases of the CNS. Here, we provide the first evidence for the involvement of neuronal Notch1 signaling in synaptic morphology and plasticity in the visual cortex. By making use of the Cre/Lox system, we expressed an active form of Notch1 in cortical pyramidal neurons several weeks after birth. We show that neuronal Notch1 signals reduce dendritic spine and filopodia densities in a cell-autonomous manner and limit long-term potentiation in the visual cortex. After monocular deprivation, these effects of Notch1 activity predominantly affect responses to visual stimuli with higher spatial frequencies. This results in an enhanced effect of monocular deprivation on visual acuity.
Neurons subject to degeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD) exhibit evidence of re-entry into a mitotic cell cycle even before the development of substantial AD brain pathology. In efforts to identify the initiating factors underlying these cell cycle events (CCEs), we have characterized the appearance of the neuronal CCEs in the genomic-based R1.40 transgenic mouse model of AD. Notably, R1.40 mice exhibit neuronal CCEs in a reproducible temporal and spatial pattern that recapitulates the neuronal vulnerability seen in human AD. Neuronal CCEs first appear at 6 months in the frontal cortex layers II/III. This is 6-8 months before detectable amyloid beta (Abeta) deposition, suggesting that specific amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing products are responsible for the induction of neuronal CCEs. Furthermore, a reduction in the levels of Abeta (achieved by shifting the genetic background from C57BL/6 to the DBA/2 mouse strain) dramatically delays the appearance of neuronal CCEs. More significantly, elimination of beta-secretase activity blocks the appearance of CCEs, providing direct genetic evidence that the amyloidogenic processing of APP is required for the induction of CCEs. Finally, in vitro preparations of oligomeric, but not monomeric, Abeta induce DNA synthesis in dissociated cortical neurons, and this response is blocked by antioligomer specific antibodies. Together, our data suggest that low molecular weight aggregates of Abeta induce neuronal cell cycle re-entry in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease.


Natural visual scenes are rich in information, and any neural system analysing them must piece together the many messages from large arrays of diverse feature detectors. It is known how threshold detection of compound visual stimuli (sinusoidal gratings) is determined by their components' thresholds. We investigate whether similar combination rules apply to the perception of the complex and suprathreshold visual elements in naturalistic visual images. Observers gave magnitude estimations (ratings) of the perceived differences between pairs of images made from photographs of natural scenes. Images in some pairs differed along one stimulus dimension such as object colour, location, size or blur. But, for other image pairs, there were composite differences along two dimensions (e.g. both colour and object-location might change). We examined whether the ratings for such composite pairs could be predicted from the two ratings for the respective pairs in which only one stimulus dimension had changed. We found a pooling relationship similar to that proposed for simple stimuli: Minkowski summation with exponent 2.84 yielded the best predictive power (r=0.96), an exponent similar to that generally reported for compound grating detection. This suggests that theories based on detecting simple stimuli can encompass visual processing of complex, suprathreshold stimuli.
Neuropeptides have widespread modulatory effects on behaviour and physiology and are associated with phenotypic transitions in a variety of animals. Arginine vasotocin (AVT) is implicated in mediating alternative male phenotypes in teleost fish, but the direction of the association differs among species, with either higher or lower AVT related to more territorial behaviour in different fishes. To clarify the complex relationship between AVT and alternative phenotype, we evaluated AVT expression in an African cichlid in which social status is associated with divergent behaviour and physiology. We compared AVT mRNA expression between territorial and non-territorial (NT) males in both whole brains and microdissected anterior preoptic areas using transcription profiling, and in individual preoptic nuclei using in situ hybridization. These complementary methods revealed that in the posterior preoptic area (gigantocellular nucleus), territorial males exhibit higher levels of AVT expression than NT males. Conversely, in the anterior preoptic area (parvocellular nucleus), AVT expression is lower in territorial males than NT males. We further correlated AVT expression with behavioural and physiological characteristics of social status to gain insight into the divergent functions of individual AVT nuclei. Overall, our findings highlight a complex association between AVT and social behaviour.


The neuron-specific K-Cl cotransporter (KCC2) maintains a low intracellular Cl(-) concentration in neurons and is necessary for fast hyperpolarizing responses to GABA and glycine. The mammalian KCC2 gene (alias Slc12a5) generates two neuron-specific isoforms by using alternative promoters and first exons. Expression of the major isoform, KCC2b, is strongly upregulated during neuronal maturation, and is modulated by neuronal activity, trauma, and neurotrophic factors. In the present study, we have focused on the regulatory influence of the upstream stimulating factors USF1 and USF2 via an E-box control element in the KCC2b promoter (E-boxKCC2b). Electrophoretic mobility shift assay in cell lines and chromatin immunoprecipitation in neurons demonstrated binding of endogenous USF1 and USF2 to the E-box(KCC2b) element. Mutation of the E-boxKCC2b site resulted in reduced KCC2b promoter activity in cell lines and cortical neurons. Overexpression of a dominant-negative form of USF confirmed the involvement of endogenous USF proteins in the regulation of the KCC2b gene. The results suggest that binding of USF proteins to the E-boxKCC2b may contribute to the upregulation of KCC2b gene expression in developing brain.
Neural developmental programs require a high level of coordination between the decision to exit cell cycle and acquisition of cell fate. The Maf-family transcription factor NRL is essential for rod photoreceptor specification in the mammalian retina as its loss of function converts rod precursors to functional cones. Ectopic expression of NRL or a photoreceptor-specific orphan nuclear receptor NR2E3 completely suppresses cone development while concurrently directing the post-mitotic photoreceptor precursors towards rod cell fate. Given that NRL and NR2E3 have overlapping functions and NR2E3 expression is abolished in the Nrl(-/-) retina, we wanted to clarify the distinct roles of NRL and NR2E3 during retinal differentiation. Here, we demonstrate that NRL binds to a sequence element in the Nr2e3 promoter and enhances its activity synergistically with the homeodomain protein CRX. Using transgenic mice, we show that NRL can only partially suppress cone development in the absence of NR2E3. Gene profiling of retinas from transgenic mice that ectopically express NR2E3 or NRL in cone precursors reveals overlapping and unique targets of these two transcription factors. Together with previous reports, our findings establish the hierarchy of transcriptional regulators in determining rod versus cone cell fate in photoreceptor precursors during the development of mammalian retina.
Dynamically shifting attention between behaviorally relevant stimuli in the environment is a key condition for successful adaptive behavior. Here, we investigated how exogenous (reflexive) and endogenous (voluntary) shifts of visual spatial attention interact to modulate activity of single neurons in extrastriate area MT. We used a double-cueing paradigm, in which the first cue instructed two macaque monkeys to covertly attend to one of three moving random dot patterns until a second cue, whose unpredictable onset exogenously captured attention, either signaled to shift or maintain the current focus of attention. The neuronal activity revealed correlates of both exogenous and endogenous attention, which could be well distinguished by their characteristic temporal dynamics. The earliest effect was a transient interruption of the focus of endogenous attention by the onset of the second cue. The neuronal signature of this exogenous capture of attention was a short-latency decrease of responses to the stimulus attended so far. About 70 ms later, the influence of exogenous attention leveled off, which was reflected in two concurrent processes: responses to the newly cued stimulus continuously increased because of allocation of endogenous attention, while, surprisingly, there was also a gradual rebound of attentional enhancement of the previously relevant stimulus. Only after an additional 110 ms did endogenous disengagement of attention from this previously relevant stimulus become evident. These patterns of attentional modulation can be most parsimoniously explained by assuming two distinct attentional mechanisms drawing on the same capacity-limited system, with exogenous attention having a much faster time course than endogenous attention.
When a flash of light is presented in physical alignment with a moving object, the flash is perceived to lag behind the position of the object. This phenomenon, known as the flash-lag effect, has been of particular interest to vision scientists because of the challenge it presents to understanding how the visual system generates perceptions of objects in motion. Although various explanations have been offered, the significance of this effect remains a matter of debate. Here, we show that: (i) contrary to previous reports based on limited data, the flash-lag effect is an increasing nonlinear function of image speed; and (ii) this function is accurately predicted by the frequency of occurrence of image speeds generated by the perspective transformation of moving objects. These results support the conclusion that perceptions of the relative position of a moving object are determined by accumulated experience with image speeds, in this way allowing for visual behavior in response to real-world sources whose speeds and positions cannot be perceived directly.
D-Serine is the endogenous ligand for the glycine binding site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptor (GluR) channel and is involved in the regulation of synaptic plasticity, neural network formation, and neurodegenerative disorders. D-Serine is synthesized from L-serine by serine racemase (SR), which was first reported to be localized in astrocytes. However, recently, SR mRNA and its protein have been detected in neurons. In this study, we examined the SR distribution in the brain during postnatal development and in cultured cells by using novel SR knockout mice as negative controls. We found that SR is predominantly localized in pyramidal neurons in the cerebral cortex and hippocampal CA1 region. Double immunofluorescence staining revealed that SR signals colocalized with those of the neuron-specific nuclear protein, but not with the astrocytic markers glial fibrillary acid protein and 3-phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase. In the striatum, we observed SR expression in gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic medium-spiny neurons. Furthermore, in the adult cerebellum, we detected weak but significant SR signals in GABAergic Purkinje cells. From these findings, we conclude that SR is expressed predominantly in many types of neuron in the brain and plays a key role in the regulation of brain functions under physiological and pathological conditions via the production of the neuromodulator D-serine.
The ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH), with its major subdivisions, the dorsomedial and ventrolateral VMH (dmVMH and vlVMH, respectively), has been studied extensively for its role in female sexual behavior. This behavior is controlled by the vlVMH through the cellular actions of estradiol combined with progesterone. Although the effects of treatment with estradiol alone on neuronal morphology in the vlVMH have been examined, much less is known about the combined effects of estradiol and progesterone on neuronal structure. The present study employed Golgi impregnation to investigate the effects of estradiol treatment alone vs. estradiol combined with progesterone treatment on dendritic arbor of VMH neurons. The dendritic arbor of VMH neurons was somewhat different in the vlVMH vs. the dmVMH, with longer and more dendrites in the vlVMH. Estradiol treatment alone caused a marked reduction in the length of long primary dendrites in the vlVMH, but not in the dmVMH. The estradiol-induced retraction of long primary dendrites in the vlVMH was reversed within 4 hours of progesterone treatment. The differences in the dendritic arbors of dmVMH and vlVMH provide further support for the notion that these two regions have different patterns of neural connectivity. In addition, this study is the first to report opposing effects of estradiol alone vs. estradiol plus progesterone on the dendritic arbor of neurons in the vlVMH. These results suggest a structural mechanism for estradiol alone to have a modest effect on mating behavior while setting the stage for its ample expression.
Hippocampal epileptogenesis is hypothesized to involve secondary mechanisms triggered by initial brain injury. Chemoconvulsant-induced status epilepticus has been used to identify secondary epileptogenic mechanisms under the assumption that a seizure-free, preepileptic &quot;latent period&quot; exists that is long enough to accommodate delayed mechanisms. The latent period is difficult to assess experimentally because early spontaneous seizures may be caused or influenced by residual chemoconvulsant that masks the true duration of the epileptogenic process. To avoid the use of chemoconvulsants and determine the latency to hippocampal epileptogenesis and clinical epilepsy, we developed an electrical stimulation-based method to evoke hippocampal discharges in awake rats and produce hippocampal injury and hippocampal-onset epilepsy reliably. Continuous video monitoring and granule cell layer recording determined whether hippocampal epileptogenesis develops immediately or long after injury. Bilateral perforant pathway stimulation for 3 hours evoked granule cell epileptiform discharges and convulsive status epilepticus with minimal lethality. Spontaneous stage 3-5 behavioral seizures reliably developed within 3 days poststimulation, and all 72 spontaneous behavioral seizures recorded in 10 animals were preceded by spontaneous granule cell epileptiform discharges. Histological analysis confirmed a reproducible pattern of limited hippocampal and extrahippocampal injury, including an extensive bilateral loss of hilar neurons throughout the hippocampal longitudinal axis. These results indicate that hippocampal epileptogenesis after convulsive status epilepticus is an immediate network defect coincident with neuron loss or other early changes. We hypothesize that the latent period is directly related and inversely proportional to the extent of neuron loss in brain regions involved in seizure initiation, spread, and clinical expression.
In a brain-targeting prodrug approach for a metabolically stable enkephalin analogue DADLE, specific enzymes are utilized for in vivo prodrug activation. Prolyl oligopeptidase (POP) may be especially useful in this regard. In vitro metabolic stability of the putative metabolites of prodrugs having various &quot;spacers&quot; has shown that POP provides significantly faster release of DADLE from conjugates having dipeptidyl spacer (specifically Xaa-Pro or Xaa-Ala) than alternative peptidases utilized when single amino acids are used as spacers. In vitro half-lives measured in rat brain homogenate showed excellent correlation with CNS-mediated analgesia using the tail-flick model in rats providing, thus, an in vivo substantiation of the prodrug approach relying on POP as the peptidase to release DADLE.
In rats, exposure to the polychlorinated biphenyl congener 3, 4, 3', 4'-tetrachlorobiphenyl (PCB 77) affects the brain and behavior of the offspring as well as the maternal behavior of the dams. In the present study, a cross-fostering design was used to examine the effects of pre- and/or postnatal exposure to PCB 77 on sexual behavior and partner preference in female rats, and to determine the role of altered maternal behavior in the mediation of these effects. Pregnant rats were treated with oil or PCB dissolved in oil (2 mg/kg b.w.) on gestation days 6-18 and then given pups that had been exposed to either the oil vehicle or PCB during gestation. As adults, the female offspring were tested for partner preference (that is, whether they preferred to spend time with a sexually receptive female or a sexually active male) and sexual behavior. None of the treatments affected female sexual behavior. However, both double exposure and postnatal exposure diminished the animals' preference for a male over a female stimulus, but partner preference was not affected by prenatal exposure alone. There were no significant correlations between the changes in partner preferences due to PCB exposure and the amount of maternal grooming and licking received by the treated litters. Thus, female partner preference is affected by early PCB exposure, and the effects depend upon whether the exposure is in utero or via lactation and may be independent of any effects of the PCB on maternal care.
In this study we characterized female mouse sexual behavior using a pacing paradigm similar to that used to evaluate sexual behavior in female rats. A pacing chamber was designed for use with mice and we compared the sexual behavior of female mice that were tested in both pacing and nonpacing paradigms and under different hormone conditions. We found that, like rats, female mice do pace their copulatory behavior by altering the temporal sequence of copulatory events. Female mice take longer to return to the male after an ejaculation, compared to either a mount or intromission. However, it is still unclear if female-paced mating serves the same functions as it does in female rats. More work is needed to confirm that paced mating induces hormonal changes needed for pregnancy as is the case in rats.
A core assumption of how humans understand and infer the intentions and beliefs of others is the existence of a functional self-other distinction. At least two neural systems have been proposed to manage such a critical distinction. One system, part of the classic motor system, is specialized for the preparation and execution of motor actions that are self realized and voluntary, while the other appears primarily involved in capturing and understanding the actions of non-self or others. The latter system, of which the mirror neuron system is part, is the canonical action 'resonance' system in the brain that has evolved to share many of the same circuits involved in motor control. Mirroring or 'shared circuit systems' are assumed to be involved in resonating, imitating, and/or simulating the actions of others. A number of researchers have proposed that shared representations of motor actions may form a foundational cornerstone for higher order social processes, such as motor learning, action understanding, imitation, perspective taking, understanding facial emotions, and empathy. However, mirroring systems that evolve from the classic motor system present at least three problems: a development, a correspondence, and a control problem. Developmentally, the question is how does a mirroring system arise? How do humans acquire the ability to simulate through mapping observed onto executed actions? Are mirror neurons innate and therefore genetically programmed? To what extent is learning necessary? In terms of the correspondence problem, the question is how does the observer agent know what the observed agent's resonance activation pattern is? How does the matching of motor activation patterns occur? Finally, in terms of the control problem, the issue is how to efficiently control a mirroring system when it is turned on automatically through observation? Or, as others have stated the problem more succinctly: &quot;Why don't we imitate all the time?&quot; In this review, we argue from an anatomical, physiological, modeling, and functional perspectives that a critical component of the human mirror neuron system is sensorimotor cortex. Not only are sensorimotor transformations necessary for computing the patterns of muscle activation and kinematics during action observation but they provide potential answers to the development, correspondence and control problems.
Recent studies have demonstrated growth-inhibiting effects of growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF-15) on different cancer cell lines invitro and on tumor growth in vivo. Here, we present data concerning expression of GDF-15 in glioblastoma. We found low levels of GDF-15 transcripts in primary glioblastoma. Thus, GDF-15 expression might be exploited as a useful indicator for distinguishing primary from other glial derived tumors. In contrast to the documented proapoptotic and anti-tumorigenic activities of GDF-15 in several cancer cell lines, our data suggest that GDF-15 does not decrease proliferation of glioblastoma cell lines, while its effects on invasiveness are not consistent.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease affecting the motor neurons. The majority of familial forms of ALS are caused by mutations in the Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1). In mutant SOD1 spinal cord motor neurons, mitochondria develop abnormal morphology, bioenergetic defects, and degeneration. However, the mechanisms of mitochondrial toxicity are still unclear. One possibility is that mutant SOD1 establishes aberrant interactions with nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins, which can interfere with their normal trafficking from the cytosol to mitochondria. Lysyl-tRNA synthetase (KARS), an enzyme required for protein translation that was shown to interact with mutant SOD1 in yeast, is a good candidate as a target for interaction with mutant SOD1 at the mitochondrion in mammals because of its dual cytosolic and mitochondrial localization. Here, we show that in mammalian cells mutant SOD1 interacts preferentially with the mitochondrial form of KARS (mitoKARS). KARS-SOD1 interactions occur also in the mitochondria of the nervous system in transgenic mice. In the presence of mutant SOD1, mitoKARS displays a high propensity to misfold and aggregate prior to its import into mitochondria, becoming a target for proteasome degradation. Impaired mitoKARS import correlates with decreased mitochondrial protein synthesis. Ultimately, the abnormal interactions between mutant SOD1 and mitoKARS result in mitochondrial morphological abnormalities and cell toxicity. mitoKARS is the first described member of a group of mitochondrial proteins whose interaction with mutant SOD1 contributes to mitochondrial dysfunction in ALS.
RA175/SynCAM1, a member of immunoglobulin superfamily 4 (Igsf4; recently named Cadm1), is a cell adhesion molecule involved in the formation of a functional synapse. Little is known about the modulation of RA175/SynCAM1-mediated synaptic formation and plasticity. Neurons express two major isoforms containing exons 7-8a-8b-9 and exons 7-8b-9. We found that these isoforms were processed within an 11-amino acid sequence, encoded by exon 8b, near the transmembrane domain. TNF-alpha protease inhibitor-1 (TAPI-1) blocked the processing of RA175/SynCAM1 (exons 7-8a-8b-9). Furthermore, TAPI-1 increased the number of synaptophysin and RA175/SynCAM1 colocalization on the dendrites of neurons. Non-cleaved RA175/SynCAM1 was located at the synapse and membrane-bound, cleaved fragments were detected at the non-synaptic region of dendrites. These results suggest that tumor necrosis factor-alpha-converting enzyme (TACE)/ADAM17-like proteases play a role in synaptic formation to generate specific neuronal connections by processing the excess amount of RA175/SynCAM1 located in the non-synaptic region.
Various lines of evidence demonstrate the involvement of mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease (HD). However, the precise role of mitochondria in the neurodegenerative cascade leading to HD is still unclear. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplogroups-specific polymorphisms were previously related to several neurodegenerative diseases. The length of CAG repeat seems to be related to the clinical features of HD, such as age of onset and progression of motor impairment. The basis for the impaired cognitive functions and for the mood changes is less clear. Aim of this study was to determine whether mtDNA polymorphism(s) play the role of &quot;modifier gene(s)&quot; in this disease. In this work we have genotyped predefined European mtDNA haplogroups in 51 patients with HD and 181 matched controls. The frequency of the haplogroups and haplogroup clusters did not differ between the two groups, and no correlation with gender, age of onset and disease status was observed. No significant difference was observed between different haplogroups and haplogroup clusters in the cognitive or motor progression of the disease. Our study does not support any association between mtDNA haplogroups and HD.
The NMDA-antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) is known to have dissociative, neurotoxic and neuroprotective properties. Although its neuroprotective properties are well documented, at present only ex vivo autoradiography has demonstrated its activity in lesioned brains. We report here the use of pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI) to visualise the neural substrates of MK-801 in normal control rats and in animals that received systemic 3-nitroproprionic acid (3-NPA) 2 weeks earlier. In control animals, this NMDA-antagonist resulted in activity in the hippocampus, retrospinal (RS) cortex, anterior cingulate and the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC). Activity in the MPFC has been associated with the dissociative properties of this agent and has been suggested to be the neurological substrate of positive psychotic symptoms, whereas RS and hippocampus have been the main sites of neurotoxic actions of MK-801. In contrast, in animals with 3-NPA-lesions affecting the striatum, no activity in the MPFC was observed, but a positive BOLD signal in the striatum was apparent. Lesioned animals injected with saline did not show this pattern of activity indicating that it is not merely an artefact of the ongoing neurodegeneration. This striatal activity could therefore be a site of MK-801-mediated neuroprotection. phMRI therefore sheds further light on the in vivo activity of MK-801 which, in turn, may allow us to more fully understand the different actions of NMDA-antagonists.
Failure of normal brain development leads to mental retardation or autism in about 3% of children. Many genes integral to pathways by which synaptic modification and the remodelling of neuronal networks mediate cognitive and social development have been identified, usually through loss of function. Evidence is accumulating, however, that either loss or gain of molecular functions can be deleterious to the nervous system. Copy-number variation, regulation of gene expression by non-coding RNAs and epigenetic changes are all mechanisms by which altered gene dosage can cause the failure of neuronal homeostasis.
The brain processes information by transmitting signals at synapses, which connect neurons into vast networks of communicating cells. In these networks, synapses not only transmit signals but also transform and refine them. Neurexins and neuroligins are synaptic cell-adhesion molecules that connect presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons at synapses, mediate signalling across the synapse, and shape the properties of neural networks by specifying synaptic functions. In humans, alterations in genes encoding neurexins or neuroligins have recently been implicated in autism and other cognitive diseases, linking synaptic cell adhesion to cognition and its disorders.
Unravelling the pathophysiology of depression is a unique challenge. Not only are depressive syndromes heterogeneous and their aetiologies diverse, but symptoms such as guilt and suicidality are impossible to reproduce in animal models. Nevertheless, other symptoms have been accurately modelled, and these, together with clinical data, are providing insight into the neurobiology of depression. Recent studies combining behavioural, molecular and electrophysiological techniques reveal that certain aspects of depression result from maladaptive stress-induced neuroplastic changes in specific neural circuits. They also show that understanding the mechanisms of resilience to stress offers a crucial new dimension for the development of fundamentally novel antidepressant treatments.
Small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) have become an indispensable tool for the investigation of gene functions. Most existing siRNA design tools were trained on datasets assembled from confined origins, incompatible with the diverse siRNA laboratory practice to which these tools will ultimately be applied. We have performed an updated analysis using the disjunctive rule merging (DRM) approach on a large and diverse dataset compiled from siRecords, and implemented the resulting rule sets in siDRM, a new online siRNA design tool. siDRM also implements a few high-sensitivity rule sets and fast rule sets, links to siRecords, and uses several filters to check unwanted detrimental effects, including innate immune responses, cell toxic effects and off-target activities in selecting siRNAs. A performance comparison using an independent dataset indicated that siDRM outperforms 19 existing siRNA design tools in identifying effective siRNAs.


Novel 2-methyl-5-quinolinyl-1-piperazinylalkyl-3,4-dihydro-2H-1,4-benzoxazin-3-ones showing high affinities for the 5-HT(1A/1B/1D) receptors coupled with potent 5-HT reuptake inhibitory activity have been discovered. This is the first report describing docking of the lead compound 6-{2-[4-(2-methyl-5-quinolinyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl}-2H-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-one 1, into a model of the 5-HT transporter and the 5-HT(1A) receptor model.
Investigation of a series 6-[2-(4-aryl-1-piperazinyl)ethyl]-2H-1,4-benzoxazin-3(4H)-ones has led to the discovery of potent 5-HT(1A/1B/1D) receptor antagonists with and without additional SerT affinity. Modulation of the different target activities gave compounds with a range of profiles suitable for further in vivo characterization.
Starting from a benzazepine sulfonamide 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist lead with limited brain penetration, application of a strategy of conformational constraint and reduction of hydrogen bond donor count led to a novel series of tricyclic derivatives with high 5-HT(6) receptor affinity and excellent brain:blood ratios.
The analysis of the functional correlates of &quot;brain oscillations&quot; has become an important branch of neuroscience. Although research on the functional correlates of brain oscillation has progressed to a high level, studies on cognitive disorders are rare and mainly limited to schizophrenia patients. The present review includes the results of the changes in brain oscillations in patients with Alzheimer's, schizophrenia, bipolar disorders, mild cognitive impairment, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), alcoholism and those with genetic disorders. Furthermore, the effects of pharmaca and the influence of neurotransmitters in patients with cognitive disorders are also reviewed. Following the review, a short synopsis is given related to the analysis of brain oscillations.
Studies related to brain oscillations pervade the neuroscience literature. Functional correlates of oscillations in the delta, theta, alpha, beta and gamma frequency windows are interpreted in several ways. However, only a small number of reports indicate the need for overall interpretations by integrating all type of results. The present essay emphasizes the importance of developing a common overview by considering sensory and cognitive inputs, in studies comparing healthy subjects with subjects with cognitive impairments. By doing this, the present report briefly outlines some general aspects and rules in the study of brain oscillations. The use in clinical studies of drugs mimicking neurotransmitters is also taken into consideration for a more complete analysis. A prominent extension to the study of functional correlates of brain functions is the new emerging results in oscillatory processes in the spinal cord and the autonomous system. By integrating oscillations in all EEG frequency windows, together with oscillations in the spinal cord and the autonomous system, a Gedanken-Model denoted as &quot;globally coupled oscillators&quot; of brain-body-mind incorporation is proposed in order to gain new insights in the dynamics of neural systems.
Dorsal horn neurons express many different neuropeptides that modulate sensory perception like the sensation of pain. Inhibitory neurons of the dorsal horn derive from postmitotic neurons that express Pax2, Lbx1 and Lhx1/5, and diversify during maturation. In particular, fractions of maturing inhibitory neurons express various neuropeptides. We demonstrate here that a coordinate molecular mechanism determines inhibitory and peptidergic fate in the developing dorsal horn. A bHLH factor complex that contains Ptf1a acts as upstream regulator and initiates the expression of several downstream transcription factors in the future inhibitory neurons, of which Pax2 is known to determine the neurotransmitter phenotype. We demonstrate here that dynorphin, galanin, NPY, nociceptin and enkephalin expression depends on Ptf1a, indicating that these neuropeptides are expressed in inhibitory neurons. Furthermore, we show that Neurod1/2/6 and Lhx1/5, which act downstream of Ptf1a, control distinct aspects of peptidergic differentiation. In particular, the Neurod1/2/6 factors are essential for dynorphin and galanin expression, whereas the Lhx1/5 factors are essential for NPY expression. We conclude that a transcriptional network operates in maturing dorsal horn neurons that coordinately determines transmitter and peptidergic fate.
The vertebrate spinal cord contains distinct classes of cells that form at precise dorsal-ventral locations and express specific combinations of transcription factors. In amniotes, V2 cells develop in the ventral spinal cord, just dorsal to motoneurons. All V2 cells develop from the same progenitor domain and hence are initially molecularly identical. However, as they start to become post-mitotic and differentiate they subdivide into two intermingled molecularly-distinct subpopulations of cells, V2a and V2b cells. Here we show that the molecular identities of V2a and V2b cells are conserved between zebrafish and amniotes. In zebrafish, these two cell types both develop into interneurons with very similar morphologies, but while V2a cells become excitatory Circumferential Descending (CiD) interneurons, V2b cells become inhibitory Ventral Lateral Descending (VeLD) interneurons. In addition, we demonstrate that Notch signalling is required for V2 cells to develop into V2b cells. In the absence of Notch signalling, all V2b cells develop as V2a cells.
Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptor (FGFR) consists extracellularly of three immunoglobulin (Ig) modules (Ig1-3). Currently, there are two competing models (symmetric and asymmetric) of the FGF-FGFR-heparin complex based on crystal structures. Indirect evidence exists in support of both models. However, it is not clear which model is physiologically relevant. Our aim was to obtain direct, non-crystallographic evidence in support of them. We found by nuclear magnetic resonance that Ig2 could bind to FGF1 not only via the primary site (present in both models), but also via the secondary site (present only in the symmetric model). Thus, our data support the symmetric model.
A specific mutation (DeltaE) in torsinA underlies most cases of the dominantly inherited movement disorder, early-onset torsion dystonia (DYT1). TorsinA, a member of the AAA+ ATPase superfamily, is located within the lumen of the nuclear envelope (NE) and endoplasmic reticulum (ER). We investigated an association between torsinA and nesprin-3, which spans the outer nuclear membrane (ONM) of the NE and links it to vimentin via plectin in fibroblasts. Mouse nesprin-3alpha co-immunoprecipitated with torsinA and this involved the C-terminal region of torsinA and the KASH domain of nesprin-3alpha. This association with human nesprin-3 appeared to be stronger for torsinADeltaE than for torsinA. TorsinA also associated with the KASH domains of nesprin-1 and -2 (SYNE1 and 2), which link to actin. In the absence of torsinA, in knockout mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), nesprin-3alpha was localized predominantly in the ER. Enrichment of yellow fluorescent protein (YFP)-nesprin-3 in the ER was also seen in the fibroblasts of DYT1 patients, with formation of YFP-positive globular structures enriched in torsinA, vimentin and actin. TorsinA-null MEFs had normal NE structure, but nuclear polarization and cell migration were delayed in a wound-healing assay, as compared with wild-type MEFs. These studies support a role for torsinA in dynamic interactions between the KASH domains of nesprins and their protein partners in the lumen of the NE, with torsinA influencing the localization of nesprins and associated cytoskeletal elements and affecting their role in nuclear and cell movement.
Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a T cell-mediated autoimmune disease model of multiple sclerosis. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 (Stat4) is a transcription factor activated by IL-12 and IL-23, two cytokines known to play important roles in the pathogenesis of EAE by inducing T cells to secrete IFN-gamma and IL-17, respectively. We and others have previously shown that therapeutic intervention or targeted disruption of Stat4 was effective in ameliorating EAE. Recently, a splice variant of Stat4 termed Stat4beta has been characterized that lacks 44 amino acids at the C terminus of the full-length Stat4alpha. In this study we examined whether T cells expressing either isoform could affect the pathogenesis of EAE. We found that transgenic mice expressing Stat4beta on a Stat4-deficient background develop an exacerbated EAE compared with wild-type mice following immunization with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide 35-55, while Stat4alpha transgenic mice have greatly attenuated disease. The differential development of EAE in transgenic mice correlates with increased IFN-gamma and IL-17 in Stat4beta-expressing cells in situ, contrasting increased IL-10 production by Stat4alpha-expressing cells. This study demonstrates that Stat4 isoforms differentially regulate inflammatory cytokines in association with distinct effects on the onset and severity of EAE.
Src homology region 2 domain-containing phosphatase 1 (SHP-1), a cytoplasmic protein tyrosine phosphatase, plays an important role for the regulation of signaling from various hematopoietic cell receptors. Although SHP-1 is shown to be a negative signal modulator in mast cells, its precise molecular mechanisms are not well defined. To elucidate how SHP-1 regulates mast cell signaling, we established bone marrow-derived mast cells from SHP-1-deficient motheaten and wild-type mice and analyzed downstream signals induced by cross-linking of high affinity IgE receptor, Fc epsilonRI. Upon Fc epsilonRI ligation, motheaten-derived bone marrow-derived mast cells showed enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of Src homology region 2 domain-containing leukocyte protein of 76 kDa (SLP-76) and linker for activation of T cells, activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases and gene transcription and production of cytokine. Because the activity of Syk, responsible for the phosphorylation of SLP-76 and linker for activation of T cells, is comparable irrespective of SHP-1, both molecules might be substrates of SHP-1 in mast cells. Interestingly, the absence of SHP-1 expression disrupted the association between SLP-76 and phospholipase Cgamma, which resulted in the decreased phospholipase Cgamma phosphorylation, calcium mobilization, and degranulation. Collectively, these results suggest that SHP-1 regulates Fc epsilonRI-induced downstream signaling events both negatively and positively by functioning as a protein tyrosine phosphatase and as an adaptor protein contributing to the formation of signaling complex, respectively.
Autoimmune neuropathies are frequently associated with pathogenic anti-ganglioside antibodies targeting ganglioside-rich neuronal and glial membranes. The extent of injury is determined by the concentration of membrane ganglioside and thus reduction might be expected to attenuate disease. In this study, we suppressed ganglioside biosynthesis in PC12 cells with the glucosylceramide synthase inhibitor, N-butyldeoxynojirimycin and observed reduced plasma membrane antibody binding and a major neuroprotective effect in complement-mediated lysis assays. These data demonstrate that iminosugar inhibitors, currently used to treat type 1 Gaucher disease, are also of potential value for depleting antigen and thereby suppressing tissue injury in anti-ganglioside antibody-associated neuropathy.
We report the case of a psychiatrically healthy Parkinson's disease patient who presented acute transient depressive states related to high frequency stimulation (HFS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and its neighbouring anatomical structures, i.e. the substantia nigra, zona incerta and Forel's fields. This case confirms that the subthalamic region plays a critical role in modulating human behaviour, providing especially sensitive to depressive states elicited by HFS in conditions of increased vulnerability. Worthy of note is the finding that these mood changes presented subsequent adaptation with time, probably as a result of both the disappearance of the microtraumatic effect of the implantation procedure and the plastic changes induced by HFS.
Switching of sensorimotor tasks may be classified into predictive switching based on contextual information and postdictive switching based on the error between sensorimotor feedback and predictions. We used functional neuroimaging to study the brain regions involved in each type of switching of internal models for visuomotor rotations (clockwise and counterclockwise rotations of visual feedback). The color of a cue presented before movement initiation corresponded to direction of rotation of the feedback in an instructed condition, but not in a noninstructed condition. Switching-related activity was identified as activity that transiently increased after the direction of rotation was changed. The switching-related activity in cue periods in the instructed condition, when a predictive switch is possible, was observed in the superior parietal lobule (SPL). However, the switching-related activity in feedback periods in the noninstructed condition, when prediction error is crucial for the postdictive switch, was observed in the inferior parietal lobule (IPL) and prefrontal cortex. The functional influence of the SPL on the lateral cerebellum, namely, a possible neural correlate for internal models, increased in the instructed condition, but the influence of the IPL on the cerebellum was increased in the noninstructed condition. We observed a rapid activity increase in the instructed condition and a gradual activity increase in the noninstructed condition mainly in the lateral occipito-temporal cortices (LOTC) and supplementary motor cortex (SMA). These results are consistent with separate mechanisms for predictive and postdictive switches and suggest that the LOTC and SMA receive output signals from appropriate internal models.
Calcium imaging of the spontaneous activity in cortical slices has revealed repeating spatiotemporal patterns of transitions between so-called down states and up states (Ikegaya et al., 2004). Here we fit a model network of stochastic binary neurons to data from these experiments, and in doing so reproduce the distributions of such patterns. We use two versions of this model: (1) an unconnected network in which neurons are activated as independent Poisson processes; and (2) a network with an interaction matrix, estimated from the data, representing effective interactions between the neurons. The unconnected model (model 1) is sufficient to account for the statistics of repeating patterns in 11 of the 15 datasets studied. Model 2, with interactions between neurons, is required to account for pattern statistics of the remaining four. Three of these four datasets are the ones that contain the largest number of transitions, suggesting that long datasets are in general necessary to render interactions statistically visible. We then study the topology of the matrix of interactions estimated for these four datasets. For three of the four datasets, we find sparse matrices with long-tailed degree distributions and an overrepresentation of certain network motifs. The remaining dataset exhibits a strongly interconnected, spatially localized subgroup of neurons. In all cases, we find that interactions between neurons facilitate the generation of long patterns that do not repeat exactly.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) mediate ischemic brain damage, for which interactions between the C termini of NR2 subunits and PDZ domain proteins within the NMDAR signaling complex (NSC) are emerging therapeutic targets. However, expression of NMDARs in a non-neuronal context, lacking many NSC components, can still induce cell death. Moreover, it is unclear whether targeting the NSC will impair NMDAR-dependent prosurvival and plasticity signaling. We show that the NMDAR can promote death signaling independently of the NR2 PDZ ligand, when expressed in non-neuronal cells lacking PSD-95 and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), key PDZ proteins that mediate neuronal NMDAR excitotoxicity. However, in a non-neuronal context, the NMDAR promotes cell death solely via c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK), whereas NMDAR-dependent cortical neuronal death is promoted by both JNK and p38. NMDAR-dependent pro-death signaling via p38 relies on neuronal context, although death signaling by JNK, triggered by mitochondrial reactive oxygen species production, does not. NMDAR-dependent p38 activation in neurons is triggered by submembranous Ca(2+), and is disrupted by NOS inhibitors and also a peptide mimicking the NR2B PDZ ligand (TAT-NR2B9c). TAT-NR2B9c reduced excitotoxic neuronal death and p38-mediated ischemic damage, without impairing an NMDAR-dependent plasticity model or prosurvival signaling to CREB or Akt. TAT-NR2B9c did not inhibit JNK activation, and synergized with JNK inhibitors to ameliorate severe excitotoxic neuronal loss in vitro and ischemic cortical damage in vivo. Thus, NMDAR-activated signals comprise pro-death pathways with differing requirements for PDZ protein interactions. These signals are amenable to selective inhibition, while sparing synaptic plasticity and prosurvival signaling.
Cognitive processing is associated with deactivation of the default mode network. The presence of dopaminoceptive neurons in proximity to the medial prefrontal node of this network suggests that this neurotransmitter may modulate deactivation in this region. We therefore used positron emission tomography to measure cerebral blood flow in 15 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients while they performed a motor sequence learning task and a simple movement task. Scanning was conducted before and during intravenous levodopa infusion; the pace and extent of movement was controlled across tasks and treatment conditions. In normal and unmedicated PD patients, learning-related deactivation was present in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (p &lt; 0.001). This response was absent in the treated condition. Treatment-mediated changes in deactivation correlated with baseline performance (p &lt; 0.002) and with the val(158)met catechol-O-methyltransferase genotype. Our findings suggest that dopamine can influence prefrontal deactivation during learning, and that these changes are linked to baseline performance and genotype.
Visual processing can be facilitated by covert attention at behaviorally relevant locations. If the eyes move while a location in the visual field is facilitated, what happens to the internal representation of the attended location? With each eye movement, the retinotopic (eye-centered) coordinates of the attended location change while the spatiotopic (world-centered) coordinates remain stable. To investigate whether the neural substrates of spatial attention reside in retinotopically and/or spatiotopically organized maps, we used a novel gaze-contingent behavioral paradigm that probed spatial attention at various times after eye movements. When task demands required maintaining a spatiotopic representation after the eye movement, we found facilitation at the retinotopic location of the spatial cue for 100-200 ms after the saccade, although this location had no behavioral significance. This task-irrelevant retinotopic representation dominated immediately after the saccade, whereas at later delays, the task-relevant spatiotopic representation prevailed. However, when task demands required maintaining the cue in retinotopic coordinates, a strong retinotopic benefit persisted long after the saccade, and there was no evidence of spatiotopic facilitation. These data suggest that the cortical and subcortical substrates of spatial attention primarily reside in retinotopically organized maps that must be dynamically updated to compensate for eye movements when behavioral demands require a spatiotopic representation of attention. Our conclusion is that the visual system's native or low-level representation of endogenously maintained spatial attention is retinotopic, and remapping of attention to spatiotopic coordinates occurs slowly and only when behaviorally necessary.
The role(s) of the novel stargazin-like gamma-subunit proteins remain controversial. We have shown previously that the neuron-specific gamma7 suppresses the expression of certain calcium channels, particularly Ca(V)2.2, and is therefore unlikely to operate as a calcium channel subunit. We now show that the effect of gamma7 on Ca(V)2.2 expression is via an increase in the degradation rate of Ca(V)2.2 mRNA and hence a reduction of Ca(V)2.2 protein level. Furthermore, exogenous expression of gamma7 in PC12 cells also decreased the endogenous Ca(V)2.2 mRNA level. Conversely, knockdown of endogenous gamma7 with short-hairpin RNAs produced a reciprocal enhancement of Ca(V)2.2 mRNA stability and an increase in endogenous calcium currents in PC12 cells. Moreover, both endogenous and expressed gamma7 are present on intracellular membranes, rather than the plasma membrane. The cytoplasmic C terminus of gamma7 is essential for all its effects, and we show that gamma7 binds directly via its C terminus to a heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP A2), which also binds to a motif in Ca(V)2.2 mRNA, and is associated with native Ca(V)2.2 mRNA in PC12 cells. The expression of hnRNP A2 enhances Ca(V)2.2 I(Ba), and this enhancement is prevented by a concentration of gamma7 that alone has no effect on I(Ba). The effect of gamma7 is selective for certain mRNAs because it had no effect on alpha2delta-2 mRNA stability, but it decreased the mRNA stability for the potassium-chloride cotransporter, KCC1, which contains a similar hnRNP A2 binding motif to that in Ca(V)2.2 mRNA. Our results indicate that gamma7 plays a role in stabilizing Ca(V)2.2 mRNA.
Neurons of the cerebellar nuclei receive synaptic excitation from cerebellar mossy fibers. Unlike in many principal neurons, coincident presynaptic activity and postsynaptic depolarization do not generate long-term potentiation at these synapses. Instead, EPSCs are potentiated by high-frequency trains of presynaptic activity applied with postsynaptic hyperpolarization, in patterns resembling mossy-fiber-mediated excitation and Purkinje-cell-mediated inhibition that are predicted to occur during delay eyelid conditioning. Here, we have used electrophysiology and Ca imaging to test how synaptic excitation and inhibition interact to generate long-lasting synaptic plasticity in nuclear cells in cerebellar slices. We find that the extent of plasticity varies with the relative timing of synaptic excitation and hyperpolarization. Potentiation is most effective when synaptic stimuli precede the postinhibitory rebound by approximately 400 ms, whereas with longer intervals, or with a reverse sequence, EPSCs tend to depress. When basal intracellular Ca is raised by spontaneous firing or reduced by voltage clamping at subthreshold potentials, potentiation is induced as long as the synaptic-rebound temporal sequence is maintained, suggesting that plasticity does not require Ca levels to exceed a threshold or attain a specific concentration. Although rebound and spike-dependent Ca influx are global, potentiation is synapse specific, and is disrupted by inhibitors of calcineurin or Ca-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, but not PKC. When IPSPs replace the hyperpolarizing step in the induction protocol, potentiation proceeds normally. These results lead us to propose that synaptic and inhibitory/rebound stimuli initiate separate processes, with local NMDA receptor-mediated Ca influx &quot;priming&quot; synapses, and Ca changes from the inhibition and rebound &quot;triggering&quot; potentiation at recently activated synapses.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging studies of recognition memory have often been interpreted to mean that the hippocampus supports recollection and that the adjacent perirhinal cortex supports familiarity. Other work points out that these studies have confounded recollection and familiarity with strong and weak memories. In a source memory study, we used two novel approaches to data analysis that allowed item memory strength and source memory strength to be assessed independently. First, we identified regions in both hippocampus and perirhinal cortex in which activity varied as a function of subsequent item memory strength while source memory strength was held constant at chance levels. Second, we identified regions in prefrontal cortex in which activity varied as a function of subsequent source memory strength while item memory strength was held constant. These findings suggest that activity in the medial temporal lobe is predictive of subsequent memory strength, whereas activity in prefrontal cortex is predictive of subsequent recollection.
Spinal glial reaction and proinflammatory cytokine induction play an important role in the development of chronic pain states after tissue and nerve injury. The present study investigated the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying descending facilitation of neuropathic pain with an emphasis on supraspinal glial-neuronal relationships. An early and transient reaction of microglia and prolonged reaction of astrocytes were found after chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the rat infraorbital nerve in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), a major component of brainstem descending pain modulatory circuitry. There were prolonged elevations of cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) after CCI, and they were expressed in RVM astrocytes at 14 d after injury. Intra-RVM injection of microglial and astrocytic inhibitors attenuated mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia at 3 and 14 d after CCI, respectively. Moreover, TNFR1 and IL-1R, receptors for TNF-alpha and IL-1beta, respectively, were expressed primarily in RVM neurons exhibiting immunoreactivity to the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) subunit NR1. CCI increased TNFR1 and IL-1R levels and NR1 phosphorylation in the RVM. Neutralization of endogenous TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in the RVM significantly reduced CCI-induced behavioral hypersensitivity and attenuated NR1 phosphorylation. Finally, intra-RVM administration of recombinant TNF-alpha or IL-1beta upregulated NR1 phosphorylation and caused a reversible and NMDAR-dependent allodynia in normal rats, further suggesting that TNF-alpha and IL-1beta couple glial hyperactivation with NMDAR function. These studies have addressed a novel contribution of supraspinal astrocytes and associated cytokines as well as central glial-neuronal interactions to the enhancement of descending facilitation of neuropathic pain.

Both complete knockout of the Igf2 gene (Igf2null(+/-)) and knockout of its placental specific transcript alone (Igf2P0(+/-)) lead to fetal growth restriction in mice. However, in the Igf2null(+/-) this growth restriction occurs concurrently in gestation with placental growth restriction, whereas, placental growth restriction precedes fetal growth restriction in the Igf2P0(+/-) mouse. Previous studies have shown that the Igf2P0(+/-) placenta has proportionate reductions in its cellular compartments and its diffusional exchange characteristics. Yet, nothing is known about the structural development or diffusional exchange characteristics of the Igf2null(+/-) mouse. Hence, this study compares the structural properties (using stereology) and diffusional exchange characteristics (using measurement of permeability-surface area product, P.S, of three inert hydrophilic tracers) of the Igf2null(+/-) and the Igf2P0(+/-) placenta to identify the role of Igf2 in the development of the labyrinthine exchange membrane and its functional consequences. Our data show disproportionate effects of complete Igf2 ablation on the compartments of the placenta, not seen when the placental-specific transcript alone is deleted. Furthermore, although the theoretical diffusing capacity (calculated from the stereological data) of the Igf2null(+/-) placenta was reduced relative to control, there was no effect of the complete knockout on permeability surface area available for small hydrophilic tracers. This is in contrast to the Igf2P0(+/-) placenta, where theoretical diffusion capacity and P.S values were reduced similarly. Total ablation of the Igf2 gene from the fetoplacental unit in the mouse therefore results in a disproportionate growth of placental compartments whereas, deleting the placental specific transcript of Igf2 alone results in proportional placental growth restriction. Thus, placental phenotype depends on the degree of Igf2 gene ablation and the interplay between placental and fetal Igf2 in the mouse.
Golgi cells are important elements of the cerebellar cortex, controlling the flow of mossy fibre information to other cells via granule cells. Several anatomical reports suggest that climbing fibre afferents contact Golgi cells, and electrophysiological studies suggest that they depress Golgi cell firing. We reinvestigated this issue and, given that climbing fibres mediate synaptic plasticity in the cerebellar cortex, we have examined the effects of conjunctive stimulation of peripheral afferents and climbing fibres on Golgi cell responses. The results confirm that climbing fibre stimulation depresses Golgi cell firing at short latency. Golgi cells responded to stimulation of peripheral afferents with longer latency depressions of firing and after conjunctive stimulation with climbing fibres these were significantly reduced. The reductions developed progressively over 20 min of conjunctive stimulation and were persistent (up to 84 min). Temporal conjunction of the inputs was important because non-synchronous stimulation of climbing fibres and peripheral afferents failed to alter the peripheral afferent-evoked response in Golgi cells. In control experiments using either the same climbing fibre stimulation alone, or peripheral afferent stimulation paired with brainstem stimulation that did not activate climbing fibres, responses were not depressed. The results thus show that conjunctive stimulation of climbing fibres with other inputs to Golgi cells can induce long-term changes in Golgi cell responses in vivo. This raises the possibility that changes in Golgi cell peripheral responses mediated by climbing fibres can potentially contribute to cerebellar motor learning.

Lysophosphatidic acid receptor subtype LPA(1) is crucial for the initiation of neuropathic pain and underlying changes, such as up-regulation of Ca2+ channel alpha2delta-1 subunit in dorsal root ganglia (DRG), up-regulation of PKCgamma in the spinal dorsal horn, and demyelination of dorsal root fibers. In the present study, we further examined the involvement of LPA(1) signaling in the reorganization of Abeta-fiber-mediated spinal transmission, which is presumed to underlie neuropathic allodynia. Following nerve injury, the phosphorylation of extracellular-signal regulated kinase (pERK) by Abeta-fiber stimulation was observed in the superficial layer of spinal dorsal horn, where nociceptive C- or Adelta-fibers are innervated, but not in sham-operated wild-type mice. However, the pERK signals were largely abolished in LPA(1) receptor knock-out (Lpar1-/-) mice, further supported by quantitative analyses of pERK-positive cells. These results suggest that LPA(1) receptor-mediated signaling mechanisms also participate in functional cross-talk between Abeta- and C- or Adelta-fibers.
The presence and potential etiologies of peripheral neuropathy (PN) in patients with Parkinson's Disease (PD) is unknown. We examined for presence of PN in patients with PD. From a PD patient population of 500 patients screened for features of symptomatic PN, patients were further selected for clinical, electrophysiological, and laboratory studies related to PN. This PD patient population with idiopathic PN (PD-IPN) was compared to a group of PD patients without PN (PD-only), and a large group of patients without PD with idiopathic PN (IPN) for abnormalities in Cbl, fasting homocysteine (Hcy), and fasting methylmalonic acid (MMA) levels. PD-IPN and IPN patients identified with abnormalities in Cbl, Hcy, or MMA levels were treated with intramuscular Cbl for 1 to 2 years. Of 49 PD patients with symptomatic PN, 34 patients (69%) had PD-IPN, and 32/34 (94%) had abnormal Hcy or MMA levels as compared to 26/258 (10%) of IPN patients. Cumulative lifetime L-dopa dosage and fasting MMA levels were associated with PN severity. Cbl therapy led to improvements in Hcy and MMA levels in all groups, and PN in PD-IPN patients stabilized during therapy. PN in PD patients may be associated with iatrogenic Cbl metabolic abnormalities. Alternatively PN may be a peripheral nervous system manifestation of PD.
Tardive dystonia is a disabling movement disorder as a consequence of exposure to neuroleptic drugs. We followed 6 patients with medically refractory tardive dystonia treated by bilateral globus pallidus internus (GPi) deep brain stimulation (DBS) for 21 +/- 18 months. At last follow-up, the Burke-Fahn-Marsden Dystonia Rating Scale (BFMDRS) motor score improved by 86% +/- 14%, and the BFMDRS disability score improved by 80% +/- 12%. Bilateral GPi-DBS is a beneficial therapeutic option for the long-term relief of tardive dystonia.
Data on psychogenic movement disorders (PMD) in children are scarce, with most existing literature relating to adults only. We report 15 cases with the aim of highlighting the clinical characteristics, risk factors, comorbidity, treatment, outcome, and prognosis of PMD in children. Only 13% of cases had onset before age 10, with the mean age at onset being 12.3 years. Females were predominantly affected (F:M = 4:1). The most common types of movement disorders seen were dystonia (47%), tremor (40%), and gait disorders (13%). Multiple hyperkinetic phenomenologies were observed in many cases. Abrupt onset and precipitation by minor injuries, and stressful life events were commonly reported. Clinical clues on examination suggesting a psychogenic origin were similar to those identified in adults. A distinct feature of PMD in children was the predominant involvement of the dominant limb. The underlying psychiatric diagnosis was conversion disorder in the majority of cases. Time from symptom onset until diagnosis of a PMD varied broadly (between 2 weeks and 5 years). Treatment with cognitive and behavioral therapy and rehabilitation by a multidisciplinary team led to improvement in most cases. However, treatment was much more effective in children with a short time from symptom onset to diagnosis and treatment.
Autosomal recessive parkin (PARK2) gene-related parkinsonism may be phenotypically and pathophysiologically distinct from idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Furthermore, asymptomatic subjects carrying a single parkin mutation (&quot;parkin carriers&quot;) may show striatal dopaminergic dysfunction and increased cortical movement-related activation. Here, we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to study corticospinal and intracortical excitability in manifesting parkin patients and asymptomatic carriers. We studied resting and active motor thresholds (RMT/AMT), central motor conduction time (CMCT), active recruitment curves, short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and facilitation (ICF), SICI recruitment curve, and cortical silent period (CSP) in 8 patients &quot;off&quot; medication, 7 carriers, and two groups of age-matched controls (n = 21). Patients had longer CMCTs compared to controls with a significant negative correlation between CMCT duration and onset age (r = -0.83, P = 0.04). Carriers had increased RMT/AMT; the time course of SICI/ICF and the duration of CSP were normal in both patients and carriers; however slight abnormalities in the recruitment of SICI were found in the carriers. Prolonged CMCT and normal cortical inhibitory mechanisms in parkin patients may be of value in the differentiation from idiopathic PD. The subclinical electrophysiological abnormalities found in carriers may represent underlying compensatory mechanisms.
It is frequently assumed that idiopathic Parkinson's disease starts with several nonmotor symptoms and signs, but the evidence for this stage in the disease process is of variable quality. This review evaluates the more robust prospective or pathologically confirmed publications to establish whether there is a premotor period and if so what is its duration. The most informative studies are considered to be those concerned with olfaction, dysautonomia, and sleep disorder. Estimates for the duration of the prodromal phase vary from months to decades. It is concluded that there probably is an early phase in the disease where a variety of nonmotor features develop, but the sequence and time of onset of such features is not well established.
Inherited myoclonus dystonia (M-D, DYT11) is an autosomal dominant dystonia-plus syndrome, which in many families is caused by mutations in the SGCE/(epsilon-sarcoglycan gene. We present a family with M-D, with an unusual presentation characterized by infantile onset with falls in two sisters and adult-onset writer's cramp in their father. Myoclonus dystonia is typically characterized by a variable mixture of alcohol-sensitive myoclonic jerks and dystonia classically affecting mainly the proximal arms and neck. Leg involvement is less frequent, and to our knowledge, initial presentation with falls has not previously been described. The unusual phenotype of the family is discussed.
In functional brain mapping, pattern recognition methods allow detecting multivoxel patterns of brain activation which are informative with respect to a subject's perceptual or cognitive state. The sensitivity of these methods, however, is greatly reduced when the proportion of voxels that convey the discriminative information is small compared to the total number of measured voxels. To reduce this dimensionality problem, previous studies employed univariate voxel selection or region-of-interest-based strategies as a preceding step to the application of machine learning algorithms. Here we employ a strategy for classifying functional imaging data based on a multivariate feature selection algorithm, Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE) that uses the training algorithm (support vector machine) recursively to eliminate irrelevant voxels and estimate informative spatial patterns. Generalization performances on test data increases while features/voxels are pruned based on their discrimination ability. In this article we evaluate RFE in terms of sensitivity of discriminative maps (Receiver Operative Characteristic analysis) and generalization performances and compare it to previously used univariate voxel selection strategies based on activation and discrimination measures. Using simulated fMRI data, we show that the recursive approach is suitable for mapping discriminative patterns and that the combination of an initial univariate activation-based (F-test) reduction of voxels and multivariate recursive feature elimination produces the best results, especially when differences between conditions have a low contrast-to-noise ratio. Furthermore, we apply our method to high resolution (2 x 2 x 2 mm(3)) data from an auditory fMRI experiment in which subjects were stimulated with sounds from four different categories. With these real data, our recursive algorithm proves able to detect and accurately classify multivoxel spatial patterns, highlighting the role of the superior temporal gyrus in encoding the information of sound categories. In line with the simulation results, our method outperforms univariate statistical analysis and statistical learning without feature selection.
Oscillatory activity is a prominent characteristic of electrophysiological recordings in the olfactory system and has been proposed to play a key role in encoding olfactory representations. Studies in several systems have shown that some aspects of information coding involve characteristics that intertwine spikes and fast oscillations (in the beta and gamma range) of local field potentials (LFP). In the insect olfactory system, it has been proposed that oscillatory activity could provide a temporal link between cells. Following previous data, we have proposed that gamma band oscillations in mammals could subserve a gating function for the transfer of information between the olfactory bulb (OB) and the anterior piriform cortex (aPC), which are functionally coupled. In this study, we used an electrophysiological approach to investigate the temporal relationship between LFP gamma oscillations and single-unit activity by simultaneously recording LFP and single unit discharges in the rat aPC during odor evoked activity. Our data showed that mean spike discharges and gamma oscillatory bursts were synchronized with the same respiratory cycle epoch (around the inspiration/expiration transition). Temporal correlations between spikes and LFP revealed that cortical cell spikes were tightly phase-coupled with the peak of gamma oscillations and that this phase-coupling was not odor-dependent. Our results suggest that gamma oscillation may act as a temporal filter. Oscillatory phase-coupled spikes in the OB could act in increasing the probability of spike emission in the aPC cell during a narrow time-window, explaining the tight phase-coupling observed in the aPC. The role of spike-LFP phase-coupling as a binding function between odor features is discussed.
The entorhinal cortex (EC) projects via the perforant pathway to all subfields in the hippocampal formation. One can distinguish medial and lateral components in the pathway, originating in corresponding medial and lateral subdivisions of EC. We analyzed the innervation by medial and lateral perforant pathway fibers of parvalbumin-expressing neurons in the subiculum. A neuroanatomical tracer (biotinylated dextran amine, BDA) was stereotaxically injected in the medial or lateral entorhinal cortex, thus selectively labeling either perforant pathway component. Transport was allowed for 1 week. Transported BDA was detected with streptavidin-Alexa Fluor 488. Parvalbumin neurons were visualized via immunofluorescence histochemistry, using the fluorochrome Alexa Fluor 594. Via a random systematic sampling scheme using a two-channel, sequential-mode confocal laser scanning procedure, we obtained image series at high magnification from the molecular layer of the subiculum. Labeled entorhinal fibers and parvalbumin-expressing structures were three dimensionally (3D) reconstructed using computer software. Further computer analysis revealed that approximately 16% of the 3D objects ('boutons') of BDA-labeled fibers was engaged in contacts with parvalbumin-immunostained dendrites in the subiculum. Both medial and lateral perforant pathway fibers and their boutons formed such appositions. Contacts are suggestive for synapses. We found no significant differences between the medial and lateral components in the relative numbers of contacts. Thus, the medial and lateral subdivisions of the entorhinal cortex similarly tune the firing of principal neurons in the subiculum by way of parvalbumin positive interneurons in their respective terminal zones.
In the present study we tested the protective effects of netrin-1 in stroke and investigated the potential underlying mechanisms. When we performed middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) on adult mice, up-regulation of the receptor uncoordinated gene 5H2 (UNC5H2) but not its ligand netrin-1 was detected with RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. Injection of netrin-1, 1 day after MCAO, significantly reduced infarct volume at 3 days after MCAO as revealed by functional magnetic resonance imaging. The ischemic cortex was preserved when netrin-1 was continuously administered. Fluoro-Jade and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated digoxigenin-dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling staining showed that netrin-1 reduced the number of dying neurons and apoptotic cells after MCAO. Ischemia-induced p53 expression was attenuated by netrin-1. We also tested the ability of netrin-1 to attract intrinsic neuronal stem cells to the infarct area. Both DCC and UNC5H2 were expressed in neurosphere culture and netrin-1 attracted stem cells in an in vitro transwell assay. However, in vivo netrin-1 administration did not enhance the MCAO-induced stem cell migration toward the infarct area. Our study shows that UNC5H2 expression was elevated after MCAO and administration of netrin-1 protected infarct tissue from p53-mediated apoptosis. These data indicate that the p53/dependent receptor pathway is involved in ischemic stroke pathology and suggest possible new stroke therapies.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) in mammals leads to a robust inflammatory response followed by the formation of a glial and connective tissue scar that comprises a barrier to axonal regeneration. The inbred MRL/MpJ mouse strain exhibits reduced inflammation after peripheral injury and shows true regeneration without tissue scar formation following an ear punch wound. We hypothesized that following SCI, the unique genetic wound healing traits of this strain would result in reduced glial and connective tissue scar formation, increased axonal growth, and improved functional recovery. Adult MRL/MpJ and C57BL/6J mice were subjected to a mid-thoracic spinal contusion and the distribution of axon profiles and selected cellular and extracellular matrix components was compared at 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks post-injury. Recovery of hind-limb locomotor function was assessed over the same time period. The MRL/MpJ mice exhibited robust axon growth within the lesion, beginning at 4 weeks post-injury. This growth was accompanied by reduced macrophage staining at 1, 2, 4 and 6 weeks post-injury, decreased chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan staining at 1-2 weeks and increased laminin staining throughout the lesion at 2-6 weeks post-injury. Paradoxically, the extent of locomotor recovery was impaired in the MRL/MpJ mice. Close examination of the chronic lesion site revealed evidence of ongoing degeneration both within and surrounding the lesion site. Thus, the regenerative genetic wound healing traits of the MRL/MpJ mice contribute to the evolution of a lesion environment that supports enhanced axon growth after SCI. However, this response occurs at the expense of meaningful functional recovery.
Neurons in area PEc in the superior parietal cortex encode signals from different modalities, such as visual, extraretinal and somatosensory, probably combining them to encode spatial parameter of extrapersonal space to prepare body movements. This study reports the characterization of the functional properties of PEc non-visual neurons that showed saccade-related activity. We analyzed the pre- and post-saccadic firing activity in 189 neurons recorded in five hemispheres of three behaving monkeys. Spiking activity of PEc single neurons was recorded while the monkeys performed visually-guided saccades in a reaction time task. We found that 84% of neurons recorded from area PEc showed pre-saccadic activity with directional tuning. In 26% of neurons, we found inhibition of activity in the pre-saccadic period. The onset of this &quot;pause&quot; always started before the saccade and, in 51% of neurons, it was invariant among different gaze directions. The post-saccadic activity in these cells was either a phasic response with directional tuning (77%) and/or an eye position tuning (75%). The analysis of the preferred direction did not show hemispheric preference, however, for the majority of neurons, the angular difference in the preferred direction, in the pre- and post-saccadic period, was more than 60 degrees . By confirming, therefore, that PEc neurons carry information about eye position, these novel findings open new horizons on PEc function that, to date, is not well documented. The pre-saccadic activity may reflect an involvement in saccade control, whereas post-saccadic activity may indicate a role in informing on the new eye position. These novel results about saccade and eye position processing may imply a role of area PEc in gaze direction mechanisms and, possibly, in remapping visual space after eye movements.
Among the GABAergic neocortical interneurons, fast-spiking (FS) basket and chandelier cells are essential mediators for feed-forward inhibition, network synchrony and oscillations. The FS properties are in part mediated by the voltage-gated potassium channels Kv3.1b/3.2 which allow the fast repolarization of the membrane necessary for firing non-adapting action potentials at high frequencies. It has been recently reported that the FS phenotype fails to mature in BDNF knockout mice suggesting a role for neurotrophins. We now describe the role of neuronal activity and neurotrophins for Kv3.1b/3.2 expression using organotypic cultures of rat visual cortex as model system. Chronic activity deprivation from 2 days in vitro (DIV) prevented the postnatal developmental increase of Kv3.2, but not Kv3.1b mRNA expression. However, chronic activity deprivation failed to alter Kv3.1b and marginally delayed Kv3.2 protein expression. Activity deprivation by glutamate receptor blockade from 10 to 20 DIV reduced both mRNAs, whereas deprivation with tetrodotoxin (TTX) reduced both mRNAs and the Kv3.2 protein. Thalamic and cortical afferents in cocultures failed to alter the expression. BDNF and NT4 supplemented from 2 DIV onwards increased the expression of Kv3.1b, but not Kv3.2 mRNA in young cultures. Only NT4 increased the expression of both mRNAs later in development. Kv3 protein levels were not changed by exogenous tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) ligands, but the levels decreased upon inhibiting the MAPK signaling suggesting a role for endogenous factors and in particular MEK2 signaling for translation. The results show that Kv3.1b/3.2 expression is differentially controlled by neuronal activity and neurotrophic factors.
By acting on neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors, neuropeptides of the tachykinin family can powerfully excite rat hippocampal GABAergic interneurons located in the CA1 region and by this way indirectly inhibit CA1 pyramidal neurons. In addition to contact pyramidal neurons, however, GABAergic hippocampal interneurons can also innervate other interneurons. We thus asked whether activation of tachykinin-sensitive interneurons could indirectly inhibit other interneurons. The study was performed in hippocampal slices of young adult rats. Synaptic events were recorded using the whole-cell patch clamp technique. We found that substance P enhanced GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents in a majority of the interneurons tested. Miniature, action potential-independent inhibitory postsynaptic currents were unaffected by substance P, as were evoked inhibitory synaptic currents. This suggests that the peptide acted at the somatodendritic membrane of interneurons, rather than at their axon terminals. The effect of substance P was mimicked by a selective NK1 receptor agonist, but not by neurokinin 2 (NK2) or neurokinin 3 (NK3) receptor agonists, and was suppressed by a NK1 selective receptor antagonist. In contrast to substance P, oxytocin, another peptide capable of activating hippocampal interneurons, had no effect on the inhibitory synaptic drive onto interneurons. We conclude that tachykinins, by acting on NK1 receptors, can influence the hippocampal activity by indirectly inhibiting both pyramidal neurons and GABAergic interneurons. Depending on the precise balance between these effects, tachykinins may either activate or depress hippocampal network activity.
In the present study we studied the effects of aging on the coding of contrast in area V1 (primary visual cortex) and MT (middle temporal visual area) of the macaque monkey using single-neuron in vivo electrophysiology. Our results show that both MT and V1 neurons in old monkeys are less sensitive to contrast than those in young monkeys. Generally, contrast sensitivity is affected by aging more severely in MT cells than in V1 cells. Specifically, MT cells were affected more severely than motion direction selective V1 cells. Particularly, we found that MT neurons in old monkeys exhibited enhanced maximum visual responses, higher levels of spontaneous activity and decreased signal-to-noise ratios. In addition, we also found age-related changes in neuronal adaptation to visual motion in MT. Compared with young animals, the contrast gain of MT neurons in old monkeys is less affected, but the response gain by adaptation of MT neurons is more affected. Our results suggest that there may be an anomalous visual processing in both the magnocellular and parvocellular pathways. The neural changes described here are consistent with an age-related degeneration of intracortical inhibition and could underlie some deficits in visual function during normal aging.
The amygdala is classically regarded as a detector of potential threat and as a critical component of the neural circuitry mediating conditioned fear responses. However, it has been reported that the human amygdala responds to multiple expressions of emotions as well as emotionally neutral stimuli of a novel, uncertain or ambiguous nature. Thus, it has been proposed that the function of the amygdala may be of a more general art, i.e. as a detector of behaviorally relevant stimuli [Sander D, Grafman J, Zalla T (2003) The human amygdala: an evolved system for relevance detection. Rev Neurosci 14:303-316]. To investigate this putative function of the amygdala, we used event related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and a modified Go-NoGo task composed of behaviorally relevant and irrelevant letter and number stimuli. Analyses revealed bilateral amygdala activation in response to letter stimuli that were behaviorally relevant as compared with letters with less behavioral relevance. Similar results were obtained for relatively infrequent NoGo relevant stimuli as compared with more frequent Go stimuli. Our findings support a role for the human amygdala in general detection of behaviorally relevant stimuli.
P2X receptors are ATP-gated cationic channels composed of seven known subunits (P2X1-7) which are involved in different functions in neural tissue. The present study investigates the P2X5 receptor expression pattern in the mouse CNS using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry. The specificity of the immunostaining has been verified by pre-absorption, Western blot and in situ hybridization methods. Heavy P2X5 receptor immunostaining was observed in the mitral cells of the olfactory bulb; cerebral cortex; globus pallidum, anterior cortical amygdaloid nucleus, amygdalohippocampal area of subcortical telencephalon; anterior nuclei, anteroventral nucleus, ventrolateral nucleus of thalamus; supraoptic nucleus, ventromedial nucleus, arcuate nucleus of hypothalamus; substantia nigra of midbrain; pontine nuclei, mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, motor trigeminal nucleus, ambiguous nucleus, inferior olive, hypoglossal nucleus, dorsal motor vagus nucleus, area postrema of hindbrain; Purkinje cells of cerebellum; and spinal cord. The identification of extensive P2X5 receptor immunoreactivity and mRNA distribution within the CNS of the mouse demonstrated here is consistent with a role for extracellular ATP acting as a fast neurotransmitter.
It is well documented that heat-shock protein (hsp90) plays an essential role in maintaining stability and activity of its clients. Recent studies have shown that geldanamycin (GA), an inhibitor of hsp90, could decrease the protein of mixed-lineage kinase (MLK) 3 and activate Akt; our previous research documented that MLK3 and Akt and subsequent c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) were involved in neuronal cell death in ischemic brain injury. Here, we investigated whether GA could decrease the protein of MLK3 and activate Akt in rat four-vessel occlusion ischemic model. Our results showed that global cerebral ischemia followed by reperfusion could enhance the association of hsp90 with MLK3, the association of hsp90 with Src, and JNK3 activation. As a result, GA decreased the protein of MLK3 and down-regulated JNK activation. On the other hand, Src kinase was activated and phosphorylated Cbl, which then recruited the p85 subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI-3K), resulting in PI-3K activation, and as a consequence increased Akt activation, which inhibited ASK1 activation and down-regulated JNK3 activation. In summary, our results indicated that GA showed a dual inhibitory role on JNK3 activation and exerted strong neuroprotection in vivo and in vitro, which provides a new possible approach for stroke therapy.
To understand plastic changes in the dorsal horn related to neuropathic pain, we developed a model of decompression in rats with chronic constriction injury (CCI) and investigated corresponding changes in the dorsal horn. At postoperative week 4 (POW 4) of CCI, rats were divided into a decompression group, in which ligatures were removed, and a CCI group, in which ligatures remained. Spinal cords were immunostained for substance P (SP), the delta-opioid receptor (DOR), and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Areas of immunoreactive nerve terminals in the dorsal horn were quantified and expressed as the dorsal horn index (immunoreactive areas of the operated side compared with those of the contralateral side). At POW 4, dorsal horn indexes of all of these molecules were significantly reduced in both groups to similar degrees (0.36-0.43). At POW 8, neuropathic pain behaviors had completely disappeared in the decompression group with significant reversal of the dorsal horn indexes compared with the CCI group (0.81+/-0.02 vs. 0.58+/-0.09, P &lt; 0.001 for SP and 0.75+/-0.04 vs. 0.55+/-0.03, P &lt; 0.001 for DOR). In the CCI group, neuropathic pain behaviors became normalized at POW 12 with corresponding changes in dorsal horn indexes for both SP and DOR similar to those of the decompression group. In contrast, changes in the dorsal horn indexes of CGRP were similar in both the CCI and decompression groups throughout the experimental period. These findings suggest that CCI and decompression cause different patterns in peptidergic and DOR (+) nerve terminals in the dorsal horn.
Drug addiction is a state of altered brain reward and self-regulation mediated by both neurotransmitter and hormonal systems. Although an organism's internal system attempts to maintain homeostasis when challenged by exogenous opiates and other drugs of abuse, it eventually fails, resulting in the transition from drug use to drug abuse. We propose that the attempted maintenance of hormonal homeostasis is achieved, in part, through alterations in levels of processing enzymes that control the ratio of active hormone to pro-hormone. Two pro-hormone convertases, PC1/3 and PC2 are believed to be responsible for the activation of many neurohormones and expression of these enzymes is dependent on the presence of a cyclic-AMP response element (CRE) in their promoters. Therefore, we studied the effects of short-term (24-h) and long-term (7-day) morphine treatment on the expression of hypothalamic PC1/3 and PC2 and levels of phosphorylated cyclic-AMP-response element binding protein (P-CREB). While short-term morphine exposure down-regulated, long-term morphine exposure up-regulated P-CREB, PC1/3 and PC2 protein levels in the rat hypothalamus as determined by Western blot analysis. Quantitative immunofluorescence studies confirmed these regulatory actions of morphine in the paraventricular and dorsomedial nucleus of the hypothalamus. Specific radioimmunoassays demonstrated that the increase in PC1/3 and PC2 levels following long-term morphine led to increased TRH biosynthesis as evidence by increased TRH/5.4 kDa C-terminal proTRH-derived peptide ratios in the median eminence. Promoter activity experiments in rat somatomammotrope GH3 cells containing the mu-opioid receptor demonstrated that the CRE(s) in the promoter of PC1/3 and PC2 is required for morphine-induced regulation of PC1/3 and PC2. Our data suggest that the regulation of the prohormone processing system by morphine may lead to alterations in the levels of multiple bioactive hormones and may be a compensatory mechanism whereby the organism tries to restore its homeostatic hormonal milieu. The down-regulation of PC1/3, PC2 and P-CREB by short-term morphine and up-regulation by long-term morphine treatment may be a signal mediating the switch from drug use to drug abuse.
In the present study, we characterized differential expressions of phosphorylated Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIalpha (pCaMKIIalpha) and phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated protein (pERK) in the mouse hippocampus induced by various nociceptive stimuli. In an immunoblot study, s.c. injection of formalin and intrathecal (i.t.) injections of glutamate, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and interleukin-1beta (IL-1 beta) significantly increased pCaMKIIalpha expression in the hippocampus, but i.p. injections of acetic acid did not. pERK1/2 expression was also increased by i.t. injection of glutamate, TNF-alpha, and IL-1beta but not by s.c. injections of formalin or i.p. injections of acetic acid. In an immunohistochemical study, we found that increased pCaMKIIalpha and pERK expressions were mainly located at CA3 or the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. In a behavioral study, we assessed the effects of PD98059 (a MEK 1/2 inhibitor) and KN-93 (a CaMKII inhibitor) following i.c.v. administration on the nociceptive behaviors induced by i.t. injections of glutamate, pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha or IL-1beta), and i.p. injections of acetic acid. PD98059 as well as KN-93 significantly attenuated the nociceptive behavior induced by glutamate, pro-inflammatory cytokines, and acetic acid. Our results suggest that (1) pERKalpha and pCaMK-II located in the hippocampus are important regulators during the nociceptive processes induced by s.c. formalin, i.t. glutamate, i.t. pro-inflammatory cytokines, and i.p. acetic acid injection, respectively, and (2) the alteration of pERK and pCaMKIIalpha in nociceptive processing induced by formalin, glutamate, pro-inflammatory cytokines and acetic acid was modulated in a different manner.
The influence of estradiol (E2) treatment on temporomandibular joint (TMJ) nociceptive processing in the caudal trigeminal sensory brain stem complex was assessed in ovariectomized female rats by quantitative Fos-immunoreactivity (Fos-LI). After 2 days of daily injections of high (HE2) or low (LE2) dose E2 rats were anesthetized and the small fiber excitant, mustard oil (MO, 0-20%), was injected into the TMJ and after 2 h brains were processed for Fos-LI. TMJ-evoked Fos-LI in laminae I-II at the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical cord (Vc/C1-2) junction and the dorsal paratrigeminal region (dPa5) was significantly greater in HE2 than LE2 rats, while Fos-LI produced at the ventral trigeminal interpolaris/caudalis transition region (Vi/Vc(vl)) was similar. E2 treatment also modified the influence of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and AMPA receptor antagonists on TMJ-evoked Fos-LI. The NMDA antagonist, MK-801, dose-dependently reduced the Fos-LI response at the Vc/C1-2 junction in HE2 rats, while only high dose MK-801 was effective in LE2 rats. MK801 reduced equally the Fos-LI response at the Vi/Vc transition in both groups, while only minor effects were seen at the dPa5 region. The AMPA receptor antagonist, NBQX, reduced Fos-LI at the Vc/C(1-2) and Vi/Vc(vl) regions in HE2 rats, while only high dose NBQX was effective in LE2 rats. NBQX did not reduce Fos-LI at the dPa5 region in either group. These results suggest that estrogen status plays a significant role in TMJ nociceptive processing at the Vc/C1-2 junction mediated, in part, through ionotropic glutamate receptor-dependent mechanisms.
Transgenic mice with overexpression of the caspase-inhibitor, X-chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) in Purkinje cell (PC) and in retinal bipolar cells (RBCs) were produced to study the regulation of cell death. Unexpectedly, an increased neurodegeneration was observed in the PCs in these L7-XIAP mice after the third postnatal week with the mice exhibiting severe ataxia. The loss of PCs was independent of Bax as shown by crossing the L7-XIAP mice with Bax gene-deleted mice. Electron microscopy revealed intact organelles in PCs but with the stacking of ER cisterns indicative of cell stress. Immunostaining for cell death proteins showed an increased phosphorylation of c-Jun in the PCs, suggesting an involvement in cell degeneration. Apart from PCs, the number of RBCs was decreased in adult retina in line with the expression pattern for the L7 promoter. The data show that overexpression of the anti-apoptotic protein XIAP in vulnerable neurons leads to enhanced cell death. The mechanisms underlying this neurodegeneration can be related to the effects of XIAP on cell stress and altered cell signaling.
Inhibition of return (IOR) is a phenomenon that involves reaction times (RTs) to a spatially cued target that are longer than RTs to an uncued target when the interval between the cue and target is prolonged. Although numerous studies have examined IOR, no consensus has yet been reached regarding the neural mechanisms responsible for it. We used magnetoencephalography (MEG) and measured the human neural responses underlying the time course of IOR, applying a typical spatial cueing paradigm. The cue-target interval was 600+/-200 ms. Three experimental conditions were employed. Cued; the cue and target were presented at the same location. Uncued; the two stimuli were presented at opposite locations. Neutral; the cue stimulus was presented bilaterally. We found differences in the amplitudes of signals in the postero-temporal and bilateral temporal areas, and peak latencies in a central area between the cued and uncued conditions. These signals were localized to the extrastriate cortex, bilateral temporal-parietal junction (TPJ), and primary motor cortex, respectively. Bilateral TPJ activities are related to the identification of salient events in the sensory environment both within and independent of the current behavioral context and may play an important role in IOR in addition to extrastriate and the primary motor cortex.
In rodent species, the expression of reproductive behavior relies heavily on the perception of social odors, as well as the presence of circulating steroid hormones. In the Syrian hamster, chemosensory and hormonal cues are processed within an interconnected network of ventral forebrain nuclei that regulates many aspects of social behavior. Within this network, the posteromedial cortical amygdala (PMCo) receives direct projections from the accessory olfactory bulbs and contains a dense population of steroid receptor-containing neurons. Consequently, the PMCo may be important for generating odor-guided aspects of reproductive behavior, yet little is known regarding the role of this nucleus in regulating these behaviors. Thus, the present study tested male hamsters with site-specific electrolytic lesions of the PMCo for their (a) sexual odor preference in a Y-maze apparatus, (b) sexual odor discrimination in a habituation-dishabituation task, and (c) copulatory behavior when paired with a sexually receptive female. PMCo-lesioned males preferred to investigate female odors over male odors and were able to discriminate between these odor sources. However, PMCo lesions were associated with several alterations in the male copulatory pattern. First, PMCo-lesioned males displayed increased investigation of the female's non-anogenital region, suggesting that the PMCo may be involved in directing appropriate chemosensory investigation during mating. Second, PMCo lesions altered the temporal pattern of the mating sequence, as PMCo-lesioned males took longer than Sham-lesioned males to reach sexual satiety, as indicated by the delayed expression of long intromissions. This delayed onset of satiety was associated with an increased number of ejaculations compared with Sham-lesioned males. Importantly, these data provide the first direct evidence for a functional role of the PMCo in regulating male reproductive behavior.
The protein fragment nesfatin-1 was recently implicated in the control of food intake. Central administration of this fragment results in anorexia and reduced body weight gain, whereas antisense or immunological nesfatin-1 antagonism causes increased food intake and overweight. Nesfatin-1 is derived from the precursor nucleobindin-2 (NUCB2). To identify the neurocircuitry underpinning the catabolic effects of NUCB2/nesfatin-1, we have used in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry to map the distribution of this protein and its mRNA in the rat CNS and performed double-labeling experiments to localize its expression to functionally defined neuronal populations. These experiments confirm previous observations but also present several novel NUCB2 cell populations. Both NUCB2 mRNA and nesfatin-like immunoreactivity was most concentrated in the hypothalamus, in the supraoptic, paraventricular, periventricular and arcuate nuclei and the lateral hypothalamic area/perifornical region. Additionally, outside of the hypothalamus, labeling was observed in the thalamic parafascicular nucleus, the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, locus coeruleus, ventral raphe system, nucleus of solitary tract and in the preganglionic sympathetic intermediolateral cell column of the spinal cord, and the pituitary anterior and intermediate lobes. In neurons, immunoreactivity was almost exclusively confined to perikarya and primary dendrites with virtually no labeling of axonal terminals. Double-labeling immunohistochemistry revealed colocalization of nesfatin with vasopressin and oxytocin in magnocellular neuroendocrine neurons, thyrotropin-releasing hormone, corticotropin-releasing hormone, somatostatin, neurotensin, and growth-hormone-releasing hormone in parvocellular neuroendocrine neurons, pro-opiomelanocortin (but not neuropeptide Y) in the arcuate nucleus and melanin-concentrating hormone (but not hypocretin) in the lateral hypothalamus. Furthermore, nesfatin was extensively colocalized with cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript in almost all NUCB2-expressing brain regions. These data reveal a wider distribution of NUCB2/nesfatin-1 than previously known, suggesting that the metabolic actions of this protein may involve not only feeding behavior but also endocrine and autonomic effects on energy expenditure. In addition, the subcellular distribution of nesfatin-like immunoreactivity indicates that this protein may not be processed like a conventional secreted neuromodulator.
The use of deep brain stimulation (DBS) as an effective clinical therapy for a number of neurological disorders has been greatly hindered by the lack of understanding of the mechanisms which underlie the observed clinical improvement in patients. This problem is confounded by the difficulty of investigating the neuronal effects of DBS in situ, and the impossibility of measuring the induced current in vivo. In our recent computational work using a quasi-static finite element (FEM) model we have quantitatively shown that the properties of the depth electrode-brain interface (EBI) have a significant effect on the electric field induced in the brain volume surrounding the DBS electrode. In the present work, we explore the influence of the reactivity of the EBI on the crossing electric current using the Fourier-FEM approach to allow the investigation of waveform attenuation in the time domain. Results showed that the EBI affected the waveform shaping differently at different post-implantation stages, and that this in turn had implications on induced current distribution across the EBI. Furthermore, we investigated whether hypothetical waveforms, which were shown to have potential usefulness for neural stimulation but are not yet applied clinically, would have any advantage over the currently used square pulse. In conclusion, the influence of reactivity of the EBI on the crossing stimulation current in therapeutic DBS is significant, and affects the predictive estimation of current distribution around the implanted DBS electrode in the human brain.
Acetylcholine (ACh) is an important mediator of dopamine (DA) release and the behavioral reinforcing characteristics of drugs of abuse in the mesocorticolimbic pathway. Within the ventral tegmental area (VTA), the interaction of DA with ACh appears to be integral in mediating motivated behaviors. However, the effects of methamphetamine on VTA ACh and DA release remain poorly characterized. The current investigation performed microdialysis to evaluate the effects of methamphetamine on extracellular levels of ACh and DA. Male C57BL/6J mice received an i.p. injection (saline, 2 mg/kg, or 5 mg/kg) and an intra-VTA infusion (vehicle, 100 microM or 1 mM) of methamphetamine. Locally perfused methamphetamine resulted in no change in extracellular ACh compared with vehicle, but caused a strong, immediate and dose-dependent increase in extrasynaptic DA levels (1240% and 2473% of baseline, respectively) during the 20-min pulse perfusion. An i.p. injection of methamphetamine increased extrasynaptic DA to 275% and 941% of baseline (2 mg/kg and 5 mg/kg, respectively). Systemic methamphetamine significantly increased ACh levels up to 275% of baseline for 40-60 min (2 mg/kg) and 397% of baseline for 40-160 min (5 mg/kg) after injection. ACh remained elevated above baseline for 2-3 h post injection, depending on the methamphetamine dose. Methamphetamine-induced locomotor activity was dose-dependently correlated with extrasynaptic VTA ACh, but not DA levels. These data suggest that methamphetamine acts in the VTA to induce a robust and short-lived increase in extracellular DA release but acts in an area upstream from the VTA to produce a prolonged increase in ACh release in the VTA. We conclude that methamphetamine may activate a recurrent loop in the mesocorticolimbic DA system to stimulate pontine cholinergic nuclei and produce a prolonged ACh release in the VTA.
Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) is widely recognized as a prototype of multifunctional growth factors and master switches in the regulation of key events of development, disease and repair. It is localized in neurons, astrocytes and brain macrophages in altered conditions but its localization in the amoeboid microglial cells (AMC), a nascent brain macrophage in the developing brain has remained unexplored. Here we report expression of TGF-beta1 and its receptors namely, transforming growth factor-beta receptor I (TbetaRI) and transforming growth factor-beta receptor II (TbetaRII) in AMC and BV-2 cells induced by hypoxia. Firstly, increase in TGF-beta1 mRNA expression and TGF-beta1 release was observed in the corpus callosum in postnatal rats subjected to a single hypoxic exposure. RT-PCR and Western blot analysis revealed a concomitant upregulation of TbetaRI and TbetaRII mRNA and protein. Secondly, immunofluorescence labeling showed that the preponderant AMC in the corpus callosum were immunoreactive for TGF-beta1 and its receptors. In rats subjected to hypoxia, immunoexpression of TGF-beta1 and both receptors was markedly enhanced. In longer surviving rats, the AMC transformed into ramified microglia but retained in them the immunoreactivity. In BV-2 cells exposed to hypoxia, TGF-beta1 mRNA expression and release of TGF-beta1 into the medium were significantly increased. It is noteworthy that expression of TbetaRI and TbetaRII mRNA and protein in hypoxic BV-2 cells was reduced indicating a differential response of AMC and BV-2 cells to hypoxia. Notwithstanding, it is unequivocal that AMC in the developing brain express and release TGF-beta1 into the ambient environment. We suggest that this may be a mechanism to help autoregulate microglial activation in adverse conditions via its receptors.
The developmental effects of thyroid hormones (TH) in mammalian brain are mainly mediated by nuclear receptors regulating gene expression. However, there are increasing evidences of nongenomic mechanisms of these hormones associated with kinase- and calcium-activated signaling pathways. In this context, the aim of the present work was to investigate the signaling pathways involved in the mechanism of action of TH on cytoskeletal phosphorylation in cerebral cortex of 15-day-old male rats. Results showed that L-thyroxine (L-T4) increased the intermediate filament (IF) phosphorylation independently of protein synthesis, without altering the total immunocontent of these proteins. Otherwise, neither 3,5,3'-triiodo-L-thyronine (L-T3) nor neurotransmitters (GABA, ATP, L-glutamate or epinephrine) acted on the IF-associated phosphorylation level. We also demonstrated that the mechanisms underlying the L-T4 effect on the cytoskeleton involve membrane initiated actions through Gi protein-coupled receptor. This evidence was reinforced by the inhibition of cyclic adenosine 5'-monophosphate (cAMP) levels. Moreover, we showed the participation of phospholipase C, protein kinase C, mitogen-activated protein kinase, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, intra- and extracellular Ca2+ mediating the effects of L-T4 on the cytoskeleton. Stimulation of 45Ca2+ uptake by L-T4 was also demonstrated. These findings demonstrate that L-T4 has important physiological roles modulating the cytoskeleton of neural cells during development.
The deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) are the final integrative units of the cerebellar network. The strongest single afferent to the DCN is formed by GABAergic Purkinje neuron axons whose synapses constitute the majority of all synapses in the DCN, with their action strongly regulating the intrinsic activity of their target neurons. Although this is well established, it remains unclear whether all DCN cell groups receive a functionally similar inhibitory input. We previously characterized three types of mouse DCN neurons based on the expression of glutamic acid decarboxylase isoform 67 (GAD67), their active membrane properties and morphological features. Here we describe the GABAergic synapses in these cell groups and show that spontaneous GABAergic synaptic activity can be seen in all three cell types. Since the majority of DCN neurons fire action potentials spontaneously at high frequencies both in vivo and in vitro, we expected that spontaneous GABAergic synaptic activities mediated by intra-DCN synaptic connections could be uncovered by their sensitivity to TTX. However, TTX had little effect on spontaneous synaptic activity. It seems, therefore that functional GABAergic connectivity within the DCN is sparse and/or weak at least under our experimental conditions. Even though present in all cell types, the spontaneous GABAergic events showed significant differences between the cell types. The synaptic currents in GABAergic cells had lower amplitude, lower frequency and slower kinetics than those of non-GABAergic cells. These differences could not be sufficiently explained by considering only cell size differences or a differential GABA(A)-receptor alpha-subunit composition. Rather, the main differentiating factor appears to be the dendritic localization of GABAergic synapses in the GABAergic cells.
Surgical trauma can affect spinal neuronal excitability, but there have been no studies of the effects of surgical cutaneous injury on central nociceptive processing of deep afferent inputs evoked by noxious stimuli such as capsaicin. Thus our aim was to test the effect of surgical cutaneous incision in influencing central sensitization induced by capsaicin injection into the temporomandibular joint (TMJ). The activity of single nociceptive neurons activated by noxious mechanical stimulation of the TMJ was recorded in the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical cord of halothane-anesthetized rats. The cutaneous mechanoreceptive field (RF), cutaneous mechanical activation threshold (MAT) and TMJ MAT of neurons before and after both surgical cutaneous incision alone and capsaicin injection were compared with results of incision and lidocaine pretreatment of the facial skin overlying the TMJ and capsaicin injection into the TMJ. Incision itself induced a barrage of neuronal spikes and excitability increases reflecting central sensitization (cutaneous RF expansion, cutaneous MAT reduction) in most neurons tested whereas lidocaine pretreatment significantly attenuated the barrage and central sensitization. Capsaicin injection into the TMJ induced cutaneous RF expansion, cutaneous MAT reduction and TMJ MAT reduction following lidocaine pretreatment of the cutaneous incision site whereas capsaicin injection following incision alone not only failed to induce further central sensitization but also decreased the existing incision-induced central sensitization (no cutaneous RF expansion, increased cutaneous MAT and TMJ MAT) in most neurons tested. These findings suggest that central sensitization induced by capsaicin alone or by cutaneous incision alone can readily occur in TMJ-responsive nociceptive neurons and that following incision-induced excitability increases, capsaicin may result in a temporary suppression of nociceptive neuronal changes reflecting central sensitization.
Altered ion channel expression and/or function may contribute to the development of certain human epilepsies. In rats, systemic administration of pilocarpine induces a model of human temporal lobe epilepsy, wherein a brief period of status epilepticus (SE) triggers development of spontaneous recurrent seizures that appear after a latency of 2-3 weeks. Here we investigate changes in expression of A-type voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels, which control neuronal excitability and regulate action potential propagation and neurotransmitter release, in the pilocarpine model of epilepsy. Using immunohistochemistry, we examined the expression of component subunits of somatodendritic (Kv4.2, Kv4.3, KChIPl and KChIP2) and axonal (Kv1.4) A-type Kv channels in hippocampi of pilocarpine-treated rats that entered SE. We found that Kv4.2, Kv4.3 and KChIP2 staining in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus changes from being uniformly distributed across the molecular layer to concentrated in just the outer two-thirds. We also observed a loss of KChIP1 immunoreactive interneurons, and a reduction of Kv4.2 and KChIP2 staining in stratum radiatum of CA1. These changes begin to appear 1 week after pilocarpine treatment and persist or are enhanced at 4 and 12 weeks. As such, these changes in Kv channel distribution parallel the acquisition of recurrent spontaneous seizures as observed in this model. We also found temporal changes in Kv1.4 immunoreactivity matching those in Timm's stain, being expanded in stratum lucidum of CA3 and in the inner third of the dentate molecular layer. Among pilocarpine-treated rats, changes were only observed in those that entered SE. These changes in A-type Kv channel expression may contribute to hyperexcitability of dendrites in the associated hippocampal circuits as observed in previous studies of the effects of pilocarpine-induced SE.
Taurine, 2-aminoethanesulfonic acid, is one of the most abundant free amino acids especially in excitable tissues, with wide physiological actions. We have previously reported that in mice, supplementation of the drinking water with taurine induces alterations in the inhibitory GABAergic system. In taurine-fed mice we found that the expression level of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the enzyme responsible for GABA synthesis, is elevated. Increased expression of GAD was accompanied by increased levels of GABA. Here, we investigated pharmacologically the functional significance of taurine-induced increase in GAD expression by determining the threshold for kainic acid-induced seizures after partial inhibition of GAD activity with isoniazide. We found that taurine-fed mice have elevated GAD expression and showed a higher threshold for seizure onset when compared with age-matched controls. Thus, taurine-fed mice have a functional increase in GAD activity which offers some protection in this seizure model. Furthermore, this pharmacological manipulation can be used to determine the level of GAD activity in other model systems that show alterations in GAD expression.
Vasopressin (AVP) plays an important role in anxiety-related and social behaviors. Single-prolonged stress (SPS) has been established as an animal acute severe stress model and has been shown to induce a lower adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) response upon cortisol challenge. Here, we show results from immunoassays for AVP, ACTH, and corticosterone (CORT), and in situ hybridizations for AVP mRNA performed 7 days after SPS exposure. Immunofluorescence for AVP was also performed during the 7-day period following SPS exposure and after an additional forced swimming stress paradigm. We observed that the plasma concentrations of AVP, ACTH, and CORT were not altered by SPS; ACTH content in the pituitary and AVP mRNA expression in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) were significantly reduced by SPS. During the 7-day period following SPS, the intensity of immunoreactivity, the size of the soma, and the immunoreactive optical density of the dendrites of AVP neurons in the SON all increased. An apparent reduction in the intensity of AVP immunoreactivity was observed in the SON at 4 h after additional stress. Additional forced swimming led to a rapid increase in the dendritic AVP content only in the controls and not in the SPS-treated rats. These findings suggest that AVP is a potential biomarker for past exposure to severe stress and that alterations in AVP may affect the development of pathogenesis in stress-related disorders.
The potential of physical exercise to decrease body weight, alleviate depression, combat aging and enhance cognition has been well-supported by research studies. However, exercise regimens vary widely across experiments, raising the question of whether there is an optimal form, intensity and duration of exertion that would produce maximal benefits. In particular, a comparison of forced and voluntary exercise is needed, since the results of several prior studies suggest that they may differentially affect brain and behavior. In the present study, we employed a novel 8-week exercise paradigm that standardized the distance, pattern, equipment and housing condition of forced and voluntary exercisers. Exercising rats were then compared with sedentary controls on measures previously shown to be influenced by physical activity. Our results indicate that although the distance covered by both exercise groups was the same, voluntary exercisers ran at higher speed and for less total time than forced exercisers. When compared with sedentary controls, forced but not voluntary exercise was found to increase anxiety-like behaviors in the open field. Both forms of exercise increased the number of surviving bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)+ cells in the dentate gyrus after 8 weeks of exercise, although forced exercisers had significantly more than voluntary exercisers. Phenotypic analysis of BrdU+ cells showed no difference between groups in the percentage of newborn cells that became neurons, however, because forced exercise maximally increased the number of BrdU+ cells, it ultimately produced more neurons than voluntary exercise. Our results indicate that forced and voluntary exercise are inherently different: voluntary wheel running is characterized by rapid pace and short duration, whereas forced exercise involves a slower, more consistent pace for longer periods of time. This basic difference between the two forms of exercise is likely responsible for their differential effects on brain and behavior.
Multiple sclerosis and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) result in inflammatory white matter lesions in the CNS. However, information is sparse with regard to the effects of autoimmune demyelinating disease on gray matter regions. Therefore, we studied the late effects of chronic EAE in C57BL/6 mice on the spinal cord gray matter using immunohistochemistry. Here, EAE induced marked astrocytic, microglial, and macrophage activation in the ventral horn gray matter, without any motoneuron loss. Activated caspase-3 was also increased in the ventral horn gray matter. Furthermore, activated poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), another apoptotic marker, co-localized with myelin basic protein (MBP) of oligodendrocyte processes, but not with the oligodendroglial cell body marker, adenomatous polyposis coli gene clone CC1 (APC-CC1), or with neurofilament marker (RT-97) or synaptophysin of axonal arbors. However, there was no associated increase in the number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) mediated-dUTP nick end labeling positive nuclei in the spinal cord gray matter of EAE mice. In addition, co-localization of MBP and the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor, p75, was demonstrated, further supporting the notion of apoptotic oligodendrocyte process degeneration in the gray matter of EAE mice.
Prolyl oligopeptidase (POP) is an endopeptidase which cleaves short proline-containing neuropeptides, and it is involved in memory and learning. POP also has an intercellular function mediated through the inositol pathway, and has been involved in cell death. POP has been early considered as a housekeeping enzyme, but the recent research indicates that POP expression is regulated across tissues and intracellularly. In the brain, POP is exclusively expressed in neurons and most abundantly in pyramidal neurons of cerebral cortex, in the CA1 field neurons of hippocampus and in cerebellar Purkinje's cells. Intracellularly, POP is mainly present in the cytoplasm and some in intracellular membranes, like rough endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus. In this paper, we systematically studied the levels of expression of POP along the life of cerebellar granule cells (CGC) in culture and the distribution of POP within different intracellular compartments. We used the tight-binding inhibitor JTP-4819 covalently coupled with fluorescein (FJTP) as a tool to study the changes on expression and localization of POP protein. Our results indicate that POP activity levels are regulated during the life of the neurons. POP was found mainly in cytoplasm and neuronal projections, but at an early developmental phase significant amounts were found also in nuclei. Along the life of the neurons, POP activity fluctuated in 7-day cycles. In young neurons, the cytosolic POP activity was low but increased by maturation so that the activity peak coincided with full differentiation. Over aging, cytoplasmic POP was concentrated around nucleus, but the activity decreased with time. POP was also present in vesicles across the neuron. No major changes were seen in the nuclear or membrane bound POP over aging until activity disappeared upon neuronal death. This is the first time when POP was found in the nuclei of human neuronal cells.
The Jendrassik maneuver (JM) is a method for enhancing sluggish tendon-tap jerks at medical examination. It is the thesis of this paper that JM effects should not be limited to the monosynaptic reflex pathway but extend to the entire response elicited in the stretched muscle. This consists of a short-latency response (SLR) corresponding to the mono- and oligosynaptic reflex and a medium-latency response (MLR) relayed by group-II spindle afferent fibers and likely made of a segmental burst and a transcortical loop. Soleus (Sol) SLR and MLR were evoked by toe-up and tibialis anterior (TA) MLR by toe-down platform rotation in 15 standing subjects and recorded by surface electromyogram (EMG). For each stimulus type, up to 20 perturbations were elicited during i) quiet stance (Control) and while ii) performing JM, iii) leaning forward (FW), iv) holding onto a stable frame (Holding). For each subject, stimulus type and condition, rectified EMG traces were averaged. Based on the comparison of the population grand averages, selective effects of JM on the responses were identified. Appropriate time windows were set for measuring the area of SLR and of the early and late burst of MLR (MLR1 and MLR2). Significant changes in response size, but not latency, were induced by all conditioning procedures. During toe-up, JM slightly increased Sol SLR; FW increased both Sol background activity and SLR; MLR1 was not affected by JM, but increased by FW; MLR2 was strongly diminished by JM and increased by FW. During toe-down, JM did not affect TA MLR1, but strongly diminished MLR2. Under Holding condition, Sol SLR to toe-up was unaffected, but both MLR1 and MLR2 to toe-up and toe-down were diminished, in both Sol and TA. JM selectively decreases the response component (MLR2) starting about 100 ms from onset of the stretch, in both extensor and flexor muscles. Latency and quality of the JM effect on MLR2 indicate that JM operates by gating a long-loop, possibly transcortical pathway. This new information suggests that lesions of cortical areas or descending pathways can exert enhancing effects on muscle tone by removing an inhibitory action on the late component of the stretch reflex.
Corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) is the central modulator of the mammalian hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. In addition, CRH affects other processes in the brain including learning, memory, and synaptic plasticity. Moreover, CRH has been shown to play a role in nerve cell survival under apoptotic conditions and to serve as an endogenous neuroprotectant in vitro. Employing mice overexpressing murine CRH in the CNS, we observed a differential response of CRH-overexpressing mice (CRH-COEhom-Nes) to acute excitotoxic stress induced by kainate compared with controls (CRH-COEcon-Nes). Interestingly, CRH-overexpression reduced the duration of epileptic seizures and prevented kainate-induced neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation in the hippocampus. Our findings highlight a neuroprotective action of CRH in vivo. This neuroprotective effect was accompanied by increased levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in CRH-COEhom-Nes mice, suggesting a potential role for BDNF in mediating CRH-induced neuroprotective actions against acute excitotoxicity in vivo.
Caffeine is a widely used psychostimulant freely crossing the placental barrier. At the doses usually absorbed, it acts as an antagonist of both A1 and A2A adenosine receptors. Pregnant women are generally not advised to limit their caffeine consumption and thus expose their progeny to the drug during the whole of gestation and lactation. The possibility that such caffeine exposure may have long-term consequences on brain development has led to several behavioral investigations on animal models. Despite the crucial role played by adenosine receptor systems in neonatal breathing control, few studies in vitro have been concerned with the consequences of maternal caffeine absorption on breathing, and none in the unrestrained intact animal. The present investigation analyzed the influence of caffeine exposure via placental and milk transfer on resting ventilation and on the response to moderate alveolar hypoxia of 0 to 2-day-old newborn rat (P0-P2) together with the possible underlying mechanisms. Dams absorbed caffeine (46+/-3 mg/kg/day) via drinking fluid (0.2 g/L) throughout gestation, in conditions mimicking moderate human consumption. Caffeine exposure did not significantly affect basal respiratory parameters. In contrast, it attenuated both the early increase and the secondary decrease in ventilation triggered by moderate alveolar hypoxia (11% O2 inhaled). The abolition of Fos protein expression evoked by hypoxia suggested that caffeine exposure may decrease the activity of O2-sensing peripheral chemoreceptor pathway. From real-time PCR data, those functional alterations were associated to increases in A2A adenosine receptor and alpha2 GABA(A) receptor subunit mRNAs in the medulla. This indicates that, even at moderate doses, maternal caffeine consumption may induce a series of subtle developmental alterations that may affect modulation of breathing control in the neonate in pathological situations such hypoxia.
The Drosophila DNA topoisomerase type I mutant allele, top1JS is an effective general seizure-suppressor mutation, reverting seizure-sensitive phenotypes of several mutant strains in a genetic model of epilepsy. Seizure-suppression is caused by reduced transcription of the top1 (topoisomerase I gene) gene [Song J, Hu J, Tanouye MA. (2007) Seizure suppression by top1 mutations in Drosophila. J Neurosci 27(11):2927-2937]. Here, we examine the possibility that pharmaceutical inhibition of Top1 (topoisomerase I protein) enzymatic activity may also be effective at reducing seizure phenotypes. We investigate the effect of vertebrate Top1 inhibitor camptothecin (CPT) along with two related compounds, apigenin and kaempferol, when fed to seizure-sensitive mutant Drosophila. All three Top1 inhibitors were found to suppress phenotypes in these mutants. In particular, for drug treatments, the recovery time from seizure and paralysis is greatly reduced compared with untreated animals. Intriguingly we find that chronic drug treatments result in a small reduction in seizure sensitivity. Taken together, the results suggest that Top1 inhibitors may have the potential to be developed into effective anti-epileptic drugs, especially for brain tumor patients presenting with epilepsy.
Expectation and conditioning are supposed to be the two main psychological mechanisms for inducing a placebo response. Here, we further investigate the effects of both expectation, which was induced by verbal suggestion alone, and conditioning at the level of N1 and N2-P2 components of CO2 laser-evoked potentials (LEPs) and subjective pain reports. Forty-four healthy volunteers were pseudorandomly assigned to one of three experimental groups: Group 1 was tested with verbal suggestion alone, Group 2 was tested with a conditioning procedure, whereby the intensity of painful stimulation was reduced surreptitiously, so as to make the volunteers believe that the treatment was effective, Group 3 was a control group that allowed us to rule out phenomena of sensitization and/or habituation. Pain perception was assessed according to a Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) ranging from 0=no pain sensation to 10=maximum imaginable pain. Both verbal suggestions (Group 1) and conditioning (Group 2) modified the N2-P2 complex, but not the N1 component of LEPs. However, the suggestion-induced LEP changes occurred without subjective perception of pain decrease. Conversely, the N2-P2 amplitude changes that were induced by the conditioning procedure were associated with the subjective perception of pain reduction. Compared to natural history, conditioning produced more robust reductions of LEP amplitudes than verbal suggestions alone. Overall, these findings indicate that prior positive experience plays a key role in maximizing both behavioral and neurophysiological placebo responses, emphasizing that the placebo effect is a learning phenomenon which affects the early central nociceptive processing.

Brain regions beyond visual cortex are thought to be responsible for attention-related modulation of visual processing [1, 2], but most evidence is indirect. Here, we applied functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), including retinotopic mapping of visual areas, to patients with focal right-parietal lesions and left spatial neglect [3, 4]. When attentional load at fixation was minimal, retinotopic areas in right visual cortex showed preserved responses to task-irrelevant checkerboards in the contralateral left hemifield, analogously to left visual cortex for right-hemifield checkerboards, indicating a &quot;symmetric&quot; pattern in both hemispheres with respect to contralateral stimulation under these conditions. But when attentional load at fixation was increased, a functional asymmetry emerged for visual cortex, with contralateral responses in right visual areas being pathologically reduced (even eliminated for right V4/TEO), whereas left visual areas showed no such reduction in their contralateral response. These results reveal attention-dependent abnormalities in visual cortex after lesions in distant (parietal) regions. This may explain otherwise puzzling aspects of neglect [5, 6], as confirmed here by additional behavioral testing.
Removal of TRF2, a telomere shelterin protein, recapitulates key aspects of telomere attrition including the DNA-damage response and cell-cycle arrest [1]. Distinct from the response of proliferating cells to loss of TRF2 [2, 3], in rodent noncycling cells, TRF2 inhibition promotes differentiation and growth [4, 5]. However, the mechanism that couples telomere gene-silencing features [6-8] to differentiation programs has yet to be elucidated. Here we describe an extratelomeric function of TRF2 in the regulation of neuronal genes mediated by the interaction of TRF2 with repressor element 1-silencing transcription factor (REST), a master repressor of gene networks devoted to neuronal functions [9-12]. TRF2-REST complexes are readily detected by coimmunoprecipitation assays and are localized to aggregated PML-nuclear bodies in undifferentiated pluripotent human NTera2 stem cells. Inhibition of TRF2, either by a dominant-negative mutant or by RNA interference, dissociates TRF2-REST complexes resulting in ubiquitin-proteasomal degradation of REST. Consequentially, REST-targeted neural genes (L1CAM, beta3-tubulin, synaptophysin, and others) are derepressed, resulting in acquisition of neuronal phenotypes. Notably, selective damage to telomeres without affecting TRF2 levels causes neither REST degradation nor cell differentiation. Thus, in addition to protecting telomeres, TRF2 possesses a novel role in stabilization of REST thereby controlling neural tumor and stem cell fate.
The detection of stimuli is critical for an animal's survival [1]. However, it is not adaptive for an animal to respond automatically to every stimulus that is present in the environment [2-5]. Given that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) plays a key role in executive function [6-8], we hypothesized that PFC activity should be involved in context-dependent responses to uncommon stimuli. As a test of this hypothesis, monkeys participated in a same-different task, a variant of an oddball task [2]. During this task, a monkey heard multiple presentations of a &quot;reference&quot; stimulus that were followed by a &quot;test&quot; stimulus and reported whether these stimuli were the same or different. While they participated in this task, we recorded from neurons in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vPFC; a cortical area involved in aspects of nonspatial auditory processing [9, 10]). We found that vPFC activity was correlated with the monkeys' choices. This finding demonstrates a direct link between single neurons and behavioral choices in the PFC on a nonspatial auditory task.
Neocortical projection neurons exhibit layer-specific molecular profiles and axonal connections. Here we show that the molecular identities of early-born subplate and deep-layer neurons are not acquired solely during generation or shortly thereafter but undergo progressive postmitotic refinement mediated by SOX5. Fezf2 and Bcl11b, transiently expressed in all subtypes of newly postmigratory early-born neurons, are subsequently downregulated in layer 6 and subplate neurons, thereby establishing their layer 5-enriched postnatal patterns. In Sox5-null mice, this downregulation is disrupted, and layer 6 and subplate neurons maintain an immature differentiation state, abnormally expressing these genes postnatally. Consistent with this disruption, SOX5 binds and represses a conserved enhancer near Fezf2. The Sox5-null neocortex exhibits failed preplate partition and laminar inversion of early-born neurons, loss of layer 5 subcerebral axons, and misrouting of subplate and layer 6 corticothalamic axons to the hypothalamus. Thus, SOX5 postmitotically regulates the migration, postmigratory differentiation, and subcortical projections of subplate and deep-layer neurons.
Small GTPase Rab is a member of a large family of Ras-related proteins, highly conserved in eukaryotic cells, and thought to regulate specific type(s) and/or specific step(s) in intracellular membrane trafficking. Given our interest in synaptic transmission, we addressed the possibility that Rab27 (a close isoform of Rab3) could be involved in cytosolic synaptic vesicle mobilization. Indeed, preterminal injection of a specific antibody against squid Rab27 (anti-sqRab27 antibody) combined with confocal microscopy demonstrated that Rab27 is present on squid synaptic vesicles. Electrophysiological study of injected synapses showed that the anti-sqRab27 antibody inhibited synaptic release in a stimulation-dependent manner without affecting presynaptic action potentials or inward Ca(2+) current. This result was confirmed in in vitro synaptosomes by using total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy. Thus, synaptosomal Ca(2+)-stimulated release of FM1-43 dye was greatly impaired by intraterminal anti-sqRab27 antibody. Ultrastructural analysis of the injected giant preterminal further showed a reduced number of docked synaptic vesicles and an increase in nondocked vesicular profiles distant from the active zone. These results, taken together, indicate that Rab27 is primarily involved in the maturation of recycled vesicles and/or their transport to the presynaptic active zone in the squid giant synapse.
Cognitive deficits in schizophrenia are thought to derive from a hypofunction of the prefrontal cortex (PFC), but the origin of the hypofunction is unclear. To explore the nature of this deficit, we genetically modified mice to model the increase in striatal dopamine D(2) receptors (D(2)Rs) observed in patients with schizophrenia. Previously, we reported deficits in spatial working memory tasks in these mice, congruent with the working memory deficits observed in schizophrenia. However, patients with schizophrenia suffer from deficits in many executive functions, including associative learning, planning, problem solving, and nonspatial working memory. We therefore developed operant tasks to assay two executive functions, conditional associative learning (CAL) and nonspatial working memory. Striatal D(2)R-overexpressing mice show a deficit in CAL because of perseverative behavior, caused by interference from the previous trial. D(2)R up-regulation during development was sufficient to cause this deficit, because switching off the transgene in adulthood did not rescue the phenotype. We validated prefrontal dependency of CAL by using neurotoxic lesions. Lesions of the medial PFC including the anterior cingulate, infralimbic, and prelimbic cortices impair CAL because of increased interference from previously rewarded trials, exactly as observed in D(2)R transgenic mice. In contrast, lesions restricted to the infralimbic and prelimbic cortices have no effect on CAL but impair performance in the nonspatial working memory task. These assays not only give us insight into how excess striatal D(2)Rs affect cognition but also provide tools for studying cognitive endophenotypes in mice.
The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptor (GABA(A)R) is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter receptor in the brain. Its multiple subunits show regional, developmental, and disease-related plasticity of expression; however, the regulatory networks controlling GABA(A)R subunit expression remain poorly understood. We report that the seizure-induced decrease in GABA(A)R alpha1 subunit expression associated with epilepsy is mediated by the Janus kinase (JAK)/signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) pathway regulated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). BDNF- and seizure-dependent phosphorylation of STAT3 cause the adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) response element-binding protein (CREB) family member ICER (inducible cAMP early repressor) to bind with phosphorylated CREB at the Gabra1:CRE site. JAK/STAT pathway inhibition prevents the seizure-induced decrease in GABA(A)R alpha1 abundance in vivo and, given that BDNF is known to increase the abundance of GABA(A)R alpha4 in a JAK/STAT-independent manner, indicates that BDNF acts through at least two distinct pathways to influence GABA(A)R-dependent synaptic inhibition.
High-frequency test stimulation for tremor suppression is a standard procedure for functional target localization during deep brain stimulation. This method does not work in cases where tremor vanishes intraoperatively, for example, due to general anaesthesia or due to an insertional effect. To overcome this difficulty, we developed a stimulation technique that effectively evokes tremor in a well-defined and quantifiable manner. For this, we used patterned low-frequency stimulation (PLFS), i.e. brief high-frequency pulse trains administered at pulse rates similar to neurons' preferred burst frequency. Unlike periodic single-pulse stimulation, PLFS enables one to convey effective and considerably greater integral charge densities without violation of safety requirements. In a computational investigation of an oscillatory neuronal network temporarily rendered inactive, we found that PLFS evokes synchronized activity, phase locked to the stimulus. While a stronger increase in the amount of synchrony in the neuronal population requires higher stimulus intensities, the portion of synchronously active neurons nevertheless becomes strongly phase locked to PLFS already at weak stimulus intensities. The phase entrainment effect of PLFS turned out to be robust against variations in the stimulation frequency, whereas enhancement of synchrony required precisely tuned stimulation frequencies. We applied PLFS to a patient with spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2) with pronounced tremor that disappeared intraoperatively under general anaesthesia. In accordance with our computational results, PLFS evoked tremor, phase locked to the stimulus. In particular, weak PLFS caused low-amplitude, but strongly phase-locked tremor. PLFS test stimulations provided the only functional information about target localization. Optimal target point selection was confirmed by excellent post-operative tremor suppression.
The conceptualization of drug addiction as a compulsive disorder with excessive drug intake and loss of control over intake requires motivational mechanisms. Opponent process as a motivational theory for the negative reinforcement of drug dependence has long required a neurobiological explanation. Key neurochemical elements involved in reward and stress within basal forebrain structures involving the ventral striatum and extended amygdala are hypothesized to be dysregulated in addiction to convey the opponent motivational processes that drive dependence. Specific neurochemical elements in these structures include not only decreases in reward neurotransmission such as dopamine and opioid peptides in the ventral striatum, but also recruitment of brain stress systems such as corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), noradrenaline and dynorphin in the extended amygdala. Acute withdrawal from all major drugs of abuse produces increases in reward thresholds, anxiety-like responses and extracellular levels of CRF in the central nucleus of the amygdala. CRF receptor antagonists block excessive drug intake produced by dependence. A brain stress response system is hypothesized to be activated by acute excessive drug intake, to be sensitized during repeated withdrawal, to persist into protracted abstinence and to contribute to stress-induced relapse. The combination of loss of reward function and recruitment of brain stress systems provides a powerful neurochemical basis for the long hypothesized opponent motivational processes responsible for the negative reinforcement driving addiction.
Regulation of gene expression is considered a plausible mechanism of drug addiction, given the stability of behavioural abnormalities that define an addicted state. Among many transcription factors known to influence the addiction process, one of the best characterized is DeltaFosB, which is induced in the brain's reward regions by chronic exposure to virtually all drugs of abuse and mediates sensitized responses to drug exposure. Since DeltaFosB is a highly stable protein, it represents a mechanism by which drugs produce lasting changes in gene expression long after the cessation of drug use. Studies are underway to explore the detailed molecular mechanisms by which DeltaFosB regulates target genes and produces its behavioural effects. We are approaching this question using DNA expression arrays coupled with the analysis of chromatin remodelling--changes in the posttranslational modifications of histones at drug-regulated gene promoters--to identify genes that are regulated by drugs of abuse via the induction of DeltaFosB and to gain insight into the detailed molecular mechanisms involved. Our findings establish chromatin remodelling as an important regulatory mechanism underlying drug-induced behavioural plasticity, and promise to reveal fundamentally new insight into how DeltaFosB contributes to addiction by regulating the expression of specific target genes in brain reward pathways.
In humans, exposure to environmental contexts previously associated with drug intake often provokes relapse to drug use, but the mechanisms mediating this relapse are unknown. Based on early studies by Bouton &amp; Bolles on context-induced 'renewal' of learned behaviours, we developed a procedure to study context-induced relapse to drug seeking. In this procedure, rats are first trained to self-administer drug in one context. Next, drug-reinforced lever responding is extinguished in a different (non-drug) context. Subsequently, context-induced reinstatement of drug seeking is assessed by re-exposing rats to the drug-associated context. Using variations of this procedure, we and others reported reliable context-induced reinstatement in rats with a history of heroin, cocaine, heroin-cocaine combination, alcohol and nicotine self-administration. Here, we first discuss potential psychological mechanisms of context-induced reinstatement, including excitatory and inhibitory Pavlovian conditioning, and occasion setting. We then summarize results from pharmacological and neuroanatomical studies on the role of several neurotransmitter systems (dopamine, glutamate, serotonin and opioids) and brain areas (ventral tegmental area, accumbens shell, dorsal striatum, basolateral amygdala, prefrontal cortex, dorsal hippocampus and lateral hypothalamus) in context-induced reinstatement. We conclude by discussing the clinical implications of rat studies on context-induced reinstatement of drug seeking.
Nicotine is a psychoactive ingredient in tobacco that significantly contributes to the harmful tobacco smoking habit. Nicotine dependence is more prevalent than dependence on any other substance. Preclinical research in animal models of the various aspects of nicotine dependence suggests a critical role of glutamate, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), cholinergic and dopamine neurotransmitter interactions in the ventral tegmental area and possibly other brain sites, such as the central nucleus of the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex, in the effects of nicotine. Specifically, decreasing glutamate transmission or increasing GABA transmission with pharmacological manipulations decreased the rewarding effects of nicotine and cue-induced reinstatement of nicotine seeking. Furthermore, early nicotine withdrawal is characterized by decreased function of presynaptic inhibitory metabotropic glutamate 2/3 receptors and increased expression of postsynaptic glutamate receptor subunits in limbic and frontal brain sites, while protracted abstinence may be associated with increased glutamate response to stimuli associated with nicotine administration. Finally, adaptations in nicotinic acetylcholine receptor function are also involved in nicotine dependence. These neuroadaptations probably develop to counteract the decreased glutamate and cholinergic transmission that is hypothesized to characterize early nicotine withdrawal. In conclusion, glutamate, GABA and cholinergic transmission in limbic and frontal brain sites are critically involved in nicotine dependence.
Neurogenetic studies of alcohol dependence have relied substantially on genetic animal models, particularly rodents. Studies of inbred strains, selectively bred lines and mutants bearing genes whose function has been targeted for over or under expression are reviewed. Studies focused on gene expression changes are the most recent contributors to this literature, and some genetic effects may work through epigenetic mechanisms. In a few instances, interesting parallels have been revealed between genetic risk in humans and studies in non-human animal models. Future approaches are likely to be increasingly complex.

Compromised ability to exert control over drug urges and drug-seeking behaviour is a characteristic of addiction. One specific cognitive control function, impulse control, has been shown to be a risk factor for the development of substance problems and has been linked in animal models to increased drug administration and relapse. We present evidence of a direct effect of cocaine on the neurobiology underlying impulse control. In a laboratory test of motor response inhibition, an intravenous cocaine administration improved task performance in 13 cocaine users. This improvement was accompanied by increased activation in right dorsolateral and inferior frontal cortex, regions considered critical for this cognitive function. Similarly, for both inhibitory control and action monitoring processes, cocaine normalized activation levels in lateral and medial prefrontal regions previously reported to be hypoactive in users relative to drug-naive controls. The acute amelioration of neurocognitive dysfunction may reflect a chronic dysregulation of those brain regions and the cognitive processes they subserve. Furthermore, the effects of cocaine on midline function suggest a dopaminergically mediated intersection between cocaine's acute reinforcing effects and its effects on cognitive control.
We hypothesize that drug addiction can be viewed as the endpoint of a series of transitions from initial voluntary drug use through the loss of control over this behaviour, such that it becomes habitual and ultimately compulsive. We describe evidence that the switch from controlled to compulsive drug seeking represents a transition at the neural level from prefrontal cortical to striatal control over drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviours as well as a progression from ventral to more dorsal domains of the striatum, mediated by its serially interconnecting dopaminergic circuitry. These neural transitions depend upon the neuroplasticity induced by chronic self-administration of drugs in both cortical and striatal structures, including long-lasting changes that are the consequence of toxic drug effects. We further summarize evidence showing that impulsivity, a spontaneously occurring behavioural tendency in outbred rats that is associated with low dopamine D2/3 receptors in the nucleus accumbens, predicts both the propensity to escalate cocaine intake and the switch to compulsive drug seeking and addiction.
Gambling is a prevalent recreational behaviour. Approximately 5% of adults have been estimated to experience problems with gambling. The most severe form of gambling, pathological gambling (PG), is recognized as a mental health condition. Two alternate non-mutually exclusive conceptualizations of PG have considered it as an obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorder and a 'behavioural' addiction. The most appropriate conceptualization of PG has important theoretical and practical implications. Data suggest a closer relationship between PG and substance use disorders than exists between PG and obsessive-compulsive disorder. This paper will review data on the neurobiology of PG, consider its conceptualization as a behavioural addiction, discuss impulsivity as an underlying construct, and present new brain imaging findings investigating the neural correlates of craving states in PG as compared to those in cocaine dependence. Implications for prevention and treatment strategies will be discussed.

The forelimb movements (skilled reaching) used by rats to reach for a single food pellet to place into the mouth have been used to model many neurological conditions. They have been described as a sequence of oppositions of head-pellet, paw-pellet and pellet-mouth that can be described as movements of the distal portion of body segments in relation to their fixed proximal joints. Movement scoring is difficult, however, because the location and movement of body segments is estimated through the overlying fur and skin, which is pliable and partially obscures movement. Using moderately high-speed cineradiographic filming from lateral, dorsal, and frontal perspectives, the present study describes how forelimb and skeletal bones move during the skilled reaching act. The analysis indicates that: (i) head movements for orienting to food, enabled by the vertical orientation of the rostral spinal cord, are mainly independent of trunk movement, (ii) skilled reaching consists of a sequence of upper arm and extremity movements each involving a number of concurrent limb segment and joint movements and (iii) food pellets are retrieved from the paw using either the incisors and/or tongue. The findings are discussed in relation to the idea that X-ray cinematography is valuable tool for assisting descriptive analysis and can contribute to understanding general principles of the relations between whole body, head, oral, and upper extremity movement.
Alix/AIP1 is a cytosolic protein that regulates cell death through mechanisms that remain unclear. Alix binds to two protein members of the so-called Endosomal Sorting Complex Required for Transport (ESCRT), which facilitates membrane fission events during multivesicular endosome formation, enveloped virus budding and cytokinesis. Alix itself has been suggested to participate in these cellular events and is thus often considered to function in the ESCRT pathway. ESCRT proteins were recently implicated in autophagy, a process involved in bulk degradation of cytoplasmic constituents in lysosomes, which can also participate in cell death. In this study, we shown that, unlike ESCRT proteins, Alix is not involved in autophagy. These results strongly suggest that the capacity of several mutants of Alix to block both caspase-dependent and independent cell death does not relate to their capacity to modulate autophagy. Furthermore, they reinforce the conclusion of other studies demonstrating that the role of Alix is different from that of classical ESCRT proteins.
We studied the antidepressant-like effect of paroxetine in strains of mice carrying different isoforms of tryptophan hydroxylase-2 (TPH-2), the enzyme responsible for the synthesis of brain serotonin (5-HT). The effect of paroxetine alone and in combination with pharmacological treatments enhancing or lowering 5-HT synthesis or melatonin was assessed in the forced swimming test in mice carrying allelic variants of TPH-2 (1473C in C57BL/6 and 1473G in DBA/2 and BALB/c). Changes in brain 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) accumulation and melatonin levels were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. Paroxetine (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) reduced immobility time in C57BL/6J and C57BL/6N mice but had no such effect in DBA/2J, DBA/2N and BALB/c mice, even at 10 mg/kg. Enhancing 5-HT synthesis with tryptophan reinstated the antidepressant-like effect of paroxetine in DBA/2J, DBA/2N and BALB/c mice whereas inhibition of 5-HT synthesis prevented the effect of paroxetine in C57BL/6N mice. The response to paroxetine was not associated with changes in locomotor activity, brain melatonin or brain levels of the drug measured at the end of the behavioral test. These results support the importance of 5-HT synthesis in the response to SSRIs and suggest that melatonin does not contribute to the ability of tryptophan to rescue the antidepressant-like effect of paroxetine.
Whether and how mechanisms intrinsic to stem cells modulate their proliferation and differentiation are two central questions in stem cell biology. Although exogenous basic fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2/Fgf-2) is commonly used to expand adult neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) in vitro, we do not yet understand the functional significance or the molecular regulation of Fgf-2 expressed endogenously by adult NSPCs. We previously demonstrated that methylated CpG binding protein 1 (MBD1/Mbd1) is a transcriptional repressor of Fgf-2 and is enriched in adult brains. Mbd1 deficiency in mice selectively affected adult neurogenesis and the differentiation of NSPCs. Here we show that an Mbd1 and DNA methylation-mediated epigenetic mechanism regulated the expression of stem cell mitogen Fgf-2 in adult NSPCs. Mbd1 bound to the Fgf-2 promoter and regulates its expression in adult NSPCs. In the absence of functional Mbd1, the Fgf-2 promoter was hypomethylated, and treatment with a DNA methylation inhibitor resulted in increased Fgf-2 expression in adult NSPCs. We further demonstrated that both acute knockdown of Mbd1 or overexpression of Fgf-2 in adult NSPCs inhibited their neuronal differentiation, which could be responsible for the neurogenic deficits observed in Mbd1-deficient mice. These data indicate that intrinsic epigenetic mechanisms play critical roles in the regulation of adult NSPC functions.
Retinal ON bipolar cells make up about 70% of all bipolar cells. Glutamate hyperpolarizes these cells by binding to the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR6, activating the G-protein G(o1), and closing an unidentified cation channel. To facilitate investigation of ON bipolar cells, we here report on the production of a transgenic mouse (Grm6-GFP) in which enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP), under control of mGluR6 promoter, was expressed in all and only ON bipolar cells. We used the mouse to determine density of ON bipolar cells, which in central retina was 29,600 cells/mm(2). We further sorted the fluorescent cells and created a pure ON bipolar cDNA library that was negative for photoreceptor unique genes. With this library, we determined expression of 27 genes of interest. We obtained positive transcripts for G(o) interactors: regulators of G-protein signaling (RGS), Ret-RGS1 (a variant of RGS20), RGS16, RGS7, purkinje cell protein 2 (PCP2, also called L7 or GPSM4), synembryn (RIC-8), LGN (GPSM2), RAP1GAP, and Gbeta5; cGMP modulators: guanylyl cyclase (GC) 1alpha1, GC1beta1, phosphodiesterase (PDE) 1C, and PDE9A; and channels: inwardly rectifying potassium channel Kir2.4, transient receptor potential TRPC2, and sperm-specific cation channels CatSper 2-4. The following transcripts were not found in our library: AGS3 (GPSM1), RGS10, RGS19 (GAIP), calbindin, GC1alpha2, GC1beta2, PDE5, PDE2A, amiloride-sensitive sodium channel ACCN4, and CatSper1. We then localized Kir2.4 to several cell types and showed that, in ON bipolar cells, the channel concentrates in their dendritic tips. The channels and modulators found in ON bipolar cells likely shape their light response. Additional uses of the Grm6-GFP mouse are also discussed.
An unusual property of the olfactory system is that sensory input at the level of the first synapse in the olfactory bulb takes place at two mirror-image glomerular maps that appear identical across the axis of symmetry. It is puzzling how two identical odor maps would contribute to sensory function. The functional units in these maps are the glomeruli, ovoid neuropil structures formed by axons from olfactory sensory neurons expressing the same olfactory receptor. Here we find that the genetically identified P2 glomeruli are asymmetric across the axis of symmetry in terms of responsiveness to urine volatiles and neuroanatomical structure. Furthermore, P2 asymmetry is modified by sensory deprivation and abolished by decreased BDNF levels. Thus, while mirror odor maps show symmetry at the macroscopic level in maps encompassing the entire surface of the olfactory bulb, they display asymmetry at the level of the single glomerulus.
Studies were conducted to determine the possibility that voluntary exercise could enhance regenerative effects of gene therapy via Schwann cells (SC) over-expressing FGF-2. Sedentary or exercise rehabilitation conditions were therefore provided shortly after reconstructing 10mm sciatic nerve gaps in rats with silicone grafts. Exercise for 7 days elevated mRNA levels of regeneration associated proteins (GAP-43 and synapsin I) in lumbar spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia of SC transplanted, in contrast to non-cellular reconstructed rats. FGF-2 gene therapy followed by 25-27 days of exercise did enhance regeneration of myelinated axons in comparison to sedentary animals. Four weeks after surgery mRNA levels of regeneration associated proteins were significantly higher in lumbar spinal cord of running compared to sedentary SC transplanted animals. Our results suggest that voluntary exercise could reinforce the beneficial effects of SC transplantation and FGF-2 gene therapy in peripheral nerve reconstruction approaches.
Two naturally occurring tropane alkaloids, anisodamine and scopolamine, structurally dissimilar in one OH group, are well established as muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) antagonists in clinic and basic research. However, experimental evidence for central effects of anisodamine is limited and conflicting compared with that of scopolamine. In the present study, Morris water maze test, long-term potentiation (LTP) recording and receptor radioligand binding assays were used to explore the disparity in neuropsychopharmacological influences of anisodamine versus scopolamine and possible mechanisms. Anisodamine, at 10-40-fold higher doses than those of scopolamine, did not produce any spatial cognitive deficits as scopolamine, but tended to improve cognition at the repeated high doses. LTP in vivo was then adopted to predict BBB permeability of the muscarinic antagonists following systemic drug administration. Contrary to scopolamine, anisodamine did not influence the formation of LTP in the CA(1) region of rat hippocampus at 40-fold higher dose than that of scopolamine. Additionally, receptor radioligand binding assays (RRLBA) revealed that the binding affinity of anisodamine to mice brain mAChR was much lower than that of scopolamine. The findings suggested that anisodamine did not impair cognition nor depress LTP primarily due to its poor BBB permeability. This work enlarged knowledge of structure-activity relationship among tropane alkaloids, meanwhile providing evidence for more reasonable drug prescription in clinic.
Pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency (PTD) was used to produce a rodent model of Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome that results in acute neurological disturbances, thalamic lesions, and learning and memory impairments. There is also cholinergic septohippocampal dysfunction in the PTD model. Systemic (Experiment 1) and intrahippocampal (Experiment 2) injections of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine were administered to determine if increasing acetylcholine levels would eliminate the behavioral impairment produced by PTD. Prior to spontaneous alternation testing, rats received injections of either physostigmine (systemic=0.075 mg/kg; intrahippocampal=20, 40 ng/muL) or saline. In Experiment 2, intrahippocampal injections of physostigmine significantly enhanced alternation rates in the PTD-treated rats. In addition, although intrahippocampal infusions of 40 ng of physostigmine increased the available amount of ACh in both pair-fed (PF) and PTD rats, it did so to a greater extent in PF rats. The increase in ACh levels induced by the direct hippocampal application of physostigmine in the PTD model likely increased activation of the extended limbic system, which was dysfunctional, and therefore led to recovery of function on the spontaneous alternation task. In contrast, the lack of behavioral improvement by intrahippocampal physostigmine infusion in the PF rats, despite a greater rise in hippocampal ACh levels, supports the theory that there is an optimal range of cholinergic tone for optimal behavioral and hippocampal function.

Although conditioned inhibition of fear (or learned safety) is a learning process critical for preventing chronic stress, a predisposing factor for depression and other psychopathologies, little is known about its functional purposes or molecular mechanisms. To obtain better insight into learned safety, we investigated its behavioral and molecular characteristics and found that it acts as a behavioral antidepressant in two animal models. Learned safety promotes the survival of newborn cells in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, while its antidepressant effect is abolished in mice with ablated hippocampal neurogenesis. Learned safety also increases the expression of BDNF in the hippocampus and leads to downregulation of genes involved in the dopaminergic and neuropeptidergic but not the serotonergic system in the basolateral amygdala. These data suggest that learned safety is an animal model of a behavioral antidepressant that shares some neuronal hallmarks of pharmacological antidepressants but is mediated by different molecular pathways.
Thiamine monophosphatase (TMPase, also known as fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase) is a classic histochemical marker of small-diameter dorsal root ganglia neurons. The molecular identity of TMPase is currently unknown. We found that TMPase is identical to the transmembrane isoform of prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP), an enzyme with unknown molecular and physiological functions. We then found that PAP knockout mice have normal acute pain sensitivity but enhanced sensitivity in chronic inflammatory and neuropathic pain models. In gain-of-function studies, intraspinal injection of PAP protein has potent antinociceptive, antihyperalgesic, and antiallodynic effects that last longer than the opioid analgesic morphine. PAP suppresses pain by functioning as an ecto-5'-nucleotidase. Specifically, PAP dephosphorylates extracellular adenosine monophosphate (AMP) to adenosine and activates A1-adenosine receptors in dorsal spinal cord. Our studies reveal molecular and physiological functions for PAP in purine nucleotide metabolism and nociception and suggest a novel use for PAP in the treatment of chronic pain.



Since their discovery in the mammalian CNS, D-aspartate and D-serine have aroused a strong interest with regard to their role as putative neuromodulatory molecules. Whereas the functional role of D-serine as an endogenous coagonist of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) has been elucidated, the biological significance of D-aspartate in the brain is still mostly unclear. In the present study, we demonstrated that nonphysiological high levels of D-aspartate (1) increased in vivo NMDAR activity, (2) attenuated prepulse inhibition deficits induced by amphetamine and MK-801 [(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]-cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate], (3) produced striatal adaptations of glutamate synapses resembling those observed after chronic haloperidol treatment, and (4) enhanced hippocampal NMDAR-dependent memory. This evidence was obtained using two different experimental strategies that produced an abnormal increase of endogenous D-aspartate levels in the mouse: a genetic approach based on the targeted deletion of the D-aspartate oxidase gene and a pharmacological approach based on oral administration of D-aspartate. This work provides in vivo evidence of a neuromodulatory role exerted by D-aspartate on NMDAR signaling and raises the intriguing hypothesis that also this D-amino acid, like D-serine, could be used as a therapeutic agent in the treatment of schizophrenia-related symptoms.
Most in vivo electrophysiological studies of substantia nigra have used rats. With the recent proliferation of the use of mice for in vitro neurophysiological studies because of the availability of various genetically modified strains to identify the roles of various channels and proteins in neuronal function, it is crucial to obtain data on in vivo responses in mice to verify that the in vitro results reflect functioning of systems comparable with those that have been well studied in rat. Inhibitory responses of rat nigral dopaminergic neurons by stimulation of afferents from striatum, globus pallidus, or pars reticulata have been shown to be mediated predominantly or exclusively by GABA(A) receptors. This is puzzling given the substantial expression of GABA(B) receptors and the ubiquitous appearance of GABA(B) synaptic responses in rat dopaminergic neurons in vitro. In the present study, we studied electrically evoked GABAergic inhibition in nigral dopaminergic neurons in C57BL/6J mice. Stimulation of the three major GABAergic inputs elicited stronger and longer-lasting inhibitory responses than those seen in rats. The early inhibition was GABA(A) mediated, whereas the later component, absent in rats, was GABA(B) mediated and selectively enhanced by GABA uptake inhibition. Striatal-evoked inhibition exhibited a slower onset and a weaker initial component compared with inhibition from globus pallidus or substantia nigra pars reticulata. These results are discussed with respect to differences in the size and neuronal density of the rat and mouse brain and the different sites of synaptic contact of the synapses from the three GABAergic afferents.
Birdsong is a learned behavior remarkable for its high degree of stereotypy. Nevertheless, adult birds display substantial rendition-by-rendition variation in the structure of individual song elements or &quot;syllables.&quot; Previous work suggests that some of this variation is actively generated by the avian basal ganglia circuitry for purposes of motor exploration. However, it is unknown whether and how natural variations in premotor activity drive variations in syllable structure. Here, we recorded from the premotor nucleus robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA) in Bengalese finches and measured whether neural activity covaried with syllable structure across multiple renditions of individual syllables. We found that variations in premotor activity were significantly correlated with variations in the acoustic features (pitch, amplitude, and spectral entropy) of syllables in approximately a quarter of all cases. In these cases, individual neural recordings predicted 8.5 +/- 0.3% (mean +/- SE) of the behavioral variation, and in some cases accounted for 25% or more of trial-by-trial variations in acoustic output. The prevalence and strength of neuron-behavior correlations indicate that each acoustic feature is controlled by a large ensemble of neurons that vary their activity in a coordinated manner. Additionally, we found that correlations with pitch (but not other features) were predominantly positive in sign, supporting a model of pitch production based on the anatomy and physiology of the vocal motor apparatus. Collectively, our results indicate that trial-by-trial variations in spectral structure are indeed under central neural control at the level of RA, consistent with the idea that such variation reflects motor exploration.
The initial synapse in the olfactory system is from olfactory nerve (ON) terminals to postsynaptic targets in olfactory bulb glomeruli. Recent studies have disclosed multiple presynaptic factors that regulate this important linkage, but less is known about the contribution of postsynaptic intrinsic conductances to integration at these synapses. The present study demonstrates voltage-dependent amplification of EPSPs in external tufted (ET) cells in response to monosynaptic (ON) inputs. This amplification is mainly exerted by persistent Na(+) conductance. Larger EPSPs, which bring the membrane potential to a relatively depolarized level, are further boosted by the low-voltage-activated Ca(2+) conductance. In contrast, the hyperpolarization-activated nonselective cation conductance (I(h)) attenuates EPSPs mainly by reducing EPSP duration; this also reduces temporal summation of multiple EPSPs. Regulation of EPSPs by these subthreshold, voltage-dependent conductances can enhance both the signal-to-noise ratio and the temporal summation of multiple synaptic inputs and thus help ET cells differentiate high- and low-frequency synaptic inputs. I(h) can also transform inhibitory inputs to postsynaptic excitation. When the ET cell membrane potential is relatively depolarized, as during a burst of action potentials, IPSPs produce classic inhibition. However, near resting membrane potentials where I(h) is engaged, IPSPs produce rebound bursts of action potentials. ET cells excite GABAergic PG cells. Thus, the transformation of inhibitory inputs to postsynaptic excitation in ET cells may enhance intraglomerular inhibition of mitral/tufted cells, the main output neurons in the olfactory bulb, and hence shape signaling to olfactory cortex.
Sensory experience profoundly shapes neural circuitry of juvenile brain. Although the visual cortex of adult rodents retains a capacity for plasticity in response to monocular visual deprivation, the nature of this plasticity and the neural circuit changes that accompany it remain enigmatic. Here, we investigate differences between adult and juvenile ocular dominance plasticity using Fourier optical imaging of intrinsic signals in mouse visual cortex. This comparison reveals that adult plasticity takes longer than in the juvenile mouse, is of smaller magnitude, has a greater contribution from the increase in response to the open eye, and has less effect on the hemisphere ipsilateral to the deprived eye. Binocular deprivation also causes different changes in the adult. Adult plasticity is similar to juvenile plasticity in its dependence on signaling through NMDA receptors. We propose that adult ocular dominance plasticity arises from compensatory mechanisms that counterbalance the loss of afferent activity caused by visual deprivation.
Emerging data suggest that, much like epithelial cells, the polarized growth of neurons requires both the secretory and endocytic pathways. The clathrin assembly proteins AP180 and CALM (clathrin assembly lymphoid myeloid protein) are known to be involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis, but their roles in mammalian neurons and, in particular, in developmental processes before synaptogenesis are unknown. Here we provide evidence that AP180 and CALM play critical roles in establishing the polarity and controlling the growth of axons and dendrites in embryonic hippocampal neurons. Knockdown of AP180 primarily impairs axonal development, whereas reducing CALM levels results in dendritic dystrophy. Conversely, neurons that overexpress AP180 or CALM generate multiple axons. Ultrastructural analysis shows that CALM affiliates with a wider range of intracellular trafficking organelles than does AP180. Functional analysis shows that endocytosis is reduced in both AP180-deficient and CALM-deficient neurons. Additionally, CALM-deficient neurons show disrupted secretory transport. Our data demonstrate previously unknown functions for AP180 and CALM in intracellular trafficking that are essential in the growth of neurons.
Chronic nicotine upregulates central nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), a plasticity process thought to contribute to its addictive properties. To analyze this process in vivo, we chronically exposed mice to nicotine using minipump delivering nicotine at concentrations close to those found in tobacco smokers. Binding studies show upregulation of high-affinity nAChRs after 21 days of treatment in cortical areas, caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens, hippocampus, ventral tegmental area, and superior colliculi. No upregulation was observed in thalamus and discrete cortical areas. Using wild type and alpha 6-/- mice, we observed a downregulation of alpha 6*-nAChRs in superior colliculi and no effects in other structures. The complex pattern of upregulation/downregulation observed in this study depends on both nAChR composition and regional distribution.
Novel sounds embedded in a repetitive stream of auditory stimuli impair performance of the visual task at hand. Parmentier et al. suggested that this distraction effect might be because of the shifting cost of moving attention from the task-irrelevant (auditory) to the task-relevant (visual) channel, or from their shifting of spatial locations. Here, the source location of the sounds in an audio-visual distraction paradigm was varied systematically (headphones and 0, -18, -72, 18, and 72 degrees), and the results revealed significant distracting effects of novel sounds occurring in the headphone and the right location conditions. This supports the assumption that in the behavioral cost observed in the audio-visual distraction paradigm a spatial shift of attention is involved.
The kinetics of neurosteroid binding to recombinant human microtubule-associated protein 2C (rhMAP2C) and neurosteroid regulation of MAP2C-stimulated tubulin assembly were studied. In a quartz crystal microbalance assay, progesterone-BSA at 1-10 nM showed concentration-dependent binding to rhMAP2C, and this binding was competitively inhibited by pregnenolone or progesterone. However, no progesterone-BSA binding to N-terminal 71 amino acid residues rhMAP2C was found. In an rhMAP2C-stimulated tubulin assembly assay, pregnenolone enhanced the assembly of an rhMAP2C-progesterone-BSA complex in a progesterone-reversible manner, progesterone alone had no effect. Although N-terminal 71 amino acid residues rhMAP2C retains an activity to stimulate this assembly, this effect was not affected by pregnenolone or progesterone. These findings suggest that neurosteroids specifically bind to the N-terminus of rhMAP2 and regulate tubulin assembly.
Sensory gating refers to the suppression of the neuronal response to a repeating stimulus and is considered a protection mechanism in the brain. In this study, we assessed gating of the mid-latency components of the visual evoked potentials (N75, P100, N150) in 11 healthy individuals using a paired-flash paradigm. A significant decrease of P100 and N150 amplitudes was shown; additionally, a significant increase in the latency of N75 and P100 for the second stimulus of the pair compared with the first one was also observed. Absolute power of the stimulus 2 signal at theta frequency was significantly suppressed as compared with the stimulus 1 signal. These results indicate a gating effect in the visual modality, reflected in both time-domain and frequency-domain measures.
The functional neuroanatomy of verbal working memory is a potential diagnostic biomarker for depression. Twenty patients with unipolar depression and 20 healthy controls performed a variable load version (n-back) of the task. Functional MRI data were analysed with support vector machine methods. Diagnostic classification was highest at the mid-level of task difficulty (2-back) (sensitivity 65%, specificity 70%, P&lt;0.009). Significant classification of clinical response (&gt;or=50% reduction in clinical symptom ratings) was found at the most difficult level (3-back) (sensitivity 85%, specificity 52%, P&lt;0.003). The functional neuroanatomy of verbal working memory provides a statistically significant but clinically moderate contribution as a diagnostic biomarker for depression, whereas its potential as a neural predictor of clinical response requires further investigation.
Clusterin (apolipoprotein J), a highly conserved amphiphatic glycoprotein and chaperone, has been implicated in a wide range of physiological and pathological processes. As a secreted protein, clusterin has been shown to act extracellularly where it is involved in lipid transportation and clearance of cellular debris. Intracellularly, clusterin may regulate signal transduction and is upregulated after cell stress. After neural injury, clusterin may be involved in nerve cell survival and postinjury neuroplasticity. In this study, we investigated the role of extracellular clusterin on neuronal network complexity in vitro. Quantitative analysis of clustrin-treated neuronal cultures showed significantly higher network complexity. These findings suggest that in addition to previously demonstrated neuroprotective roles, clusterin may also be involved in neuronal process formation, elongation, and plasticity.
As manifestations of prion diseases include disturbances of hypothalamic and pituitary functions, we tested the hypothesis that the cellular prion protein (PrPC) has a role as modulator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. The level of corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone were compared in PrPC null (PrP 0/0) and wild-type (PrP+/+) mice. PrP 0/0 showed hypercorticism during the dark part of day. After acute stress, corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone increased similarly in PrP+/+ and PrP 0/0 mice. Adrenocorticotropic hormone, however, remained elevated in PrP+/+ 0/0 mice at corticosterone levels that are inhibitory in PrP mice. Pretreatment with corticosterone or dexamethasone inhibited stress-induced elevation of adrenocorticotropic hormone in PrP+/+ but not in PrP 0/0 mice. Thus, PrPC may play a role in the negative feedback regulation of axis.
In adult rats, serotonin 1A (5-HT1A) receptor activation produces heterologous desensitization of serotonin 2A (5-HT2A) neuroendocrine function at 1 h that persists up to 72 h. This study determined whether prolonged 5-HT1A/5-HT2A cross-talk exists before sexual maturation. Adolescent male rats (postnatal day 39) received an injection with saline or (+)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin hydrobromide [(+)8-OH-DPAT] 24 h before receiving a challenge injection of saline, (+)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin hydrobromide, or (-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane HCl [(-)DOI] o assess changes in basal, 5-HT1A, and 5-HT2A receptor-mediated hormone responses. Although homologous desensitization of 5-HT1A neuroendocrine responses was present at 24 h, heterologous desensitization of 5-HT2A neuroendocrine responses was not. These data suggest that 5-HT1A heterologous desensitization of 5-HT2A receptor function does not develop until adulthood, is more transient, or follows a different time course before maturation.
Recent studies have demonstrated that RNAi is a promising approach for treating autosomal dominant disorders. However, discrimination between wild-type and mutant transcripts is essential, to preserve wild-type expression and function. A single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) is present in more than 70% of patients with Machado-Joseph disease (MJD). We investigated whether this SNP could be used to inactivate mutant ataxin-3 selectively. Lentiviral-mediated silencing of mutant human ataxin-3 was demonstrated in vitro and in a rat model of MJD in vivo. The allele-specific silencing of ataxin-3 significantly decreased the severity of the neuropathological abnormalities associated with MJD. These data demonstrate that RNAi has potential for use in MJD treatment and constitute the first proof-of-principle for allele-specific silencing in the central nervous system.


A major goal of neuroscience is to understand the relationship between neural structures and their function. Recording of neural activity with arrays of electrodes is a primary tool employed toward this goal. However, the relationships among the neural activity recorded by these arrays are often highly complex making it problematic to accurately quantify a network's structural information and then relate that structure to its function. Current statistical methods including cross correlation and coherence have achieved only modest success in characterizing the structural connectivity. Over the last decade an alternative technique known as Granger causality is emerging within neuroscience. This technique, borrowed from the field of economics, provides a strong mathematical foundation based on linear auto-regression to detect and quantify &quot;causal&quot; relationships among different time series. This paper presents a combination of three Granger based analytical methods that can quickly provide a relatively complete representation of the causal structure within a neural network. These are a simple pairwise Granger causality metric, a conditional metric, and a little known computationally inexpensive subtractive conditional method. Each causal metric is first described and evaluated in a series of biologically plausible neural simulations. We then demonstrate how Granger causality can detect and quantify changes in the strength of those relationships during plasticity using 60 channel spike train data from an in vitro cortical network measured on a microelectrode array. We show that these metrics can not only detect the presence of causal relationships, they also provide crucial information about the strength and direction of that relationship, particularly when that relationship maybe changing during plasticity. Although we focus on the analysis of multichannel spike train data the metrics we describe are applicable to any stationary time series in which causal relationships among multiple measures is desired. These techniques can be especially useful when the interactions among those measures are highly complex, difficult to untangle, and maybe changing over time.
Glucose, one of the most important nutrients for animals, acts as a regulatory signal that controls the secretion of hormones, such as insulin, by endocrine tissues. However, how organisms respond to extracellular glucose and how glucose controls nutrient homeostasis remain unknown. Here, we show that a putative Drosophila melanogaster G protein-coupled receptor, previously identified as Bride of sevenless (BOSS), responds to extracellular glucose and regulates sugar and lipid metabolism. We found that BOSS was expressed in the fat body, a nutrient-sensing tissue equivalent to mammalian liver and adipose tissues, and in photoreceptor cells. Boss null mutants had small bodies, exhibited abnormal sugar and lipid metabolism (elevated circulating sugar and lipid levels, impaired lipid mobilization to oenocytes), and were sensitive to nutrient deprivation stress. These phenotypes are reminiscent of flies defective in insulin signaling. Consistent with these findings are the observations that boss mutants had reduced PI3K activity and phospho-AKT levels, which indicates that BOSS is required for proper insulin signaling. Because human G protein-coupled receptor 5B and the seven-transmembrane domain of BOSS share the same sequence, our results also have important implications for glucose metabolism in humans. Thus, our study provides insight not only into the basic mechanisms of metabolic regulation but also into the pathobiological basis for diabetes and obesity.
The opioid peptides and receptors have prominent roles in pain transmission and reward mechanisms in mammals. The evolution of the opioid receptors has so far been little studied, with only a few reports on species other than tetrapods. We have investigated species representing a broader range of vertebrates and found that the four opioid receptor types (delta, kappa, mu, and NOP) are present in most of the species. The gene relationships were deduced by using both phylogenetic analyses and chromosomal location relative to 20 neighboring gene families in databases of assembled genomes. The combined results show that the vertebrate opioid receptor gene family arose by quadruplication of a large chromosomal block containing at least 14 other gene families. The quadruplication seems to coincide with, and, therefore, probably resulted from, the two proposed genome duplications in early vertebrate evolution. We conclude that the quartet of opioid receptors was already present at the origin of jawed vertebrates approximately 450 million years ago. A few additional opioid receptor gene duplications have occurred in bony fishes. Interestingly, the ancestral receptor gene duplications coincide with the origin of the four opioid peptide precursor genes. Thus, the complete vertebrate opioid system was already established in the first jawed vertebrates.
Heterogeneity in complex diseases such as Substance Use Disorder (SUD) reduces the power to detect linkage and makes replication of findings in other populations unlikely. It is therefore critical to refine the phenotype and use methods that account for genetic heterogeneity between families. SUD was operationalized as diagnosis of abuse or dependence to alcohol and/or any one of five illicit substances. Whole-genome linkage analysis of 241 extended pedigree families from the Collaborative Study on the Genetics of Alcoholism was performed in Merlin using an affected sibship design. An Ordered Subsets Analysis (OSA) using FLOSS sought to increase the homogeneity of the sample by ranking families by their density of childhood and adult antisocial behaviors, producing new maximum Nonparametric Lod (NPL) scores on each chromosome for each subset of families. Prior to OSA, modest evidence for linkage was found on chromosomes 8 and 17. Although changes in NPL scores were not statistically significant, OSA revealed possible evidence of linkages on chromosome 7, near markers D7S1795 and D7S821. NPL scores &gt;3.0 were also observed on chromosomes 2, 3, 5, 9, and 14. However, the number of families used in these latter subsets for linkage may be too small to be meaningful. Results provide some evidence for the ability of OSA to reduce genetic heterogeneity, and add further support to chromosome 7 as a possible location to search for genes related to various SUD related processes. Nonetheless, replication of these results in other samples is essential.
The present work was undertaken to investigate the association of the UFD1L locus with schizophrenia among 304 Chinese family trios of Han descent. We detected four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the 5'-end region of the UFD1L gene. The transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) revealed allelic associations for rs5746744 (chi(2) = 8.02, P = 0.005) and rs1547931 (chi(2) = 7.18, P = 0.007), but failed to replicate disease association for rs5992403 present in the promoter region, which was initially found in Italian and Canadian samples. The allelic association for rs5746744 and rs1547931 was replicated with independently recruited case-control samples. The 2-SNP haplotype analysis showed an association for the rs5992403-rs5746744 haplotypes (chi(2) = 18.92, df = 3, P = 0.0003), the rs5746744-rs1547931 haplotypes (chi(2) = 11.06, df = 3, P = 0.011) and the rs1547931-rs2238769 haplotypes (chi(2) = 18.88, df = 3, P = 0.0003). The 4-SNP haplotype analysis also showed strong association with illness (chi(2) = 29.54, df = 9, P = 0.0005) but there were more than one individual haplotypes with a low frequency excessively non-transmitted. The four SNPs tested were not located in the same LD block among the Chinese population. This study raises the possibility that a disease-resistant variant may be carried by two or more haplotypes at the UFD1L locus due to frequent recombination during meiosis.
In the developing visual system, growing retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons are exposed to multiple guidance and growth factors. Furthermore, the relative levels of these factors are differentially regulated as topography is roughly established and then refined. We have shown that during the establishment of rough topography (P3), growth cones of pure and explanted RGCs treated with combinations of BDNF and ephrin-A5-Fc responded differently than RGCs treated with BDNF or ephrin-A5-Fc alone (p=0.0083). The response to the combined treatment mimicked that of RGCs cultured with ephrin-A5-Fc alone once topography refines. The guidance cue receptors EphA and TrkB were shown to co-localise in RGCs in vitro. Furthermore, EphA and TrkB receptors interacted directly in in vitro binding assays. Our results suggest that the conversion of growth cone responses from collapse to stabilisation as topography refines, occurs as a result of interactions between EphA and TrkB receptors.
The mechanisms by which neurons die in Huntington's disease (HD) are uncertain, however, mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis have been implicated. Because peripheral abnormalities may reflect similar consequences of mutant huntingtin in the brain, we evaluated markers of apoptotic cell death and mitochondrial function in peripheral blood cells of 10 HD patients and 16 age- and gender-matched controls. We found increased Bax expression in B and T lymphocytes, and monocytes from HD patients, but no alterations in Bcl-2 expression levels. B lymphocytes also showed decreased mitochondrial membrane potential. However, HD peripheral blood cells showed no differences in reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels when compared to controls. Our results suggest that peripheral blood cells, in particularly B lymphocytes may reflect changes observed in HD brain.

Previous experiments have shown that categorization of people into two distinct fictive groups has an impact on cognitive processes. The main objective of the present study was to examine whether this mere categorization improves information processing speed and alters early and late onset ERPs during a social judgment task. In a group membership situation, in-group evaluation enhanced information processing speed and occipito-temporal N170 amplitudes, associated with orthographic processing, compared to out-group evaluation, more so for positive than negative attributes. Moreover, negative adjectives elicited larger N170 amplitudes and faster information processing speed than positive adjectives. In contrast, positive adjectives in a non-membership context enhanced a late positive component in prefrontal regions. These results reflect the existence of a motivational top-down influence due to social categorization in early perceptual stages of word processing. These findings are also in accord with the existence of two distinct systems of evaluation, the first implicating an automatic processing represented in occipito-temporal neocortex and the other a more controlled processing represented in PFC.
A series of recent studies has demonstrated that the molecules involved in regulation of neuronal plasticity are also involved in the mode of action of antidepressants and mood stabilizer drugs. Intracellular calcium signaling, energy metabolism, and neuronal plasticity can be influenced by inducing axonal remodeling and increasing levels of certain synaptic proteins. Because antipsychotic drugs are used as mood stabilizers our studies focused on a newly-marketed antipsychotic drug, paliperidone. We determined changes in rat synaptoneurosomal proteins after chronic treatment with paliperidone, lithium salt, or valproic acid in order to find similarities or differences between the mode of action of paliperidone and these two classical mood stabilizers. We determined differential protein expression profiles in prefrontal cortex (PFC) of male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 4/group). Synaptoneurosomal-enriched preparations were obtained from PFC after chronic treatment with these three drugs. Proteins were separated by 2D-DIGE and identified by nano-LC-MS/MS. We observed similar protein expression profiles at the synaptoneurosomal level, suggesting that the mode of action for paliperidone is similar to that of lithium and valproic acid. However, the expression profile for paliperidone was more similar to that of lithium. Pathways affected in common by these two drugs included oxidative phosphorylation, electron transport, carbohydrate metabolism, and post-synaptic cytokinesis implicating the effects of these drugs in signaling pathways, energy metabolism, and synaptic plasticity.
Spectraplakins are multifunctional proteins that interact with all three types of cytoskeletal filaments. In this issue, Wu et al. (2008) demonstrate a new actin-dependent ATPase activity for the spectraplakin ACF7 that allows it to guide microtubule ends along actin stress fibers to focal adhesions, promoting disassembly of adhesion contacts and hence cell movement.
Peptide toxins with high affinity, divergent pharmacological functions, and isoform-specific selectivity are powerful tools for investigating the structure-function relationships of voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs). Although a number of interesting inhibitors have been reported from tarantula venoms, little is known about the mechanism for their interaction with VGSCs. We show that huwentoxin-IV (HWTX-IV), a 35-residue peptide from tarantula Ornithoctonus huwena venom, preferentially inhibits neuronal VGSC subtypes rNav1.2, rNav1.3, and hNav1.7 compared with muscle subtypes rNav1.4 and hNav1.5. Of the five VGSCs examined, hNav1.7 was most sensitive to HWTX-IV (IC(50) approximately 26 nM). Following application of 1 microm HWTX-IV, hNav1.7 currents could only be elicited with extreme depolarizations (&gt;+100 mV). Recovery of hNav1.7 channels from HWTX-IV inhibition could be induced by extreme depolarizations or moderate depolarizations lasting several minutes. Site-directed mutagenesis analysis indicated that the toxin docked at neurotoxin receptor site 4 located at the extracellular S3-S4 linker of domain II. Mutations E818Q and D816N in hNav1.7 decreased toxin affinity for hNav1.7 by approximately 300-fold, whereas the reverse mutations in rNav1.4 (N655D/Q657E) and the corresponding mutations in hNav1.5 (R812D/S814E) greatly increased the sensitivity of the muscle VGSCs to HWTX-IV. Our data identify a novel mechanism for sodium channel inhibition by tarantula toxins involving binding to neurotoxin receptor site 4. In contrast to scorpion beta-toxins that trap the IIS4 voltage sensor in an outward configuration, we propose that HWTX-IV traps the voltage sensor of domain II in the inward, closed configuration.
Maurocalcine is a 33-mer peptide initially isolated from the venom of a Tunisian scorpion. It has proved itself valuable as a pharmacological activator of the ryanodine receptor and has helped the understanding of the molecular basis underlying excitation-contraction coupling in skeletal muscles. Because of its positively charged nature, it is also an innovative vector for the cell penetration of various compounds. We report a novel maurocalcine analog with improved properties: (i) the complete loss of pharmacological activity, (ii) preservation of the potent ability to carry cargo molecules into cells, and (iii) coupling chemistries not affected by the presence of internal cysteine residues of maurocalcine. We did this by replacing the six internal cysteine residues of maurocalcine by isosteric 2-aminobutyric acid residues and by adding an additional N-terminal biotinylated lysine (for a proof of concept analog) or an N-terminal cysteine residue (for a chemically competent coupling analogue). Additional replacement of a glutamate residue by alanyl at position 12 further improves the potency of these analogues. Coupling to several cargo molecules or nanoparticles are presented to illustrate the cell penetration potency and usefulness of these pharmacologically inactive analogs.
We have recently shown that the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) exerts a regulatory influence on the development of neuropathic pain-like behaviors after partial sciatic nerve injury in male rats. In the present study, we assessed the role of the MHC in peripheral nerve injury-induced pain as well as central pain following spinal cord injury in female rats using the following inbred strains: Dark Agouti (DA; RT1(av1)), Piebald Virol Glaxo (PVG; RT1(c)) and in the MHC-congenic strain PVG-RT1(av1). In line with our previous observation in male rats, PVG-RT1(c) displayed more severe allodynia compared to the strains carrying the RT1(av1) haplotype (PVG-RT1(av1) and DA-RT1(av1)) following sciatic nerve injury in female rats. However, the MHC did not seem to impact the development of allodynia following spinal cord injury since the two congenic strains PVG-RT1(c) and PVG-RT1(av) did not differ after spinal cord injury. Interestingly, the DA-RT1(av1) strain displayed significantly more severe allodynia than both PVG strains and this difference was not explained by the extent of spinal cord injury. These results suggest that there are differences in the genetic mechanisms for neuropathic pain development following peripheral or central nervous system injury, both in regarding to the role of the MHC complex as well as non-MHC genes.
Chronic alcohol consumption causes pathological changes in the brain and neuronal loss. Ethanol toxicity may partially result from the perturbation of microtubule-associated proteins, like tau. Tau dysfunction is well known for its involvement in certain neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, the effect of ethanol on tau was examined using differentiated human neuroblastoma cells that inducibly express the 4R0N isoform of tau via a tetracycline-off expression system. During tau induction, ethanol exposure (1.25-5mg/ml) dose-dependently increased tau protein levels and reduced cell viability. The increase in cell death likely resulted from tau accumulation since increased levels of tau were sufficient to reduce cell viability and ethanol was toxic to cells expressing tau but not to non-induced controls. Tau accumulation did not result from greater tetracycline-off induction since ethanol increased neither tau mRNA expression nor the expression of the tetracycline-controlled transactivator. Additionally, ethanol increased endogenous tau protein levels in neuroblastoma cells lacking the tetracycline-off induction system for tau. Ethanol delayed tau clearance suggesting ethanol impedes its degradation. Though ethanol inhibited neither cathepsin B, cathepsin D, nor chymotrypsin-like activity, it did significantly reduce calpain I expression and activity. Calpain I knockdown by shRNA increased tau levels indicating that calpain participates in tau degradation in this model. Moreover, the activation of calpain, by the calcium ionophore A23187, partially reversed the accumulation of tau resulting from ethanol exposure. Impaired calpain-mediated degradation may thus contribute to the increased accumulation of tau caused by ethanol.


The goal of this study was to determine how the fear relevancy of outcomes during probabilistic classification learning affects behavior and strategy use. Novel variants of the &quot;weather prediction&quot; task were created, in which cue cards predicted either looming fearful or neutral outcomes in a between-groups design. Strategy use was examined by goodness-of-fit estimates of response patterns across trial blocks to mathematical models of simple, complex, and nonidentifiable strategies. Participants in the emotional condition who were fearful of the outcomes had greater skin conductance responses compared with controls and performed worse, used suboptimal strategies, and had less insight into the predictive cue features during initial learning. In contrast, nonfearful participants in the emotional condition used more optimal strategies than the other groups by the end of the two training days. Results have implications for understanding how individual differences in fear relevancy alter the impact of emotion on feedback-based learning.
Memory consolidation is the process by which newly learned information is stabilized into long-term memory (LTM). Considerable evidence indicates that retrieval of a consolidated memory returns it to a labile state that requires it to be restabilized. Consolidation of new fear memories has been shown to require de novo RNA and protein synthesis in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA). We have previously shown that de novo protein synthesis in the LA is required for reconsolidation of auditory fear memories. One key question is whether protein synthesis during reconsolidation depends on already existing mRNAs or on synthesis of new mRNAs in the amygdala. In the present study, we examined the effect of mRNA synthesis inhibition during consolidation and reconsolidation of auditory fear memories. We first show that intra-LA infusion of two different mRNA inhibitors dose-dependently impairs long-term memory but leaves short-term memory (STM) intact. Next, we show that intra-LA infusion of the same inhibitors dose-dependently blocks post-reactivation long-term memory (PR-LTM), whereas post-reactivation short-term memory (PR-STM) is left intact. Furthermore, the same treatment in the absence of memory reactivation has no effect. Together, these results show that both consolidation and reconsolidation of auditory fear memories require de novo mRNA synthesis and are equally sensitive to disruption of de novo mRNA synthesis in the LA.
A defining characteristic of age-related cognitive decline is a deficit in general cognitive performance. Here we use a testing and analysis regimen that allows us to characterize the general learning abilities of young (3-5 mo old) and aged (19-21 mo old) male and female Balb/C mice. Animals' performance was assessed on a battery of seven diverse learning tasks. Aged animals exhibited deficits in five of the seven tasks and ranked significantly lower than their young counterparts in general learning abilities (aggregate performance across the battery of tasks). Aging added variability to common core performance (i.e., general learning ability), which translated into increased variability on the individual cognitive tasks. Relatedly, general learning abilities did not differ between the two ages among the best quartile of learners (i.e., cognitive abilities were spared in a subsample of the aged animals). Additionally, working memory capacity (resistance to interference) and duration (resistance to decay) accounted for significantly more of the variability in general learning abilities in aged relative to young animals. Tests of 15 noncognitive performance variables indicated that an increase in body weight (and an associated decrease in general activity) was characteristic of those aged animals which exhibited deficient general learning abilities. These results suggest the possibility that general cognitive deficits in aged animals reflect a failure of specific components of the working memory system, and may be related to variations in body weight and an associated decrease in activity.

Polarity is an essential feature of many cell types, including neurons that receive information from local inputs within their dendrites and propagate nerve impulses to distant targets through a single axon. It is generally believed that intrinsic structural differences between axons and dendrites dictate the polarized localization of axonal and dendritic proteins. However, whether extracellular cues also instruct this process in vivo has not been explored. Here we show that the axon guidance cue UNC-6/netrin and its receptor UNC-5 act throughout development to exclude synaptic vesicle and active zone proteins from the dendrite of the Caenorhabditis elegans motor neuron DA9, which is proximal to a source of UNC-6/netrin. In unc-6/netrin and unc-5 loss-of-function mutants, presynaptic components mislocalize to the DA9 dendrite. In addition, ectopically expressed UNC-6/netrin, acting through UNC-5, is sufficient to exclude endogenous synapses from adjacent subcellular domains within the DA9 axon. Furthermore, this anti-synaptogenic activity is interchangeable with that of LIN-44/Wnt despite being transduced through different receptors, suggesting that extracellular cues such as netrin and Wnts not only guide axon navigation but also regulate the polarized accumulation of presynaptic components through local exclusion.
Hypoglycemia causes brain fuel deprivation, resulting in functional brain failure and brain death. It is a serious complication of insulin therapy in diabetic patients. A single intrafemoral dose of streptozotocin was administered to induce diabetes. Hypoglycemia was induced by appropriate doses of insulin s.c. in control and diabetic rats. Glutamate content and glutamate receptor kinetics were studied using [3H]glutamate. [3H]MK 801 was used to study the NMDA receptor kinetics. NMDA2B and metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) 5 subunits receptor gene expressions were done using real time PCR. There was a significant (P&lt;0.001) increase in the glutamate content in the cerebral cortex of hypoglycemic and diabetic rats when compared with control with more glutamate content in the hypoglycemic group. Scatchard analysis using [3H]glutamate and [3H]MK 801 in the cerebral cortex showed a significant (P&lt;0.001) increase in the maximal binding (Bmax) in both hypoglycemic and diabetic rats when compared with control with no significant change in equilibrium dissociation constant. The glutamate and NMDA receptor binding parameters were significantly (P&lt;0.001) enhanced in the hypoglycemic rats compared with hyperglycemic rats. Real time PCR analysis also showed a significant increase (P&lt;0.001) in the gene expression of NMDA2B and mGluR5 subunits of glutamate receptor. This increased gene expression of NMDA2B and mGluR5 glutamate receptor subunits confirmed the enhanced mRNA of receptor subunits and subsequently at the protein level from the receptor kinetic studies. The enhanced glutamate receptors were more prominent in hypoglycemic group which is of significance in this study. Up-regulation of glutamate leads to Ca2+ overload in cells, potentially leading to cell damage and death. This functional damage during hypoglycemia is suggested to contribute to cognitive and memory deficits which has immense clinical relevance in the therapeutic management of diabetes.
We investigated the subtype of prejunctional muscarinic receptors associated with inhibition of acetylcholine (ACh) released from the mouse bladder. We measured endogenous ACh release in the bladder obtained from the wild-type mice and muscarinic 1-5 (M1-M5) receptor knockout (KO) mice. Electrical field stimulation increased ACh release in all bladder preparations obtained from wild-type and M1-M5 receptor KO mice. The amount of ACh released from M1-M3 and M5 receptor KO mice was equal to that in the wild-type mice. In contrast, the amount of electrical field stimulation-induced ACh release in M4 receptor KO mice was significantly larger than that in the wild-type mice, but the extent of increase was small. Atropine increased electrical field stimulation-induced ACh release to levels found in wild-type mice in all M1-M5 receptor KO mice. In M2/M4 receptor double KO mice, the amount of electrical field stimulation-induced ACh release was equivalent to that in the M4 receptor KO mice. The cholinergic component of electrical field stimulation-induced contraction (in the presence of alpha,beta-methylene ATP) in the detrusor of M4 receptor KO mice was no different from that in the detrusor of wild-type mice. M4 receptor immunoreactivity was located between smooth muscle cells, colocalized with choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. These results indicate that the prejunctional inhibitory muscarinic receptors are of the M4 and non-M2 receptor subtypes. The nature of the non-M2 receptors remains unknown.
In hamsters, play fighting matures gradually into adult aggression. As these two behaviors share many similarities in this species, we predicted that a single neural circuitry controls their offensive component. The goal of the present study was to identify neural systems associated with offensive play fighting in male juvenile golden hamsters. The neural circuitry related to this behavior was identified through quantification of c-Fos immunolabeling. We also looked for vasopressin cells possibly associated with play fighting. We found that areas previously associated with offensive aggression in adult hamsters, including the ventrolateral hypothalamus, the medial amygdala, and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, also showed enhanced c-Fos expression after play fighting. In addition, vasopressin neurons in the nucleus circularis and the medial division of the supraoptic nucleus expressed enhanced c-Fos immunolabeling in juveniles after play fighting, as previously reported in adult hamsters after aggression. Finally, enhanced c-Fos expression associated with play fighting was also found in areas previously unexplored in adult hamsters, such as the prefrontal cortex. Together, our results support the hypothesis of a single core neural circuitry controlling the offensive components of play fighting and adult aggression throughout puberty in hamsters.
Recent studies suggest that the formyl-peptide-receptor-like-1 (FPRL1) plays an essential role in the inflammatory responses of host defense mechanisms and neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). We therefore analyzed whether amyloid beta1-42 (Abeta1-42) increased the activity of phospholipase D (PLD) via FPRL1, which is an enzyme involved in the secretion, endocytosis and receptor signaling. PLD activity was determined using a transphosphatidylation assay. The internalization of Abeta1-42 via FPRL1 was visualized using fluorescence microscopy and quantified by ELISA (Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay). Determining receptor activity by extracellular-signal regulated kinases 1/2 (ERK1/2) phosphorylation and cAMP level measurement verified the Abeta1-42-induced activation of FPRL1. We were able to show that Abeta1-42 is rapidly internalized via FPRL1 in astrocytes and microglia. PLD was additionally activated by Abeta1-42 and via FPRL1 in rat glial cells. Furthermore, the ERK1/2 phosphorylation by FPRL1 agonists was dependent on the PLD product phosphatidic acid (PA). Together, these data suggest that PLD plays an important role in the regulation of Abeta1-42-induced endocytosis and FPRL1 receptor signaling.
Simple and complex cells are two basic and distinct functional types of neurons in the mammalian primary visual cortex. Here, we studied the onset response and the offset response of simple and complex cells to a flashing visual stimulus in the cat's area 17. Compared with simple cells, complex cells exhibited greater similarity between the onset and offset responses in peak latency. For simple cells, onset response had greater peak amplitude and signal-to-noise ratio than offset response, and for complex cells, vice versa. For both types of cortical cells, the amplitude of offset responses increased with stimulus duration within 100 ms significantly, while the onset response did not. However, to elicit a detectable offset response, complex cells tended to require shorter stimulus duration than simple cells did. In regard to the similarity of psychophysical data, these results suggest that the rebound offset response of cortical cells to disappearance of a visual pattern might be correlated to visual persistence in humans.
Alterations of nitric oxide (NO) metabolism in the brain have been associated with modifications of stress-related behavior in animal models. It has been generally assumed that these behavioral changes are due to the neuronal nitrosative activity. On the other hand, glial NO production has been demonstrated mainly as a slow reaction to brain insults through the activity of an inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isoform (NOS2). Recently we uncovered increased NOS activity in astrocytes of mice with a NOS2 mutation. Interestingly, these mice revealed a behavioral phenotype suggestive of increased susceptibility to stress. In the present study we investigated the responses of these mutants to stress by exposing them to predator scent. Seven days later, mutant mice exhibited significantly higher anxiety-like behavior in the elevated-plus maze, increased acoustic startle responses, and higher plasma corticosterone levels compared with their controls. Systemic administration of a NOS inhibitor prior to the stress exposure reversed these stress-related effects without affecting controls' behavior. These findings are in agreement with previous studies showing an association between increased NO levels and enhanced anxiety-like responses. In addition, mutant mice performed better in the Morris water maze prior to stress exposure, but the two animal groups performed alike in an object-recognition test. Taken together, our results suggest the involvement of astrocytic-derived NO in modulating behavior.
Housekeeping gene (HKG) mRNAs are used to normalize expression data of genes of interest in quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction studies. Such normalization assumes constant HKG gene expression under all circumstances. Although sporadic evidence suggests that HKG expression may not always fulfill this requirement and, therefore, such normalization may lead readily to erroneous results, this fact is generally not sufficiently appreciated by investigators. Here, we have systematically analyzed the expression of three common HKGs, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, ribosomal subunit 18S and beta-actin, in two different stress paradigms, in various brain areas, in male and in female rats. HKG expressions differed considerably with respect to brain area, type of stressor and gender, in an HKG-specific manner. Therefore, we conclude that before final experimentation, pilot expression studies are necessary to select an HKG which expression is unaffected by the experimental factor(s), allowing reliable interpretation of expression data of genes of interest.
Classic neurotransmitter phenotypes are generally predetermined and develop as a consequence of target-independent lineage decisions. A unique mode of target-dependent phenotype instruction is the acquisition of the cholinergic phenotype in the peripheral sympathetic nervous system. A body of work suggests that the sweat gland plays an important role to determine the cholinergic phenotype at this target site. A key issue is whether neurons destined to innervate the sweat glands express cholinergic markers before or only after their terminals make target contact. We employed cholinergic-specific over-expression of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) in transgenic mice to overcome sensitivity limits in the detection of initial cholinergic sweat gland innervation. We found that VAChT immunoreactive nerve terminals were present around the sweat gland anlage already from the earliest postnatal stages on, coincident selectively at this sympathetic target with tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibers. Our results provide a new mechanistic model for sympathetic neuron-target interaction during development, with initial selection by the target of pioneering nerve terminals expressing a cholinergic phenotype, and subsequent stabilization of this phenotype during development.
The problem of skill-level-dependent modulation in the joint dynamics of multi-joint arm movements is addressed in this study using piano keystroke performed by expert and novice piano players. Using the measured kinematic and key-force data, the time varying net, gravitational, motion-dependent interaction (INT), key-reaction (REA), and muscular (MUS) torques at the shoulder, elbow, wrist, and metacarpophalangeal (MP) joints were computed using inverse dynamics techniques. INTs generated at the elbow and wrist joints, but not those at the MP joint, were greater for the experts as compared with the novices. REA at the MP joint, but not at the other joints, was less for the experts as compared with the novices. The MUSs at the MP, wrist, and elbow joints were smaller, and that at the shoulder joint was larger for the experts as compared with the novices. The experts also had a lesser inter-strike variability of key striking force and key descending velocity as compared with the novices. These findings indicated that the relationship among the INT, REA, and MUS occurring at the joints of the upper-extremity differed between the expert and novice piano players, suggesting that the organization of multi-joint arm movement is modulated by long-term motor training toward facilitating both physiological efficiency and movement accuracy.
Strongly inwardly rectifying K+ (Kir2) channels are endogenously expressed in rat brains and have recently been used as a tool to reduce the neuronal activity. But little is known about the role of Kir2 channels and the chronic effect of the reduced activity on the intrinsic excitability of neurons. Here we constructed a lentiviral vector that coexpressed Kir2.1 and GFP (LvKir2.1) and infected the vector to the hippocampal slice cultures. The LvKir2.1-infected CA1 neurons showed clear inwardly rectifying K+ currents for more than 15 days. The resting membrane potential was more negative by approximately 10 mV than those uninfected or infected with the lentiviral vector expressing GFP alone. The infection of LvKir2.1 reduced the voltage change in response to current injections and the amplitude of mEPSPs with a shunting effect. The LvKir2.1 infection significantly reduced the firings evoked by depolarizing currents in the CA1 neurons. The reduction of the firing was attributed to the hyperpolarized potential rather than to the shunting effect. These reductions were limited to modest current injections, suggesting that the overexpressed Kir2.1 plays the role of a noise-filter. Moreover, the chronic overexpression of Kir2.1 downregulated the expression of the delayed rectifier potassium current in a homeostatic manner, indicating a usefulness of this viral vector to study the activity-dependent neuronal development.
Noise exposure is one of the most common causes of hearing loss. There is growing evidence suggesting that noise-induced peripheral hearing loss can also induce functional changes in the central auditory system. However, the physiological and biological changes in the central auditory system induced by noise exposure are poorly understood. To address these issues, neurophysiological recordings were made from the auditory cortex (AC) of awake rats using chronically implanted electrodes before and after acoustic overstimulation. In addition, focused gene microarrays and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction were used to identify changes in gene expression in the AC. Monaural noise exposure (120 dB sound pressure level, 1 h) significantly elevated hearing threshold on the exposed ear and induced a transient enhancement on the AC response amplitude 4 h after the noise exposure recorded from the unexposed ear. This increase of the cortical neural response amplitude was associated with an upregulation of genes encoding heat shock protein (HSP) 27 kDa and 70 kDa after several hours of the noise exposure. These results suggest that noise exposure can induce a fast physiological change in the AC which may be related to the changes of HSP expressions.

Leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein-coupled receptor 8 (LGR8; also classified as relaxin family peptide 2 receptor; RXFP2) has been identified as a cognate receptor for the peptide hormone, insulin-like peptide 3 (INSL3) and INSL3-LGR8 signaling plays an essential role in testis descent and germ cell development in human and rodents. Lgr8 mRNA has been detected in human tissues including testis, kidney and brain, but its regional and cellular distribution in these tissues in human or other species is largely unknown. In an initial step to elucidate the physiological function of a putative INSL3-LGR8 system in rat brain, the localization of Lgr8 mRNA was investigated using in situ hybridization histochemistry, revealing a discrete distribution in forebrain, with expression highly enriched in the thalamus. High densities were detected in the parafascicular nucleus (Pf), the dorsolateral, ventrolateral and posterior thalamic nuclei, and in the medial habenula. Lgr8 transcripts were also detected in frontal and motor cortices. The comparative distribution of LGR8 (receptor protein) was examined by autoradiography of [125I]-human INSL3 binding sites, with high densities detected in the thalamus, especially in Pf, and in the entire striatum--the caudate putamen (CPmicro), islands of Calleja, olfactory tubercle, nucleus accumbens--with lower levels in distinct layers of cerebral cortex. Notably, these areas also receive dopaminergic projections. These findings demonstrate the existence of LGR8 in neuronal soma in the thalamus and axons/terminals in thalamic target areas such as the striatum and frontal cortex. LGR8 was also detected throughout the medial habenula-fasciculus retroflexus-interpeduncular nucleus pathway, further indicating that the receptor is transported from mRNA-expressing soma to remote axonal/terminal sites. These findings suggest the existence of a broadly distributed LGR8 signaling system in the rat involved in sensorimotor, limbic and cognitive functions. Further studies are now required to elucidate the precise function of LGR8, under normal and pathological conditions, as importantly, several of the equivalent receptor-positive areas in human brain are part of the pathology of neurodegenerative conditions including Parkinson's disease.
Synaptophysin (SYP) is a major protein of neurotransmitter-containing vesicles spanning the membrane four times and contributing to various aspects of the synaptic vesicle cycle. The split-ubiquitin yeast two-hybrid system was used to characterize molecular interactions of membrane-bound, full-length murine SYP. In this way, the known homophilic SYP-SYP association could be confirmed and heterophilic binding of SYP to other tetraspan vesicle membrane proteins of the secretory carrier-associated membrane- and synaptogyrin-type could be detected for the first time. SYP-binding was also observed for the vSNARE synaptobrevin2 and various membrane and membrane-associated proteins. Double labeling immunofluorescence microscopy of murine retina, co-immunoprecipitation experiments and fluorescence energy resonance transfer (FRET) analyses between fluorescent protein-tagged polypeptides were carried out to validate and further characterize the association of SYP with the tetraspan vesicle membrane proteins secretory carrier-associated membrane protein 1 and synaptogyrin3, with synaptobrevin2, and the newly identified binding partners phospholipase D4, stathmin-like3, Rho family GTPase2 and ADP-ribosylation factor interacting protein2. It was observed that the carboxyterminus of SYP is dispensable for association with integral membrane proteins while it is needed for binding to membrane-associated polypeptides. The latter appears to be regulated by phosphorylation, since src homology 2-domains were shown to attach to the multiple carboxyterminal phosphotyrosine residues of SYP. In conclusion, the association of SYP with different tetraspan vesicle membrane proteins suggests shared functions and the multiple other interactions identify SYP as part of a membrane platform acting as a facilitator of various steps of the synaptic vesicle cycle.
Physiological studies suggest visceral spinal afferents are generally small diameter, unmyelinated C-fibers or myelinated Adelta-fibers, but little is known about the size and chemical phenotypes of visceral sensory neurons supplying the small intestine. This study examines the size and expression patterns of transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P (SP), neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and isolectin B4-binding (IB4) in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons projecting to the gastrointestinal tract. The spinal afferent innervation of mouse jejunum and distal colon was investigated with retrograde neuronal tracing and multi-label immunohistochemistry. Expression of histochemical markers and soma sizes of retrogradely labeled DRG profiles were determined with confocal microscopy. Most (&gt;75%) jejunal and colonic afferent neurons were medium- and large-sized cells. The majority (82%) of jejunal afferents expressed TRPV1, but few bound IB4. All retrogradely labeled jejunal afferents expressing NOS-immunoreactivity (64%) also expressed TRPV1 and CGRP and most expressed SP. Most labeled colonic afferents expressed TRPV1 (62%) and half expressed NOS. Taken together these data demonstrate that the spinal afferent supply of the jejunum and colon is largely from medium and large sensory neurons, suggesting most intestinal afferent axons are A fibers. The various chemically-defined subpopulations of afferents may play multiple roles in sensory innervation of the jejunum apart from nociceptive transduction. Additionally, we have identified a unique chemical code, TRPV1/NOS/CGRP/SP, that distinguishes many spinal afferent terminals from those of enteric neurons.
SR58611A is a selective beta(3)-adrenoceptor (Adrb3) agonist which has demonstrated antidepressant and anxiolytic properties in rodents. The present study confirmed the detection of Adrb3 mRNA transcript in rodent brain sub-regions and evaluated the effect of SR58611A on serotonergic and noradrenergic transmission in rats and mice in an attempt to elucidate the mechanism(s) underlying these properties. SR58611A (3 and 10 mg/kg, p.o.) increased the synthesis of 5-HT and tryptophan (Trp) levels in several rodent brain areas (cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, striatum). Moreover, SR58611A (10 mg/kg, p.o.) increased the release of 5-HT assessed by in vivo microdialysis in rat prefrontal cortex. Systemic (3 mg/kg, i.v.) or chronic administration of SR58611A (10 mg/kg, p.o.), in contrast to fluoxetine (15 mg/kg, p.o.), did not modify the activity of serotonergic neurons in the rat dorsal raphe nucleus. The increase in 5-HT synthesis induced by SR58611A was not observed in Adrb3s knockout mice, suggesting a selective involvement of Adrb3s in this effect. SR58611A (3 and 10 mg/kg, p.o.) did not modify norepinephrine synthesis and metabolism but increased its release in rat brain. Repeated administration of SR58611A (10 mg/kg, p.o.) did not modify basal norepinephrine release in rat prefrontal cortex whereas it prevented its tail-pinch stress-induced enhancement similarly to reboxetine (15 mg/kg, p.o.). Finally SR58611A increased the firing rate of noradrenergic neurons in the rat locus coeruleus following systemic (3 mg/kg, i.v.) or local (0.01 and 1 microM) but not chronic (10 mg/kg, p.o.) administration. These results suggest that the anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like activities of SR58611A involve an increase of brain serotonergic and noradrenergic neurotransmissions, triggered by activation of Adrb3s.
Pharmacological agents that mediate a persistent GABAergic conductance are of considerable interest for treatment of epilepsy. (R)-roscovitine is a membrane permeable cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, designed to block cell division. It is currently undergoing a phase II clinical trial as an anticancer drug. We show that (R)-roscovitine increases a tonic GABA-mediated current in rat hippocampal neurons. This enhanced tonic current appears independent of synaptic GABA release and requires functional transmembrane GABA transport. The effect of (R)-roscovitine is associated with neither modification of GABAA receptors nor protein kinase activity, but is associated with a significant increase in intracellular GABA concentration in hippocampal GABAergic neurons. (R)-roscovitine-induced tonic inhibition significantly suppresses spontaneous spiking activity of hippocampal pyramidal cells. Therefore, (R)-roscovitine is a potent modulator of neuronal activity in rat hippocampus and may provide a tool for preventing paroxysmal activity.
This article reviews a range of issues associated with the commercialization of biomedical research and speculates on how these issues might apply to the neuroscience context. Drawing on existing studies of the impact of research commercialization activities on various areas of biotechnology research, the authors explore normative benchmarks for assessing and resolving issues likely to arise from the commercialization of neuroscientific research, including such topics as patenting, marketing pressures, and representations of research prospects.
In anticipation of increasing interest in public engagement, this article seeks to expand the current discussion in the neuroethics literature concerning what public engagement on issues related to neuroscience might entail and how they could be envisioned. It notes that the small amount of available neuroethics literature related to public engagement has principally discussed only communication/education or made calls for dialogue without exploring what this might entail on a practical level. The article links across three seemingly disparate examples-salmon, biobanks, and neuroethics-to consider and clarify the need for public engagement in neuroscience.
Deception in human subject research is neither uncommon nor prohibited. The use of deception in the recruitment phase of clinical research has received relatively little attention. Given that informed consent is foundational to human subject research, the practice of misrepresenting the study purpose in clinical research would seem to contradict one of the fundamental tenets of ethical human subjects research. Using the example of prodromal psychosis, this article the ethical and legal implications of deception in recruitment and the sufficiency of current guidance on the practice when the study involves a stigmatizing condition, the collection of genetic samples, or both. I conclude that when these two elements are present, deception should only be used when absolutely necessary and, if used, researchers should be required to debrief participants before the collection of genetic samples and give particular attention to minimizing risks of privacy breaches.
Federal regulations governing human subjects research do not address key questions raised by incidental neuroimaging findings, including the scope of a researcher's disclosure with respect to the possibility of incidental findings and the question whether a researcher has an affirmative legal cuty to seek, detect, and report incidental findings. The scope of researcher duties may, however, be mapped with reference to common law doctrine, including fiduciary, tort, contract, and bailment theories of liability.
Issues of disclosure arise in neuroscientific research during the informed consent process, whenever incidental findings are identified, and when study results are generated. The possibility of disclosure of incidental findings and/or research results may raise informational expectations on the part of subjects and may alter a study's risk:benefit ratio. We recommend that the informed consent process address this potential consequence of research participation, and specify the conditions under which particular types of information will be offered, the conditions under which information may not be disclosed, and any provisions for helping subjects make sense of the information to be disclosed.
In addiction, impaired control over drug use raises questions about the capacity of addicted persons to consent to participate in research studies in which they are given their drug of addiction. We review the case for doing such research, and the arguments that addiction does, and does not, prevent addicted persons from consenting to such research. We argue for a more nuanced view that acknowledges that while in some situations addiction impairs decision-making capacity, it does not eliminate such capacity. We conclude with some suggestions for recruiting addicted subjects and designing experiments in ways to obtain free and informed consent.




It has already been shown that the intention to reproduce a motor task in the future improves its learning. Here, we tested whether intention had a similar effect on learning to perform a non-motor duration estimation task, and if intention interacted with the amount of practice. Participants learned to estimate and compare two different durations, with or without intending to reproduce this learning in the future, and with two different amounts of practice. The results showed that intention and practice enhanced task learning independently. Moreover, only practice enhanced learning in over-estimation strategy. These finding are discussed with respect to a possible mechanism by which intention and practice might improve the learning of a duration task.


The hypnosis community may be buying into a neuroscience fad concerning brain laterality. Accustomed to deflating folkloric claims about hypnosis, researchers and practitioners of hypnosis have come to appreciate the danger of lingering myths and the importance of dispelling legends. Tales are ubiquitous, however, and claims relating to the left or right hemispheres require both context and substantive data. Here we sketch the gist of brain laterality findings and their relevance to the hypnosis community.
This paper presents a highly edited version of a videotape made in 1980 by Marion Moore, M.D., showing Milton H. Erickson and Moore demonstrating novel, activity-dependent approaches to hand-levitation and therapeutic hypnosis on their subject, Ernest Rossi. Erickson's naturalistic and utilization approach is described in his very direct and surprising induction in a trance challenged patient. These novel, and surprising inductions are examples of how Erickson was prescient in developing activity-dependent approaches to therapeutic hypnosis and psychotherapy several generations before modern neuroscience documented the activity-dependent molecular-genomic mechanisms of memory, learning, and behavior change. Erickson describes a case where he utilized what he called, &quot;The General Waking Trance&quot; when he &quot;dared&quot; not use an obvious hypnotic induction. It is proposed that the states of intense mental absorption and response attentiveness that are facilitated by the general waking trance are functionally related to the three conditions neuroscientists have identified as novelty, enrichment, and exercise (both mental and physical), which can turn on activity-dependent gene expression and activity-dependent brain plasticity, that are the molecular-genomic and neural basis ofmemory, learning, consciousness, and behavior change. We recommend that the next step in investigating the efficacy of therapeutic hypnosis will be in partnering with neuroscientists to explore the possibilities and limitations of utilizing the activity-dependent approaches to hypnotic induction and the general waking trance in facilitating activity-dependent gene expression and brain plasticity.
Although there remains much to be learned, a great deal is now known about the neurophysiological processes involved in the experience of pain. Research confirms that there is no single focal &quot;center&quot; in the brain responsible for the experience of pain. Rather, pain is the end product of a number of integrated networks that involve activity at multiple cortical and subcortical sites. Our current knowledge about the neurophysiological mechanisms of pain has important implications for understanding the mechanisms underlying the effects of hypnotic analgesia treatments, as well as for improving clinical practice. This article is written for the clinician who uses hypnotic interventions for pain management. It begins with an overview of what is known about the neurophysiological basis of pain and hypnotic analgesia, and then discusses how clinicians can use this knowledge for (1) organizing the types of suggestions that can be used when providing hypnotic treatment, and (2) maximizing the efficacy of hypnotic interventions in clients presenting with pain problems.
The effects of trinitrobenzene sulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced inflammation on specialized, low-threshold, slowly adapting rectal mechanoreceptors were investigated in the guinea pig. Under isoflurane anesthesia, 300 microl saline or TNBS (15 mg/ml) in 30% ethanol was instilled 7 cm from the anal sphincter. Six or 30 days later, single unit extracellular recordings were made from rectal nerve trunks in flat-sheet in vitro preparations attached to a mechanical tissue stretcher. TNBS treatment caused macroscopic ulceration of the rectal mucosa at 6 days, which fully resolved by 30 days. Muscle contractility was unaffected by TNBS treatment. At 6 days posttreatment, responses of low-threshold rectal mechanoreceptors to circumferential stretch were increased, and the proportion of afferents responding with von Frey hair thresholds &lt;or=0.1 mN and mechanoreceptor excitability in response to electrical stimulation were increased in TNBS-treated tissue, suggesting increased sensitivity of the mechanotransducer. Mechanoreceptor function at 30 days posttreatment was in most cases unchanged. The inflammatory mediator prostaglandin E(2) (1 microM) activated mechanoreceptors (6 days) in conjunction with contractile activity, but capsaicin (1 microM) failed to activate mechanoreceptors. Bradykinin (1 microM) activated mechanoreceptors independently of contractile activity and responses to stretch were increased in the presence of bradykinin. Both capsaicin and bradykinin activated unidentified stretch-insensitive afferents independently of contractile activity. Mechanoreceptor function is modulated at 6 days posttreatment but not at 30 days, suggesting a moderate increase in mechanoreceptor sensitivity in inflamed tissue but not after recovery. Other unclassified stretch-insensitive afferents are responsive to inflammatory mediators and capsaicin and may be involved in aspects of visceral sensation.
Giving rats 2.5% saline to drink for 3-5 days simply and reliably generates anorexia. Despite having the neurochemical and hormonal markers of negative energy balance, dehydrated anorexic rats show a marked suppression of spontaneous food intake, as well as the feeding that is usually stimulated by overnight starvation or a 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2DG) challenge. These observations are consistent with a dehydration-dependent inhibition of the core circuitry that controls feeding. We hypothesize that this inhibition is directed at those neurons in the paraventricular nucleus and lateral hypothalamic area that constitute the hypothalamic &quot;behavior controller&quot; for feeding rather than their afferent inputs from the arcuate nucleus or hindbrain that convey critical feeding-related sensory information. To test this hypothesis, we mapped and quantified the Fos-immunoreactive response to 2DG in control and dehydrated rats drinking 2.5% saline. Our rationale was that regions showing an attenuated Fos response to 2DG in dehydrated animals would be strong candidates as the targets of dehydration-induced suppression of 2DG feeding. We found that the Fos response to combined dehydration and 2DG was attenuated only in the lateral hypothalamic area, with dehydration alone increasing Fos in the lateral part of the paraventricular nucleus. In the arcuate nucleus and those regions of the hindbrain that provide afferent inputs critical for the feeding response to 2DG, the Fos response to 2DG was unaffected by dehydration. Therefore, dehydration appears to target the lateral hypothalamic area and possibly the lateral part of the paraventricular nucleus to suppress the feeding response to 2DG.
Tachykinin neurokinin 3 receptor (NK3R) signaling has a broad role in vasopressin (VP) and oxytocin (OT) release. Hydralazine (HDZ)-induced hypotension activates NK3R expressed by magnocellular neurons, increases plasma VP and OT levels, and induces c-Fos expression in VP and OT neurons. Intraventricular pretreatment with the specific NK3R antagonist, SB-222200, eliminates the HDZ-stimulated VP and OT release. NK3R are distributed in the central pathways conveying hypotension information to the magnocellular neurons, and the NK3R antagonist could act anywhere in the pathways. Alternatively, the antagonist could act at the NK3R expressed by the magnocellular neurons. To determine whether blockade of NK3R on magnocellular neurons impairs VP and OT release to HDZ, rats were pretreated with a unilateral PVN injection of 0.15 M NaCl or SB-222200 prior to an intravenous injection of 0.15 M NaCl or HDZ. Blood samples were taken, and brains were processed for VP/c-Fos and OT/c-Fos immunohistochemistry. Intravenous injection of 0.15 M NaCl did not alter plasma hormone levels, and little c-Fos immunoreactivity was present in the PVN. Conversely, intravenous injection of HDZ increased plasma VP and OT levels and c-Fos expression in VP and OT magnocellular neurons. Intra-PVN injection of SB-222200 prior to an intravenous injection of HDZ significantly decreased c-Fos expression in both VP and OT neurons by approximately 70% and attenuated plasma VP and OT levels by 33% and 35%, respectively. Therefore, NK3R signaling in magnocellular neurons has a critical role for the release of VP and OT in response to hypotension.


The 6th European ALS congress took place in Lisbon, Portugal from 20 to 22 June. The scientific sessions focused on disease pathogenesis and neuroprotection including genetics, proteomics, metabolomics and various disease models. In the clinical session the latest findings on nutrition, ventilation, psychological support as well as new developments in the field of imaging and neurophysiology were discussed. This review outlines the work that was presented during the meeting.
We describe the first validated scintillation proximity assay (SPA) binding method for quantitation of (3)H-labeled d-lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) binding to recombinant human 5-hydroxytryptamine 6 (5-HT(6)) receptors expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO)-Dukx and HeLa cells. The assay was developed using intact cells as a receptor source because membrane fractions derived from these cells failed to discern specific binding from a high level of nonspecific binding. The pharmacological binding profile of seven 5-HT(6) agonists and antagonists using intact CHO-Dukx/5-HT(6) cells in the SPA format was similar to data obtained from a filtration binding assay using HeLa/5-HT(6) membranes. K(i) values and rank order of potencies obtained in the SPA format were consistent with published filtration data as follows: SB-271046 (K(i)=1.9 nM)&gt;methiothepin (K(i)=6.2 nM)&gt;mianserin (K(i)=74.3 nM)&gt;5-methoxytryptamine (5-MeOT, K(i)=111 nM)&gt;5-HT (K(i)=150 nM)&gt;ritanserin (K(i)=207 nM)&gt;5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT, K(i)=704 nM). Additional evaluation with four antipsychotics demonstrated strong agreement with previous literature reports. A high specific binding signal and low assay variability, as determined by Z'=0.81+/-0.017, make the SPA format amenable to automation and higher throughput; hence, this assay can be a viable alternative to the more labor-intensive filtration and centrifugation methods.



We review drug addiction from the perspective of the hypothesis that drugs of abuse interact with distinct brain memory systems. We focus on emotional and procedural forms of memory, encompassing Pavlovian and instrumental conditioning, both for action-outcome and for stimulus-response associations. Neural structures encompassed by these systems include the amygdala, hippocampus, nucleus accumbens, and dorsal striatum. Additional influences emanate from the anterior cingulate and prefrontal cortex, which are implicated in the encoding and retrieval of drug-related memories that lead to drug craving and drug use. Finally, we consider the ancillary point that chronic abuse of many drugs may impact directly on neural memory systems via neuroadaptive and neurotoxic effects that lead to cognitive impairments in which memory dysfunction is prominent.
It is widely known that the pathophysiology of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with neurodegeneration and inflammatory responses in the midbrain substantia nigra. However, the possibility of neurodegeneration and inflammatory responses in other areas of the central nervous system (CNS) in course of the pathogenesis of PD remains to be explored. In this investigation, we provide evidence in support of the hypothesis that spinal cord, the final coordinator of movement, is also involved during parkinsonian degeneration using two distinct experimental parkinsonism models induced by the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl 1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and the environmental toxin rotenone. A key focus of our study is the role that calpain, a Ca(2+)-activated neutral protease, plays in disrupting the structural-functional integrity of the spinal cord in the context of spinal cord degeneration in experimental parkinsonism. We examined the mechanisms of calpain-mediated neuronal death in differentiated spinal cord motoneuron cultures following exposure to the active parkinsonian toxins 1-methyl-4-phenyl-pyridinium ion (MPP(+)) and rotenone and also tested the neuroprotective efficacy of calpeptin, a calpain inhibitor, in these cell culture models of experimental parkinsonism. Our results implied that spinal cord motoneurons could be a potential extranigral target of neurodegeneration during pathogenesis of PD in the CNS and that calpain inhibition could provide neuroprotection.
Neuroinflammation is a hot topic in contemporary neuroscience. A relatively new open-access journal, the Journal of Neuroinflammation, focuses on this field. As another example, abstracts to the 2007 Annual Meeting of the Society for Neuroscience could be submitted in several subcategories of neuroinflammation, a strong signal of growth in this research area. While it is becoming clear that activation of microglia and astroglia and the attendant expression of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines often are associated with disease-, trauma-, and toxicant-induced damage to the CNS, it is by no means clear that a cause-and-effect relationship exists between the presence of a neuroinflammatory process and neural damage. We have explored this issue with two models of dopaminergic neurotoxicity. We used a single low-dose regimen of MPTP or METH, a paradigm that causes selective degeneration of striatal dopaminergic nerve terminals without affecting the cell body in the substantia nigra. Both compounds increased the expression of the microglia-associated factors, Il-1alpha, Il6, Ccl2, and Tnf-alpha, and also elicited morphologic evidence of microglial activation prior to induction of astrogliosis. Pharmacologic antagonism of MPTP and METH neurotoxicity prevented these proinflammatory responses, findings suggestive of a link between neuroinflammation and the observed neurotoxic outcomes. Nevertheless, when we used minocycline to suppress the expression of all these mediators, with the exception of Tnf-alpha, we failed to see neuroprotection. Likewise, when we examined the effects of MPTP or METH in transgenic mice lacking Il6, Ccl2, or Tnfr1/2 genes, deficiency of either Il6 or Ccl2 did not alter neurotoxicity, whereas deficiency in Tnfr1/2 was neuroprotective. Although these observations pointed to a role of the proinflammatory cytokine, TNF-alpha, in the neurotoxic effects of MPTP and METH, other observations did not support this supposition. For example, activation of NF-kappaB or induction of iNOS, known components of inflammatory responses and free radical formation, were not observed. Moreover, immunosuppressive regimens of glucocorticoids failed to suppress TNF-alpha or attenuate neurotoxicity. Taken together, our observations suggest that MPTP and METH neurotoxicity are associated with the elaboration of a &quot;neuroinflammatory&quot; response, yet this response lacks key features of inflammation and, with the exception of TNF-alpha, neurotoxicity appears to be the cause rather than the consequence of proinflammatory signals.
Ethyl alcohol (EtOH), the main psychoactive ingredient of alcoholic drinks, is widely considered responsible for alcohol abuse and alcoholism through its positive motivational properties, which depend, at least partially, on the activation of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system. On the other hand, acetaldehyde (ACD), EtOH's first metabolite, has been classically considered aversive and useful in the pharmacologic therapy of alcoholics. Here we show that EtOH-derived ACD is necessary for EtOH-induced place preference, a preclinical test with high predictive validity for reward liability. We also found that ACD is essential for EtOH-increased microdialysate dopamine (DA) levels in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), and that this effect is mimicked by ACD administration to the intraventral tegmental area (VTA). Furthermore, in vitro, ACD enhances VTA DA neuronal firing. Coherently, EtOH-stimulating properties on DA neurons are prevented by pharmacologic blockade of local catalase: the main metabolic step for biotransformation of EtOH into ACD in the central nervous system. These results provide in vivo and in vitro evidence for a key role of ACD in EtOH motivational properties and its activation of the mesolimbic DA system. Additionally, these observations suggest that ACD, by increasing VTA DA neuronal activity, would oppose its well-known peripherally originating aversive properties. These findings could help in devising new effective pharmacologic therapies in alcoholism.
Methamphetamine causes nigrostriatal denervation and striatal dopamine loss, while sparing nigral cell bodies. Nigral dopamine neurons feature autophagic vacuoles and cytoplasmic alpha-synuclein-, ubiquitin- and parkin-positive inclusion-like bodies. On that basis, autophagy was considered essential in methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity, but its neurotoxic or protective role has never been addressed. Here we review the gap between the descriptive evidence on activation of autophagy and the lack of knowledge about its role during methamphetamine intoxication. Our preliminary findings rule out a detrimental role for autophagy; this represents the first step in understanding the consequence of activation of autophagy in methamphetamine toxicity.
Adult animals treated with high doses of MDMA (&quot;ecstasy&quot;) either on a single day or for several consecutive days show numerous behavioral changes as well as persistent reductions in brain serotonin (5-HT) concentrations and 5-HT transporter (SERT) protein expression. However, such dosing regimens do not adequately mimic the intermittent use patterns commonly seen in adolescent recreational ecstasy users. We have developed and characterized a rat model of intermittent adolescent MDMA exposure that simulates many of the features of human weekend use. Animals treated with our dosing regimen experience only small increases in core body temperature, and their plasma MDMA levels compare favorably with the levels reported for heavy ecstasy users under naturalistic conditions when species differences in drug clearance rates are taken into account. Intermittent adolescent MDMA exposure causes later deficits in object-recognition memory, increased impulsivity in the elevated plus-maze, and reduced sensitivity to a 5-HT(1A) agonist challenge. SERT-immunoreactive fiber density is significantly reduced in the hippocampus but not the neocortex, suggesting that the hippocampus may be particularly vulnerable to moderate MDMA exposure during adolescence. Finally, adolescent MDMA-treated animals are protected (i.e., show tolerance) against the neurotoxic and depressant effects of a subsequent MDMA &quot;binge&quot; challenge. We believe that the present animal model has important clinical relevance based on the similarities between the model and the reported effects of regular ecstasy use.
Methamphetamine (METH) is well known for its ability to cause damage to dopamine (DA) nerve endings of the striatum. The mechanisms by which METH causes neurotoxicity are not fully understood, but likely candidates are increased oxidative and nitrosative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. Microglial activation is also emerging as an important element of the METH neurotoxic cascade, and it appears that extensive cross-talk between these cells and DA nerve endings is an early event in this process. It may seem paradoxical, but DA itself is also thought to be an essential factor in the neuronal damaging effects of METH, but issues relating to its precise role in this regard remain unanswered. We present in this overview a summary of studies that tested how alterations in the disposition of presynaptic DA (injections of reserpine, L-DOPA, or clorgyline) modulate METH neurotoxicity. In all cases, these drugs significantly increased the magnitude of microglial activation as well as the severity of damage to striatal DA nerve endings caused by METH. The enhancement of METH effects in striatum by reserpine, L-DOPA, and clorgyline persisted for 14 days and showed no evidence of recovery. These data establish that subtle shifts in the newly synthesized pool of DA can cause substantial changes in the severity of METH-induced neurotoxicity. DA released into the synapse by METH is very likely the source of downstream reactants that provoke microglial activation and the ensuing damage to DA nerve endings.
Lesions of the cerebral white matter (WM) result in focal neurobehavioral syndromes, neuropsychiatric phenomena, and dementia. The cerebral WM contains fiber pathways that convey axons linking cerebral cortical areas with each other and with subcortical structures, facilitating the distributed neural circuits that subserve sensorimotor function, intellect, and emotion. Recent neuroanatomical investigations reveal that these neural circuits are topographically linked by five groupings of fiber tracts emanating from every neocortical area: (1) cortico-cortical association fibers; (2) corticostriatal fibers; (3) commissural fibers; and cortico-subcortical pathways to (4) thalamus and (5) pontocerebellar system, brain stem, and/or spinal cord. Lesions of association fibers prevent communication between cortical areas engaged in different domains of behavior. Lesions of subcortical structures or projection/striatal fibers disrupt the contribution of subcortical nodes to behavior. Disconnection syndromes thus result from lesions of the cerebral cortex, subcortical structures, and WM tracts that link the nodes that make up the distributed circuits. The nature and the severity of the clinical manifestations of WM lesions are determined, in large part, by the location of the pathology: discrete neurological and neuropsychiatric symptoms result from focal WM lesions, whereas cognitive impairment across multiple domains--WM dementia--occurs in the setting of diffuse WM disease. We present a detailed review of the conditions affecting WM that produce these neurobehavioral syndromes, and consider the pathophysiology, clinical effects, and broad significance of the effects of aging and vascular compromise on cerebral WM, in an attempt to help further the understanding, diagnosis, and treatment of these disorders.
Hemispatial neglect (HSN) is a frequent, conspicuous neurobehavioral accompaniment of brain injury. Patients with HSN share several superficial similarities, leading earlier clinical neuroscientists to view neglect as a unitary condition associated with brain structures that mediate relatively discrete spatial cognitive mechanisms. Over the last two decades, research largely deconstructed the neglect syndrome, revealing a remarkable heterogeneity of behaviors and providing insight into multiple component processes, both spatial and nonspatial, that contribute to hemispatial neglect. This review surveys visual HSN, presenting first the means for detection and diagnosis in its manifold variations. We summarize cognitive operations relevant to spatial attention and evidence for their role in neglect behaviors and then briefly consider neural systems that may subserve the component processes. Finally, we propose several methods for rehabilitating HSN, including the challenges facing remediation of such a heterogeneous cognitive disorder.



Attention is the process by which we select stimuli in our environment for perception and action. The ability to orient to salient visual stimuli and to parse the visual world begins to emerge in the first few months of life and continues to evolve through childhood. This review addresses how visuospatial attention develops, is deployed, and can be damaged in children. In particular, we discuss orienting, lateralized attention, and global vs local processing. Advances in our basic understanding of the cognitive neuroscience of visuospatial attention are beginning to inform pediatric neurology, but much work remains to be done.

While the HIV epidemic has disproportionately affected African American and Latino men who have sex with men (MSM), few HIV prevention interventions have focused on African American and Latino men who have sex with both men and women (MSMW). Even fewer interventions target HIV-positive African American and Latino MSM and MSMW with histories of childhood sexual abuse (CSA), a population that may be vulnerable to high-risk sexual behaviors, having multiple sexual partners, and depression. The Men's Health Project, a small randomized clinical trial, compared the effects of two 6-session interventions, the Sexual Health Intervention for Men (S-HIM), guided by social learning theory and aimed at decreasing high-risk sexual behaviors, number of sexual partners, and depressive symptoms, and a standard health promotion control (SHP). A community sample of 137 HIV-positive gay and non-gay identifying African American and Latino MSM and MSMW with histories of CSA was recruited. Results were based on an &quot;intent to treat&quot; analyses of baseline to post, 3 and 6 month follow-ups. The sample as a whole reported reductions in sexual risk behaviors and number of sexual partners from baseline to post-test, and from the 3 to 6 month follow-ups, although the decrease in sexual risk behavior from baseline to post-test was significant only for S-HIM participants. No significant differences between conditions were reported for depressive symptoms, but the total sample reported a significant decrease at 6 months. These findings highlight the importance of addressing sexual decision-making and psychological adjustment for ethnic men, while being sensitive to CSA histories and sexual minority status, and suggest the need to develop additional strategies to heighten HIV risk reduction over time.
Many recent studies indicate that dysregulation of autophagy is a common feature of many neurodegenerative diseases. The HIV-1-associated neurological disorder is an acquired cognitive and motor disease that includes a severe neurodegenerative dementia. We find that the neurodegeneration seen in the brain in HIV-1 infection is associated with an inhibition of neuronal autophagy, leading to neuronal demise. Neurons treated with supernatants from SIV-infected microglia develop a decrease in autophagy-inducing proteins, a decrease in neuronal autophagy vesicles, and an increase in sequestosome-1/p62. Examination of brains from HIV-infected individuals and SIV-infected monkeys reveals signs of autophagy dysregulation, associated, respectively, with dementia and encephalitis. Excitotoxic and inflammatory factors could inhibit neuronal autophagy, and stimulation of autophagy with rapamycin prevents such effects. Here we amplify on these findings, and propose that in the setting of HIV-infection, the decreased neuronal autophagy sensitizes cells to pro-apoptotic and other damaging mechanisms, leading to neuronal dysfunction and death. Hence, new therapeutic approaches aimed at boosting neuronal autophagy are conceivable to treat those suffering from the neurological complications of HIV.
The neuronal protein alpha-synuclein is thought to be central in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Excessive wild type alpha-synuclein levels can lead to PD in select familial cases and alpha-synuclein protein accumulation occurs in sporadic PD. Therefore, elucidation of the mechanisms that control alpha-synuclein levels is critical for PD pathogenesis and potential therapeutics. The subject of alpha-synuclein degradation has been controversial. Previous work shows that, in an assay with isolated liver lysosomes, purified wild type alpha-synuclein is degraded by the process of chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA). Whether this actually occurs in a cellular context has been unclear. In our most recent work, we find that wild type alpha-synuclein, but not the closely related protein beta-synuclein, is indeed degraded by CMA in neuronal cells, including primary postnatal ventral midbrain neurons. Macroautophagy, but not the proteasome, also contributes to alpha-synuclein degradation. Therefore, two separate lysosomal pathways, CMA and macroautophagy, degrade wild type alpha-synuclein in neuronal cells. It is hypothesized that impairment of either of these two pathways, or of more general lysosomal function, may be an initiating factor in alpha-synuclein accumulation and sporadic PD pathogenesis.
Self-awareness is a specific type of autoclitic discriminative behavior and inferential generalization to similar performances exhibited by other people. Brain imaging findings take on special importance within behavior analysis when they indicate that dysfunctions in these areas are related to differential effects of our interventions, with some acquiring substantially typical self-awareness skills and others failing to do so. It appears that those individuals whose brain dysfunctions are limited to these areas, and are not part of more generalized brain abnormalities, are amenable to substantial acquisition of those most basic of human skills called self-awareness, whereas individuals with more generalized brain dysfunction are not so disposed. Through a combination of less or more effective teaching contingencies during childhood, and degrees of dysfunction of those brain structures, some children grow up lacking self-reflective abilities and self-insight, whereas others are extraordinarily astute at those capacities. Among children with autism spectrum disorders who lack those skills due to abnormal brain development, approximately half of them can acquire those skills, at least to some degree through the use of effective, intensive, early behavior therapy methods.

An issue of increasing interest in Pavlovian conditioning is to identify ways to facilitate the development and persistence of extinction. Both behavioral and molecular lines of evidence demonstrate that learning during extinction can be enhanced. Similar evidence has been offered to support the idea that extinction causes the original association to be unlearned, or erased. Differentiating between extinction and erasure accounts is extremely difficult and requires many assumptions about the fundamental nature of how memory storage maps into memory expression. In this issue of Behavioral Neuroscience, Norrholm et al. (see record 2008-13280-002) describe a study of extinction with humans that has the potential to serve as a translational bridge between rodent work and clinical applications. They find less recovery of a conditioned fear response when extinction occurs 10 min compared with 72 hr after conditioning; however, the recovery of subjects' expectancies of the fearful stimulus is independent of when extinction occurred. These findings and others discussed in this article demonstrate some of the challenges in making inferences about memory erasure during extinction.
The emergence of stereotypies was examined in juvenile rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) who, at 2 weeks of postnatal age, received selective bilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the amygdala (N = 8) or hippocampus (N = 8). The lesion groups were compared to age-matched control subjects that received a sham surgical procedure (N = 8). All subjects were maternally reared for the first 6 months and provided access to social groups throughout development. Pronounced stereotypies were not observed in any of the experimental groups during the first year of life. However, between 1 to 2 years of age, both amygdala- and hippocampus-lesioned subjects began to exhibit stereotypies. When observed as juveniles, both amygdala- and hippocampus-lesioned subjects consistently produced more stereotypies than the control subjects in a variety of contexts. More interesting, neonatal lesions of either the amygdala or hippocampus resulted in unique repertoires of repetitive behaviors. Amygdala-lesioned subjects exhibited more self-directed stereotypies and the hippocampus-lesioned subjects displayed more head-twisting. We discuss these results in relation to the neurobiological basis of repetitive stereotypies in neurodevelopmental disorders, such as autism.
Behavioral and physiological data suggest that the striatal dopaminergic system is important in the production and execution of sequential movements. Striatal function is also modulated by sex hormones, and previous studies show that estradiol is related to sequential movement in women. The authors examined whether sex hormones are involved in the production of sequential movement in healthy older and younger men. Testosterone was modified for a 6-week period such that levels in older men matched those of younger men, the conversion of testosterone to estradiol was blocked, the production of testosterone was blocked, or the men received no treatment (placebo). Sequential movement was measured before and after hormone treatment. Older men were slower and more accurate than younger men on the sequential movement task pre- and posttreatment. Hormone manipulation had no effect on movement speed. Hormone levels were not correlated with sequential movement performance in either older or younger men, suggesting that sex hormones do not modulate sequential movement in men, and hormone replacement may not restore a loss of sequential movement ability in elderly men or men with Parkinson's disease.
It is unknown whether birds are able to retain the memory of purely sensory auditory information such as white noise over an extended period of time. In a Pavlovian heart rate conditioning paradigm, four pigeons were trained to associate a mild electric shock with periodic random waveforms, and no shock with aperiodic noise. Periodic waveform detection requires echoic memory, i.e., the online retention of a waveform pattern over a limited time. Starting with 40ms, the waveform period was increased after successful learning until no significant stimulus discrimination could be found. Significant discrimination was achieved at periods of up to 2560ms. This is the first demonstration that echoic memory performance in birds is clearly superior to cats and gerbils, and comparable to naive human performance.
Proper wiring of the nervous system requires tight control of the number of nerve terminals that innervate a target tissue. Recent work by Deppmann et al., now suggests that this is achieved by feedback-mediated neuronal competition for target-derived survival cues. The authors' model is inspired by the theory for pattern formation based on self-activation and lateral inhibition, proposed by Meinhardt and Gierer more than 30 years ago.
L-Glutamate and 5'-ribonucleotides such as guanosine-5'-monophosphate (GMP) and inosine-5'-monophosphate (IMP) elicit a unique taste called 'umami' that is distinct from the tastes of sweet, salty, sour, and bitter. For umami, like sweet and bitter compounds, taste signaling is initiated by binding of tastants to G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) in taste bud cells. To date, several GPCRs for umami compounds have been identified in taste cells, including the heterodimer T1R1/T1R3, and truncated type 1 and 4 metabotropic glutamate receptors missing most of the N-terminal extracellular domain (taste-mGluR4 and truncated-mGluR1). Apparently contradictory data in T1R3 knock-out (KO) mouse models have been reported. One study showed that behavioral preference and taste nerve responses to umami stimuli in T1R3-KO mice were totally abolished, suggesting that T1R1/T1R3 is a sole receptor for umami taste. The other reported reduced but not abolished responses to umami in T1R3-KO mice, suggesting existence of multiple receptors for umami taste. In this paper, we summarized the data from recent studies that further addressed this issue by using different experimental techniques. Some of the studies provided additional evidence for the existence of umami receptor systems mediated by mGluR1 and mGluR4 in addition to T1R1/T1R3. It is proposed that the signal mediated by the pathway involving T1R1/T1R3 may play a different role from that derived from the mGluRs. The former occurs mainly in the anterior tongue, and plays a major role in preference behavior, whereas the latter occurs mainly in the posterior tongue and contributes to behavioral discrimination between umami and other taste compounds.


Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is characterized by disturbances in attention, such as increased arousal and hypervigilance. This study examined the event-related potential (ERP) P3 component to target detection (Go), response inhibition (NoGo) and irrelevant nontarget stimuli during auditory and visual A-X continuous performance tasks. NoGo N2 amplitude effects were also analyzed. Participants were 23 Vietnam veterans with PTSD and 13 civilian controls. No group differences were present for N2 or P3 amplitude to Go and NoGo stimuli. The PTSD group, however, had longer P3 latency to NoGo stimuli than controls, regardless of modality. The PTSD group also had greater frontal P3 amplitude to irrelevant nontarget stimuli than controls. Significant P3 amplitude and latency findings were associated with higher hyperarousal and reexperiencing scores from the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale. The findings suggest that attentional problems in PTSD are related to slowed central processing when response inhibition is required, and to an impaired ability to screen irrelevant information. This study provides further evidence that the attentional impairments in PTSD are not confined to trauma-related stimuli. Heightened arousal appears to enhance the attentional dysregulation seen in PTSD.
Several componential emotion theories suggest that appraisal outcomes trigger characteristic somatovisceral changes that facilitate information processing and prepare the organism for adaptive behavior. The current study tested predictions derived from Scherer's Component Process Model. Participants viewed unpleasant and pleasant pictures (intrinsic pleasantness appraisal) and were asked to concurrently perform either an arm extension or an arm flexion, leading to an increase or a decrease in picture size. Increasing pleasant stimuli and decreasing unpleasant stimuli were considered goal conducive; decreasing pleasant stimuli and increasing unpleasant stimuli were considered goal obstructive (goal conduciveness appraisal). Both appraisals were marked by several somatovisceral changes (facial electromyogram, heart rate (HR)). As predicted, the changes induced by the two appraisals showed similar patterns. Furthermore, HR results, compared with data of earlier studies, suggest that the adaptive consequences of both appraisals may be mediated by stimulus proximity.
The fetal brain is thought to have a role in the onset and progression of labor. Evidence also exists for fetal oxytocin release just before and during parturition. The present study examined whether activation of the fetal brain could induce uterine myometrial contractions through oxytocin receptors in the dam. Under urethane anesthesia, electrical stimulation of the hypothalamus of fetal rats that were still connected with the dams by an intact umbilical cord induced uterine contractions in term pregnant rats. Intraperitoneal injections of synthetic oxytocin in fetuses induced uterine contractions in the dams similar to those induced by electrical stimulation of the fetal hypothalamus. Maternal intravenous injections of an oxytocin antagonist immediately attenuated uterine contractions induced by fetal oxytocin injections and electrical stimulation of the fetal hypothalamus. These findings suggest the possibility that oxytocin released from the fetal hypothalamus is involved in parturition.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) has been identified as the endogenous ligand of a previously orphan receptor now named NPSR. Previous studies demonstrated that the N-terminal sequence Phe(2)-Arg(3)-Asn(4) of the peptide is crucial for biological activity. Here, we report on a focused structure-activity study of Arg(3) and Asn(4) that have been replaced with a series of coded and non-coded amino acids. Thirty-eight human NPS analogues were synthesized and pharmacologically tested for intracellular calcium mobilization using HEK293 cells stably expressing the mouse NPSR. The results of this study demonstrated the following NPS position 3 structure-activity features: (i) the guanidine moiety and its basic character are not crucial requirements, (ii) an aliphatic amino acid with a linear three carbon atom long side chain is sufficient to bind and fully activate NPSR, (iii) the receptor pocket allocating the position 3 side chain can accommodate slightly larger side chains at least to a certain degree [hArg, Arg(NO2) or Arg(Me)2 but not Arg(Tos)]. Position 4 seems to be more sensitive to amino acids replacement compared to position 3; in fact, all the amino acid replacements investigated produced either an important decrease of biological activity or generated inactive derivatives suggesting a pivotal role of the Asn(4) side chain for NPS bioactivity.
Spectroscopic responses of the potentiometric probe 2-(4-(dimethylamino)styryl)-1-methylpyridinium iodide (DASPMI) were investigated in living cells by means of a time- and space-correlated single photon counting technique. Spatially resolved fluorescence decays from single mitochondria or only a very few organelles of XTH2 cells exhibited three-exponential decay kinetics. Based on DASPMI photophysics in a variety of solvents, these lifetimes were attributed to the fluorescence from the locally excited state, intramolecular charge transfer state, and twisted intramolecular charge transfer state. A considerable variation in lifetimes among mitochondria of different morphologies and within single cells was evident, corresponding to high physiological variations within single cells. Considerable shortening of the short lifetime component (tau(1)) under a high-membrane-potential condition, such as in the presence of ATP and/or substrate, was similar to quenching and a dramatic decrease of lifetime in polar solvents. Under these conditions tau(2) and tau(3) increased with decreasing contribution. Inhibiting respiration by cyanide resulted in a notable increase in the mean lifetime and a decrease in mitochondrial fluorescence. Increased DASPMI fluorescence under conditions that elevate the mitochondrial membrane potential has been attributed to uptake according to Nernst distributions, delocalization of pi-electrons, quenching processes of the methyl pyridinium moiety, and restricted torsional dynamics at the mitochondrial inner membrane. Accordingly, determination of anisotropy in DASPMI-stained mitochondria in living cells revealed a dependence of anisotropy on the membrane potential. The direct influence of the local electric field on the transition dipole moment of the probe and its torsional dynamics monitor changes in mitochondrial energy status within living cells.
Around half of the neurons of a human brain are granule cells (approximately 10(11)granule neurons) [Kandel, E.R., Schwartz, J.H., Jessell, T.M., 2000. Principles of Neural Science. McGraw-Hill Professional Publishing, New York]. In order to study in detail the functional role of the intrinsic features of this cell we have developed a pre-compiled behavioural model based on the simplified granule-cell model of Bezzi et al. [Bezzi, M., Nieus, T., Arleo, A., D'Angelo, E., Coenen, O.J.-M.D., 2004. Information transfer at the mossy fiber-granule cell synapse of the cerebellum. 34th Annual Meeting. Society for Neuroscience, San Diego, CA, USA]. We can use an efficient event-driven simulation scheme based on lookup tables (EDLUT) [Ros, E., Carrillo, R.R., Ortigosa, E.M., Barbour, B., Ags, R., 2006. Event-driven simulation scheme for spiking neural networks using lookup tables to characterize neuronal dynamics. Neural Computation 18 (12), 2959-2993]. For this purpose it is necessary to compile into tables the data obtained through a massive numerical calculation of the simplified cell model. This allows network simulations requiring minimal numerical calculation. There are three major features that are considered functionally relevant in the simplified granule cell model: bursting, subthreshold oscillations and resonance. In this work we describe how the cell model is compiled into tables keeping these key properties of the neuron model.
The responses of cortical neurons are often characterized by measuring their spectro-temporal receptive fields (STRFs). The STRF of a cell can be thought of as a representation of its stimulus 'preference' but it is also a filter or 'kernel' that represents the best linear prediction of the response of that cell to any stimulus. A range of in vivo STRFs with varying properties have been reported in various species, although none in humans. Using a computational model it has been shown that responses of ensembles of artificial STRFs, derived from limited sets of formative stimuli, preserve information about utterance class and prosody as well as the identity and sex of the speaker in a model speech classification system. In this work we help to put this idea on a biologically plausible footing by developing a simple model thalamo-cortical system built of conductance based neurons and synapses some of which exhibit spike-time-dependent plasticity. We show that the neurons in such a model when exposed to formative stimuli develop STRFs with varying temporal properties exhibiting a range of heterotopic integration. These model neurons also, in common with neurons measured in vivo, exhibit a wide range of non-linearities; this deviation from linearity can be exposed by characterizing the difference between the measured response of each neuron to a stimulus, and the response predicted by the STRF estimated for that neuron. The proposed model, with its simple architecture, learning rule, and modest number of neurons (&lt;1000), is suitable for implementation in neuromorphic analogue VLSI hardware and hence could form the basis of a developmental, real time, neuromorphic sound classification system.
A growing body of evidence suggests that peptides containing the Asn-Gly-Arg (NGR) motif can selectively recognize tumor neovasculature and can be used, therefore, for ligand-directed targeted delivery of various drugs and particles to tumors or to other tissues with an angiogenesis component. The neovasculature binding properties of these peptides rely on the interaction with an endothelium-associated form of aminopeptidase N (CD13), an enzyme that has been implicated in angiogenesis and tumor growth. Recent studies have shown that NGR can rapidly convert to isoaspartate-glycine-arginine (isoDGR) by asparagine deamidation, generating alpha(v)beta(3) ligands capable of affecting endothelial cell functions and tumor growth. This review focuses on structural and functional properties of the NGR motif and its application in drug development for angiogenesis-dependent diseases. Furthermore, we discuss the time-dependent transition of NGR to isoDGR in natural proteins, such as fibronectins, and its potential role of as a &quot;molecular timer&quot; for generating new binding sites for integrins impli-cated in angiogenesis.
Selecting patients who will benefit from a permanent CSF diversion procedure in benign intracranial hypertension (BIH) or communicating hydrocephalus due to normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) has inherent problems. The percutaneous introduction of a lumbar subcutaneous shunt (LSS) under local anaesthesia facilitates both a prolonged CSF drainage under aseptic conditions and also elicits an adequate clinical response. We describe the technique of a lumbar subcutaneous shunt and our experience with its use in patients with BIH and NPH. Postprocedure changes in the patients' clinical status were noted. Patients with a transient clinical improvement underwent a subsequent definitive CSF diversion; those with a sustained clinical improvement or no change in symptoms had no further procedure.
In order to study the effects of dietary lipids and vitamin A on the development of adipose tissues, young rats were submitted for 8 d to a control or to two cafeteria diets with normal (Caf) or higher (Caf + ) vitamin A levels. Retinoid (retinoic acid receptor (RAR) a, RARg, retinoid X receptor(RXR) alpha) and fatty acid (PPARgamma) receptor mRNA was measured in the subcutaneous white adipose tissue (Swat) and in isolated mature adipocytes by RT-PCR. The stroma vascular fraction was cultured in vitro to test the capacities of the adipocyte precursors to proliferate and differentiate.The Caf diet enriched in vitamin A resulted in an increased adiposity, due to increased adipocyte hypertrophy. This was concomitant with a lower expression of RARa and RARg mRNA (234.6 and 238.6 %) and a higher expression of PPARgamma (+59 %) in the Swat and, to a less extent,in isolated adipocytes. Positive correlations were obtained between PPARgamma mRNA and Swat weights and between PPARgamma and RXRalpha mRNA. By contrast, RARgamma mRNA and Swat masses were negatively correlated. The adipocyte precursors from Caf + Swat proliferated more,in vitro, at the beginning of the culture. This difference progressively disappeared and was totally absent after 8 d of culture, but with a higher percentage of differentiated preadipocytes (+80.3 %) in the Caf + group. In conclusion, lipids and vitamin A act synergistically on the normal growth of the adipose tissue in young rats, concomitant with an imbalance in the pattern of the nuclear receptors. These changes influence the early normal development of the endogenous adipocyte precursors.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is characterized by a sustained and progressive elevation in pulmonary arterial pressure and pulmonary vascular remodelling leading to right heart failure and death. Prognosis is poor and novel therapeutic approaches are needed. The serotonin hypothesis of PAH originated in the 1960s after an outbreak of the disease was reported among patients taking the anorexigenic drugs aminorex and fenfluramine. These are indirect serotonergic agonists and serotonin transporter substrates. Since then many advances have been made in our understanding of the role of serotonin in the pathobiology of PAH. The rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of serotonin is tryptophan hydroxylase (Tph). Serotonin is synthesized, through Tph1, in the endothelial cells of the pulmonary artery and can then act on underlying pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells and pulmonary arterial fibroblasts in a paracrine fashion causing constriction and remodelling. These effects of serotonin can be mediated through both the serotonin transporter and serotonin receptors. This review will discuss our current understanding of 'the serotonin hypothesis' of PAH and highlight possible therapeutic targets within the serotonin system.
Relatives of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) have an increased risk of this type of stroke. In a population-based study, we analysed individualized risks of SAH according to the number of affected first-degree relatives. We retrieved all patients diagnosed with SAH in 2001-05 from the Swedish Inpatient Register. For each of the 5,282 patients, we identified five controls (n = 26,402) through the nationwide Register of Total Population. Through the Multi-generation Register, we retrieved all first-degree relatives for patients and controls and checked whether these 130,373 relatives had been diagnosed with SAH. By means of conditional logistic regression, we calculated odds ratios with corresponding 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) for the risk of SAH according to the number of affected relatives, and to the gender, age and type of kinship of the patient and affected relative. The odds ratio of SAH for individuals with one affected first-degree relative was 2.15 (95% CI 1.77-2.59). For individuals with two affected first-degree relatives, the odds ratio was 51.0 (95% CI 8.56-1117). Gender, age and type of kinship did not influence the risk for individuals with one or more affected relatives. The risk of SAH is slightly increased in the cases with one, but strongly increased in cases with two or more affected first-degree relatives. The latter strongly increased risk corresponds to a considerable absolute life-time risk of SAH and underscores the need to consider screening for aneurysms in these individuals.
Brain and brainstem changes of serotoninergic 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HT)(1A) receptor density have been reported in patients with major depressive disorder as well as in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), using PET and the selective antagonist radiotracers [(11)C]WAY-100635 or [(18)F]FC-WAY. We used a distinct 5-HT(1A) antagonist, [(18)F]MPPF, whose binding potential depends on both receptor density and extracellular serotonin concentration, in 24 patients with drug-resistant TLE and MRI evidence of hippocampal sclerosis but without prior antidepressant exposure. Their Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-2) score ranged from 0 to 34, with nine patients having a score &gt;11. We used a simplified reference tissue model, statistical parametric mapping and anatomical regions of interest (ROIs) to correlate parametric images of [(18)F]MPPF BP with the total BDI score and its four subclasses. The total BDI score, as well as symptoms of psychomotor anhedonia and negative cognition, correlated positively with [(18)F]MPPF BP in the raphe nuclei and in the insula contralateral to seizure onset, whereas somatic symptoms correlated positively with [(18)F]MPPF binding potential in the hippocampal/parahippocampal region ipsilateral to seizure onset, the left mid-cingulate gyrus and the inferior dorsolateral frontal cortex, bilaterally. We confirm an association of depressive symptoms in TLE patients with changes of the central serotoninergic pathways, in particular within the raphe nuclei, insula, cingulate gyrus and epileptogenic hippocampus. These changes are likely to reflect lower extracellular serotonin concentration in more depressed patients, with an upregulation of receptors a less likely alternative.
We provide evidence that two members of the intracellular phospholipase A(2) family, namely calcium-dependent group IVA (cPLA(2) GIVA) and calcium-independent group VIA (iPLA(2) GVIA) may play important roles in Wallerian degeneration in the mouse sciatic nerve. We assessed the roles of these PLA(2)s in cPLA(2) GIVA(-/-) mice, and mice treated with a selective inhibitor of iPLA(2) GVIA (FKGK11). Additionally, the effects of both these PLA(2)s were assessed by treating cPLA(2) GIVA(-/-) mice with the iPLA(2) inhibitor. Our data suggest that iPLA(2) GVIA may play more of a role in the early stages of myelin breakdown, while cPLA(2) GIVA may play a greater role in myelin clearance by macrophages. Our results also show that the delayed myelin clearance and Wallerian degeneration after sciatic nerve crush injury in mice lacking cPLA(2) and iPLA(2) activities is accompanied by a delay in axon regeneration, target re-innervation and functional recovery. These results indicate that the intracellular PLA(2)s (cPLA(2) GIVA and iPLA(2) GVIA) contribute significantly to various aspects of Wallerian degeneration in injured peripheral nerves, which is then essential for successful axon regeneration. This work has implications for injury responses and recovery after peripheral nerve injuries in humans, as well as for understanding the slow clearance of myelin after CNS injury and its potential consequences for axon regeneration.
Selective neuronal loss (SNL) in the rescued penumbra could account for suboptimal clinical recovery despite effective early reperfusion. Previous studies of SNL used single-photon emission tomography (SPECT), did not account for potential volume loss secondary to collapse of the infarct cavity, and failed to show a relationship with initial hypoperfusion. Here, we obtained acute-stage computerized tomography (CT) perfusion and follow-up quantitative (11)C-flumazenil (FMZ)-PET to map SNL in the non-infarcted tissue and assess its relationship with acute-stage hypoperfusion. We prospectively recruited seven patients with evidence of (i) acute (&lt;6 h) extensive middle cerebral artery territory ischaemia based on clinical deficit (National Institutes of Health stroke scale, NIHSS score range: 8-23) and CT Perfusion (CTp) findings and (ii) early recanalization (spontaneous or following thrombolysis) based on spectacular clinical recovery (DeltaNIHSS &gt; or =6 at 24 h), good clinical outcome (NIHSS &lt; or =5) and small final infarct (6/7 subcortical) on late-stage MRI. Ten age-matched controls were also studied. FMZ image analysis took into account potential post-stroke volume loss. Across patients, clusters of significantly reduced FMZ binding were more prevalent and extensive in the non-infarcted middle cerebral artery cortical areas than in the non-affected hemisphere (P = 0.028, Wilcoxon sign rank test). Voxel-based between-group comparisons revealed several large clusters of significantly reduced FMZ binding in the affected peri-insular, superior temporal and prefrontal cortices (FDR P &lt; 0.05), as compared with no cluster on the unaffected side. Finally, comparing CTp and PET data revealed a significant negative correlation between FMZ binding and initial hypoperfusion. Applying correction for volume loss did not substantially alter the significance of these results. Although based on a small patient sample sometimes studied late after the index stroke, and as such preliminary, our results establish the presence and distribution of FMZ binding loss in ultimately non-infarcted brain areas after stroke. In addition, the data suggest that this binding loss is proportional to initial hypoperfusion, in keeping with the hypothesis that the rescued penumbra is affected by SNL. Although its clinical counterparts remain uncertain, it is tempting to speculate that peri-infarct SNL could represent a new therapeutic target.
Brain damage due to an episode of hypoxia remains a major problem in infants causing deficit in motor and sensory function. Hypoxia leads to neuronal functional failure, cerebral palsy and neuro-developmental delay with characteristic biochemical and molecular alterations resulting in permanent or transitory neurological sequelae or even death. During neonatal hypoxia, traditional resuscitation practices include the routine administration of 100% oxygen, epinephrine and glucose. In the present study, we assessed the changes in the cholinergic system by measuring the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and the behavioral responses shown by hypoxia induced neonatal rats and hypoxic rats supplemented with glucose, oxygen and epinephrine using elevated plus-maze and open-field test. The acetylcholine esterase enzyme activity showed a significant decrease in cerebral cortex, whereas it increased significantly in the muscle of experimental rats when compared to control. Hypoxic rats supplemented with glucose, glucose and oxygen showed a reversal to the control status. Behavioral studies were carried out in experimental rats with elevated plus-maze test and open-field test. Hypolocomotion and anxiogenic behavioral responses were observed in all experimental rats when compared to control, hypoxic rats supplemented with glucose, glucose and oxygen. Thus, our results suggest that brain damage due to hypoxia, oxygen and epinephrine supplementation in the neonatal rats cause acetylcholine-neuromuscular-defect leading to hypolocomotion and anxiogenic behavioral response. Glucose and glucose with oxygen supplementation to hypoxic neonates protect the brain damage for a better functional status in the later life.
In this paper it is proposed that the prefrontal lobe participates in two closely related but different executive function abilities: (1) &quot;metacognitive executive functions&quot;: problem solving, planning, concept formation, strategy development and implementation, controlling attention, working memory, and the like; that is, executive functions as they are usually understood in contemporary neuroscience; and (2) &quot;emotional/motivational executive functions&quot;: coordinating cognition and emotion/motivation (that is, fulfilling biological needs according to some existing conditions). The first one depends on the dorsolateral prefrontal areas, whereas the second one is associated with orbitofrontal and medial frontal areas. Current tests of executive functions basically tap the first ability (metacognitive). Solving everyday problems (functional application of executive functions), however, mostly requires the second ability (emotional/motivational); therefore, these tests have limited ecological validity. Contrary to the traditional points of view, recent evidence suggests that the human prefrontal lobe is similar to other primates and hominids. Other primates and hominids may possess the second (emotional executive functions) prefrontal ability, -but not the first (metacognitive executive functions) one. It is argued that metacognitive executive functions are significantly dependent on culture and cultural instruments. They probably are the result of the development and evolution of some &quot;conceptualization instruments&quot;; language (and written language as an extension of oral language) may represent the most important one. The second executive function ability (emotional/motivational) probably is the result of a biological evolution shared by other primates.
A pervasive hypothesis in the timing literature is that temporal processing in the milliseconds and seconds range engages the basal ganglia and is modulated by dopamine. This hypothesis was investigated by testing 12 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), both 'on' and 'off' dopaminergic medication, and 20 healthy controls on three timing tasks. In a seconds range (30-120 s) time production task, patients tested 'on' medication showed a significantly different accuracy profile compared to controls and when tested 'off' medication. However, no group or on vs off medication differences in accuracy were found on a time reproduction task and a warned reaction time task requiring temporal processing within the 250-2000 ms range. Variability was measured using the coefficient of variation, with the performance of the patient group on the time reproduction task violating the scalar property, suggesting atypical temporal processing mechanisms. The data suggest that the integrity of the basal ganglia is necessary for 'typical' time production in the seconds range as well as for time reproduction at shorter intervals. Exploratory factor analysis suggested that the time production task uses neural mechanisms distinct from those used in the other two timing tasks. The dissociation of the effects of dopaminergic medication and nature of task on performance in PD raises interesting questions about the pharmacological mediation and task-specificity of deficits in temporal processing.

It has been recognized that molecular classifications will form the basis for neuropathological diagnostic work in the future. Consequently, in order to reach a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the presence of hyperphosphorylated tau (HP-tau) and beta-amyloid protein in brain tissue must be unequivocal. In addition, the stepwise progression of pathology needs to be assessed. This paper deals exclusively with the regional assessment of AD-related HP-tau pathology. The objective was to provide straightforward instructions to aid in the assessment of AD-related immunohistochemically (IHC) detected HP-tau pathology and to test the concordance of assessments made by 25 independent evaluators. The assessment of progression in 7-microm-thick sections was based on assessment of IHC labeled HP-tau immunoreactive neuropil threads (NTs). Our results indicate that good agreement can be reached when the lesions are substantial, i.e., the lesions have reached isocortical structures (stage V-VI absolute agreement 91%), whereas when only mild subtle lesions were present the agreement was poorer (I-II absolute agreement 50%). Thus, in a research setting when the extent of lesions is mild, it is strongly recommended that the assessment of lesions should be carried out by at least two independent observers.
Cognitive deficits are a common consequence of neurologic disease, in particular, of traumatic brain injury, stroke, and neurodegenerative disorders, and there is evidence that specific cognitive training may be effective in cognitive rehabilitation. Several investigations emphasize the fact that interacting with cortical activity, by means of cortical stimulation, can positively affect the short-term cognitive performance and improve the rehabilitation potential of neurologic patients. In this respect, preliminary evidence suggests that cortical stimulation may play a role in treating aphasia, unilateral neglect, and other cognitive disorders. Several possible mechanisms can account for the effects of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) on cognitive performance. They all reflect the potential of these methods to improve the subject's ability to relearn or to acquire new strategies for carrying out behavioral tasks. The responsible mechanisms remain unclear but they are most likely related to the activation of impeded pathways or inhibition of maladaptive responses. Modifications of the brain activity may assist relearning by facilitating local activity or by suppressing interfering activity from other brain areas. Notwithstanding the promise of these preliminary findings, to date no systematic application of these methods to neurorehabilitation research has been reported. Considering the potential benefit of these interventions, further studies taking into consideration large patient populations, long treatment periods, or the combination of different rehabilitation strategies are needed. Brain stimulation is indeed an exciting opportunity in the field of cognitive neurorehabilitation, which is clearly in need of further research.



MicroRNA dysregulation is observed in different types of cancer. MiR-21 up-regulation has been reported for the majority of cancers profiled to date; however, knowledge is limited on the mechanism of action of miR-21, including identification of functionally important targets that contribute to its proproliferative and antiapoptotic actions. In this study, we show for the first time that miR-21 targets multiple important components of the p53, transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), and mitochondrial apoptosis tumor-suppressive pathways. Down-regulation of miR-21 in glioblastoma cells leads to derepression of these pathways, causing repression of growth, increased apoptosis, and cell cycle arrest. These phenotypes are dependent on two of the miR-21 targets validated in this study, HNRPK and TAp63. These findings establish miR-21 as an important oncogene that targets a network of p53, TGF-beta, and mitochondrial apoptosis tumor suppressor genes in glioblastoma cells.
The tumorigenic potential of ionizing radiation has conventionally been attributed to DNA damage in irradiated cells induced at the time of exposure. Recently, there have been an increasing number of reports of damage in unirradiated cells that are either neighbors or descendants of irradiated cells, respectively, regarded as bystander effects and genomic instability and collectively termed nontargeted effects. In this study, we show that descendants of normal murine hemaopoietic clonogenic stem cells exposed to bone marrow-conditioned medium derived from gamma-irradiated mice exhibit chromosomal instability unlike the descendants of directly gamma-irradiated cells. The instability is expressed in bone marrow cells of the radiation-induced acute myeloid leukemia (r-AML) susceptible strain (CBA/Ca) but not in mice resistant to r-AML (C57BL/6). Furthermore, crossgenetic experiments show the induction of the instability phenotype requires both the producer and responder cells to be of the susceptible CBA/Ca genotype. Macrophages are the source of the bystander signals, and the signaling mechanism involves tumor necrosis factor-alpha, nitric oxide, and superoxide. The findings show a genotype-dependent chromosomal instability phenotype induced by radiation-induced macrophage-mediated bystander signaling. As the majority of accidental, occupational, and therapeutic exposures to ionizing radiation are partial body exposures, the findings have implications for understanding the consequences of such exposure.
A chimeric CYCLIN D1-TROP2 mRNA was isolated from human ovarian and mammary cancer cells. The CYCLIN D1-TROP2 mRNA was shown to be a potent oncogene as it transforms nave, primary cells in vitro and induces aggressive tumor growth in vivo in cooperation with activated RAS. Silencing of the chimeric mRNA inhibits the growth of breast cancer cells. The CYCLIN D1-TROP2 mRNA was expressed by a large fraction of the human gastrointestinal, ovarian, and endometrial tumors analyzed. It is most frequently detected in intestinal cell aneuploid cancers and it is coexpressed with activated RAS oncogenes, consistent with a cooperative transforming activity in human cancers. The chimeric mRNA is a bicistronic transcript of post transcriptional origin that independently translates the Cyclin D1 and Trop-2 proteins. This is a novel mechanism of CYCLIN D1 activation that achieves the truncation of the CYCLIN D1 mRNA in the absence of chromosomal rearrangements. This leads to a higher CYCLIN D1 mRNA stability, with inappropriate expression during the cell cycle. The stabilized CYCLIN D1 mRNA cooperates with TROP2 in stimulating the growth of the expressing cells. These findings show a novel epigenetic, oncogenic mechanism, which seems to be widespread in human cancers.
There is an increasing need for students in the biological sciences to build a strong foundation in quantitative approaches to data analyses. Although most science, engineering, and math field majors are required to take at least one statistics course, statistical analysis is poorly integrated into undergraduate biology course work, particularly at the lower-division level. Elements of statistics were incorporated into an introductory biology course, including a review of statistics concepts and opportunity for students to perform statistical analysis in a biological context. Learning gains were measured with an 11-item statistics learning survey instrument developed for the course. Students showed a statistically significant 25% (p &lt; 0.005) increase in statistics knowledge after completing introductory biology. Students improved their scores on the survey after completing introductory biology, even if they had previously completed an introductory statistics course (9%, improvement p &lt; 0.005). Students retested 1 yr after completing introductory biology showed no loss of their statistics knowledge as measured by this instrument, suggesting that the use of statistics in biology course work may aid long-term retention of statistics knowledge. No statistically significant differences in learning were detected between male and female students in the study.
A well-constructed, step-by-step protocol is a critical starting point for teaching undergraduates new techniques, an important record of a lab's standard procedures, and a useful mechanism for sharing techniques between labs. Many research labs use websites to archive and share their protocols for these purposes. Here we describe our experiences developing and using a protocol website for the additional purpose of enhancing undergraduate research training. We created our lab's protocol website in a message board format that allows undergraduates to post comments on protocols describing the lessons they learned, questions that arose, and/or insights they gained while learning to execute specific research protocols. Encouraging and expecting students to comment on the protocols they are learning to execute is beneficial for both the student and for the lab in which they are training. For the student, annotations encourage active reflection on their execution of techniques and emphasize the important message that attending to and understanding details of a protocol is a critical factor in producing reliable data. For the lab, annotations capture valuable insights for future generations of researchers by describing missing details, hints, and common hurdles for newcomers.
The peripheral functions of hormones such as leptin, insulin and estrogens are well documented. An important and rapidly expanding field is demonstrating that as well as their peripheral actions, these hormones play an important role in modulating synaptic function and structure within the CNS. The hippocampus is a major mediator of spatial learning and memory and is also an area highly susceptible to epileptic seizure. As such, the hippocampus has been extensively studied with particular regard to synaptic plasticity, a process thought to be necessary for learning and memory. Modulators of hippocampal function are therefore of particular interest, not only as potential modulators of learning and memory processes, but also with regard to CNS driven diseases such as epilepsy. Hormones traditionally thought of as only having peripheral roles are now increasingly being shown to have an important role in modulating synaptic plasticity and dendritic morphology. Here we review recent findings demonstrating that a number of hormones are capable of modulating both these phenomena.
The repulsive guidance molecule (RGM) is a membrane-bound protein that has diverse functions in the developing central nervous system. Identification of neogenin as a receptor for RGM provided evidence of its cell death-inducing activity in the absence of RGM. Here, we show that the serine/threonine kinase death-associated protein kinase (DAPK) is involved in the signal transduction of neogenin. Neogenin interacts with DAPK and reduces DAPK autophosphorylation on Ser308 in vitro. Neogenin-induced cell death is abolished in the presence of RGM or by blocking DAPK. Although neogenin overexpression or RGM downregulation in the chick neural tube in vivo induces apoptosis, coexpression of the dominant-negative mutant or small-interference RNA of DAPK attenuates this proapoptotic activity. Thus, RGM/neogenin regulates cell fate by controlling the DAPK activity.
Studies in mammals have indicated a connection between circadian clocks and feeding behavior, but the nature of the interaction and its relationship to nutrient metabolism are not understood. In Drosophila, clock proteins are expressed in many metabolically important tissues but have not been linked to metabolic processes. Here we demonstrate that Drosophila feeding behavior displays a 24 hr circadian rhythm that is regulated by clocks in digestive/metabolic tissues. Flies lacking clocks in these tissues, in particular in the fat body, also display increased food consumption but have decreased levels of glycogen and a higher sensitivity to starvation. Interestingly, glycogen levels and starvation sensitivity are also affected by clocks in neuronal cells, but the effects of neuronal clocks generally oppose those of the fat body. We propose that the input of neuronal clocks and clocks in metabolic tissues is coordinated to provide effective energy homeostasis.
The association between fat consumption and obesity underscores the need to identify physiological signals that control fat intake. Previous studies have shown that feeding stimulates small-intestinal mucosal cells to produce the lipid messenger oleoylethanolamide (OEA) which, when administered as a drug, decreases meal frequency by engaging peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors-alpha (PPAR-alpha). Here, we report that duodenal infusion of fat stimulates OEA mobilization in the proximal small intestine, whereas infusion of protein or carbohydrate does not. OEA production utilizes dietary oleic acid as a substrate and is disrupted in mutant mice lacking the membrane fatty-acid transporter CD36. Targeted disruption of CD36 or PPAR-alpha abrogates the satiety response induced by fat. The results suggest that activation of small-intestinal OEA mobilization, enabled by CD36-mediated uptake of dietary oleic acid, serves as a molecular sensor linking fat ingestion to satiety.
Ascending urinary tract infections can cause extensive damage to kidney structure and function. We have used a number of advanced techniques including multiphoton microscopy to investigate the crucial early phases of uropathogenic Escherichia coli induced pyelonephritis within a living animal. Our results reveal a previously undescribed innate vascular response to mucosal infection, allowing isolation and eradication of the pathogen. The extremely rapid host response to mucosal infection was highlighted by the triggering of a cascade of events within 3-4 h. Epithelial signalling produced an increase in cellular O(2) consumption and affected microvascular flow by clotting, causing localized ischaemia. Subsequent ischaemic damage affected pathophysiology with actin re-arrangement and epithelial sloughing leading to paracellular bacterial movement. A denuded tubular basement membrane is shown to hinder immediate dissemination of bacteria, giving the host time to isolate the infection by clotting. Suppression of clotting by heparin treatment caused fatal urosepsis. Clinically these findings may be relevant in antibiotics delivery in pyelonephritis patients and to the use of anticoagulants in sepsis.
Small conductance calcium-activated potassium (SK or K(Ca)2) channels link intracellular calcium transients to membrane potential changes. SK channel subtypes present different pharmacology and distribution in the nervous system. The selective blocker apamin, SK enhancers and mice lacking specific SK channel subunits have revealed multifaceted functions of these channels in neurons, glia and cerebral blood vessels. SK channels regulate neuronal firing by contributing to the afterhyperpolarization following action potentials and mediating I(AHP), and partake in a calcium-mediated feedback loop with NMDA receptors, controlling the threshold for induction of hippocampal long-term potentiation. The function of distinct SK channel subtypes in different neurons often results from their specific coupling to different calcium sources. The prominent role of SK channels in the modulation of excitability and synaptic function of limbic, dopaminergic and cerebellar neurons hints at their possible involvement in neuronal dysfunction, either as part of the causal mechanism or as potential therapeutic targets.
Olfactory hypersensitivity (OHS) may occur during migraine attacks and seems to be very specific to this form of headache. OHS is also observed during migraine-free periods and is associated with the presence of odour-triggered attacks. Yet the pathophysiology of OHS remains unknown. The aim of our study was to evaluate olfactory processing in migraineurs with OHS and to investigate whether regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) associated with olfactory stimulation is modified in these patients compared with controls. Eleven migraineurs with OHS and 12 controls participated in a H(2)(15)O-positron emission tomography study, including three scans in which odours were delivered and three scans where only odourless air was delivered. rCBF during olfactory condition was compared with that for the odourless baseline condition. Between-group analyses were performed using voxel-based and region-of-interest analyses. During both olfactory and non-olfactory conditions, we observed higher rCBF in the left piriform cortex and antero-superior temporal gyrus in migraineurs compared with controls. During odour stimulation, migraineurs also showed significantly higher activation than controls in the left temporal pole and significantly lower activation in the frontal (left inferior as well as left and right middle frontal gyri) and temporo-parietal (left and right angular, and right posterior superior temporal gyri) regions, posterior cingulate gyrus and right locus coeruleus. These results could reflect a particular role of both the piriform cortex and antero-superior temporal gyrus in OHS and odour-triggered migraine. Whether these rCBF changes are the cause or a consequence of odour-triggered migraines and interictal OHS remains unknown. Further comparisons between migraineurs with and without OHS are warranted to address this issue. The abnormal cerebral activation patterns during olfactory stimulation might reflect altered cerebrovascular response to olfactory stimulation due to the migraine disease, or an abnormal top-down regulation process related to OHS.
The premotor theory of attention suggests that target processing and generation of a saccade to the target are interdependent. Temporally precise transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was delivered over the human frontal eye fields, the area most frequently associated with the premotor theory in association with eye movements, while subjects performed a visually instructed pro-/antisaccade task. Visual analysis and saccade preparation were clearly separated in time, as indicated by 2 distinct time points of TMS delivery that resulted in elevated saccade latencies. These results show that visual analysis and saccade preparation, although frequently enacted together, are dissociable processes.
The anatomical and functional organization of the lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) is one of the most debated issues in cognitive and integrative neurosciences. The aim of this study is to determine whether the human LPFC is organized according to the domain of information, to the level of the processing or to both of these dimensions. In order to clarify this issue, we have designed an experimental protocol that combines a functional magnetic resonance imaging study in healthy subjects (n = 12) and a voxel-by-voxel lesion mapping study in patients with focal prefrontal lesions (n = 37) compared with normal controls (n = 48). Each method used the same original cognitive paradigm (&quot;the domain n-back tasks&quot;) that tests by a cross-dimensional method the domain of information (verbal, spatial, faces) and the level of processing (from 1- to 3-back). Converging data from the 2 methods demonstrate that the left posterior LPFC is critical for the higher levels of cognitive control and is organized into functionally different subregions (Brodman's area 9/46, 6/8/9, and 44/45). These findings argue in favor of a hybrid model of organization of the left posterior LPFC in which domain-oriented (nonspatial and spatially oriented) and cross-domain executive-dependent regions coexist, reconciling previously divergent data.
D-Serine, the endogenous coagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs), is considered to be an important gliotransmitter, and is essential for the induction of long-term potentiation. However, less is known about the role of D-serine in another form of synaptic plasticity, long-term depression (LTD). In this study, we found that exogenous D-serine regulated LTD in the hippocampal CA1 region in a &quot;bell-shaped&quot; concentration-dependent manner through regulating the function of NMDARs in the same manner, whereas endogenous D-serine was activity-dependently released and, in turn, contributed to the induction of LTD during low-frequency stimulation. Furthermore, impairing glial functions with sodium fluoroacetate (NaFAC) reduced the magnitude of LTD, which could be restored by exogenous D-serine, indicating that endogenous D-serine is mainly glia-derived during LTD induction. More interestingly, similar to the effects on LTD, exogenous D-serine enhanced spatial memory retrieval in the Morris water maze in a bell-shaped dose-dependent manner and rescued the NaFAC-induced impairment of memory retrieval, suggesting links between LTD and spatial memory retrieval. Our study thus provides direct evidence of the bell-shaped D-serine actions on hippocampal LTD and spatial memory retrieval, and underscores the importance of D-serine in synaptic plasticity, learning, and memory.
Recent neuroimaging findings suggest a role of the extrastriate body area (EBA) in self/other distinction and in the perception of pain and emotions in others. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging study investigated whether EBA is modulated by the perception of pain in others. Participants were scanned during 2 consecutive sessions: 1) a localizer task precisely identifying EBA in each individual and 2) event-related trials in which participants watched pictures of pain (needle injections into human hands) inflicted in others or control stimuli showing hands in no pain. The perception of pain recruited large parts of the so-called pain matrix, documenting shared neural representations between the perception of pain in self and other. Both the needle injections and the control stimuli consistently activated bilateral EBA, replicating involvement of this area in the perception of body parts. However, activation during the perception of painful stimuli was not different from signal changes during perception of the control stimuli. This suggests that EBA is not specifically involved in empathy for pain.
At present little is known about the developmental mechanisms that give rise to inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acidergic interneurons of the neocortex or the timing of their subtype specification. As such, we performed a gene expression microarray analysis on cortical interneuron precursors isolated through their expression of a Dlx5/6(Cre-IRES-EGFP) transgene. We purified these precursors from the embryonic mouse neocortex at E13.5 and E15.5 by sorting of enhanced green fluorescent protein-expressing cells. We identified novel transcription factors, neuropeptides, and cell surface genes whose expression is highly enriched in embryonic cortical interneuron precursors. Our identification of many of the genes known to be selectively enriched within cortical interneurons validated the efficacy of our approach. Surprisingly, we find that subpopulations of migrating cortical interneurons express genes encoding for proteins characteristic of mature interneuron subtypes as early as E13.5. These results provide support for the idea that many of the genes characteristic of specific cortical interneuron subtypes are evident prior to their functional integration into cortical microcircuitry. They suggest interneurons are already relegated to specific genetic subtypes shortly after they become postmitotic. Moreover, our work has revealed that many of the genes expressed in cortical interneuron precursors have been independently linked to neurological disorders in both mice and humans.
New neurons in the adult brain transiently express molecules related to neuronal development, such as the polysialylated form of neural cell adhesion molecule, or doublecortin (DCX). These molecules are also expressed by a cell population in the rat paleocortex layer II, whose origin, phenotype, and function are not clearly understood. We have classified most of these cells as a new cell type termed tangled cell. Some cells with the morphology of semilunar-pyramidal transitional neurons were also found among this population, as well as some scarce cells resembling semilunar, pyramidal. and fusiform neurons. We have found that none of these cells in layer II express markers of glial cells, mature, inhibitory, or principal neurons. They appear to be in a prolonged immature state, confirmed by the coexpression of DCX, TOAD/Ulip/CRMP-4, A3 subunit of the cyclic nucleotide-gated channel, or phosphorylated cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein. Moreover, most of them lack synaptic contacts, are covered by astroglial lamellae, and fail to express cellular activity markers, such as c-Fos or Arc, and N-methyl-d-aspartate or glucocorticoid receptors. We have found that none of these cells appear to be generated during adulthood or early youth and that most of them have been generated during embryonic development, mainly in E15.5.
Characterizing the cortical representation of the body surface is fundamental to understanding the neural basis of human somatic sensation. Monkey studies benefited from the detailed somatotopic maps obtained from electrophysiology methods. Advances in noninvasive neuroimaging techniques now permit such questions to be probed in humans. The present study characterizes the detailed somatotopic representation of individual digits within subregions of the postcentral gyrus in humans using high-spatial resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging and surface-based mapping. Four areas of consistent activation included area 3b, area 2, and 2 discrete foci within area 1. Area 3b and the superior area 1 foci demonstrated an orderly somatotopic distribution for all digits of the hand, whereby the thumb was represented most lateral, anterior, and inferior and the fifth digit was most medial, posterior, and superior. Compared with area 3b, somatotopic variability was greater in area 1 and the digits spanned less cortical territory. This study additionally identified the specific digit pairs that are separable in areas 3b and 1 using current imaging methods. Somatotopy was not resolved in area 2 or in the inferior area 1 foci.
The human capacity for voluntary action is one of the major contributors to our success as a species. In addition to choosing actions themselves, we can also voluntarily choose behavioral codes or sets of rules that can guide future responses to events. Such rules have been proposed to be superordinate to actions in a cognitive hierarchy and mediated by distinct brain regions. We used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging to study novel tasks of rule-based and voluntary action. We show that the voluntary selection of rules to govern future responses to events is associated with activation of similar regions of prefrontal and parietal cortex as the voluntary selection of an action itself. The results are discussed in terms of hierarchical models and the adaptive coding potential of prefrontal neurons and their contribution to a global workspace for nonautomatic tasks. These tasks include the choices we make about our behavior.
