37 subjects' facial electromyographic activity at the corrugator and zygomatic muscle regions were recorded while they were posing with happy and sad facial expressions. Analysis showed that the mean value of EMG activity at the left zygomatic muscle region was the highest, followed by the right zygomatic, left corrugator, and right corrugator muscle regions, while a happy facial expression was posed. The mean value of EMG activity at the left corrugator muscle region was the highest, followed by those for the right corrugator, left zygomatic, and right zygomatic muscle regions while a sad facial expression was posed. Further analysis indicated that the power of facial EMG activity on the left side of the face was stronger than on the right side of the face while posing both happy and sad expressions.
Previous studies have shown that histamine H(3) blockers potentiate the psychomotor and rewarding effects of cocaine. The present study examined the influence of thioperamide, an inverse H(3) receptor agonist, on the development of psychomotor sensitization and stereotyped activity induced by acute or intermittent cocaine in C57BL/6J mice. In the first experiment, mice were injected i.p. with saline, 10 or 20 mg/kg thioperamide and saline or 8 mg/kg cocaine, 10 min apart, before being tested for their locomotor activity (providing data on the acute effects of thioperamide on cocaine-induced activity). Subsequently, mice were treated in the same manner every other day over six additional sessions. Sensitization was assessed by the responsiveness to a cocaine challenge (8 mg/kg, i.p.) given 2 and 14 days following the intermittent treatment. In experiments 2 and 3, we tested the effects of thioperamide (10 or 20 mg/kg, i.p.) on gnawing and sniffing induced or affected by relatively high doses of cocaine (24 or 32 mg/kg, s.c.), the drugs being given 10 min apart. In the first experiment, both doses of thioperamide amplified cocaine-induced psychomotor hyperactivity almost on all experimental sessions. However, the histamine inverse agonist did not affect the induction of a psychomotor sensitization. All cocaine-treated mice showed similar levels of sensitized activity 2 and 14 days after the intermittent treatments, whether they received thioperamide or not. The second and the third experiments showed that thioperamide did not affect gnawing and sniffing induced by cocaine. Taken together, these results indicate that H(3) receptors clearly contribute to the neurobiological mechanisms of the locomotor component of cocaine-induced psychomotor activation, but less likely to those underlying the development of cocaine behavioral sensitization or the expression of cocaine-induced oro-facial stereotypies.
Serotonin (5-HT) plays an important role in controlling food intake and regulating body weight. In addition, clinical studies suggest a possible role for 5-HT in the etiology of anorexia nervosa. Recently, we have examined the effects of pharmacological manipulation of the 5-HT system in female rats exposed to conditions that promote activity-based anorexia (ABA). In this animal model of anorexia nervosa, rats are food restricted (2 h access/day) while given the opportunity to exercise in running wheels. These conditions promote symptoms of anorexia nervosa including hypophagia, hyperactivity, progressive weight loss, and disruptions of the ovarian reproductive cycle. Previously, we demonstrated that increased 5-HT activity increased the weight loss associated with ABA in female rats. Here, we investigated whether decreased 5-HT activity would attenuate symptoms of ABA. Food-restricted female rats received injections of 8-OH-DPAT, a drug that reduces serotonergic neurotransmission, or saline vehicle 40 min prior to food access. During this restricted-feeding phase, food intake was similar between groups; however, 8-OH-DPAT prevented the hyperactivity observed in saline-treated rats. This resulted in less weight loss in 8-OH-DPAT-treated rats, suggesting that decreased activation of the 5-HT system attenuates the development of ABA.
Neuroanatomical studies of brains from schizophrenic patients report evidence for neuronal dystrophy, while in genetic studies in schizophrenia there is evidence for mutations in growth factors and the downstream enzymes phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) and protein kinase B (PKB). Since the PI3K-PKB pathway is involved in cellular growth and proliferation, reduced activity of this cascade in schizophrenia could at least partly explain the neuronal dystrophy. Risk factors for schizophrenia, such as corticosteroids and cannabis, suppress the activity of the PI3K-PKB pathway. Conversely, estrogen and vitamin D, 2 factors with a moderate protective activity in schizophrenia, electroconvulsive shock therapy, and chronic treatment with antipsychotic compounds stimulate the pathway. Reduced activity of the PI3K-PKB pathway makes the brain more susceptible to virus infections, anoxia, and obstetric complications (recognized risk factors for schizophrenia), whereas a diminution of growth factor levels towards the end of puberty could contribute to an increase in schizophrenia symptoms observed around that time. On the other hand, constitutive (over)activation of the PI3K-PKB pathway increases cancer risk. Consequently, the presumed hypoactivity of the PI3K-PKB cascade might provide a partial explanation for the remarkable epidemiological finding of a reduced cancer rate in schizophrenic patients. Recognition of the role of a dysfunctional PI3K-PKB pathway in schizophrenia might help in the discovery of hitherto undetected causative gene mutations and could also lead to novel therapeutic approaches. However, a major challenge that remains to be solved is how the PI3K-PKB pathway can be activated without increasing the risk of cancer.
Microtine rodents provide an excellent model for the study of the neurobiology of social bonds. In this review, we discuss how the presence of a microsatellite sequence in the prairie vole vasopressin receptor gene may determine vasopressin receptor binding patterns in the brain and how these patterns may in turn affect social behavior.
Direct cell-to-cell communication through specialized intercellular channels is a characteristic feature of virtually all multi-cellular organisms. The remarkable functional conservation of cell-to-cell coupling throughout the animal kingdom, however, is not matched at the molecular level of the structural protein components. Thus protostomes (including nematodes and flies) and deuterostomes (including all vertebrates) utilize two unrelated families of gap-junction genes, innexins and connexins, respectively. The recent discovery that pannexins, a novel group of proteins expressed by several organisms, are able to form intercellular channels has started a quest to understand their evolutionary relationship and functional contribution to cell communication in vivo. There are three pannexin genes in mammals, two of which are co-expressed in the developing and adult brain. Of note, pannexin1 can also form Ca2+-activated hemichannels that open at physiological extracellular Ca2+ concentrations and exhibit distinct pharmacological properties.
In the chemotaxis pathway of the bacterium Escherichia coli, signals are carried from a cluster of receptors to the flagellar motors by the diffusion of the protein CheY-phosphate (CheYp) through the cytoplasm. A second protein, CheZ, which promotes dephosphorylation of CheYp, partially colocalizes with receptors in the plasma membrane. CheZ is normally dimeric in solution but has been suggested to associate into highly active oligomers in the presence of CheYp. A model is presented here and supported by Brownian dynamics simulations, which accounts for these and other experimental data: A minority component of the receptor cluster (dimers of CheA(short)) nucleates CheZ oligomerization and CheZ molecules move from the cytoplasm to a bound state at the receptor cluster depending on the current level of cellular stimulation. The corresponding simulations suggest that dynamic CheZ localization will sharpen cellular responses to chemoeffectors, increase the range of detectable ligand concentrations, and make adaptation more precise and robust. The localization and activation of CheZ constitute a negative feedback loop that provides a second tier of adaptation to the system. Subtle adjustments of this kind are likely to be found in many other signaling pathways.
Complex computations in the nervous system begin with electrical signals generated in single neurons. Such signals include action potentials mediated by the opening of voltage-dependent ion channels, and synaptic potentials arising from neurotransmitter receptor activation. The amplitude, waveform, and propagation of action potentials and synaptic potentials influence cellular signaling in profound ways, and are largely determined by activities of ion channels in the cell membrane. The location and properties of ion channels therefore play critical roles in shaping electrical signaling in the neuron, which is the foundation for more complex computations at network levels. This review summarizes what we know about the great diversity of K(+) channels found in neuronal dendrites, the subcellular compartment where synaptic signals integrate and where various forms of plasticity occur. Specifically, we discuss the molecular identity, the distribution, kinase modulation, biophysical properties, and functional roles of a variety of K(+) channels including voltage-gated, calcium-activated, and ligand-gated/G-protein coupled K(+) channels. One emerging theme from recent literature is the recognition that K(+) channels are powerful regulators of the function of dendrites. A second theme indicates that this K(+) channel regulation depends on their unique subcellular distribution. In particular, the mechanisms underlying the establishment and maintenance of non-uniform distributions of ion channels are beginning to be understood in greater detail. An especially intriguing aspect of above mechanisms is that they are achieved through protein kinase phosphorylation and may thus be activity-dependent. In parts of this review, we choose to focus on CA1 pyramidal neurons of the rodent hippocampus and the K(+) channels in their dendrites. Being one of the best-characterized cell types in the nervous system, the CA1 pyramidal neuron has long been studied as a prototypic neuron from which general rules of neuronal computation and synaptic plasticity emerge. A great deal of what we know about dendritic K(+) channels comes from studies on CA1 pyramidal neurons. Where available, we also include up-to-date findings on dendritic K(+) channels in other cell types.
Uncommon polymorphisms, particularly balanced uncommon polymorphisms, present a significant challenge to our understanding of their role in behavior. We have recently demonstrated that an uncommon candidate gene polymorphism for schizophrenia, known as HOPA12bp, is the defining polymorphism for a large X-chromosome haplotype in population disequilibrium and that it is associated with a positive syndrome of psychosis. Not all studies, however, have shown this effect. In this report, we reviewed prior studies and conducted meta-analysis of studies using probands of northern European extraction. We found that the presence of the HOPA12bp is a significant risk factor for psychosis for both men and women and suggest that differences in the case definition of schizophrenia may affect the strength of the association.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a transitional state between normal aging and dementia. Although there have been some studies on the role of verbal memory in learning ability, there have been no reports on the part played by visual memory. In the present study, the Rey-Osterrieth Complex Figure Test (RCFT) was given to healthy subjects and to those with MCI to determine if visual memory was maintained in these two groups. Additionally, normative data from the learning version of the RCFT for Japanese subjects were examined, for purpose of reference. The participants consisted of 381 clinical dementia rating (CDR) 0 subjects and 137 CDR 0.5 subjects who could perform the full set of RCFT tasks. The CDR 0 group had significantly higher scores than the CDR 0.5 group in all trials. The CDR 0 participants also showed a significant step-by-step learning effect, while the CDR 0.5 participants did not show a significant learning effect. These results suggest that the CDR 0 participants maintained intact learning abilities of encoding and retrieval, while the CDR 0.5 participants did not do so; but further studies will be needed to clarify these findings.



The Stroop effect has been shown to depend on the relative proportion of congruent and incongruent trials. This effect is commonly attributed to experiment-wide word-reading strategies that change as a function of proportion congruent. Recently, Jacoby, Lindsay, and Hessels (2003) reported an item-specific proportion congruent effect that cannot be due to these strategies and instead may reflect rapid, stimulus driven control over word-reading processes. However, an item-specific proportion congruent effect may also reflect learned associations between color word identities and responses. In two experiments, we demonstrate a context-specific proportion congruent effect that cannot be explained by such word-response associations. Our results suggest that processes other than learning of word-response associations can produce contextual control over Stroop interference.
In this article, we bring together recent findings from developmental science and cognitive neuroscience to argue that perception-action coupling constitutes the fundamental mechanism of motor cognition. A variety of empirical evidence suggests that observed and executed actions are coded in a common cognitive and neural framework, enabling individuals to construct shared representations of self and other actions. We review work to suggest that such shared representations support action anticipation, organization, and imitation. These processes, along with additional computational mechanisms for determining a sense of agency and behavioral regulation, form the fabric of socialinteraction. In addition, humans possess the capacity to move beyond these basic aspects of action analysis to interpret behavior at a deeper level, an ability that may be outside the scope of the mirror system. Understanding the nature of shared representations from the vantage point of developmental and cognitive science and neuroscience has the potential to inform a range of motor and social processes. This perspective also elucidates intriguing new directions and research questions and generates specific hypotheses regarding the impact of early disorders (e.g., developmental movement disorders) on subsequent action processing.









Normal somatic cells have a finite replicative capacity, and with each cell division telomeres progressively shorten, unless the telomerase enzyme is present. The bristlecone pine, Pinus longaeva, is the oldest known living eukaryotic organism, with the oldest on record turning 4770 years old in 2005. The results from our study of telomere length and telomerase activity in samples (needle, root, core) from P. longaeva with age, and in other tree species of various lifespans, support the hypothesis that both increased telomere length and telomerase activity may contribute to the increased lifespan and longevity evident in long-lived pine trees (i.e., 2000- to 5000-year lifespan) compared with medium-lived (400- to 500-year lifespan) and short-lived (100- to 200-year lifespan) pine trees, as well as in P. longaeva with age.
The functional gastrointestinal disorders are defined by the Rome criteria as a heterogeneous group of symptom-based conditions that have no structural or biochemical explanation. However, this definition now seems outdated, because structural and molecular abnormalities have begun to be recognized in subsets of patients with the irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), the prototypic functional bowel disease. A complex classification system based arbitrarily on symptom criteria does not fit in with a number of emerging facts. For example, the symptom overlap of IBS with gastroesophageal reflux disease is not due to chance, and the emergence of post-infectious IBS, dyspepsia, or both after Salmonella gastroenteritis fits better with a 1-disease model. A new paradigm seems to be needed. All of these disorders may arise after infection or gut inflammation, but the phenotype depends on localized neuromuscular dysfunction in the predisposed human host (the &quot;irritable gut&quot;).
New findings from neuroscience, genetics, and experimental psychology have emerged that provide alternative explanations of many negative symptoms. We review the continuing limitations in treatment and discuss possible sources of heterogeneity among negative symptoms. We also anticipate conceptual uncertainties that may arise with forthcoming treatment developments.
Functional outcome for individuals with schizophrenia has been associated with cognitive impairment. Deficits in attention, memory, speed of information processing and problem-solving skills affect independent functioning, vocational performance, and interpersonal functioning. This study investigated the relationship between neurocognitive functioning, clinical symptoms and daily problem-solving skills in seriously and persistently ill persons. Thirty-eight inpatients and outpatients were administered a neurocognitive battery for attention, working memory, processing speed, perceptual organization, and executive functioning; and semi-structured clinical interviews using the BPRS and SANS. Estimates of daily problem-solving skills were obtained using the relevant factor subscale from the Independent Living Scales (ILS-PB). Daily problem-solving skills were significantly correlated with negative symptoms, processing speed, verbal memory, and working memory scores. A regression model using an enter method suggests that working memory and negative symptoms are significant predictors of daily problem-solving skills and account for 73.2% of the variance. Further analyses demonstrate that daily problem-solving skills and negative symptoms were significantly different for inpatients and outpatients and significantly correlated with community status. The findings suggest the ILS-PB has utility as a proxy measure for assessing real-world functioning in schizophrenia.

The possibility that infantile nystagmus (IN) may reflect a failure in early sensorimotor integration has been proposed for more than a century, but is only recently being borne out in animal studies. The underlying neural and genetic substrate for this plasticity is complex. We propose that, in most cases, IN develops as a developmental response to reduced contrast sensitivity to high-spatial frequencies in an early &quot;critical period,&quot; however caused, whether by structural malformations (e.g. foveal hypoplasia) or poor optics (e.g. cataract). As shown by psychophysics, contrast sensitivity to low spatial frequencies is enhanced by motion of the image across the retina. Based on our previous theoretical study (Harris &amp; Berry, Nonlinear Dynamics, 2006), we argue that the best compromise between moving the image and maintaining the image near the fovea (or its remnant) is to oscillate the eyes with jerk nystagmus with increasing velocity waveforms, as seen empirically. The generation of jerk waveforms relies heavily on the saccadic system, which is immature in infancy. Pendular waveforms may therefore provide an alternative to jerk waveforms, and may explain why they are seen more often in young infants. We discuss the implications of this developmental model for the need to synchronize sensory and motor developments in normal development. Failure of this synchronization may also explain some idiopathic cases.

Large regional differences regarding access to employment have been observed amongst persons from Bosnia-Herzegovina coming to Sweden in 1993-1994. This has led to questions about the role of mental health. To explore this further, postal survey questionnaires were distributed to a community sample (N = 650) that was stratified and, within strata, randomly selected from a sampling frame of persons coming to Sweden from Bosnia-Herzegovina in 1993-1994. Four hundred and thirteen persons returned the questionnaire providing a response rate of 63.5%. The aim was to increase knowledge about the relationship between mental health and employment in the chosen population. The main mental health outcome measure was the Gteborg Quality of Life instrument from which 360 respondents were grouped according to low or high symptom levels. Data were cross tabulated (chi2-tested) against background variables such as age, gender and occupational status, and then tested using binary logistic regression. Binary logistic regression revealed unemployed men but not women, and women who had been working for longer periods during 1993-1999, to be associated with high levels of symptoms of poor mental health. Women living in the urban region were also overrepresented in the high symptom group. These findings indicate that, job occupancy is important to the health of men in the study. However, for the women, further understanding is needed, as job occupancy at some level as well as living in the urban region appear to be associated with poor mental health.
We designed oligonucleotide gene-specific probes to develop a focused array that can be used to discriminate between neural phenotypes, identify biomarkers, and provide an overview of the process of dopaminergic neuron and glial differentiation. We have arrayed approximately 100 genes expressed in dopaminergic neurons, oligodendrocytes, and astrocytes, an additional 200 known cytokines, chemokines, and their respective receptors, as well as markers for pluripotent and progenitor cells. The gene-specific 60-mer 3' biased oligonucleotides for these 281 genes were arrayed in a 25 x 12 format based on function. Using human adult brain substantia nigra, human embryonic stem cells (ESCs), and the differentiated progeny of pluripotent cells, we showed that this array was capable of distinguishing dopaminergic neurons, glial cells, and pluripotent cells by their gene expression profiles in a concentration-dependent manner. Using linear correlation coefficients of input RNA with output intensity, we identified a list of genes that can serve as reporting genes for detecting dopaminergic neurons, glial cells, and contaminating ESCs and progenitors. Finally, we monitored NTera2 differentiation toward dopaminergic neurons and have shown the ability of this array to distinguish stages of differentiation and provide important clues to factors regulating differentiation, the degree of contaminating populations, and stage of cell maturity. We suggest that this focused array will serve as a useful complement to other large-scale arrays in routine assessment of cell properties prior to their therapeutic use.
We have examined gene expression in multipotent neural precursor cells (NPCs) derived from human fetal (f) brain tissue and compared its expression profiles with embryonic stem (ESC) cells, embryoid body cell (EBC), and astrocyte precursors using the technique of massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS). Gene expression profiles show that fNPCs express core neural stem cells markers and share expression profiles with astrocyte precursor cells (APCs) rather than ESC or EBC. Gene expression analysis shows that fNPCs differ from other adult stem and progenitor cells in their marker expression and activation of specific functional networks such as the transforming growth factorbeta (TGFbeta) and Notch signaling pathways. In addition, our results allow us to identify novel genes expressed in fNPCs and provide a detailed profile of fNPCs.
Because of their unique attributes of plasticity and accessibility, bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) may find use for therapy of neurodegenerative disorders. Our previous studies of adult human MSCs demonstrated that these cells express an extensive assortment of neural genes at a low but clearly detectable level. Here, we report expression of 12 neural genes, 8 genes related to the neuro-dopaminergic system, and 11 transcription factors with neural significance by human MSCs. Our results suggest that, as opposed to cells that do not express neural genes, human MSCs are predisposed to differentiate to neuronal and glial lineages, given the proper conditions. Our findings add a new dimension in which to view adult stem cell plasticity, and may explain the relative ease with which MSCs, transplanted into the central nervous system (CNS) differentiate to a variety of functional neural cell types. Our results further promote the possibility that adult human MSCs are promising candidates for cell-based therapy of neurodegenerative diseases.


The objectives of this study were to generate precise estimates of suicide rates in the military while controlling for factors contributing to rate variability such as demographic differences and classification bias, and to develop a simple methodology for the determination of statistically derived thresholds for detecting significant rate changes. Suicide rate estimates were calculated for the military population and each service branch over 11 years, directly standardized to the 2000 U.S. population. Military rates were highly comparable across branches and were approximately 20% lower than the civilian rate. Direct adjustment essentially controlled for the demographic confounds in this sample. Applying the Poisson-based method, we demonstrate that suicide rate fluctuations as large as 20-40% in any year may be attributed to random error.
PET measurements of stimulant-induced dopamine (DA) release are typically performed with antagonist radioligands that bind to both the high- and low-affinity state of the receptor. In contrast, an agonist radioligand binds preferentially to the high-affinity state and is expected to have greater sensitivity to DA, which is the endogenous agonist. [(11)C]MNPA, (R)-2-CH(3)O-N-n-propylnorapomorphine (MNPA), is a D(2) agonist radioligand with subnanomolar affinity to the D(2) receptor. The aim of the present study is to assess and compare the sensitivity of the agonist radioligand [(11)C]MNPA and antagonist radioligand [(11)C]raclopride to synaptic DA levels. Four cynomolgus monkeys were examined with [(11)C]MNPA and [(11)C]raclopride (16 PET measurements with each tracer) at baseline and after pretreatment with various doses of amphetamine. The effect of amphetamine was calculated by the change in binding potential (BP) analyzed with the multilinear reference tissue model (MRTM2). Amphetamine caused a reduction in [(11)C]MNPA BP of 4% at 0.1, 23% at 0.2, 25% at 0.5, and 46% at 1.0 mg/kg. [(11)C]Raclopride BP was reduced to a lesser extent by 2% at 0.1, 16% at 0.2, 15% at 0.5, and 23% at 1.0 mg/kg. The data were used to estimate the in vivo percentage of high-affinity state receptors to be approximately 60%. These results demonstrate that [(11)C]MNPA is more sensitive than [(11)C]raclopride to displacement by endogenous DA, and that it may provide additional information about the functional state of the D(2) receptor in illnesses such as schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease.
We studied the effects of representative endocrine-disrupting chemicals on beta-hexosaminidase release from mast cells and their putative neurosteroid receptor involvement. Some endocrine-disrupting chemicals, such as amitrol, benzophenon, bisphenol A, pentachlorophenol, and tetrabromophenol A did not cause hexosaminidase release from RBL-2H3 cells, but they blocked the release by dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, a representative neurosteroid agonist. On the contrary, atrazine, which is a widely used herbicide, caused a rapid and concentration-dependent degranulation in the range between 10 nM and 1 microM in RBL-2H3 and peritoneal mast cells. Atrazine-induced degranulation was also evaluated by Alexa 488-annexin V binding to the phosphatidylserine, which is externalized during degranulation, and these actions were blocked by BSA-conjugated (membrane-impermeable) progesterone (PROG-BSA). The atrazine-induced beta-hexosaminidase release was characterized by various inhibitors including antisense-oligodeoxynucleotide for Galpha(q/11), pertussis toxin, phospholipase C inhibitor U-73122, inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor inhibitor xestospongin C and Ca(2+) channel blocker lanthanum chloride. These analyses revealed that the degranulation is mediated by putative metabotropic neurosteroid receptor, G(q/11), phospholipase C and Ca(2+) mobilization from intracellular stores. Having documented progesterone receptor-modulation of atrazine-induced mast cell degranulation in vitro, this response was evaluated in mice. Atrazine caused pain responses when injected in the foot pads of mice, and they were antagonized by local administration of PROG-BSA or diphenhydramine. Atrazine also caused PROG-BSA-reversible plasma extravasation. All these findings strongly suggest that herbicide atrazine exerts inflammatory activity through activation of putative G(q/11)-coupled neurosteroid receptor and phospholipase C.

Hepatopulmonary syndrome (HPS) is a pulmonary vascular disorder, complicating hepatic diseases, and is responsible for an increased morbidity and mortality among patients awaiting liver transplantation. Nowadays, it is recognized as an independent risk factor for death in this patient population. The severity of hypoxemia and the advanced stage of the liver dysfunction are determinants for the prognosis. Therefore, the possibility to be successful, thus improving survival, consists of addressing HPS at an earlier stage, giving more attention to moderate evidences of this pathology instead of the severe ones. On the basis of scientific evidence, we suggest a simple scoring system to predict prognosis among patients with HPS, founded on the integration of two main factors: the severity of hepatic disease, expressed as class of Child-Pugh, and the severity of the hypoxemia. This model of prognostic evaluation has the objective of estimating the additional risk of these patients, thereby avoiding a deleterious underestimate of risk and an arbitrariness of management.
Hepatopulmonary syndrome (HPS) is recognized as one of the causes of hypoxemia in patients with chronic liver disease. This complication is responsible for increased mortality and increased perioperative risk in liver transplantation candidates. Recent data from the literature suggest extending the screening for HPS to all candidates for liver transplantation. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the incidence of hypoxemia among a population of patients awaiting liver transplantation. Using pulse oximetry as a screening tool for hypoxemia, 39 of 198 patients (20%) were hypoxemic. The results of this study confirmed the importance of screening for hypoxemia among patients awaiting liver transplantation. In these patients, a more accurate evaluation of respiratory function should be performed to confirm or exclude the diagnosis of HPS.
Recently there has been growing interest in and debate about the relation between cognitive neuroscience and education. Our goal is to advance the debate beyond both recitation of potentially education-related cognitive neuroscience findings and the claim that a bridge between fields is chimerical. In an attempt to begin a dialogue about mechanisms among students, educators, researchers and practitioner-scientists, we propose that multiple bridges can be built to make connections between education and cognitive neuroscience, including teacher training, researcher training and collaboration. These bridges--concrete mechanisms that can advance the study of mind, brain and education--will benefit both educators and cognitive neuroscientists, who will gain new perspectives for posing and answering crucial questions about the learning brain.
Studies of perceptual expertise typically ask whether the mechanisms underlying face recognition are domain specific or domain general. This debate has so dominated the literature that it has masked the more general usefulness of the expertise framework for studying the phenomenon of category specialization. Here we argue that the value of an expertise framework is not solely dependent on its relevance to face recognition. Beyond offering an alternative to domain-specific accounts of face specialization in terms of interactions between experience, task demands, and neural biases, expertise studies reveal principles of perceptual learning that apply to many different domains and forms of expertise. As such the expertise framework provides a unique window onto the functional plasticity of the mind and brain.
Patients with occupational hand dystonias have task-specific involuntary co-contraction and overflow of activity to inappropriate muscles. This interferes with highly skilled movements such as handwriting (writer's cramp) or playing a musical instrument (musician's cramp). Transcranial stimulation methods that probe mechanisms of synaptic plasticity in the motor cortex show an abnormal modifiability of sensorimotor circuits in patients with writer's cramp, probably because homeostatic control of the range of modification is deficient. We argue that during skilled motor practice, this leads to an excessive tendency to form associations between sensory inputs and motor outputs (abnormal potentiation) and to a failure to weaken already existing associations (deficient depotentiation). Deficient homeostatic control might be an important mechanism that triggers maladaptive reorganization and produces symptoms of occupational hand dystonias.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is an inherited form of mental retardation that results from the loss of function of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). A recent report demonstrated alterations in the structure and plasticity of synapses on cerebellar Purkinje cells in Fmr1 knockout mice, which are a model of FXS. These synaptic alterations are associated with deficits in the cerebellar learning both in the mice and humans with FXS. This work forges an important link between the FMR1 gene, altered synaptic plasticity in the cerebellum and mental retardation.
Neuropathic pain and phantom phenomena occur commonly after spinal cord injury (SCI) but their molecular basis is not yet fully understood. Recent findings demonstrate abnormal expression of the Nav1.3 Na(+) channel within second-order spinal cord dorsal horn neurons and third-order thalamic neurons along the pain pathway after SCI, and suggest that this change makes these neurons hyperexcitable so that they act as pain amplifiers and generators. Delineation of molecular changes that contribute to hyperexcitability of pain-signaling neurons might lead to identification of molecular targets that will be useful in the treatment of neuropathic pain after SCI and related nervous system injuries.
How are appropriate connections between neurons sorted from the overwhelming surplus of potential, yet inappropriate, connections? Despite the apparently improbable nature of the process, brains wire themselves with a high degree of reproducibility that has been conserved across evolutionary history. Here, we outline a viable cell-biological model for generating synaptic specificity that features selection of nascent synapses based on adhesion and recognition. This process uses the highly dynamic and stochastic nature of intracellular trafficking to generate reproducible patterns of synaptic connectivity.
Purinergic signalling has been implicated in many biological processes, and ATP and other extracellular nucleotides might have therapeutic potential in the treatment of cancer by signalling through P2 receptors. Different P2 receptor subtypes have been identified in a variety of different cancer types, in both primary samples of human cancer tissue and cell lines. Recent evidence suggests that different receptor subtypes mediate different pathophysiological functions such as proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. In vivo studies of the use of ATP suggest that it can decrease the rate of cancer growth, and the first clinical trials have been undertaken. Thus, agents acting at P2 receptors might provide novel therapeutic tools in the treatment of cancer. In this article, background information about purinergic signalling and purinoceptor subtypes will be provided and then the proposed role of ATP in different cancers will be discussed in detail, including a discussion of in vivo studies and animal models, clinical trials and the specific P2 receptor subtypes involved.
The recent discovery of melanocortin receptor mutations that selectively decrease constitutive receptor activity in obese individuals supports the physiological relevance of constitutive melanocortin receptor activity and its control by an endogenous inverse agonist. Furthermore, studies using mice that lack endogenous melanocortin receptor agonists show that differences in coat color are caused by different degrees of constitutive melanocortin receptor signaling regulated by an endogenous inverse agonist. Thus, the regulation of constitutive activity of melanocortin receptors is important for the normal control of pigmentation and body-weight homeostasis.
First level short- and long-range spatial interactions are considered to be processed in the primary visual cortex. In psychophysics, they are measured with two kinds of stimuli, Gabor patches and lines/points. Each has its own short- and long-range definitions. We show that first, in terms of visual angle separation, the two definitions do not correspond to identical scales of interactions and second, that Gabor data can be matched to the lines/points definition by properly considering the observed effects. As a consequence, three regimes of spatial interaction are present: a case where overlapping of stimuli is present, and two others for spatially separated stimuli which we define as the short- and long-range regimes. Both types of stimuli show compatible lateral interactions and, we think, permit the measurement of the same underlying mechanisms.
(3-Tert-butyl-7-(5-methylisoxazol-3-yl)-2-(1-methyl-1H-1,2,4-triazol-5-ylmethoxy)pyrazolo[1,5-d] [1,2,4]triazine was recently identified as a functionally selective, inverse agonist at the benzodiazepine site of GABA(A) alpha5-containing receptors, which enhances performance in animal models of cognition. The routes of metabolism of this compound in rat, dog, rhesus monkey and human in vitro systems, and in vivo in rat, dog and rhesus monkey have been characterized. The current study demonstrates that both a cytosolic oxidative reaction and cytochrome P450 play important roles in the metabolism of the compound. Chemical inhibition studies showed the oxidation in human cytosol to be catalysed predominantly by aldehyde oxidase rather than the related enzyme, xanthine oxidase. The aldehyde oxidase-mediated metabolites were present in vitro and in vivo in both rat and rhesus monkey, and also in vitro in man. They were absent both in vitro and in vivo in dog.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a familial neurodegenerative disorder caused by an abnormal expansion of CAG repeats in the coding region of huntingtin gene. A major hallmark of HD is the proteolytic production of N-terminal fragments of huntingtin containing polyglutamine repeats that form ubiquitinated aggregates in the nucleus and cytoplasm of the affected neurons. However, the mechanism by which the mutant huntingtin causes neurodegeneration is not well understood. Here, we found that oxidative stimuli enhance the polyglutamine-expanded truncated N-terminal huntingtin (mutant huntingtin) aggregation and mutant huntingtin-induced cell death. Oxidative stimuli also lead to rapid proteasomal dysfunction in the mutant huntingtin expressing cells as compared to normal glutamine repeat expressing cells. Overexpression of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1), Hsp40 or Hsp70 reverses the oxidative stress-induced proteasomal malfunction, mutant huntingtin aggregation, and death of the mutant huntingtin expressing cells. Finally, we show the higher levels of expression of SOD1 and DJ-1 in the mutant huntingtin expressing cells. Our result suggests that oxidative stress-induced proteasomal malfunction might be linked with mutant huntingtin-induced cell death.

Despite the prevalence of G protein-coupled receptors as transducers of signals from hormones, neurotransmitters, odorants, and light, little is known about mechanisms that regulate their plasma membrane expression (PME), although misfolded receptors are recognized and retained by a cellular quality control system (QCS). Convergent evolution of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptor (GnRHR) progressively decreases inositol phosphate production in response to agonist, validated as a measure of PME of receptor. A pharmacological chaperone that optimizes folding also increases PME of human, but not of rat or mouse, GnRHR because a higher percentage of human GnRHRs are misfolded structures due to their failure to form an apparent sulfhydryl bridge, and they are retained by the QCS. Bridge formation is increased by deleting (primate-specific) Lys191. In rat or mouse GnRHR that lacks Lys191, the bridge is non-essential and receptor is efficiently routed to the plasma membrane. Addition of Lys191 alone to the rat sequence did not diminish PME, indicating that other changes are required for its effects. A strategy, based on identification of amino acids that both 1) co-evolved with the Lys191 and 2) were thermodynamically unfavorable substitutions, identified motifs in multiple domains of the human receptor that control the destabilizing influence of Lys191 on a particular Cys bridge, resulting in diminished PME. The data show a novel and underappreciated means of posttranslational control of a G protein-coupled receptor by altering its interaction with the QCS and provide a biochemical explanation of the basis of disease-causing mutations of this receptor.
Substantial changes in brain morphology mark the course of alcoholism from development through dependence, recovery, and relapse. These changes can be characterized with deformation-based morphometry, which quantifies shape differences between anatomical structures, either in different subjects (cross-sectional) or in the same subject over time (longitudinal). Here we present analyses of data from a longitudinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study on the effects of alcoholism on brain structure. Images were acquired from alcoholic women (n=7, mean age 47.8+/-8.3 years) and age-matched control women (n=16, mean age 51.2+/-7.5 years). From each subject, we acquired two structural MR brain images, separated by approximately 2 years (mean 21.6+/-7 months). We performed two types of morphometry using log-Jacobian maps of inter-subject and intra-subject nonrigid coordinate transformations, justified by the invariance of relevant statistics (mean, standard deviation, z-score, and t-test) under changes of the spatial and temporal reference coordinate system. With all images from one time point, a cross-sectional inter-subject morphometry determined group differences between alcoholics and normal controls. We compared these results with longitudinal intra-subject morphometry based on two images per subject acquired at different times (approximately 2 years apart). Inter- and intra-subject analysis produced partially conflicting results. Whereas the intra-subject analysis indicated faster ventricular volume increases in the alcoholics (+11% per year) than in the controls (+2% per year), the inter-subject analysis showed, on average, smaller absolute ventricle volumes in the alcoholics than in the controls (-33% relative volume). These differences were confirmed by manual planimetry and were statistically significant whether tested based on difference or change, integrated over the volume of the ventricles. Other changes and group differences were consistent between the two analyses, e.g., reduction of white matter (including corpus callosum) and increase in CSF volume, and these are in agreement with established effects of alcoholism on brain structure. We conclude that intra-subject morphometry of longitudinal data is preferable to inter-subject morphometry for detecting dynamic changes due to a disease, especially when only small samples are available. Our analysis demonstrates that the distinction between group differences observed at a point in time vs. over time is not merely academic but can substantially reduce the validity of the outcomes of actual morphometric studies. This discrepancy in results underscores the importance of distinguishing between volume differences and volume changes in morphometric analyses.




Avian and mammalian 'rapid eye movement' sleep (REM sleep) resemble each other in several aspects. However, the question of whether REM sleep has a shared evolutionary ancestry in birds and mammals has yet to be thoroughly explored. The brain regions and neurotransmitter systems involved in the generation of mammalian REM sleep are phylogenetically ancient, and are also found in extant birds and reptiles. Several pharmacological experiments in birds indicate that similar neural substrates are involved in the regulation of avian and mammalian sleep. However, because the drugs used in these studies generally resulted in non-specific sleep loss, the neurochemical regulation of avian REM sleep in particular remains uncertain. The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) zimelidine is known to reduce REM sleep in mammals. If avian REM sleep is similarly regulated by serotonin, it would be expected that an acute dose of a SSRI should also reduce avian REM sleep. To investigate a putative role of serotonin in the regulation of avian REM sleep, changes in sleep electroencephalogram (EEG) and behavior were recorded in five pigeons (Columba livia) after the administration of an acute dose of zimelidine. Our results demonstrate that the effects of zimelidine on avian REM sleep are comparable to those observed in mammals, indicating that serotonin may serve a similar function in the control of avian and mammalian REM sleep.
Measles virus (MV), one of the most infectious of human pathogens, still infects over 30 million humans and causes over 500,000 deaths each year [Griffin, D., 2001. Measles virus. In: Fields, B., Knipe, D., Howley, P. (Eds.), Fields Virology. Lippincott-Raven, Philadelphia, pp. 1401-1442; ]. Death is primarily due to secondary microbial infections associated with the immunosuppression caused by MV. Studies of humans with genetic or acquired deficiencies of either the humoral or cellular arm of the immune system, and rodent models have implicated T cells in the control of the ongoing MV infection but the precise role and activities of the specific T cell subset or the molecules they produce is not clear. Using a transgenic mouse model in conjunction with depletion and reconstitution of individual B and T cell subsets alone or in combination, we show that neither CD4, CD8 nor B cells per se control acute MV infection. However, combinations of either CD4 T cells and B cells, or of CD4 and CD8 T cells are essential but CD8 T with B cells are ineffective. Interferon-gamma and neutralizing antibodies, but neither perforin nor TNF-alpha alone are associated with clearance of MV infection. TNF-alpha combined with interferon-gamma is more effective in protection than interferon alone. Further, the lack of an interferon-gamma response leads to persistence of MV.
It has been suggested that there are two separate visual streams in the human cerebral cortex: a ventral pathway that provides perceptual representations of the world and serves as a platform for cognitive operations, and a dorsal pathway that transforms visual information for the control of motor acts. Evidence for this distinction comes from neuropsychology, neuroimaging, and neurophysiology. There is also evidence from experimental psychology, with normal observers experiencing an illusion-where perception and action can be dissociated, although much of this evidence is controversial. Here, we report an experiment aimed at demonstrating a large dissociation between perception and fast action using the hollow-face illusion, in which a hollow mask looks like a normal convex face. Participants estimated the positions of small targets placed on the actually hollow but apparently normal face and used their fingers to 'flick' the targets off. Despite the presence of a compelling illusion of a normal face, the flicking movements were directed at the real, not the illusory locations of the targets. These results show that the same visual stimulus can have completely opposite effects on conscious perception and visual control of fast action.
Recently, functional imaging data have underscored the crucial role the hypothalamus plays in cluster headache, one of the most severe forms of primary headache. This prompted the application of hypothalamic deep brain stimulation. Yet, it is not apparent how stimulation of an area that is thought to act as a pace-maker for acute headache attacks is able to prevent these attacks from occurring. We addressed this issue by examining 10 operated chronic cluster headache patients, using H2(15O)-positron emission tomography and alternately switching the hypothalamic stimulator on and off. The stimulation induced activation in the ipsilateral hypothalamic gray (the site of the stimulator tip), the ipsilateral thalamus, somatosensory cortex and praecuneus, the anterior cingulate cortex, and the ipsilateral trigeminal nucleus and ganglion. We additionally observed deactivation in the middle temporal gyrus, posterior cingulate cortex, and contralateral anterior insula. Both activation and deactivation are situated in cerebral structures belonging to neuronal circuits usually activated in pain transmission and notably in acute cluster headache attacks. Our data argue against an unspecific antinociceptive effect or pure inhibition of hypothalamic activity. Instead, the data suggest a hitherto unrecognized functional modulation of the pain processing network as the mode of action of hypothalamic deep brain stimulation in cluster headache.
Cue-induced reinstatement of extinguished drug seeking is a preclinical model of relapse. However, relapse typically occurs after abstinence rather than explicit extinction training. We show that inactivation of the dorsolateral caudate-putamen, but not other structures previously implicated in reinstatement, attenuates cocaine seeking after abstinence. This suggests that there is limited overlap in the substrates of cocaine seeking after abstinence versus extinction, and that habit learning exerts greater control over drug seeking than regions implicated in stimulus-reward associations.
The microtubule binding protein tau is implicated in neurodegenerative tauopathies, including frontotemporal dementia (FTD) with Parkinsonism caused by diverse mutations in the tau gene. Hyperphosphorylation of tau is considered crucial in the age-related formation of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) correlating well with neurotoxicity and cognitive defects. Transgenic mice expressing FTD mutant tau-P301L recapitulate the human pathology with progressive neuronal impairment and accumulation of NFT. Here, we studied tau-P301L mice for parameters of learning and memory at a young age, before hyperphosphorylation and tauopathy were apparent. Unexpectedly, in young tau-P301L mice, increased long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus was observed in parallel with improved cognitive performance in object recognition tests. Neither tau phosphorylation, neurogenesis, nor other morphological parameters that were analyzed could account for these cognitive changes. The data demonstrate that learning and memory processes in the hippocampus of young tau-P301L mice are not impaired and actually improved in the absence of marked phosphorylation of human tau. We conclude that protein tau plays an important beneficial role in normal neuronal processes of hippocampal memory, and conversely, that not tau mutations per se, but the ensuing hyperphosphorylation must be critical for cognitive decline in tauopathies.
Although behavior is ultimately guided by decision-making neurons and their associated networks, the mechanisms underlying neural decision-making in a behaviorally relevant context remain mostly elusive. To address this question, we analyzed goldfish escapes in response to distinct visual looming stimuli with high-speed video and compared them with electrophysiological responses of the Mauthner cell (M-cell), the threshold detector that initiates such behaviors. These looming stimuli evoke powerful and fast body-bend (C-start) escapes with response probabilities between 0.7 and 0.91 and mean latencies ranging from 142 to 716 ms. Chronic recordings showed that these C-starts are correlated with M-cell activity. Analysis of response latency as a function of the different optical parameters characterizing the stimuli suggests response threshold is closely correlated to a dynamically scaled function of angular retinal image size, (t), specifically kappa(t) = (t-delta x e(-beta(t-delta)), where the exponential term progressively reduces the weight of (t). Intracellular recordings show that looming stimuli typically evoked bursts of graded EPSPs with peak amplitudes up to 9 mV in the M-cell. The proposed scaling function kappa(t) predicts the slope of the depolarizing envelope of these EPSPs and the timing of the largest peak. An analysis of the firing rate of presynaptic inhibitory interneurons suggests the timing of the EPSP peak is shaped by an interaction of excitatory and inhibitory inputs to the M-cell and corresponds to the temporal window in which the probabilistic decision of whether or not to escape is reached.
Numerous physiological and emotionally motivated behaviors, including locomotion, exercise, escape, and attack behaviors as well as passive coping responses, require concomitant activation of motor and sympathetic efferents. Such functional heterogeneity suggests the existence of dual function neurons that can simultaneously coordinate motor and sympathetic output. Because previous physiological investigations have implicated a number of mesencephalic and telencephalic regions in mediating these behaviors, we hypothesized the presence of dual function sympatho-motor neurons in these neural structures. To test this hypothesis, we used recombinant strains of the pseudorabies virus (PRV) for transsynaptic tract-tracing. PRV-152, a strain that expresses enhanced green fluorescent protein, was injected into sympathectomized gastrocnemius muscle, whereas PRV-BaBlu, which expresses beta-galactosidase, was injected into the adrenal gland in the same animals. Although coinfected neurons were detected in a number of mesencephalic and telencephalic regions, &gt;50% of such neurons were located within specific subdivisions of two general areas: the hypothalamus and periaqueductal gray. These subdivisions included the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray, dorsomedial hypothalamus, dorsolateral lateral hypothalamus, and ventral portion of the medial parvocellular subdivision of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). A subset of the sympatho-motor neurons within the PVN also contained either arginine vasopressin or oxytocin. This sympatho-motor circuitry likely plays an important role in mediating different aspects of stress responses and emotionally motivated behaviors.
Conventional protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms are abundant neuronal signaling proteins with important roles in regulating synaptic plasticity and other neuronal processes. Here, we investigate the role of ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptor (iGluR and mGluR, respectively) activation on the generation of Ca2+ and diacylglycerol (DAG) signals and the subsequent activation of the neuron-specific PKCgamma isoform in hippocampal neurons. By combining Ca2+ imaging with total internal reflection microscopy analysis of specific biosensors, we show that elevation of both Ca2+ and DAG is necessary for sustained translocation and activation of EGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein)-PKCgamma. Both DAG production and PKCgamma translocation were localized processes, typically observed within discrete microdomains along the dendritic branches. Markedly, intermediate-strength NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activation or moderate electrical stimulation generated Ca2+ but no DAG signals, whereas mGluR activation generated DAG but no Ca2+ signals. Both receptors were needed for PKCgamma activation. This suggests that a coincidence detection process exists between iGluRs and mGluRs that relies on a molecular coincidence detection process based on the corequirement of Ca2+ and DAG for PKCgamma activation. Nevertheless, the requirement for costimulation with mGluRs could be overcome for maximal NMDAR stimulation through a direct production of DAG via activation of the Ca2+-sensitive PLCdelta (phospholipase Cdelta) isoform. In a second important exception, mGluRs were sufficient for PKCgamma activation in neurons in which Ca2+ stores were loaded by previous electrical activity. Together, the dual activation requirement for PKCgamma provides a plausible molecular interpretation for different synergistic contributions of mGluRs to long-term potentiation and other synaptic plasticity processes.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in loss of oligodendrocytes demyelination of surviving axons and severe functional impairment. Spontaneous remyelination is limited. Thus, cell replacement therapy is an attractive approach for myelin repair. In this study, we transplanted adult brain-derived neural precursor cells (NPCs) isolated from yellow fluorescent protein-expressing transgenic mice into the injured spinal cord of adult rats at 2 and 8 weeks after injury, which represents the subacute and chronic phases of SCI. A combination of growth factors, the anti-inflammatory drug minocycline, and cyclosporine A immunosuppression was used to enhance the survival of transplanted adult NPCs. Our results show the presence of a substantial number of surviving NPCs in the injured spinal cord up to 10 weeks after transplantation at the subacute stage of SCI. In contrast, cell survival was poor after transplantation into chronic lesions. After subacute transplantation, grafted cells migrated &gt;5 mm rostrally and caudally. The surviving NPCs integrated principally along white-matter tracts and displayed close contact with the host axons and glial cells. Approximately 50% of grafted cells formed either oligodendroglial precursor cells or mature oligodendrocytes. NPC-derived oligodendrocytes expressed myelin basic protein and ensheathed the axons. We also observed that injured rats receiving NPC transplants had improved functional recovery as assessed by the Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan Locomotor Rating Scale and grid-walk and footprint analyses. Our data provide strong evidence in support of the feasibility of adult NPCs for cell-based remyelination after SCI.

Hormonal contraception is available in oral contraceptive pills and in newer formulations, including the transdermal patch, the vaginal ring, subcutaneous implants, and IM injections. Prevention of pregnancy is achieved by inhibiting ovulation, fertilization, and/or implantation of an egg. Hormonal contraception provides effective, tolerable, and reversible prevention of pregnancy. Efficacy and safety profiles are similar for different formulations and administration routes. Lowest expected failure (i.e., method failure) rates for hormonal contraceptives, regardless of formulation, are &lt;2%. Typical failure rates for oral formulations range from &lt;3% to 5% due to failures in compliance. The most commonly reported adverse effects are weight gain, nausea, variations in menstrual flow, breast changes such as tenderness, discomfort, or swelling, depression or mood disturbances, decreased sexual desire or response, and acne. Rare but serious potential effects include cardiovascular diseases, such as stroke, and an increased risk for breast cancer, liver tumors, and gallbladder disease. Hormonal contraceptive use should be avoided in women at risk for blood clots, by heavy smokers, and in women with breast or other cancers. Use of hormonal contraception in adolescents requires special consideration, in part because of decreased compliance.

High novelty seeking is a complex personality attribute correlated with risk for substance abuse. There are many putative mouse models of some aspects of novelty seeking, but little is known of genetic similarities among these models. To assess the genetic coherence of &quot;novelty seeking,&quot; we compared the performance of 14 inbred strains of mice in five tests: activity in a novel environment, novel environment preference, head dipping on a hole-board, object preference, and a two-trial version of the spontaneous alternation task. Differences among strains were observed for all tasks, but performance in any given task was generally not predictive of performance in any other. To evaluate similarities among these tasks further, we selectively bred lines of mice for high or low head dipping on the hole-board. Similar to results from the inbred strain experiments, head dipping was not correlated with performance in the other measures but was genetically correlated with differences in locomotor activity. Using two approaches to estimating common genetic influences across tasks, we have found little evidence that these partial models of novelty seeking reflect the influence of common genes or measure a single, unified construct called novelty seeking. Based on the substantial influence of genetic factors, ease of implementation, and relative independence from general locomotion, head dipping on a hole-board is a good task to use in the domain of novelty seeking, but multiple tasks, including others not tested here, would be needed to capture the full genetic range of the behavioral domain.
The nuclear transcription factor E-26-like protein 1 (Elk-1) is thought to impact neuronal differentiation [Sharrocks, A. D. (2001) Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 2, 827-837], cell proliferation [Sharrocks, A. D. (2002) Biochem. Soc. Trans. 30, 1-9], tumorigenesis [Chai, Y. L., Chipitsyna, G., Cui, J., Liao, B., Liu, S., Aysola, K., Yezdani, M., Reddy, E. S. P. &amp; Rao, V. N. (2001) Oncogene 20, 1357-1367], and apoptosis [Shao, N., Chai, Y., Cui, J., Wang, N., Aysola, K., Reddy, E. S. P. &amp; Rao, V. N. (1998) Oncogene 17, 527-532]. In addition to its nuclear localization, Elk-1 is found throughout the cytoplasm, including localization in neuronal dendrites [Sgambato, V., Vanhoutte, P., Pages, C., Rogard, M., Hipskind, R., Besson, M. J. &amp; Caboche, J. (1998) J. Neurosci. 18, 214-226], raising the possibility that Elk-1 may have alternative extranuclear functions in neurons. Using coimmunoprecipitation and reciprocal coimmunoprecipitation from adult rat brain, we found an association between Elk-1 protein and the mitochondrial permeability transition pore complex (PTP), a structure involved in both apoptotic and necrotic cell death. Electron microscopy in adult rat brain sections confirmed this association with mitochondria. Elk-1 was also identified from purified mitochondrial fractions by using Western blotting, and Elk-1 increased its association with mitochondria following proapoptotic stimuli. Consistent with a role for Elk-1 in neuron viability, overexpression of Elk-1 in primary neurons decreased cell viability, whereas Elk-1 siRNA-mediated knockdown increased cell viability. This decrease in viability induced by Elk-1 overexpression was blocked with application of a PTP inhibitor. These results show an association of the nuclear transcription factor Elk-1 with the mitochondrial PTP and suggest an additional extranuclear function for Elk-1 in neurons.
In response to behaviorally salient stimuli, dopamine (DA) neurons fire in bursts. Burst firing induces a large transient increase in synaptic DA and is regarded as the functionally relevant mode of transmission that signals reward and modulates goal-directed behavior. DA neuron burst firing is dynamically regulated by afferent inputs, and it is not present in vitro because of severing of afferent processes. However, what afferents are requisite for burst firing in vivo is not known. Here, we show that tonic input from the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDTg) is required for glutamate-elicited burst firing in ventral tegmental area DA neurons of anesthetized rats. Also, after LDTg inactivation, DA neurons fire as they do in vitro (i.e., as pacemakers); even direct glutamate application fails to cause them to burst fire under these conditions. These data show that the LDTg is critical to normal DA function, and thus, pathology within this region may lead to aberrant DA signaling.
The connexins are a family of at least 20 homologous proteins in humans that form aqueous channels connecting the interiors of coupled cells and mediating electrical and chemical communication. Mutations in the gene for human connexin 31 (hCx31) are associated with disorders of the skin and auditory system. Alterations in functional properties of Cx31 junctions are likely to play a role in these diseases; nonetheless, little is known about the properties of the wild-type channels. Here we show that hCx31 channels, like other connexin channels, are gated by voltage and close at low pH and when exposed to long-chain alkanols. Single-channel conductance of the fully open channel is approximately 85 pS, and it is permeable to Lucifer yellow, Alexa Fluor(350), ethidium bromide, and DAPI, which have valences of -2, -1, +1, and +2, respectively. In contrast to what has been reported for mouse Cx31, hCx31 appears to form functional heterotypic channels with all four connexins tested, Cx26, Cx30, Cx32, and Cx45. These findings provide an important first step in evaluating the pathogenesis of inherited human diseases associated with mutations in the gene for Cx31.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder for which numerous mouse models have been generated. In both AD patients and mouse models, there is increasing evidence that neuronal dysfunction occurs before the accumulation of beta-amyloid (Abeta)-containing plaques and neurodegeneration. Characterization of the timing and nature of preplaque dysfunction is important for understanding the progression of this disease and to identify pathways and molecular targets for therapeutic intervention. Hence, we have examined the progression of dysfunction at the morphological, functional, and behavioral levels in the Tg2576 mouse model of AD. Our data show that decreased dendritic spine density, impaired long-term potentiation (LTP), and behavioral deficits occurred months before plaque deposition, which was first detectable at 18 months of age. We detected a decrease in spine density in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (DG) beginning as early as 4 months of age. Furthermore, by 5 months, there was a decline in LTP in the DG after perforant path stimulation and impairment in contextual fear conditioning. Moreover, an increase in the Abeta42/Abeta40 ratio was first observed at these early ages. However, total amyloid levels did not significantly increase until approximately 18 months of age, at which time significant increases in reactive astrocytes and microglia could be observed. Overall, these data show that the perforant path input from the entorhinal cortex to the DG is compromised both structurally and functionally, and this pathology is manifested in memory defects long before significant plaque deposition.
The cbl-b gene is a member of the cbl protooncogene family. It encodes a protein with multiple domains, which can interact with other proteins in a variety of signaling pathways. The functions of cbl family genes in the brain are unknown. In this report, we used genetic, immunohistochemical, behavioral, and electrophysiological approaches to study the role of cbl-b in learning and memory. Cbl-b null mice developed normally and had no abnormalities in their locomotor performance. In spatial learning and memory studies, cbl-b null and WT mice performed similarly during training. To test memory retention, two probe trials were used. cbl-b null mice performed slightly better 1 day after training. However, in the probe trial 45 days after training, the cbl-b null group showed significantly higher memory retention than WT mice, suggesting an enhancement of long-term memory. Using electrophysiological approaches, we found there was enhanced paired-pulse facilitation in the Schaffer Collateral-CA1 glutamatergic synapses of the cbl-b null mice. On the other hand, there was no difference in long-term potentiation between the two groups of mice. In summary, we provide evidence that (i) cbl-b protein is concentrated in the synaptic regions of CA1, CA3, and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus; (ii) cbl-b null mice have enhanced long-term memory; and (iii) cbl-b null mice show an enhancement in short-term plasticity. These results indicate that cbl-b is a negative regulator of long-term memory, and its neuronal mechanism regulates synaptic transmission in the hippocampus.
This review summarizes the recent neuroanatomical and physiological studies that form the neural basis for the state-dependent changes in airway resistance. Here, we review only the interactions between the brain regions generating quiet (non-rapid eye movement, NREM) and active (rapid eye movement, REM) sleep stages and CNS pathways controlling cholinergic outflow to the airways. During NREM and REM sleep, bronchoconstrictive responses are heightened and conductivity of the airways is lower as compared to the waking state. The decrease in conductivity of the lower airways parallels the sleep-induced decline in the discharge of brainstem monoaminergic cell groups and GABAergic neurons of the ventrolateral periaqueductal midbrain region, all of which provide inhibitory inputs to airway-related vagal preganglionic neurons (AVPNs). Withdrawal of central inhibitory influences to AVPNs results in a shift from inhibitory to excitatory transmission that leads to an increase in airway responsiveness, cholinergic outflow to the lower airways and consequently, bronchoconstriction. In healthy subjects, these changes are clinically unnoticed. However, in patients with bronchial asthma, sleep-related alterations in lung functions are troublesome, causing intensified bronchopulmonary symptoms (nocturnal asthma), frequent arousals, decreased quality of life, and increased mortality. Unquestionably, the studies revealing neural mechanisms that underlie sleep-related alterations of airway function will provide new directions in the treatment and prevention of sleep-induced worsening of airway diseases.
The hypothalamus is a prominent central site of action of nicotine but the phenotype of nicotine-sensitive neurons in this region has not been fully described. Hypothalamic orexin neurons are important regulators of state-dependent behavior, arousal and feeding. Here, we treated rats with acute nicotine and quantitated Fos expression as a marker of neuronal activation. Nicotine increased the percentage of orexin neurons expressing Fos without a significant effect on non-orexin neurons. This effect was attenuated by the nicotinic antagonists mecamylamine and dihydro-beta-erythroidine, implicating alpha4beta2-containing nicotinic receptors. The orexin system is likely to play an important role in the coordination of physiological and behavioral responses to acute nicotine treatment.

Among older adults, suicide is a significant and persistent health problem. The highest suicide rate is found among white men aged 65 years and older. The causes of elder suicide are multifaceted. Although no predominate factor precipitates or explains geriatric suicide, alcohol is strongly linked to suicide attempts and completions. This study examined the relationship between rates of suicide in 65- to 74-year-olds and per capita consumption of alcoholic beverages in European countries. Data on suicide rates in 65- to 74-year-olds and per capita consumption of alcoholic beverages were obtained from the World Health Organization databases. Correlations were computed to examine relationships between suicide rates in 65- to 74-year-old males and females and per capita consumption of beer, wine, and spirits in the general population in 34 European countries. There was a positive correlation between suicide rates in 65- to 74-year-old males and per capita consumption of spirits. No correlations between suicide rates in 65- to 74-year-old males and per capita consumption of beer or wine were found. We also found no correlations between rates of suicide in 65- to 74-year-old females and per capita consumption of beer, wine, or spirits. The results of this study are consistent with reports that consumption of spirits is associated with suicide events. It is to be hoped that this paper will stimulate further studies that are necessary to clarify the relation between suicide rates in different age groups and consumption of alcoholic beverages, and attract more attention to the problem of geriatric suicide.
A direct form of experiential understanding of others, &quot;intentional attunement&quot;, is achieved by modeling their behavior as intentional experiences on the basis of the activation of shared neural systems underpinning what the others do an feel and what we do and feel. This modeling mechanism is embodied simulation. In parallel with the detached sensory description of the observed social stimuli, internal representations of the body states associated with actions, emotions, and sensations are evoked in the observer, as if he/she would be doing a similar action or experiencing a similar emotion or sensation. Mirror neuron systems are likely the neural correlate of this mechanism. By means of a shared neural state realized in two different bodies, the &quot;objectual other&quot; becomes &quot;another self&quot;. A defective intentional attunement caused by a lack of embodies simulation might cause some of the social impairments of autistic individuals.
We present a framework for discussing two major aspects of social cognition: the ability to predict what another person is like and what another person is likely to do next. In the first part of this review, we discuss studies that concern knowledge of others as members of a group and as individuals with habitual dispositions. These include studies of group stereotypes and of individual reputation, derived either from experience in reciprocal social interactions such as economic games or from indirect observation and cultural information. In the second part of the review, we focus on processes that underlie our knowledge about actions, intentions, feelings and beliefs. We discuss studies on the ability to predict the course of motor actions and of the intentions behind actions. We also consider studies of contagion and sharing of feelings. Lastly, we discuss studies of spatial and mental perspective taking and the importance of the perception of communicative intent. In the final section of this review, we suggest that the distinction between top-down and bottom-up processes, originally applied to non-social cognitive functions, is highly relevant to social processes. While social stimuli automatically elicit responses via bottom-up processes, responses to the same stimuli can be modulated by explicit instructions via top-down processes. In this way, they provide an escape from the tyranny of strong emotions that are readily aroused in social interactions.
This paper investigates the construct of social cognition from an interdisciplinary perspective blending social psychology and cognitive neuroscience. This perspective argues for the inclusion of processes used to decode and encode the self, other people and interpersonal knowledge in the definition of social cognition. The neural modularity of social cognition is considered. The paper concludes by considering a number of challenges for social cognition research including questions of accuracy and the influence of motivation and bias in social cognitive processing.
In what ways, and to what extent, is social cognition distinguished from cognition in general? And how do data from cognitive neuroscience speak to this question? I review recent findings that argue social cognition may indeed be specialized, and at multiple levels. One particularly interesting respect in which social cognition differs from the rest of cognition is in its close interaction with the social environment. We actively probe other people in order to make inferences about what is going on in their minds (e.g., by asking them questions, and directing our gaze onto them), and we use the minds of other people as a collective resource. Experiments from our own laboratory point to the amygdala as one structure that is critically involved in such processes.
Interest in the neural systems underlying social perception has expanded tremendously over the past few decades. However, gaps between behavioral literatures in social perception and neuroscience are still abundant. In this article, we apply the concept of dual-process models to neural systems in an effort to bridge the gap between many of these behavioral studies and neural systems underlying social perception. We describe and provide support for a neural division between reflexive and reflective systems. Reflexive systems correspond to automatic processes and include the amygdala, basal ganglia, ventromedial prefrontal cortex, dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, and lateral temporal cortex. Reflective systems correspond to controlled processes and include lateral prefrontal cortex, posterior parietal cortex, medial prefrontal cortex, rostral anterior cingulate cortex, and the hippocampus and surrounding medial temporal lobe region. This framework is considered to be a working model rather than a finished product. Finally, the utility of this model and its application to other social cognitive domains such as Theory of Mind are discussed.
Social cognitive neuroscience investigates the psychological and neural basis of perception and reasoning about other people, especially in terms of invisible internal states. This enterprise poses many challenges. The current review describes responses to three such challenges: deriving hypotheses from developmental psychology, using verbal narratives as stimuli, and analysing the results in functionally defined regions of interest.
Social neuroscience, often viewed as studying the neural foundations of social cognition, has roots in multiple disciplines. This paper argues that it needs a firmer base in social psychology. First, we outline some major opportunities from social psychology--the power of social context and social motives in shaping human behavior. Second, as the social cognition field moves away from studying only deliberate, explicit processes to studying also automatic, implicit processes, adopting a dual-process perspective, social neuroscience also lends itself to both automatic and controlled processes. Finally, social neuroscience is especially suited to study the efficiency and spontaneity of social judgments. All this brings social behavioral grounding to cognitive neuroscience. Among the implications for social neuroscience: Social cognition intrinsically evokes affect, so social cognitive affective neuroscience glues together a variety of fields in psychological and neurosciences.
A large number of cognitive neuroscience studies point to the similarities in the neural circuits activated during the generation, imagination, as well as observation of one's own and other's behavior. Such findings support the shared representations account of social cognition, which is suggested to provide the basic mechanism for social interaction. Mental simulation may also be a representational tool to understand the self and others. However, successfully navigating these shared representations--both within oneself and between individuals--constitutes an essential functional property of any autonomous agent. It will be argued that self-awareness and agency, mediated by the temporoparietal (TPJ) area and the prefrontal cortex, are critical aspects of the social mind. Thus, differences as well as similarities between self and other representations at the neural level may be related to the degrees of self-awareness and agency. Overall, these data support the view that social cognition draws on both domain-general mechanisms and domain-specific embodied representations.
Neuroendocrine cells release hormones and neuropeptides by exocytosis, a highly regulated process in which secretory granules fuse with the plasma membrane to release their contents in response to a calcium trigger. Using chromaffin and PC12 cells, we have recently described that the granule-associated GTPase ARF6 plays a crucial role in exocytosis by activating phospholipase D1 at the plasma membrane and, presumably, promoting the fusion reaction between the two membrane bilayers. ARF6 is activated by the nucleotide exchange factor ARNO following docking of granules to the plasma membrane. We show here that GIT1, a GTPase-activating protein stimulating GTP hydrolysis on ARF6, is the second molecular partner that turns over the GDP/GTP cycle of ARF6 during cell stimulation. Western blot and immunofluorescence experiments indicated that GIT1 is cytosolic in resting cells but is recruited to the plasma membrane in stimulated cells, where it co-localizes with ARF6 at the granule docking sites. Over-expression of wild-type GIT1 inhibits growth hormone secretion from PC12 cells; this inhibitory effect was not observed in cells expressing a GIT1 mutant impaired in its ARF-GTPase-activating protein (GAP) activity or in cells expressing other ARF6-GAPs. Conversely reduction of GIT1 by RNA interference increased the exocytotic activity. Using a real time assay for individual chromaffin cells, we found that microinjection of GIT1 strongly reduced the number of exocytotic events. These results provide the first evidence that GIT1 plays a function in calcium-regulated exocytosis in neuroendocrine cells. We propose that GIT1 represents part of the pathway that inactivates ARF6-dependent reactions and thereby negatively regulates and/or terminates exocytotic release.
Invertebrate innexins and their mammalian homologues, the pannexins, are gap junction proteins. Although a large number of such proteins have been identified, few of the gap junctions that they form have been characterized to provide combined information of biophysical properties, coupling pattern, and molecular compositions. We adapted the dual whole cell voltage clamp technique to in situ analysis of electrical coupling in Caenorhabditis elegans body-wall muscle. We found that body-wall muscle cells were electrically coupled in a highly organized and specific pattern. The coupling was characterized by small (350 pS or less) junctional conductance (G(j)), which showed a bell-shaped relationship with junctional potential (V(j)) but was independent of membrane potential (V(m)). Injection of currents comparable to the junctional current (I(j)) into body-wall muscle cells caused significant depolarization, suggesting important functional relevance. The innexin UNC-9 appeared to be a key component of the gap junctions. Both Myc- and green fluorescent protein-tagged UNC-9 was localized to muscle intercellular junctions. G(j) was greatly inhibited in unc-9(fc16), a putative null mutant. Specific inhibition of UNC-9 function in muscle cells reduced locomotion velocity. Despite UNC-9 expression in both motor neurons and body-wall muscle cells, analyses of miniature and evoked postsynaptic currents in the unc-9 mutant showed normal neuromuscular transmission. These analyses provide a relatively detailed description of innexin-based gap junctions in a native tissue and suggest that innexin-based small conductance gap junctions can play an important role in processes such as locomotion.
At synapses throughout the brain and spinal cord, the amino-acid glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter. During evolution, a family of glutamate-receptor ion channels seems to have been assembled from a kit consisting of discrete ligand-binding, ion-channel, modulatory and cytoplasmic domains. Crystallographic studies that exploit this unique architecture have greatly aided structural analysis of the ligand-binding core, but the results also pose a formidable challenge, namely that of resolving the allosteric mechanisms by which individual domains communicate and function in an intact receptor.

A screening for intracellular interactors of the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) identified brain-expressed X-linked 1 (Bex1), a small adaptor-like protein of unknown function. Bex1 levels oscillated during the cell cycle, and preventing the normal cycling and downregulation of Bex1 in PC12 cells sustained cell proliferation under conditions of growth arrest, and inhibited neuronal differentiation in response to nerve growth factor (NGF). Neuronal differentiation of precursors isolated from the brain subventricular zone was also reduced by ectopic Bex1. In PC12 cells, Bex1 overexpression inhibited the induction of NF-kappaB activity by NGF without affecting activation of Erk1/2 and AKT, while Bex1 knockdown accelerated neuronal differentiation and potentiated NF-kappaB activity in response to NGF. Bex1 competed with RIP2 for binding to the p75NTR intracellular domain, and elevating RIP2 levels restored the ability of cells overexpressing Bex1 to differentiate in response to NGF. Together, these data establish Bex1 as a novel link between neurotrophin signaling, the cell cycle, and neuronal differentiation, and suggest that Bex1 may function by coordinating internal cellular states with the ability of cells to respond to external signals.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is a key component of the CNS stress and reward circuit. Synaptic plasticity in this region could in part underlie the persistent behavioral alterations in generalized anxiety and addiction. Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been implicated in stress, addiction, and synaptic plasticity, but their roles in the BNST are unknown. We find that activation of group I mGluRs in the dorsal BNST induces depression of excitatory synaptic transmission through two distinct mechanisms. First, a combined activation of group I mGluRs (mGluR1 and mGluR5) induces a transient depression that is cannabinoid 1 receptor dependent. Second, as with endocannabinoid-independent group I mGluR long-term depression (LTD) in the adult hippocampus, we find that activation of mGluR5 induces an extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-dependent LTD. Surprisingly, our data demonstrate that this LTD requires the ERK1 rather than ERK2 isoform, establishing a key role for this isoform in the CNS. Finally, we find that this LTD is dramatically reduced after multiple exposures but not a single exposure to cocaine, suggesting a role for this form of plasticity in the actions of psychostimulants on anxiety and reward circuitries and their emergent control of animal behavior.
Cocaine primarily exerts its behavioral effects by enhancing dopaminergic neurotransmission, amplifying dopamine-encoded sensorimotor integration. The presumed mechanism for this effect is inhibition of the dopamine transporter, which blocks dopamine uptake and prolongs the duration of dopamine in the extracellular space. However, there is growing evidence that cocaine can also augment dopamine release. Here, we directly monitored the actions of cocaine on dopamine release by using electrochemical detection to measure extracellular dopamine in the striatum of anesthetized mice. Cocaine enhanced the levels of striatal dopamine produced by electrical stimulation of dopaminergic neurons. Even after pretreatment with alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, which depletes the readily releasable pool of dopamine, cocaine was still capable of elevating dopamine levels. This suggests that cocaine enhances dopamine release by mobilizing a reserve pool of dopamine-containing synaptic vesicles. To test this hypothesis, we examined electrically evoked dopamine release in synapsin I/II/III triple knock-out mice, which have impaired synaptic vesicle reserve pools. Knock-out of synapsins greatly reduced the ability of cocaine to enhance dopamine release with long stimulus trains or after depletion of the newly synthesized pool. We therefore conclude that cocaine enhances dopamine release and does so by mobilizing a synapsin-dependent reserve pool of dopamine-containing synaptic vesicles. This capacity to enhance exocytotic release of dopamine may be important for the psychostimulant actions of cocaine.
Signaling by the Notch1 receptor is critical for the formation of radial glia in the developing nervous system. We have shown previously that Notch1 regulates the molecular and morphological differentiation of radial glia through the transcriptional activation of at least two genes, brain lipid binding protein (BLBP) and the erbB2 receptor tyrosine kinase. However, the mechanisms by which this occurs remained undefined. Here we demonstrate that Notch1 effects on radial glia gene expression are mediated by two downstream mechanisms, one that the depends on Suppressor of Hairless [Su(H)] and the other on Deltex1 (DTX1). These two Notch1-binding proteins contribute to the regulation of BLBP and erbB2 expression, respectively. Importantly, our results suggest that, although these events can occur simultaneously, a hierarchical relationship might exist between DTX1 and Su(H), because overexpression of DTX1 or a dominant-negative form of this protein inhibits Su(H)-mediated events but not vice versa. In contrast to the effects of DTX1 overexpression, interference RNA-mediated knock-down of DTX1 blocks Notch1-induced erbB2 promoter activation and radial glia formation selectively, without affecting Su(H)-dependent pathways, indicating that loss of DTX1 expression and expression of dominant-negative DTX1 result in different alterations in cell differentiation and gene expression. Together, these results show that Notch1 regulates radial glia formation through two distinct transcriptional mechanisms and that the outcomes of Notch1 signaling may depend on the relative expression levels of its coregulators.
Endogenous mechanisms underlying the remodeling of neuronal circuitry after mammalian CNS injury or disease remain primarily unknown. Here, we investigated axonal plasticity after optic nerve injury and found that macrophages recruited into the injury site and adult retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons, which undergo injury-induced sprouting and terminal remodeling, were linked by their respective expression of a ligand and receptor pair active in axon guidance. Recruited macrophages specifically upregulated mRNA encoding the guidance molecule EphB3 and expressed EphB proteins capable of binding Ephrin B molecules in vivo and in vitro. Injured adult RGC axons in turn expressed EphrinB3, a known receptor for EphB3, and RGC axons bound recombinant EphB3 protein injected into the optic nerve. In vitro, EphB3 supported adult RGC axon outgrowth, and axons turned toward a source of this guidance molecule. In vivo, both reduction of EphB3 function in adult heterozygous animals and loss of function in homozygous animals greatly decreased RGC axon re-extension or sprouting after optic nerve injury. Comparisons of axon re-extension in EphB3 null and wild-type littermates showed that this loss of axonal plasticity was not attributable to a difference in intrinsic axon growth potential. Rather, the results indicated an essential role for local optic nerve-derived EphB3 in regulating adult RGC axon plasticity after optic nerve injury. Of note, the loss of EphB3 did not affect the ability of injured RGC axons to elaborate complex terminal branching, suggesting that additional EphB3-independent mechanisms governed adult axon branching triggered by CNS damage.
To investigate the role of erbB signaling in the interactions between peripheral axons and myelinating Schwann cells, we generated transgenic mice expressing a dominant-negative erbB receptor in these glial cells. Mutant mice have delayed onset of myelination, thinner myelin, shorter internodal length, and smaller axonal caliber in adulthood. Consistent with the morphological defects, transgenic mice also have slower nerve conduction velocity and defects in their responses to mechanical stimulation. Molecular analysis indicates that erbB signaling may contribute to myelin formation by regulating transcription of myelin genes. Analysis of sciatic nerves showed a reduction in the levels of expression of myelin genes in mutant mice. In vitro assays revealed that neuregulin-1 (NRG1) induces expression of myelin protein zero (P0). Furthermore, we found that the effects of NRG1 on P0 expression depend on the NRG1 isoform used. When NRG1 is presented to Schwann cells in the context of cell-cell contact, type III but not type I NRG1 regulates P0 gene expression. These results suggest that disruption of the NRG1-erbB signaling pathway could contribute to the pathogenesis of peripheral neuropathies with hypomyelination and neuropathic pain.
The way women experience orgasm during passionate sexual activity has been of interest throughout the ages. The astonishing advances of functional imaging techniques recently allowed unravelling the neuroanatomy of female orgasm within a distributed corticosubcortical neural network. In the present article, we review the clinical and experimental evidence that attributes orgasm not only a peripheral but also a central origin. We thus outline the importance of integrating orgasm as a complex process involving the entire woman, mind and body. In light of this, future studies in female sexuality would need to take account of the consequences of both standard approaches in sexology and functional imaging results in the understanding of the human sexual function and in the treatment of sexual dysfunctions.

Many types of synapses have highly characteristic shapes and tightly regulated distributions of active zones, parameters that are important to the function of neuronal circuits. The development of terminal arborizations must therefore include mechanisms to regulate the spacing of terminals, the frequency of branching, and the distribution and density of release sites. At present, however, the mechanisms that control these features remain obscure. Here, we report the development of supernumerary or &quot;satellite&quot; boutons in a variety of endocytic mutants at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction. Mutants in endophilin, synaptojanin, dynamin, AP180, and synaptotagmin all show increases in supernumerary bouton structures. These satellite boutons contain releasable vesicles and normal complements of synaptic proteins that are correctly localized within terminals. Interestingly, however, synaptojanin terminals have more active zones per unit of surface area and more dense bodies (T-bars) within these active zones, which may in part compensate for reduced transmission per active zone. The altered structural development of the synapse is selectively encountered in endocytosis mutants and is not observed when synaptic transmission is reduced by mutations in glutamate receptors or when synaptic transmission is blocked by tetanus toxin. We propose that endocytosis plays a critical role in sculpting the structure of synapses, perhaps through the endocytosis of unknown regulatory signals that organize morphogenesis at synaptic terminals.
The visual cortex is not a passive recipient of information: predictions about incoming stimuli are made based on experience, partial information and the consequences of inferences. A combination of imaging studies in the human brain has now led to the proposal that the orbitofrontal cortex is a key source of top-down predictions leading to object recognition.

Silent synapses, or excitatory synapses that lack functional alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors (AMPARs), are thought to be critical for regulation of neuronal circuits and synaptic plasticity. Here, we report that SynGAP, an excitatory synapse-specific RasGAP, regulates AMPAR trafficking, silent synapse number, and excitatory synaptic transmission in hippocampal and cortical cultured neurons. Overexpression of SynGAP in neurons results in a remarkable depression of AMPAR-mediated miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents, a significant reduction in synaptic AMPAR surface expression, and a decrease in the insertion of AMPARs into the plasma membrane. This change is specific for AMPARs because no change is observed in synaptic NMDA receptor expression or total synapse density. In contrast to these results, synaptic transmission is increased in neurons from SynGAP knockout mice as well as in neuronal cultures treated with SynGAP small interfering RNA. In addition, activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase, ERK, is significantly decreased in SynGAP-overexpressing neurons, whereas P38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling is potentiated. Furthermore, ERK activation is up-regulated in neurons from SynGAP knockout mice, whereas P38 MAPK function is depressed. Taken together, these data suggest that SynGAP plays a critical role in the regulation of neuronal MAPK signaling, AMPAR membrane trafficking, and excitatory synaptic transmission.

We identified a novel gene and named it, &quot;neuronal development-associated protein (NDAP)&quot;. We detected NDAP mRNA presence in most tissues including the brain where it was present in the area from the external granular layer to the multiform layer in the cerebral cortex, and in CA1, CA2, CA3 and the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus. Its expression increased transiently in primary cultures of 2-4 day neurons and 1-2 week astrocytes and was significantly reduced in older cultures. Treatment by the neurotrophin, NT-3, significantly attenuated the decline of NDAP in neurons from days 2 to 10, whereas growth factors such as GDNF and insulin, and high potassium levels did not. To elucidate the effects of neurotrophins, we treated day 5 neurons with NT-3, BDNF or NGF for 48 h. NT-3 and BDNF both inhibited downregulation of NDAP mRNA levels but NGF slightly enhanced the already present downregulation; this effect of NGF was significant when examined in day 3 neurons. To investigate the potential function of NDAP, we over-expressed an NDAP-EGFP fusion protein in 4-week-old astrocytes. The newly expressed NDAP gradually aggregated into membrane-bound structures and eventually led to cell death through apoptosis by 24 h. Significant levels of cell death were also observed in NDAP-EGFP transfected HEK293 cells. Thus maintenance of high NDAP levels may cause apoptosis. The different regulations of NDAP expression by neurotrophins indicate that the expression of NDAP might be a checkpoint for apoptosis during neuronal development.
Members of the cadherin family of calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecules can bind homophilically across central nervous system (CNS) synapses, but experimental evidence indicates the nature of their contribution to synapse structure and function changes over time. We asked whether changes in function correspond to differences in intrasynaptic distribution. Using quantitative immuno-electronmicroscopy, we determined where cadherins are localized within synapses at key developmental stages in cultured hippocampal neurons and in hippocampus in vivo. At 5-6 days in culture, when most synapses are newly formed, cadherins are regularly and evenly distributed at synaptic clefts throughout the active zone. In contrast, at 14 days, when the majority of synapses are comparatively mature, cadherin labeling concentrates in discrete clusters. Such clusters can occur at any place within or immediately surrounding synaptic clefts. To assess whether this change in distribution is unique to neurons grown in culture, we compared the distribution of cadherins in the CA1 region of hippocampus at postnatal days 2, 3 (P2-3) and in adult. Consistent with our observations in cultured neurons, synapses in P2-3 hippocampus most often exhibit cadherins distributed regularly throughout the cleft, while adult synapses show predominantly discrete concentrations at single sites. The early developmental pattern of cadherin distribution can also be detected at occasional synapses in adult tissue. Such synapses also have morphological features consistent with immature synapses, suggesting that intrasynaptic cadherin distribution is a feature that may distinguish synapse age.
The nucleus accumbens (Acb) shell and core are essential components of neural circuitry mediating the reward and motor effects produced by activation of dopamine D2 or cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptors. D2 receptors can form heterodimeric complexes with cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptors and are also involved in control of the availability of both dopamine and endocannabinoids. Thus, the subcellular locations of D2 and CB1 receptors with respect to each other are implicit to their physiological actions in the Acb. We used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to determine these locations in the Acb shell and core of rat brain. In each region, many neuronal profiles showed endomembrane and plasmalemmal distributions of one or both receptors. Approximately one-third of the labeled profiles were somata and dendrites, some of which showed overlapping subcellular distributions of D2 and CB1 immunoreactivities. The remaining labeled profiles were small axons and axon terminals containing CB1 and/or D2 receptors. Of the labeled terminals forming recognizable synapses, approximately 20% of those containing CB1 receptors contacted D2-labeled dendrites, while conversely, almost 15% of those containing D2 receptors contacted CB1-labeled dendrites. These results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that D2 and CB1 receptors in the Acb shell and core have subcellular distributions supporting both intracellular associations and local involvement of D2 receptors in making available endocannabinoids that are active on CB1 receptors in synaptic neurons. These distributions have direct relevance to the rewarding and euphoric as well as motor effects produced by marijuana and by addictive drugs enhancing dopamine levels in the Acb.
Phocein, a widely expressed intracellular protein involved in clathrin- and dynamin-dependent membrane dynamics, has been shown to interact with members of the striatin family of proteins, striatin, SG2NA, and zinedin. Immunogold labeling was performed to assess subcellular localization of phocein in neurons of the rodent cerebellar cortex and hippocampal Ammon's horn. Most of the phocein-bound gold particles were located within dendritic thorns and spines of the cerebellar Purkinje cells and hippocampal pyramidal neurons, as observed previously for striatin in striatal neurons. The postsynaptic profiles containing phocein were engaged in asymmetric synapses with the main types of afferents in the cerebellum and in the hippocampus. In the cerebellum, phocein-bound immunogold particle numbers ranged from 1-20 in approximately 50% of the Purkinje cell spines. In these spines most of the immunogold particles were found in the neuroplasm ( approximately 70%) and on nonsynaptic plasma membrane domains and related structures such as endocytic-like profiles ( approximately 18%). As soon as the first postnatal week, phocein was detected in the Purkinje cell somatic and dendritic thorns making asymmetric synapses with climbing fibers. During the following weeks the protein was located in the dendritic spines, as observed in the adult molecular layer. Finally, double immunogold labeling revealed a distribution of phocein and SG2NA suggesting that the two proteins could interact in the Purkinje cell spines. The early postnatal expression of phocein, a protein involved in membrane dynamics, suggests that it may have functional relevance in dendritic remodeling during development and potentially in spine plasticity during adulthood.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone 1 (GnRH1) from the brain controls reproduction in vertebrates via a GnRH-specific receptor in the pituitary; however, other forms of GnRH are found in all species, suggesting additional roles for this family of peptides. GnRH action depends critically on the location of its cognate receptors in the brain. To understand the potential roles of additional GnRH forms, we localized two known GnRH receptor types in a cichlid fish, Astatotilapia burtoni, in which GnRH1 is socially regulated. Using in situ hybridization, we describe the mRNA expression pattern of these GnRH receptor (GnRH-R) subtypes in the brain, specifically with respect to GnRH-producing neurons. Our data suggest that following a gene duplication, the two GnRH receptors have evolved to serve different functions. The type 1 receptor (GnRH-R1) is expressed less widely than the type 2 receptor (GnRH-R2). Specifically, GnRH-R1 is expressed in groups of neurons in the telencephalon, preoptic area, ventral hypothalamus, thalamus, and pituitary. In contrast, GnRH-R2 is expressed in many more brain areas, including the olfactory bulb, telencephalon, preoptic area, hypothalamus, thalamus, midbrain, optic tectum, cerebellum, hindbrain, and pituitary. The specific distribution of GnRH-R2 suggests that the GnRH ligands may act via this receptor to influence behavior in A. burtoni. Moreover, only GnRH-R2 mRNA is colocalized in the three known groups of GnRH-containing neurons, suggesting that any direct feedback regulation of GnRH by itself must act through this receptor type. Taken together, these data suggest that the two GnRH receptor types serve different functional roles in A. burtoni.
In four variants of a speeded target detection task, we investigated the processing of color and motion signals in the human visual system. Participants were required to attend to both a particular color and direction of motion in moving random dot patterns (RDPs) and to report the appearance of the designated targets. Throughout, reaction times (RTs) to simultaneous presentations of color and direction targets were too fast to be reconciled with models proposing separate and independent processing of such stimulus dimensions. Thus, the data provide behavioral evidence for an integration of color and motion signals. This integration occurred even across superimposed surfaces in a transparent motion stimulus and also across spatial locations, arguing against object- and location-based accounts of attentional selection in such a task. Overall, the pattern of results can be best explained by feature-based mechanisms of visual attention.
Methods for detection of anxiolytic-like behavioral effects of serotonin uptake inhibitors are limited. The present study introduces a new quantitative method that permits dose-effect analysis of these compounds. Male NIH Swiss mice were given 60-min access to a piece of cotton gauze and the amount of material not torn into nesting material was weighed. Other groups of mice were individually placed in containers with 20 marbles resting on top of sawdust bedding. The number of marbles buried (2/3) by sawdust after 30 min was counted. Mice were first placed on a 6-rpm rotorod and the number of mice falling off twice in 2 min was measured. Serotonin uptake inhibitors (clomipramine, citalopram, fluoxetine, and venlafaxine) dose-dependently suppressed nestlet shredding and marble burying at doses that were generally without effect on rotorod performance. The amine-based antidepressant agents imipramine and desipramine as well as the selective norepinephrine transport inhibitor nisoxetine produced similar qualitative effects on these behaviors. Anxiolytics (chlordiazepoxide, bretazenil, buspirone, and pentobarbital) produced effects in the nestlet assay that were similar to those reported using another anxiolytic assay in mice (punished responding), whereas these compounds were not active at non-motor-impairing doses in the marble burying assay. The antipsychotic agents chlorpromazine and risperidone generally demonstrated suppression of nestlet shredding and marble burying at doses that impaired rotorod performance. Although d-amphetamine suppressed nestlet shredding and marble burying at doses without effect on the rotorod, d-amphetamine but not fluoxetine stimulated locomotor activity. Both nestlet shredding and marble burying behaviors were generally consistent across five consecutive experimental sessions and fluoxetine did not produce any systematic trends over repeated testing. The methods should have utility in defining pharmacological effects of these compounds in vivo. Moreover, these data may be useful in the context of other behavioral effects when assessing the relevance of a compound for its potential therapeutic potential as an anxiolytic (nestlet shredding) or as an anti-obsessive-compulsive disorder agent (marble burying).

The objective of this study was to determine whether the auditory mismatch negativity can be elicited by changes in spatial and nonspatial cues within dichotic pitches. Participants were presented with blocks of standard dichotic pitch stimuli in which location or pitch was occasionally varied. A mismatch negativity was reliably elicited by deviant locations; in contrast, no measurable mismatch negativity response was found for deviant pitches. A separate psychophysical screening procedure ruled out the possibility that participants could not hear the pitch deviations. The results indicate that spatial and nonspatial features of dichotic pitch receive differential processing at a preattentive level of analysis within the auditory system and are supportive of recent notions of dual processing streams in audition.
Postmovement beta-rebounds induced by different intermovement intervals were investigated using magnetoencephalography in 14 healthy participants to test the hypothesis that postmovement motor cortical deactivation over the primary motor cortex depends on movement-related cognitive demands. Shorter latency and lower amplitude in postmovement beta-rebounds over the contralateral primary motor cortex were noted in the short-movement interval movement (repetitive finger lifting). Greater latency span of postmovement beta-rebounds jittering using single-trial analysis in the long-movement interval movement (discrete finger lifting) was observed. The study elucidates that the temporal interval between two adjacent movements reflecting different degrees of cognitive demands can affect postmovement motor cortical deactivation in terms of postmovement beta-rebounds latency and amplitude, and latency span of postmovement beta-rebounds jittering. Postmovement motor cortical deactivation can reflect cognitive demands in addition to motor and somatosensory processing.
Olig2 is a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor that is specifically expressed in oligodendrocyte precursors in the central nervous system. Owing to the absence of oligodendrocytes in the retina, however, the role of olig2 in retinal development remains unclear. In the present study, we demonstrated for the first time that olig2 is expressed in embryonic and postnatal mouse retina. Interestingly, a subset of the bromodeoxyuridine-positive cells expressed olig2 in the embryonic retina. On the other hand, olig2-positive cells did not express nestin, neuron-specific class III beta-tubulin, neurofilament, or various retinal cell-type-specific markers. These results suggest that olig2 is involved in the maintenance of the undifferentiated state of retinal progenitor cells.
Apolipoprotein E epsilon4 (APOE epsilon4) is the main known genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Some previous studies have reported structural brain changes as well as cognitive deficits in non-demented APOE epsilon4 carriers, but the pattern of results is inconsistent and studies with larger sample sizes have been called for. Here we compared hippocampal volume and recognition-memory performance between AD-symptom-free carriers (N=30) and non-carriers (N=30) of the APOE epsilon4 (age range: 49-79 years). We observed reduced right hippocampal volume in APOE epsilon4 carriers, and found that the difference was most pronounced before the age of 65. Further, the APOE epsilon4 carriers made significantly more false alarms in the recognition-memory test, and the number of false alarms correlated significantly with right hippocampus volume. These results indicate that relatively young individuals at genetic risk for AD have smaller hippocampal volume and lower performance on hippocampal-dependent cognitive tasks. A question for the future is whether smaller hippocampal volume represents early-onset hippocampal volume reduction or an inherent trait.
Dopamine and the sex hormone testosterone are important factors regulating male sexual behavior. To investigate the possibility that these two factors are functionally interrelated, we investigated the potential role of the androgen receptor (AR) on transcriptional activity of the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene that encodes the rate-limiting enzyme of the dopamine biosynthesis pathway. In this study, using transient co-transfection assays in TH-positive SK-N-BE(2)C and MN9D cells, we show that AR prominently transactivates TH promoter function in a ligand-dependent manner. Deletional and site-directed mutational analyses have mapped a putative androgen response element (ARE) in a region from -1562 to -1328 base pairs in the upstream TH promoter. We also found that DJ-1, one of recently identified genes whose mutations cause Parkinson's disease, down-regulated AR-dependent TH activation by approximately 50% in SK-N-BE(2)C cells. Based on these data, we propose that AR activates TH gene expression and that DJ-1 may modulate AR activity as a transcriptional co-repressor.
Ascorbate blocks agonist-induced, endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF)-mediated vasodilatation in the bovine perfused ciliary artery and this is associated with a rise in perfusion pressure. We now report the origins of this ascorbate-induced rise in perfusion pressure. In segments of ciliary artery perfused at 2.5 ml/min, the addition of ascorbate (10-150 microM) enhanced U46619-induced perfusion pressure. Ascorbate produced no enhancement in the absence of U46619, suggesting that its effects resulted not from a constrictor action but through removal of a tonic vasodilator influence. Experiments revealed the endothelial source of this vasodilator influence, and EDHF, but not nitric oxide or prostanoids, appeared to be involved. The ascorbate-induced enhancement of vasoconstrictor tone was not seen in a static myograph or in segments perfused at low rates of flow, but was seen at flow rates of 2.5 ml(-1) and above. We conclude that ascorbate augments vasoconstrictor tone through inhibition of flow-induced EDHF activity.
The general anaesthetic ketamine affects the central cholinergic system in several manners, but its effect on spinal acetylcholine release, which may be an important transmitter in spinal antinociception, is unknown. This study aimed to investigate the effect of ketamine on spinal acetylcholine release. Microdialysis probes were placed intraspinally in male rats, and acetylcholine was quantified with HPLC. Anaesthesia was switched from isoflurane (1.3%) to ketamine (150 mg/kg h), which resulted in a 500% increased acetylcholine release. The increase was attenuated during nicotinic receptor blockade (50 microM mecamylamine). The nicotinic receptor agonist epibatidine (175 microM) produced a ten-fold higher relative increase of acetylcholine release during isoflurane anaesthesia compared to ketamine anaesthesia (270% to 27%). Intraspinal administration of ketamine and norketamine both increased the acetylcholine release in high concentrations (100 microM to 10 mM). The results indicate that spinal nicotinic receptors are important for the ketamine-induced acetylcholine release, and that the effect is partly mediated at the spinal level.
Skeletal muscle regeneration has been exclusively attributed to myogenic precursors, satellite cells. A stem cell-rich fraction referred to as side population (SP) cells also resides in skeletal muscle, but its roles in muscle regeneration remain unclear. We found that muscle SP cells could be subdivided into three sub-fractions using CD31 and CD45 markers. The majority of SP cells in normal non-regenerating muscle expressed CD31 and had endothelial characteristics. However, CD31(-)CD45(-) SP cells, which are a minor subpopulation in normal muscle, actively proliferated upon muscle injury and expressed not only several regulatory genes for muscle regeneration but also some mesenchymal lineage markers. CD31(-)CD45(-) SP cells showed the greatest myogenic potential among three SP sub-fractions, but indeed revealed mesenchymal potentials in vitro. These SP cells preferentially differentiated into myofibers after intramuscular transplantation in vivo. Our results revealed the heterogeneity of muscle SP cells and suggest that CD31(-)CD45(-) SP cells participate in muscle regeneration.
Freeman et al. demonstrated that detection sensitivity for a low contrast Gabor stimulus improved in the presence of flanking, collinearly oriented grating stimuli, but only when observers attended to them. By recording visual event-related potentials (ERPs) elicited by a Gabor stimulus, we investigated whether this contextual cueing effect involves changes in the short-latency afferent visual signal from V1 that have a stimulus onset latency between 60 and 80 ms and/or longer-latency changes from visual cortex. Under dual-task conditions, the subjects performed contrast discrimination for a central Gabor and an orientation judgment for a pre-specified subset of the flanking Gabors. On random trials, the central Gabor could be collinearly or orthogonally oriented with respect to the attended flankers. Subjects showed improvements in discriminating the contrast of the central grating when it was oriented collinearly with the attended flankers. The ERP difference between attending to collinear versus orthogonal flankers manifested as a positive polarity response at occipital electrodes with a latency of 180-250 ms after stimulus onset. No shorter-latency contextual cueing differences were observed in the ERPs. The ERP latency profile of the contextual cueing effect argues against the hypothesis that short-latency afferent activity from V1 is the stage of processing at which attention can influence neuronal lateral interactions. However, the scalp voltage distribution of the longer-latency contextual cueing effect is similar to the one generated by the early phasic stimulus onset activity from V1. These findings leave open the possibility that V1 is involved in the attentional modulation of lateral interactions but that this has a longer time course, likely being mediated by re-afferent inputs from later stages of the visual pathway.
Neurogranin is a postsynaptic substrate for protein kinase C, and its expression is related to dendritic spine development and postsynaptic plasticity. Using both Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization techniques, we investigated the developmental changes of neurogranin expression in the monkey cerebral cortex. In each of four neocortical areas examined, i.e., the prefrontal area (area FD of von Bonin and Bailey), the temporal association area (TE), the primary somatosensory area (PB), and the primary visual area (OC), the Northern blot analysis showed that the amount of neurogranin mRNA was low during the prenatal and perinatal periods until postnatal day 8. It increased during postnatal development and reached its peak value at postnatal day 70 (in area OC) or postnatal month 6 (in area FD, TE, and PB). After that, the amount of neurogranin mRNA in the cerebral neocortex decreased gradually until postnatal years 2-3. The in situ hybridization experiments also showed a transient increase of neurogranin mRNA in the neocortex during postnatal day 70 to postnatal month 6. The transient increase was prominent in layers II and III of areas FD and TE; deep in layer III of area PB; and in layers II, III, and IV of area OC. In the hippocampus, in contrast to the results in the neocortex, the expression of neurogranin mRNA was decreased almost continuously during the postnatal period. The transiently increased expression of neurogranin in the postnatal neocortex may be a molecular basis for the postsynaptic modification of afferent inputs possibly from subcortical structures.
Identification of the selective neurokinin NK(1) receptor antagonist, 2-(R)-(1-(R)-3,5-Bis(trifluromethyl)phenylethoxy)-3-(S)-(4-fluoro)phenyl-4-(3-oxo-1,2,4-triazol-5yl)methylmor-phine (MK-869), as a novel therapeutic approach for anxiety/depression has led to increased use of the Mongolian gerbil in behavioural studies since the gerbil NK(1) receptor pharmacology is similar to human, but not rat or mouse. Within this species, foot tapping and immobility elicited by aversive conditioning, as well as social interaction have been shown to be sensitive to clinically used anxiolytic and antidepressant agents and also NK(1) receptor antagonists. The high levels of NK(1) receptor binding in the amygdala as well as preclinical studies demonstrating increased release of substance P and corresponding internalisation of NK(1) receptors in the basolateral amygdala in response to stressful stimuli suggest that the BLA may represent a potential site of action for NK(1) receptor antagonists in anxiety and/or depression. Therefore, in the current study, we assessed the effect of bilateral BLA lesions in male Mongolian gerbils on footshock-induced foot tapping and immobility, social interaction, and NK(1)-agonist-induced foot tapping. Lesioned gerbils exhibited reduced immobility time during fear conditioning, a non-significant reduction in immobility time when re-exposed to the conditioned stimulus (CS) 24 h later, and increased social interaction in the gerbil social interaction task. In contrast, BLA lesions had no effect on NK(1)-agonist-induced foot tapping. These data provide further support that the gerbil BLA is a potential site for NK(1) receptor antagonists to attenuate anxiety-related behaviours.
In Saccharomyces cerevisiae the endoplasmic reticulum membrane proteins scSpt23p and scMga2p control the formation of unsaturated fatty acids by a mechanism that involves their release from the membrane by ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. The resulting soluble polypeptides act as transcription activators that specifically control the expression of scOLE1, a gene that encodes scOle1p, a Delta9 fatty acid desaturase that forms cis-monounsaturated fatty acids (9Z-16:1 and 9Z-18:1) from saturated fatty acyl-CoA precursors. ScOle1p is the only long chain fatty acid desaturase in Saccharomyces and its membrane and storage lipids contain only saturated fatty acids and the monounsaturated products of that enzyme. Most other fungi, however, express multiple endoplasmic reticulum desaturases, including enzymes that form both mono- and polyunsaturated fatty acids. These typically include Delta12 and Delta15 enzymes that form the polyunsaturated species, 9Z,12Z-18:2, and 9Z,12Z,15Z-18:3, which are the most abundant fatty acids in membrane and storage lipids. An analysis of genomic DNA sequences shows that Candida albicans has a single homologue of the Saccharomyces scSPT23 and scMGA2 genes that we designate here as caSPT23. This study describes the characterization of the caSPT23 gene product and shows that it can repair the unsaturated fatty acid auxotrophy when it is expressed in a Saccharomyces scspt23Delta;scmga2Delta strain. In addition we show caSPT23 is essential for the expression of one of the two Delta9 desaturase homologues in Candida and potentially other functions associated with fatty acid metabolism.
Fyn-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits has been implicated in various brain functions, including ethanol tolerance, learning, and seizure susceptibility. In this study, we explored the role of Fyn in haloperidol-induced catalepsy, an animal model of the extrapyramidal side effects of antipsychotics. Haloperidol induced catalepsy and muscle rigidity in the control mice, but these responses were significantly reduced in Fyn-deficient mice. Expression of the striatal dopamine D(2) receptor, the main site of haloperidol action, did not differ between the two genotypes. Fyn activation and enhanced tyrosine phosphorylation of the NMDA receptor NR2B subunit, as measured by Western blotting, were induced after haloperidol injection of the control mice, but both responses were significantly reduced in Fyn-deficient mice. Dopamine D(2) receptor blockade was shown to increase both NR2B phosphorylation and the NMDA-induced calcium responses in control cultured striatal neurons but not in Fyn-deficient neurons. Based on these findings, we proposed a new molecular mechanism underlying haloperidol-induced catalepsy, in which the dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist induces striatal Fyn activation and the subsequent tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2B alters striatal neuronal activity, thereby inducing the behavioral changes that are manifested as a cataleptic response.
Alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptors (AMPARs) are ligand-gated sodium channels. Through their ability to mediate the majority of rapid excitatory transmission in the central nervous system, these neurotransmitter receptors have been shown to influence synaptic plasticity. Some of these receptors are also calcium-permeable (CP), and they also have been implicated in regulating synaptic plasticity, particularly in interneurons where their concentration is highest. However, the biochemical pathways emanating from CP-AMPARs that mediate these effects have not been well characterized. In this paper, we show that CP-AMPARs are the predominant AMPAR class responsible for activating the Ras/Erk kinase signaling cascade and the cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) transcription factor in the cortex of mature mice. Activation of Ras and Erk, but not CREB, occurs through the calcium/calmodulin regulated Ras-GRF1 and Ras-GRF2 exchange factors, which form AMPA-induced complexes with CP-AMPARs but not calcium-impermeable (CI) AMPARs in vivo. Furthermore, we show that CP-AMPARs are also the major AMPAR type to activate Ras/Erk signaling in pubescent mice; however, at this developmental stage Ras-GRF (guanine nucleotide-releasing factor) proteins are not involved. Finally, in neonatal animals CI-AMPARs, but not CP-AMPARs, are the predominant AMPAR type that activates Ras-Erk signaling and CREB in cortical neurons. This occurs indirectly through activation of L-type voltage-dependent calcium channels, an event that is also Ras-GRF-independent. Thus, Ras/Erk signaling and CREB activity induced by AMPARs occur through age-dependent mechanisms that likely make unique developmentally dependent contributions to synaptic function.
Though the brain and its neuronal states have been investigated extensively, the neural correlates of mental states remain to be determined. Since mental states are experienced in first-person perspective and neuronal states are observed in third-person perspective, a special method must be developed for linking both states and their respective perspectives. We suggest that such method is provided by First-Person Neuroscience. What is First-Person Neuroscience? We define First-Person Neuroscience as investigation of neuronal states under guidance of and on orientation to mental states. An empirical example of such methodological approach is demonstrated by an fMRI study on emotions. It is shown that third- and first-person analysis of data yield different results. First-person analysis reveals neural activity in cortical midline structures during subjective emotional experience. Based on these and other results neural processing in cortical midline structures is hypothesized to be crucially involved in generating mental states. Such direct linkage between first- and third-person approaches to analysis of neural data allows insight into the &quot;point of view from within the brain&quot;, that is what we call the First-Brain Perspective. In conclusion, First-Person Neuroscience and First-Brain Perspective provide valuable methodological tools for revealing the neuronal correlate of mental states.
The parietal-eye photoreceptor is unique because it has two antagonistic light signaling pathways in the same cell-a hyperpolarizing pathway maximally sensitive to blue light and a depolarizing pathway maximally sensitive to green light. Here, we report the molecular components of these two pathways. We found two opsins in the same cell: the blue-sensitive pinopsin and a previously unidentified green-sensitive opsin, which we name parietopsin. Signaling components included gustducin-alpha and Galphao, but not rod or cone transducin-alpha. Single-cell recordings demonstrated that Go mediates the depolarizing response. Gustducin-alpha resembles transducin-alpha functionally and likely mediates the hyperpolarizing response. The parietopsin-Go signaling pair provides clues about how rod and cone phototransduction might have evolved.

Inhibitory local circuits in the olfactory bulb play a critical role in determining the firing patterns of output neurons. However, little is known about the circuitry in the major plexiform layers of the olfactory bulb that regulate this output. Here we report the first electrophysiological recordings from Blanes cells, large stellate-shaped interneurons located in the granule cell layer. We find that Blanes cells are GABAergic and generate large I(CAN)-mediated afterdepolarizations following bursts of action potentials. Using paired two-photon guided intracellular recordings, we show that Blanes cells have a presumptive axon and monosynaptically inhibit granule cells. Sensory axon stimulation evokes barrages of EPSPs in Blanes cells that trigger long epochs of persistent spiking; this firing mode was reset by hyperpolarizing membrane potential steps. Persistent firing in Blanes cells may represent a novel mechanism for encoding short-term olfactory information through modulation of tonic inhibitory synaptic input onto bulbar neurons.
Efforts to define the mechanisms governing neurotransmitter uptake and drug action have moved into high gear with the publication of a high-resolution structure of a leucine transporter from Aquifex aeolicus, a bacterial member of the SLC6 transporter family. Solved with the substrate leucine bound, the new structure corroborates extensive biochemical and mutagenesis studies performed with related mammalian neurotransmitter transporters and provides exciting suggestions as to how coupling arises between ions and substrates to permit efficient neurotransmitter clearance.
Attention and memory are intimately linked. Two functional imaging studies in this issue of Neuron provide novel evidence for this powerful, reciprocal relationship. Turk-Browne and colleagues report that attention simultaneously facilitates the formation of both implicit and explicit memories, while Summerfield and colleagues demonstrate that memory for the past can guide the allocation of attention in the present. Together, these elegant studies reveal bidirectional interactions between attention and memory.
In this study, we describe the behavior of laboratory rats in a recently developed observation arena, the Concentric Square Field (CSF). The CSF contains a number of areas designed to provoke exploration and behaviors associated with risk assessment, risk taking and security seeking in an environment not previously experienced. The model includes sheltered, open and elevated areas, a hole board device, areas with different light conditions, and wall-enclosed corridors. The rationale behind the CSF is to meet the demand for multivariate test situations that are not predictive in the sense of previous definition of a specific purpose of measuring a certain mental state. We define multivariate as being a free choice of where to stay in areas of different qualities. In the present study, identification of risky as opposed to safe areas is based on the retrieval behavior in lactating females and hoarding of food pellets in food-deprived males. Furthermore, we describe the effects of pre-trial food deprivation, immobilization, social stress, strain differences (Sprague-Dawley, Wistar and Lister Hooded males), sex differences (Sprague-Dawley) and repeated testing. Besides the conventional statistics, a principal component analysis (PCA) helped to discriminate between the various categories tested. Our conclusion is that the multivariate and non-predictive test situation (CSF) and the use of PCA provide a good tool for ethoexperimental analysis.
Emission of 50 kHz ultrasonic calls in rats is known to be associated with appetitive behavioural situations and positive social interactions. The purpose of the study was to pharmacologically characterize amphetamine-induced 50 kHz calls and to perform quantitative mapping of this response in the nucleus accumbens. Injections of amphetamine into the nucleus accumbens induced species-typical 50 kHz calls in adult rats. The acoustic parameters of the calls were not affected by different amphetamine doses or combination of agents. The increase in the number of calls occurred predominantly from the accumbens shell and to a lesser degree from the core region. This effect was dose-dependent within the range of 1-20 microg of amphetamine and was reversed by pretreatment with D1 or D2 dopamine antagonists (SKF-83566 or raclopride) administered to the same brain site. However, another D2 dopamine receptor antagonist, haloperidol, which is known to increase the accumbens dopamine level, was ineffective in reversing the increase in call number at the dose studied. On the contrary, intraacumbens haloperidol, when injected alone, caused an increase in 50 kHz calls. It is concluded that the release of dopamine, predominantly in the accumbens shell region, is responsible for production of 50 kHz calls and the calls may indicate an appetitive state compatible with anticipation of reward and positive affect. Both D1 and D2 subtypes of dopamine receptors may be necessary to induce 50 kHz calls and signal the appetitive state.
The objective of the present study was to determine whether a systematic optimization of Morris water maze (mwm) testing parameters could reveal a significant role of the septohippocampal cholinergic system in spatial working memory. Young adult rats were lesioned using 192 IgG-saporin infused bilaterally into the medial septum. Lesions were near complete as measured by choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity and immunohistochemistry. Behavioral testing was performed in three phases. In the first, lesioned and unlesioned rats were trained in the mwm focusing on working memory, which was tested using novel platform locations daily. In the second phase, the optimal locations were retested with increasing intertrial intervals (ITI). In the third phase, intracerebroventricular infusions of nerve growth factor (NGF) were employed to enhance cholinergic activity of the unlesioned rats and potentially further separate group performance. Neither the standard or increased ITI resulted in a consistent significant difference in spatial working memory between groups. In addition, NGF treatment also failed to induce a significant difference in behavioral performance. In conclusion, impairments in working memory as assessed by the mwm could not be revealed despite a greater than 90% loss of hippocampal ChAT and the use of optimal testing parameters and NGF treatment.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are known to play a role in several aspects of cocaine addiction. Recently, systemic administration of the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine was shown to block the induction of long-term locomotor sensitization to cocaine. Behavioral sensitization being a model of long-term neuroadaptations to chronic cocaine exposure, the goal of the current study was to identify the anatomical localization, as well as the nature, of the nicotinic receptors involved. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were stereotaxically implanted with bilateral cannula into either the ventral tegmental area (VTA) or the nucleus accumbens (Nacc). On each of the six consecutive days, rats were microinjected bilaterally with the selective nicotinic antagonists dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE), methyllycaconitine (MLA) or saline, followed by an intra-peritoneal injection of cocaine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline. Following a 2-week withdrawal period, rats received a final injection of cocaine in the absence of nicotinic antagonist to test for sensitization. When microinjected into the VTA, DHbetaE, but not MLA, prevented the induction of behavioral sensitization to cocaine. In contrast, behavioral sensitization was present in rats receiving DHbetaE microinjections into the Nacc. Neither antagonist, whether injected into the VTA or the Nacc had any significant effect on the acute locomotor response to cocaine. Given the subtype selectivity of the nicotinic antagonists employed, heteromeric beta2-containing (beta2*) nAChRs, but not homomeric alpha7* nAChRs, in the VTA may be involved in the neuroadaptive changes underlying cocaine sensitization.
The role of histamine in brain function has been studied using histidine decarboxylase (HDC) deficient male mice. As the effects of HDC deficiency on brain function might be sex-dependent, we behaviorally analyzed Hdc(-/-) and control female mice. Compared to female control mice, Hdc(-/-) female mice showed hypoactivity, increased measures of anxiety, impairments in water-maze performance, but enhanced passive avoidance memory retention. Following behavioral testing, arginine vasopression (AVP) immunoreactivity was higher in the dorsal hypothalamus and central and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala of Hdc(-/-) than Hdc(+/+) mice. Finally, MAP2 immunoreactivity in the hippocampal CA1 region correlated positively with measures of anxiety in the open-field and light-dark tests and negatively with performance during the hidden sessions of the water-maze. As the effects of HDC deficiency on object recognition, water-maze, and rotorod performance, were sex-dependent, it is important to consider potential effects of sex in the interpretation of the role of histaminergic neurotransmission in brain function.
Birth complications such as perinatal asphyxia are considered risk factors for later neurobehavioural disorders. Behavioural analysis of animal models may help to clarify the contribution of particular patterns of early hypoxia and their combination to psychiatric morbidity. Wistar rats underwent caesarean section (c-section) alone or c-section followed by asphyxia, the latter induced by placing pups still in uterus horns into a water bath at 37 degrees C for 20 min. Vaginally delivered pups were used as controls. Frequency of ultrasound emissions was analysed following isolation at a lower temperature than that of the home nest (23+/-0.5 degrees C) and reunion with their mother (3 min) on postnatal day (PND) 13 (maternal potentiation test). A sex-dependent effect of hypoxia was observed, with higher production of ultrasounds in hypoxic males. Caesarean-delivered pups produced significantly more ultrasounds than those vaginally delivered. At adolescence (PND 35) rats underwent a 25 min social interaction test with a conspecific of the same sex and age. Significant alterations in investigative behaviour (inclusive of: nose, anogenital, body sniffing, and following) were evident in caesarean-delivered rats of both sexes, but not in rats experiencing perinatal asphyxia. At adulthood, auditory, and context conditioned responses, analysed in a fear conditioning test, were not markedly affected either by c-section or c-section plus hypoxia. However, hypoxic rats emitted significantly more 22 kHz ultrasounds than c-section or vaginally delivered rats during the training session. In conclusion, differential effects appear to be brought about by c-section and by hypoxia mainly related to emotional/anxious responses.
While there is abundant evidence for a role of 5-HT and the amygdala in anxiety and depression, the role of 5-HT in this brain region in schizophrenia is less well understood. We therefore examined the effects of local 5-HT depletion in the amygdala on psychotomimetic drug-induced locomotor hyperactivity and prepulse inhibition, two animal model of aspects of schizophrenia. Pentobarbital-anaesthetized (60 mg/kg, i.p.) male Sprague-Dawley rats were stereotaxically micro-injected with 0.5 microl of a 5 microg/mul solution of the 5-HT neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) into either the basolateral (BLA) or central nucleus of amygdala (CeN). Two weeks after the surgery, rats with BLA lesions did not show changes in either psychotomimetic drug-induced locomotor hyperactivity or prepulse inhibition. In contrast, rats with CeN lesions showed significant disruption of prepulse inhibition, but no changes in psychotomimetic drug-induced locomotor hyperactivity. Neurochemical analysis and autoradiographic labelling of 5-HT transporter sites showed that a good degree of anatomical selectivity was obtained. Following administration of 5,7-DHT into the amygdala, the concentration of 5-HT was significantly reduced. Similarly, 5-HT transporter autoradiographs showed differential and selective lesions of 5-HT innervation in targeted subregions of the amygdala. These results provide evidence for differential involvement of 5-HT projections within the amygdala in prepulse inhibition but not locomotor hyperactivity. Thus, the present study supports the view that 5-HT in the amygdala may be involved in aspects of schizophrenia and a target for antipsychotic drug action.

8-Fluoroimidazo[1,2-a]pyridine has been established as a physicochemical mimic of imidazo[1,2-a]pyrimidine, using both in silico and traditional techniques. Furthermore, a novel synthesis of a 3,7-disubstituted-8-fluoroimidazopyridine 3 has been developed and the utility of the physicochemical mimicry has been demonstrated in an in vitro system. Here, the 8-fluoroimidazopyridine ring contained in ligand 3 acts as a bioisosteric replacement for imidazopyrimidine in the GABA(A) receptor modulator 2.
Imidazo[1,2-a]pyrimidines and imidazo[1,2-b][1,2,4]triazines are ligands for the benzodiazepine binding site of GABA(A) receptors that are functionally selective for the alpha2/alpha3 subtypes over the alpha1 subtype. SAR studies to optimise this functional selectivity, pharmacokinetic and behavioural data are described.
Imidazo[1,2-a]pyrazin-8-ones, imidazo[1,2-d][1,2,4]triazin-8-ones and imidazo[2,1-f][1,2,4]triazin-8-ones are high affinity GABA(A) agonists. Compound 16d has good oral bioavailability in rat, functional selectivity for the GABA(A)alpha2 and alpha3-subtypes and is anxiolytic in a conditioned animal model of anxiety with minimal sedation observed at full BZ binding site occupancy.

Motor neurons are defined by their axon projections, which exit the CNS to innervate somatic or visceral musculature, yet remarkably little is known about how motor axons are programmed to exit the CNS. Here, we describe the role of the Drosophila Zfh1 transcription factor in promoting axon exit from the CNS. Zfh1 is detected in all embryonic somatic motor neurons, glia associated with the CNS surface and motor axons, and one identified interneuron. In zfh1 mutants, ventral projecting motor axons often stall at the edge of the CNS, failing to enter the muscle field, despite having normal motor neuron identity. Conversely, ectopic Zfh1 induces a subset of interneurons--all normally expressing two or more &quot;ventral motor neuron transcription factors&quot; (e.g. Islet, Hb9, Nkx6, Lim3)--to project laterally and exit the CNS. We conclude that Zfh1 is required for ventral motor axon exit from the CNS.
LeX/SSEA1/CD15 is an extracellular matrix-associated carbohydrate expressed by ES cells and by adult neural and bone marrow stem cells. It is important for cell adhesion, compaction and FGF2 responses of early embryonic stem cells; however, its function at later stages is not clear. We now show that LeX is expressed by primary mouse neural progenitor cells, including neural stem cells, neuroblasts and glioblasts, but not by their more differentiated products. LeX distinguishes highly proliferative cells even in the primitive neuroepithelium, demonstrating heterogeneity in cell potential before radial glia arise. At later stages, LeX expressing progenitors are frequently radial in morphology. Surface LeX expression can be used to enrich neural stem and progenitor cells from different CNS regions throughout development by FACS. We found that LeX expression is particularly strong in neural regions with prolonged neurogenesis, e.g., the olfactory epithelium, hippocampus, basal forebrain and cerebellum. These regions also express high levels of the growth factors FGF8 and/or Wnt-1. We show here that LeX-containing molecules in the developing nervous system bind Wnt-1. Our findings suggest that LeX, which is present on the surface of principle neural progenitors and secreted into their extracellular niche, may bind and present growth factors important for their proliferation and self-renewal.
Fatigue is a common symptom in patients with neurologic disease. Mechanisms of fatigue are still incompletely understood. In this paper, we review recent studies of fatigue in common neurologic conditions and discuss therapeutic interventions. In particular, the role of therapeutic exercise is examined in both health and disease.
In human addicts, craving and relapse are frequently evoked by the recall of memories connected to a drug experience. Established memories can become labile if recalled and can then be disrupted by several interfering events and pharmacological treatments, including inhibition of protein synthesis. Thus, reactivation of mnemonic traces provides an opportunity for disrupting memories that contribute to pathological states. Here, we tested whether the memory of a drug experience can be weakened by inhibiting protein synthesis after the reactivation of its trace. We found that an established morphine conditioned place preference (mCPP) was persistently disrupted if protein synthesis was blocked by either anisomycin or cycloheximide after the representation of a conditioning session. Unlike other types of memories, an established mCPP did not become labile after contextual recall, but required the concomitant re-experience of both the conditioning context and the drug. An established mCPP was disrupted after the conditioning session if protein synthesis was blocked selectively in the hippocampus, basolateral amygdala, or nucleus accumbens but not in the ventral tegmental area. This disruption seems to be permanent, because the preference did not return after further conditioning. Thus, established memories induced by a drug of abuse can be persistently disrupted after reactivation of the conditioning experience.
Two major aspects of dendritic integration, coincidence detection and temporal integration, depend critically on the spatial and temporal properties of the dendritic summation of synaptic inputs. Neuronal activity capable of inducing synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) leads to increased linearity of the spatial summation of synchronous EPSPs. Whether such activity can also modulate the temporal summation of EPSPs is unknown. In the present study, we examined the linearity of the summation of EPSPs spaced by different time intervals in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, before and after LTP induction. We found that LTP induction resulted in an increased linearity of summation of the potentiated input with another synchronous or asynchronous input, with a striking dendritic location-specific selectivity for the timing of the summed inputs. At distal dendrites, LTP induction led to an increased linearity of summation only for EPSPs arriving within 5 ms, thus favoring the summation of coincident inputs. In contrast, LTP induction at proximal dendrites increased the linearity of summation for EPSPs arriving within a time window of &gt;20 ms. Furthermore, for synaptic inputs at the distal dendrite, enhanced spiking output after LTP induction was observed only for coincidently summed EPSPs, suggesting facilitated coincidence detection. In contrast, for proximal inputs, enhanced spiking output after LTP induction occurred for EPSPs arriving within a broader time window of approximately 20 ms, favoring temporal integration. Such dendritic location-dependent differential modulation of coincidence detection and temporal integration by neuronal activity represents a form of activity-dependent and domain-specific plasticity in the function of dendritic information processing.
Endocannabinoids work as retrograde messengers and contribute to short-term and long-term modulation of synaptic transmission via presynaptic cannabinoid receptors. It is generally accepted that the CB1 cannabinoid receptor (CB1) mediates the effects of endocannabinoid in inhibitory synapses. For excitatory synapses, however, contributions of CB1, &quot;CB3,&quot; and some other unidentified receptors have been suggested. In the present study we used electrophysiological and immunohistochemical techniques and examined the type(s) of cannabinoid receptor functioning at hippocampal and cerebellar excitatory synapses. Our electrophysiological data clearly demonstrate the predominant contribution of CB1. At hippocampal excitatory synapses on pyramidal neurons the cannabinoid-induced synaptic suppression was reversed by a CB1-specific antagonist, N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (AM251), and was absent in CB1 knock-out mice. At climbing fiber (CF) and parallel fiber (PF) synapses on cerebellar Purkinje cells the cannabinoid-dependent suppression was absent in CB1 knock-out mice. The presence of CB1 at presynaptic terminals was confirmed by immunohistochemical experiments with specific antibodies against CB1. In immunoelectron microscopy the densities of CB1-positive signals in hippocampal excitatory terminals and cerebellar PF terminals were much lower than in inhibitory terminals but were clearly higher than the background. Along the long axis of PFs, the CB1 was localized at a much higher density on the perisynaptic membrane than on the extrasynaptic and synaptic regions. In contrast, CB1 density was low in CF terminals and was not significantly higher than the background. Despite the discrepancy between the electrophysiological and morphological data for CB1 expression on CFs, these results collectively indicate that CB1 is responsible for cannabinoid-dependent suppression of excitatory transmission in the hippocampus and cerebellum.
Excitotoxicity is generally studied in dissociated neurons, cultured hippocampal slices, or intact animals. However, the requirements of dissociated neurons or cultured slices to use prenatal or juvenile rats seriously limit the advantages of these systems, whereas the complexity of intact animals prevents detailed molecular investigations. In the present experiments, we studied developmental changes in NMDA neurotoxicity in acute hippocampal slices with lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release in medium, propidium iodide (PI) uptake, and Nissl staining as markers of cell damage. Calpain-mediated spectrin degradation was used to test calpain involvement in NMDA neurotoxicity. NMDA treatment produced increased LDH release, PI uptake, and spectrin degradation in slices from juvenile rats but not adult rats. NMDA-induced changes in slices from young rats were blocked completely by the NMDA receptor antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801) and by the antagonists of NR2B receptor ifenprodil and R-(R, S)-alpha-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-beta-methyl-4-(phenylmethyl)-1-piperidine propranol and were partly blocked by calpain inhibitor III but were not affected by the NR2A-specific antagonist [(R)-[(S)-1-(4-bromo-phenyl)-ethylamino]-(2,3-dioxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoxalin-5-yl)-methyl]-phosphonic acid. NMDA-induced changes in Nissl staining were also different in slices from young and adult rats and blocked by NR2B but not NR2A antagonists. In contrast to NMDA treatment, oxygen/glucose deprivation (OGD) induced neurotoxicity in slices from both young and adult rats, although OGD-induced toxicity was attenuated by MK-801 only in slices from young rats. Our results are consistent with the idea that NMDA-mediated toxicity is caused by activation of NR2B- but not NR2A-containing NMDA receptors leading to calpain activation and that developmental changes in NMDA toxicity reflect developmental changes in NMDA receptor subunit composition.
We recorded the responses of direction-selective simple and complex cells in the primary visual cortex (V1) of anesthetized, paralyzed macaque monkeys. When studied with sine-wave gratings, almost all simple cells in V1 had responses that were separable for spatial and temporal frequency: the preferred temporal frequency did not change and preferred speed decreased as a function of the spatial frequency of the grating. As in previous recordings from the middle temporal visual area (MT), approximately one-quarter of V1 complex cells had separable responses to spatial and temporal frequency, and one-quarter were &quot;speed tuned&quot; in the sense that preferred speed did not change as a function of spatial frequency. Half fell between these two extremes. Reducing the contrast of the gratings caused the population of V1 complex cells to become more separable in their tuning for spatial and temporal frequency. Contrast dependence is explained by the contrast gain of the neurons, which was relatively higher for gratings that were either both of high or both of low temporal and spatial frequency. For stimuli that comprised two spatially superimposed sine-wave gratings, the preferred speeds and tuning bandwidths of V1 neurons could be predicted from the sum of the responses to the component gratings presented alone, unlike neurons in MT that showed nonlinear interactions. We conclude that spatiotemporal modulation of contrast gain creates speed tuning from separable inputs in V1 complex cells. Speed tuning in MT could be primarily inherited from V1, but processing that occurs after V1 and possibly within MT computes selective combinations of speed-tuned signals of special relevance for downstream perceptual and motor mechanisms.
Neuronal activity evokes localized changes in blood flow. Although this response, termed neurovascular coupling, is widely used to monitor human brain function and diagnose pathology, the cellular mechanisms that mediate the response remain unclear. We investigated the contribution of glial cells to neurovascular coupling in the acutely isolated mammalian retina. We found that light stimulation and glial cell stimulation can both evoke dilation or constriction of arterioles. Light-evoked and glial-evoked vasodilations were blocked by inhibitors of cytochrome P450 epoxygenase, the synthetic enzyme for epoxyeicosatrienoic acids. Vasoconstrictions, in contrast, were blocked by an inhibitor of omega-hydroxylase, which synthesizes 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid. Nitric oxide influenced whether vasodilations or vasoconstrictions were produced in response to light and glial stimulation. Light-evoked vasoactivity was blocked when neuron-to-glia signaling was interrupted by a purinergic antagonist. These results indicate that glial cells contribute to neurovascular coupling and suggest that regulation of blood flow may involve both vasodilating and vasoconstricting components.
Glutamate receptor (GluR) ion channels mediate fast synaptic transmission in the mammalian CNS. Numerous crystallographic studies, the majority on the GluR2-subtype AMPA receptor, have revealed the structural basis for binding of subtype-specific agonists. In contrast, because there are far fewer antagonist-bound structures, the mechanisms for antagonist binding are much less well understood, particularly for kainate receptors that exist as multiple subtypes with a distinct biology encoded by the GluR5-7, KA1, and KA2 genes. We describe here high-resolution crystal structures for the GluR5 ligand-binding core complex with UBP302 and UBP310, novel GluR5-selective antagonists. The crystal structures reveal the structural basis for the high selectivity for GluR5 observed in radiolabel displacement assays for the isolated ligand binding cores of the GluR2, GluR5, and GluR6 subunits and during inhibition of glutamate-activated currents in studies on full-length ion channels. The antagonists bind via a novel mechanism and do not form direct contacts with the E723 side chain as occurs in all previously solved AMPA and kainate receptor agonist and antagonist complexes. This results from a hyperextension of the ligand binding core compared with previously solved structures. As a result, in dimer assemblies, there is a 22 A extension of the ion channel linkers in the transition from antagonist- to glutamate-bound forms. This large conformational change is substantially different from that described for AMPA receptors, was not possible to predict from previous work, and suggests that glutamate receptors are capable of much larger movements than previously thought.
Specific labeling of individual neurons and neuronal processes is virtually an everyday task for neuroscientists. Many traditional ways for delivery of intracellular dyes have limitations in terms of speed, efficiency and reproducibility. Electroporation is a fast, reliable and efficient method to deliver microscopic amounts of polar and charged molecules into neurons and their compartments such as individual neurites and growth cones. Here, we present a simple and highly effective procedure for intracellular labeling of individual Aplysia neurons both in intact ganglia and in cell culture. Pleural mechanoreceptor neurons have been used as illustrative examples to demonstrate applicability of direct and local labeling of the smallest individual neurites (&lt; 2 microm) and single growth cones. Specifically, a 3-s train of 1.0 V hyperpolarizing pulses at 50 Hz effectively filled discrete neurites in contact with the tip of the micropipette with no dye transfer visible to other, non-contacted neurites. Application of this localized dye labeling technique to single neurites reveals a surprisingly complex morphology for patterns of axonal branching in culture. The protocol can be easily applied to a variety of models in neuroscience including accessible nervous systems of invertebrate animals.
Isolation of microglia from CNS tissue provides a powerful tool to study basic microglia biology and examine the effects of in vivo treatments on microglia immunophenotype and function. Previous microglia isolation methodologies utilized whole brain. However, microglia immunophenotype varies across CNS anatomical loci, thus isolation of microglia from whole brain may obscure regional brain variations in microglia immunophenotype and function. In addition, it is unknown to what extent microglia isolation procedures alter the in situ immunophenotype and function of microglia. The present report details a procedure for the rapid isolation of microglia from discrete CNS anatomical loci and addresses the issue of whether the in situ microglia immunophenotype is significantly altered by the isolation procedure. The present microglia isolation method yielded highly enriched hippocampal microglia, which were devoid of other CNS macrophage subtypes and exhibited attributes reflecting a quiescent phenotype characteristic of microglia observed in situ under non-pathological conditions. Further, isolated microglia exhibited functional responsiveness to immunogenic stimuli ex vivo. The immunophenotypic and functional attributes of isolated microglia suggest that the isolation procedure preserves the in vivo phenotype of microglia, thus providing an experimental method with minimal procedural confounds for examining in vivo treatments on microglia ex vivo.
In locomotion, the flexor muscles of the leg are mainly concerned with the relatively constant task of raising the foot, whereas the extensors have the more variable task of support and propulsion at different speeds. This suggests that the way in which the fusimotor system works may differ between the two muscle groups. Observations previously made of the static and dynamic gamma-motor firing patterns in the ankle extensor medial gastrocnemius (MG) have therefore been repeated in the flexor tibialis anterior (TA). One or more single gamma-motor axons, dissected from a small filament of TA nerve, were recorded simultaneously with a number of single spindle afferents in dorsal rootlets. Cats were decerebrated and locomoted spontaneously on a treadmill. Identification of each gamma-motor axon depended on relating the changes in firing caused by midbrain stimulation to the changes in static and dynamic behaviour of the spindle afferents in response to repetitive ramp and hold stretches. Static gamma axons all showed a smooth modulation in frequency, increasing in phase with muscle shortening, superimposed on a minimum frequency of about 20-30 impulses s(-1). Dynamic gamma axons showed interrupted firing with the frequency rising abruptly from zero at the onset of shortening, and falling again to zero shortly after the onset of lengthening. The frequency during the active periods was relatively constant, even when movement amplitudes varied. The basic similarity in the static and dynamic gamma discharge patterns for the two muscles suggests that the strategy of gamma-motor control is common to both flexors and extensors. The static gamma pattern is thought to be a 'temporal template' of the expected movement, effectively expanding the dynamic response range of the spindles in active movements. The dynamic gamma pattern sensitizes the primary afferents to detect the onset of muscle lengthening and to detect departures from the intended movement trajectory.
There is an orderly topographic arrangement of neurones within auditory brainstem nuclei based on sound frequency. Previous immunolabelling studies in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) have suggested that there may be gradients of voltage-gated currents underlying this tonotopic arrangement. Here, our electrophysiological and immunolabelling results demonstrate that underlying the tonotopic organization of the MNTB is a combination of medio-lateral gradients of low-and high-threshold potassium currents and hyperpolarization-activated cation currents. Our results also show that the intrinsic membrane properties of MNTB neurones produce a topographic gradient of time delays, which may be relevant to sound localization, following previous demonstrations of the importance of the timing of inhibitory input from the MNTB to the medial superior olive (MSO). Most importantly, we demonstrate that, in the MNTB of congenitally deaf mice, which exhibit no spontaneous auditory nerve activity, the normal tonotopic gradients of neuronal properties are absent. Our results suggest an underlying mechanism for the observed topographic gradient of neuronal firing properties in the MNTB, show that an intrinsic neuronal mechanism is responsible for generating a topographic gradient of time-delays, and provide direct evidence that these gradients rely on spontaneous auditory nerve activity during development.
Galanin (Gal) is a neuropeptide with supposed neurotrophic-like action. In the present study, expression of Gal has been investigated in the core and peri-infarct zone at 1, 4, 24 and 72 h after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) in the rat. Three days after MCAo a small but consistent number of morphological intact Gal-positive neuronal cells were observed in the peri-infarct zone. Gal-positive cells were barely detectable in the infarct and peri-infarct zone at 24 h. No Gal immunopositive cells were detected in brain subjected to 1 and 4 h of ischemia. Gal immunoreactivity was also detected in myelinated fibers 4 and 24 h after focal ischemia. Gal may be a peptide with neurotrophic and plasticity functions under stress conditions.

The pig has been used as animal model for positron emission tomography (PET) studies of dopamine (DA) receptors and pharmacological perturbations of DA neurotransmission. However, the binding properties of DA receptors and transporters in pig brain have not been characterized in vitro. Therefore, the saturation binding parameters of [3H]SCH 23390 for DA D1 receptors and [3H]raclopride for DA D2/3 receptors were measured by quantitative autoradiography in cryostat sections from brain of groups of 8 week old and adult female Gttingen minipigs. The magnitudes of Bmax and Kd for these ligands were similar in young and old pigs, and were close to those reported for rat and human brain. Furthermore, gradients in the concentrations of D1 and D2/3 sites in striatum measured in vitro agreed with earlier findings in PET studies. However, the dopamine transporter (DAT) ligand [3H]GBR12935 did not bind in pig brain cryostat sections. Whereas the tropane derivative [125I]RTI-55 labeled serotonin transporters (serotonin transporter (SERT)) in pig brain, use of the same ligand under conditions specific for DAT, revealed a pattern of binding similar to that observed for SERT conditions. Parallel studies revealed the presence of DAT in rat and ferret brain. The distribution volume (Vd) of the selective DAT ligand [11C]NS2214 ([11C]Brasofensine) was mapped in groups of normal and MPTP-lesioned Gttingen miniature pigs. The in vivo pattern of Vd matched the distribution of SERT in vitro, and did not differ between the normal pigs and the lesioned animals with documented 60% DA depletions. However, the pattern of specific binding of the selective noradrenaline transporter ligand (S,S)-[11C]MeNER in a single Landrace pig showed that, of the three monoamine transporters, only DAT could not be detected in pig brain. We conclude that the pig is a suitable model for PET studies of DA D1 and D2/3 binding sites, which are fully developed on the eighth postnatal week. However, well-characterized piperazine and tropane radioligands failed to recognize DAT in pig brain; the two tropane radioligands lacked pharmacological specificity for DAT and SERT in pig brain in vitro and in vivo.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a highly effective treatment for several forms of cancer. However, DOX induces a cumulative and dose-dependent cardiomyopathy that has been ascribed to redox-cycling of the molecule on the mitochondrial complex I generating in the process increased oxidative stress. Mitochondrial dysfunction, including induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) and inhibition of mitochondrial respiration have been implicated as major determinants in the pathogenesis of DOX cardiotoxicity. The adenine nucleotide translocator (ANT) has been suggested to be a principal component of the MPT pore and a possible target for DOX-induced cardiotoxicity. Nonetheless, no definitive evidence has been presented showing that altered ANT activity is due to decreased amount of the protein. By using carboxyatractyloside as a specific modulator of ANT activity and Western blotting, we observed that following DOX treatment in rats: (1) the amount of &quot;functional ANT&quot; that contributes to cardiac mitochondrial respiration with different substrates is reduced, (2) titrations with carboxyatracyloside revealed a lower threshold for MPT induction and most importantly, (3) a specific decrease in the amount of the ANT protein. This study identifies the ANT as one important target for DOX-induced cardiac toxicity and correlates the decrease in ANT protein concentration with inhibition of mitochondrial respiration and increased ability to form or at least regulate MPT pores.

The authors found that the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) is hyposialylated in hereditary inclusion body myopathy (HIBM) muscle, as suggested by its decreased molecular weight by Western blot. This abnormality represented the only pathologic feature differentiating HIBM due to GNE mutations from other myopathies with similar clinical and pathologic characteristics. If further confirmed in larger series of patients, this may be a useful diagnostic marker of GNE-related HIBM.
Rare reflex epilepsies are a clinical curiosity but may also give insight into neurocognitive processes. The authors present a patient whose seizures were precipitated by drawing but not by writing. This dissociation complements previous reports on selective impairment of writing. EEG revealed a focus in the right frontal lobe with parietal spread. This is in accord with current cognitive and neural network models of drawing.
Episodic memory organizes experience in time, so that we can review past events and anticipate the future. In a hippocampus-dependent memory task, spike timing in pairs of simultaneously active CA1 neurons with overlapping place fields distinguished the start and end of trials. At the common starting point of different journeys, the relative spike timing of the neurons was highly correlated. As the rat approached a common goal from different starting points, however, temporal firing patterns were strongly modulated across journeys even if the cells fired in the same spatial locations within fields, implying that different processes influenced when and where cells fire. Spike timing within hippocampal ensembles may thereby help parse the beginning from the end of episodes in memory.
Frster resonance energy transfer (FRET) microscopy is a powerful technique that enables the visualization of signaling intermediates, protein interactions, and protein conformational and biochemical status. With the availability of an ever-increasing collection of fluorescent proteins, pairs of spectrally different variants have been used for the study of FRET in living cells. However, suitable spectral overlap, necessary for efficient FRET, is limited by the requirement for proper emission separation. Currently used FRET pairs represent compromises between these opposing spectral demands that reduce the maximally attainable FRET sensitivity. We present a previously undescribed FRET acceptor, a nonfluorescent yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) mutant called REACh (for Resonance Energy-Accepting Chromoprotein). REACh allows the use of the photophysically superior FRET donor EGFP, with which it exhibits optimal spectral overlap, which obviates the need for narrow spectral filtering and allows additional fluorescent labels to be used within the same cell. The latter allows the generation of sophisticated bioassays for complex biological questions. We show that this dark acceptor is ideally suited for donor fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy (FLIM) and confirm these measurements with an independent intensity-based donor fluorescence quenching resonance energy transfer (FqRET) assay. REACh also can be used in donor photobleaching kinetics-based FRET studies. By detecting FRET between a GFP-tagged ubiquitination substrate and REACh-labeled ubiquitin, we imaged the active ubiquitination machinery inside cells. This assay therefore can be used to study proteins whose function is regulated by ubiquitination.
Members of the family of transient receptor potential (TRP) ion channels mediate a wide range of sensory modalities, including thermosensation and taste. Among the &quot;thermo-TRPs,&quot; some, such as TRPV1, are activated by warm temperatures, whereas others, such as TRPM8, are activated by cold. How is temperature able to have such strong and opposing effects on these related channels? Although at a structural level the answer to this question is not known, an elegant biophysical model has been proposed that accounts for the different thermosensitivities of TRP channels. This model posits that temperature acts by shifting the inherent weak voltage sensitivity of TRPV1 and TRPM8 in opposite directions, thus promoting opening of TRPV1 at warm temperatures and TRPM8 at cold temperatures. TRPM5, which is distantly related to TRPM8, is a Ca2+-activated cation channel expressed in taste cells that is essential for sweet, bitter, and umami tastes. Like TRPV1 and TRPM8, TRPM5 is weakly sensitive to voltage and thus may also be temperature sensitive. A recent report shows that activity of TRPM5 is increased at warm temperatures, suggesting that heat may enhance the perception of taste through direct modulation of the putative taste transduction channel.
Myelinating glial cells synthesize specialized myelin proteins and deposit them in the growing myelin sheath that enwraps axons multiple times. How do axons and myelinating glial cells coordinate this spectacular cell-cell interaction? In this issue, Trajkovic et al. show that neuronal signaling regulates cell surface expression of the myelin proteolipid protein in cultured oligodendrocytes in unexpected ways that may also contribute to myelination in situ.
HIV-1 neurotoxic proteins (Tat, gp120) are believed to play a major role in pathogenesis of dementia in a significant portion of the AIDS patient population. Dopaminergic systems appear to be particularly important in HIV-associated dementia. In the current studies, we determined that primary cell cultures prepared from the midbrain of 18-day-old rat fetuses are sensitive to Tat neurotoxicity and investigated the possible effects of Tat on DAT-specific ligand binding and DAT immunoreactivity in rat fetal midbrain cultures. We found that Tat neurotoxicity was associated with a significant decrease in [3H]WIN 35428 binding. Immunostaining of cell cultures with antibodies recognizing the C-end epitope of DAT did not reveal significant changes in DAT immunoreactivity. The results of this study implicate involvement of monoamine transmission systems in HIV-associated dementia.
Early onset generalized dystonia is a dominantly inherited movement disorder caused by neuronal dysfunction without an apparent loss of neurons. The same single mutation (GAG deletion) causes most cases and results in loss of a glutamic acid (E) in the carboxy terminal region of torsinA (Delta302/303). To model the neuronal involvement, adult rat primary sensory dorsal root ganglion neurons in culture were infected with lentivirus vectors expressing human wild-type or mutant torsinA. Expression of the mutant protein resulted in formation of torsinA-positive perinuclear inclusions. When the cells were co-infected with lentivirus vectors expressing the mutant torsinA message and a shRNA selectively targeting this message, inclusion formation was blocked. Vector-delivered siRNAs have the potential to decrease the adverse effects of this mutant protein in neurons without affecting wild-type protein.
Cajal-Retzius (CR) cells are among the earliest born cortical neurons and are required for normal cortical development in rodents and humans; however, their embryonic origin has been controversial. Recent genetic lineage studies and direct visualization of migration of CR cells have demonstrated multiple germinative sources for CR cells on the edges of the developing pallium. We generated transgenic mice using 5' untranslated regions of the Frizzled10 gene in order to mark the cortical hem (the most caudomedial edge of the telencephalic neuroepithelium) and found that these mice faithfully reproduce the previously described expression pattern of Frizzled10 mRNA in the cortical hem, dorsal thalamus and dorsal neural tube. In the cortical hem, expression of LacZ mRNA was confined to the ventricular zone and perdurance of LacZ protein served as lineage marker for CR cells derived from the hem during embryonic life. When these marker mice were crossed with FoxG1 (BF1) mutants, they confirmed the previous finding that in these mice the cortical hem is expanded leading to increased production of CR cells from the medial wall of the cortex.
Evidence of abnormalities in the perception of rapidly presented sounds in dyslexia has been interpreted as evidence of a prolonged time window within which sounds can influence the perception of temporally surrounding sounds. We recorded the magnetic mismatch negativity (MMNm) to infrequent tone omissions in a group of six dyslexic adults and six IQ and age-matched controls. An MMNm is only elicited in response to a complete stimulus omission when successive inputs fall within the temporal window of integration (stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) approximately 160 ms). No MMNm responses were recorded in either experimental group when stimuli were presented at SOAs falling just outside the temporal window of integration (SOA = 175 ms). However, while presentation rates of 100 ms resulted in MMNm responses for all control participants, the same stimulus omissions elicited an MMNm response in only one of the six dyslexic participants. These results cannot support the hypothesis of a prolonged time window of integration, but rather indicate auditory grouping deficits in the dyslexic population.
PACAP is a peptide with neuroprotective activity, which induces adenylate cyclase and protein kinase A (PKA) activity. PACAP has also been shown to induce neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Here, we report that exogenous PACAP38 promotes neurite outgrowth in the F11 neuroblastoma/dorsal DRG hybrid cell line. Using an automated microscopy system, we show that PACAP38 induces a 170-fold increase in neurite length, with an EC50 of 3.1 nM, compared to 3.7 microM for forskolin and 143.4 microM for dibutyril cyclic AMP (dbcAMP). PACAP38 induced a 4-fold increase in the level of phosphorylation of cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) in F11 cells with an EC50 of 130 pM. In contrast a peptide related to PACAP, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) failed to induce CREB phosphorylation or neurite outgrowth in F11 cells. Addition of the nonselective phosphodiesterase inhibitor, isobutyl methylxanthine (IBMX) increased the potency of PACAP at inducing neurite outgrowth by ten-fold. The PKA inhibitor, H89, was a potent inhibitor of PACAP38-induced neurite outgrowth. The delta-opioid receptor agonist, SNC 80, did not inhibit PACAP-induced neurogenesis even though it did reduce CREB phosphorylation. In contrast to previous studies in PC12 cells, PACAP38 failed to show MEK1 activation in F11 cells. PACAP is upregulated in DRG neurons as a result of injury, and F11 cells provide an easily accessible in vitro model for understanding mechanisms underlying PACAP differentiation and neurogenesis.
High-grade gliomas represent a significant source of cancer-related death, and usually recur despite treatment. In this analysis of current brain tumor medicine, we review diagnosis, standard treatment, and emerging therapies for recurrent astrocytomas. Difficulties in interpreting radiographic evidence, especially with regard to differentiating between tumor and necrosis, present a formidable challenge. The most accurate diagnoses come from tissue confirmation of recurrent tumor, but a combination of imaging techniques, such as magnetic resonance spectroscopy imaging, may also be relevant for diagnosis. Repeat resection can prolong life, but repeat irradiation of the brain poses serious risks and results in necrosis of healthy brain tissue; therefore, reirradiation is usually not offered to patients with recurrent tumors. We describe the use of conventional radiotherapy, intensity-modulated radiotherapy, brachytherapy, radiosurgery, and photodynamic therapy for recurrent high-grade glioma. The use of chemotherapy is limited by drug distribution and toxicity, but the development of new drug-delivery techniques such as convection-enhanced delivery, which delivers therapeutic molecules at an effective concentration directly to the brain, may provide a way to reduce systemic exposure to cytotoxic agents. We also discuss targeted therapies designed to inhibit aberrant cell-signaling pathways, as well as new experimental therapies such as immunotherapy. The treatment of this devastating disease has so far been met with limited success, but emerging knowledge of neuroscience and the development of novel therapeutic agents will likely give patients new options and require the neuro-oncology community to redefine clinical trial design and strategy continually.
The olivocerebellar system is involved in the transmission of information to maintain sensory motor coordination. Gap junctions have been described in various types of neurons in this system, including the neurons in the inferior olive that provide the climbing fibers to Purkinje cells. While it is well established that Connexin36 is necessary for the formation of these neuronal gap junctions, it is not clear whether these electrical synapses can develop without Connexin45. Here we describe the development and spatiotemporal distribution of Connexin45 in relation to that of Connexin36 in the olivocerebellar system. During development Connexin45 is expressed in virtually all neurons of the inferior olive and cerebellar nuclei. During later postnatal development and adulthood there is a considerable overlap of expression of both connexins in subpopulations of all main olivary nuclei and cerebellar nuclei as well as in the stellate cells in the cerebellar cortex. Despite this prominent expression of Connexin45, ultrastructural analysis of neuronal gap junctions in null-mutants of Connexin45 showed that their formation appears normal in contrast to that in knockouts of Connexin36. These morphological data suggest that Connexin45 may play a modifying role in widely distributed, coupled neurons of the olivocerebellar system, but that it is not essential for the creation of its neuronal gap junctions.
During embryonic development, complex events, such as cellular proliferation, differentiation, survival, and guidance of axons, are orchestrated and regulated by a variety of extracellular signals. Receptor tyrosine kinases mediate many of these events, with several playing critical roles in neuronal survival and axonal guidance. It is evident that not all the receptor tyrosine kinases that play key roles in regulating neuronal development have been identified. In this study, we have characterized the spatial-temporal expression profile of a recently identified receptor tyrosine kinase, anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), in embryonic chick by means of whole-mount in situ hybridization in conjunction with immunohistochemistry. Our findings reveal that Alk is expressed in sympathetic and dorsal root ganglia as early as stage 19. In addition, mRNA is expressed from stage 23/24 (E4) to stage 39 (E13) in discrete motor neuron subsets of chick spinal cord along with a select group of muscles that are innervated by one of these particular motor neuron clusters. Expression within the spinal cord is coincident with the onset and duration of motor neuron programmed cell death and during the period of musculature innervation and synapse formation. Hence, the data presented here identify ALK as a novel candidate receptor for regulating critical events in the development of neurons in both the central and the peripheral nervous systems.
The fundamentally stochastic nature of neuronal growth has hardly been addressed in neuroscience. We report on the stochastic fluctuations of a neuronal growth cone's leading edge movement, the basic step in neuronal growth. Describing the edge movement as a stochastic bistable process leads to an isotropic noise parameter that is successfully used to test the model. An analysis of growth cone motility confirms the model, and predicts that linear changes of the bistable potential, as known from stochastic filtering, result in directed growth cone translocation.
Protein phosphatase 2C (PP2C) is an archetype of the PPM Ser/Thr phosphatases, characterized by dependence on divalent magnesium or manganese cofactors, absence of known regulatory proteins, and resistance to all known Ser/Thr phosphatase inhibitors. We have used virtual ligand screening with the AutoDock method and the National Cancer Institute Diversity Set to identify small-molecule inhibitors of PP2Calpha activity at a protein substrate. These inhibitors are active in the micromolar range and represent the first non-phosphate-based molecules found to inhibit a type 2C phosphatase. The compounds docked to three recurrent binding sites near the PP2Calpha active site and displayed novel Ser/Thr phosphatase selectivity profiles. Common chemical features of these compounds may form the basis for development of a PP2C inhibitor pharmacophore and may facilitate investigation of PP2C control and cellular function.
In our previous work, we demonstrated that Trigonella foenum (TFG) leaves extract can exert analgesic effects in both formalin (F.T.) and tail flick (T.F.) tests. Spinal serotonergic system, but not endogenous opioid system, was involved in TFG induced analgesia (in the second phase of formalin test). Some reports concern the similarity between NSAIDs and TFG extract in many pharmacological effects or the interaction between NSAIDs and purinergic system; so the present study was designed to investigate the relationship between TFG extract and purinergic system or the inhibition of cyclo-oxygenase (COX). We examined the effect of TFG extract on: (1) the response of rabbit platelets to ADP induced aggregation, (2) the contraction of mouse vas deferens induced by alpha,beta-Me-ATP (a P(2) receptor agonist; this receptor mediates the rapid phase of ADP- and ATP-evoked influx of Ca(2+) through a non-specific cation channel in platelets), (3) alpha,beta-Me-ATP induced hyperalgesia in tail flick test in male rats and (4) the specific inhibition of COX-1 and COX-2. Our results showed that TFG extract (0.5, 1, 1.5, 3 mg/ml) inhibited ADP (10(-5) mol) induced platelet aggregation (IC(50)=1.28 mg/ml). alpha,beta-Me-ATP (30 microM) induced isometric contraction in vas deferens while suramin (a P(2) receptor antagonist, 50, 150, 300 microM) or TFG extract (0.5, 1, 2, 3 mg/ml) inhibited this effect significantly (IC(50) were 91.07 microM and 1.57 mg/ml, respectively). Moreover, alpha,beta-Me-ATP (3 microg/rat, i.t.) induced hyperalgesia in tail flick test, but it was prevented by co-injection of alpha,beta-Me-ATP with suramin (120 microg/rat, i.t.) or TFG extract (1mg/rat, i.t.). Effective concentrations of TFG extract in the above mentioned experiments did not inhibit COX enzymes in EIA tests. In conclusion, these results indicate that the blocking of spinal purinoceptors may contribute in the analgesic effect of TFG leaves extract.
The effect of the fruit essential oil of Cuminum cyminum Linn. (Apiaceae) (syn. Cuminum odorum Salisb) on the epileptiform activity induced by pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) was evaluated, using intracellular technique. The results demonstrated that extracellular application of the essential oil of Cuminum cyminum (1% and 3%) dramatically decreased the frequency of spontaneous activity induced by PTZ in a time and concentration dependent manner. In addition it showed protection against pentylenetetrazol-induced epileptic activity by increasing the duration, decreasing the amplitude of after hyperpolarization potential (AHP) following the action potential, the peak of action potential, and inhibition of the firing rate. These membrane effects suggest cellular mechanisms by which the essential oil of Cuminum cyminum can inhibit the PTZ-induced epileptic activity.
D-aspartate, an abundant D-amino acid enriched in neuroendocrine tissues, can be degraded by D-aspartate oxidase (Ddo). To elucidate the function of D-aspartate, we generated mice with targeted deletion of Ddo (Ddo(-/-)) and observe massive but selective augmentations of D-aspartate in various tissues. The pituitary intermediate lobe, normally devoid of D-aspartate from endogenous Ddo expression, manifests pronounced increases of immunoreactive D-aspartate in Ddo(-/-) mice. Ddo(-/-) mice show markedly diminished synthesis and levels of pituitary proopiomelanocortin/alpha-MSH, associated with decreased melanocortin-dependent behaviors. Therefore, Ddo is the endogenous enzyme that degrades D-aspartate, and Ddo-enriched organs, low in D-aspartate, may represent areas of high turnover where D-aspartate may be physiologically important.
A confusing picture of the functional organization of the dorsal premotor region of the human brain emerged when functional neuroimaging studies that either examined visuomotor hand conditional activity or attempted to localize the human frontal eye field reported activity increases at the same general location, namely the junction of the superior precentral sulcus with the superior frontal sulcus. The present functional magnetic resonance imaging study examined visuomotor hand conditional activity and the locus of the frontal eye field as defined by a standard task, on a subject-by-subject basis, to clarify their location and reveal relationships between the pattern of local morphology and functional activity. The results demonstrate that visuomotor hand conditional activity and the frontal eye field lie within distinct parts of the superior precentral sulcus, revealing an organization of the human premotor cortex consistent with that observed in experimental studies in the monkey.
Cortical maps are remarkably precise, with organized arrays of thalamocortical afferents (TCAs) that project into distinct neuronal modules. Here, we present evidence for the involvement of efficient neurotransmitter release in mouse cortical barrel map development using barrelless mice, a loss-of-function mutant of calcium/calmodulin-activated adenylyl cyclase I (AC1), and mice with a mutation in Rab3-interacting molecule 1alpha (RIM1alpha), an active zone protein that regulates neurotransmitter release. We demonstrate that release efficacy is substantially decreased in barrelless TCAs. We identify RIMs as important phosphorylation targets for AC1 in the presynaptic terminal. We further show that RIM1alpha mutant mice have reduced TCA neurotransmitter release efficacy and barrel map deficits, although not as severe as those found in barrelless mice. This supports the role of RIM proteins in mediating, in part, AC1 signaling in barrel map development. Finally, we present a model to show how inadequacies in presynaptic function can interfere with activity-dependent processes in neuronal circuit formation. These results demonstrate how efficient synaptic transmission mediated by AC1 function contributes to the development of cortical barrel maps.
Numerous studies have established that inferior frontal cortex is active when hand actions are planned, imagined, remembered, imitated, and even observed. Furthermore, it has been proposed that these activations reflect a process of simulating the observed action to allow it to be understood and thus fully perceived. However, direct evidence for a perceptual role for left inferior frontal cortex is rare, and linguistic or motor contributions to the reported activations have not been ruled out. We used repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over inferior frontal gyrus during a perceptual weight-judgement task to test the hypothesis that this region contributes to action understanding. rTMS at this site impaired judgments of the weight of a box lifted by a person, but not judgements of the weight of a bouncing ball or of stimulus duration, and rTMS at control sites had no impact. This demonstrates that the integrity of left inferior frontal gyrus is necessary to make accurate perceptual judgments about other people's actions.

It is demonstrated in the short head of the human biceps brachii of 16 healthy subjects (12 males and 4 females) that near infrared photon migration is anisotropic. The probability for a photon to travel along the direction of the muscle fibres is higher (approximately 0.4) than that of travelling along a perpendicular axis (approximately 0.3) while in the adipose tissue the probability is the same (approximately 0.33) in all directions. Considering that the muscle fibre orientation is different depending on the type of muscle considered, and that inside a given skeletal muscle the orientation may change, the present findings in part might explain the intrasubject variability observed in the physiological parameters measured by near infrared spectroscopy techniques. In other words, the observed regional differences might not only be physiological differences but also optical artefacts.
Opioid drugs produce their pharmacological effects by activating inhibitory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein-linked mu, delta, and kappa opioid receptors. One major effector for these receptors is adenylyl cyclase, which is inhibited upon receptor activation. However, little is known about which of the ten known forms of adenylyl cyclase are involved in mediating opioid actions. Here we show that all of the major behavioral effects of morphine, including locomotor activation, analgesia, tolerance, reward, and physical dependence and withdrawal symptoms, are attenuated in mice lacking adenylyl cyclase type 5 (AC5), a form of adenylyl cyclase that is highly enriched in striatum. Furthermore, the behavioral effects of selective mu or delta opioid receptor agonists are lost in AC5-/- mice, whereas the behavioral effects of selective kappa opioid receptor agonists are unaffected. These behavioral data are consistent with the observation that the ability of a mu or delta opioid receptor agonist to suppress adenylyl cyclase activity was absent in striatum of AC5-/- mice. Together, these results establish AC5 as an important component of mu and delta opioid receptor signal transduction mechanisms in vivo and provide further support for the importance of the cAMP pathway as a critical mediator of opioid action.
Glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) participates in a cell death cascade wherein a variety of stimuli activate nitric oxide (NO) synthases with NO nitrosylating GAPDH, conferring on it the ability to bind to Siah, an E3-ubiquitin-ligase, whose nuclear localization signal enables the GAPDH/Siah protein complex to translocate to the nucleus where degradation of Siah targets elicits cell death. R-(-)-Deprenyl (deprenyl) ameliorates the progression of disability in early Parkinson's disease and also has neuroprotective actions. We show that deprenyl and a related agent, TCH346, in subnanomolar concentrations, prevent S-nitrosylation of GAPDH, the binding of GAPDH to Siah, and nuclear translocation of GAPDH. In mice treated with the dopamine neuronal toxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), low doses of deprenyl prevent binding of GAPDH and Siah1 in the dopamine-enriched corpus striatum.
Amino and carboxyl termini are unique positions in a polypeptide. They tend to be exposed in folded three dimensional structures. Diversity and functional significance of C-terminal sequences have been appreciated from studies of PDZ and PEX domains. Signaling 14-3-3 protein signaling by recognizing phosphorylated peptides plays a critical role in a variety of biological processes, including oncogenesis. The preferential binding of 14-3-3 to phosphorylated C-terminal sequences, mode III, provides a means of regulated binding and considerably expands the substrate repertoire of 14-3-3 interaction partners.
Parkinson's disease is characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Attempted replacement of these neurons by stem cells has proved inconclusive. Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are multipotent, differentiating into a variety of cells, including neuron-like cells. We used the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) animal model of Parkinson's disease to assess migration and differentiation of transplanted MSC. We found in rodents that transplanted MSC survive better in the 6-OHDA-induced damaged hemisphere compared to the unlesioned side. Moreover, contralaterally engrafted MSC migrated through the corpus callosum to populate the striatum, thalamic nuclei and substantia nigra of the 6-OHDA-lesioned hemisphere. In conclusion, we demonstrate that 6-OHDA-induced damage increases the viability of transplanted MSC and attracts these cells from the opposite hemisphere.
In neonatal rodents, elevated levels of cortical serotonin (5-HT) blur the normally segmented vibrissae-related pattern of thalamocortical afferents (TCAs) in the posteromedial barrel subfield (PMBSF) of primary somatosensory cortex. We employed 5-HT immunocytochemistry or anterograde transport of 1'1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3' tetramethyl-indocarbocyanin (Di-I) to label TCA arbors to study the effects of 5-HT manipulations on space occupied by TCAs within the PMBSF and the total area labeled. In rats treated to increase cortical 5-HT from birth to postnatal day (P) 6, the percentage of PMBSF area occupied by terminal labeling was significantly higher from that in controls (79.0% versus 23.7%, P &lt; 0.05) for the highest levels of cortical 5-HT and was raised, although not significantly, for lower levels of 5-HT. The TCA coverage was significantly correlated with treatment dose. In animals exposed to a selective 5-HT1B agonist, 5-nonyloxytryptamine, or elevated endogenous 5-HT, the total areas of TCA aggregates in the PMBSF and those in visual cortex were similar to the controls. These results suggest that TCAs have a graded response to increasingly higher 5-HT concentrations. The lack of TCA expansion beyond normal cortical areas further implies that 5-HT-induced axon outgrowth is restricted at cortical boundaries.
Body temperature is decreased by 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A (5-HT1A) agonists and increased by 5-HT2A agonists. The present study determined whether changes in interscapular brown adipose tissue (iBAT) thermogenesis contribute to these effects in conscious unrestrained animals. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were pre-instrumented for measurement of iBAT and core temperature and tail artery blood flow one week before experiments. In the first series of experiments, rats were transferred from warm (25-28 degrees C) to cold (5-10 degrees C) environments. This increased iBAT temperature (+1.3 +/- 0.2 degrees C, P&lt;0.01, n = 7) and reduced tail artery flow. Injection of the 5-HT1A agonist, 8-OH-DPAT (8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin, 0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) reversed the increase in iBAT thermogenesis (-1.5 +/- 0.4 degrees C, P&lt;0.01, n = 6), and decreased core temperature (-1.5 +/- 0.4 degrees C, P&lt;0.01, n = 6). Pre-treatment with WAY-100635 (N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl)-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexanecarboxamide trihydrochloride), a 5-HT1A antagonist, prevented effects of 8-OH-DPAT. In the second series of experiments, injection of a 5-HT2A agonist, DOI (R(-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride, 0.1 mg/kg, s.c.) increased both iBAT (+1.9 +/- 0.1 degrees C, P&lt;0.01, n = 7) and core temperatures (+1.4+/-0.2 degrees C, P&lt;0.01, n=7), and decreased tail artery blood flow. Subsequent injection of SR 46349B (trans-4-((3Z)3-[(2-dimethylaminoethyl)oxyimino]-3-(2-fluorophenyl) propen-1-yl)-phenol, hemifumarate, 0.5 mg/kg, s.c.), a 5-HT2A antagonist, reduced all these changes. Results indicate that activation of 5-HT1A receptors reduces sympathetic outflow to BAT and that activation of 5-HT2A receptors increases this outflow. Changes in core temperature mediated by brain/spinal pathways regulated by 5-HT1A and 5-HT2A receptors reflect coordinated changes in BAT-mediated heat production as well as changes in heat dissipation via the thermoregulatory cutaneous vascular beds.

Human subjects have been found to be able to cognitively prepare themselves to resist to a TMS-induced central perturbation by selectively modulating the corticospinal excitability (CS). The aim of this study was to investigate the on-line adaptability of this cognitive tuning of CS excitability during human gait. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used both as a central perturbation evoking a movement and as a tool for quantifying the CS excitability before the movement was evoked. TMS was applied at mid-stance (evoking additional hip extension) or at the beginning of the swing (evoking hip flexion) with a random phase, thus evoking unpredictable flexion or extension movement. This was compared to a condition of fixed phase, in which the subjects knew in advance the direction of the evoked movement. In both conditions, we compared the amplitude of the TMS-evoked movement and the motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) of the muscles acting at the hip joint (RF/BF) according to two opposite instructions, either to cognitively prepare to &quot;let go&quot;, or to cognitively prepare to &quot;compensate&quot; for the evoked movements. The results showed that the subjects were able to compensate for random TMS-evoked movements, but with a lower performance level in comparison to the fixed TMS-evoked movements. When they succeeded in the random-phase condition, the subjects used the same preparation strategy as in the fixed-phase condition; preparing to compensate resulted in a selective increase in the CS excitability to those muscles which would be involved in counteracting the possible central perturbation. This requires continuous change in the tuning of CS excitability within the stride and thus reveals the high flexibility of the cognitive tuning of CS excitability during gait.
The superoxide-generating phagocytic NADPH oxidase is an important component of the innate immune response against microbial agents, and is involved in shaping the cellular response to a variety of physiological and pathological signals. One of the downstream targets of NADPH oxidase-derived radicals is the ubiquitous transcription factor NF-kappaB, which controls the expression of a large array of genes involved in immune function and cell survival. Here we show that NF-kappaB itself is a key factor in controlling NADPH oxidase expression and function. In monocytic and microglial cell lines, the expression of the NADPH oxidase subunit gp91(phox) was induced by lipopolysaccharide/interferon gamma treatment and was inhibited in cells constitutively expressing IkappaBalpha. Furthermore, inducible reactive oxygen species production was inhibited in IkappaBalpha overexpressing cells. gp91(phox) expression was very low in RelA(-/-) fibroblasts and could be induced by reconstituting these cells with p65/RelA. Thus, gp91(phox) expression is dependent on the presence of p65/RelA. We also found that gp91(phox) transcription is dependent on NF-kappaB and we identified two potential cis-acting elements in the murine gp91(phox) promoter that control NF-kappaB-dependent regulation. The findings raise the possibility of a positive feedback loop in which NF-kappaB activation by oxidative stress leads to further radical production via NADPH oxidase.
A high percentage of drugs and drug candidates has been found to cause cardiotoxicity by reducing potassium conductance, more commonly known as QT prolongation. However, some compounds do not show direct block of ionic flow, suggesting that other mechanisms may also lead to reduction of potassium currents. Using the functional recovery after chemobleaching (FRAC) assay, we have examined a collection of drugs and drug-like compounds for potential perturbation of cardiac potassium channel trafficking. Here we report that a significant number of inhibitory compounds displayed effects on channel expression on the cell surface. Further investigation of celastrol (3-hydroxy-24-nor-2-oxo-1 (10),3,5,7-friedelatetraen-29-oic acid), a cell-permeable dienonephenolic triterpene compound, revealed its potent inhibitory activity on both Kir2.1 and hERG potassium channels, causal to QT prolongation. In addition to acute block of ion conduction, celastrol also alters the rate of ion channel transport and causes a reduction of channel density on the cell surface. In contrast, celastrol has no effects on trafficking of either CD4 or CD8 membrane proteins. Furthermore, the potency for reducing surface expression is approximately 5-10-fold more effective than that for either direct acute inhibition or reported cytoprotectivity via activation of the heat shock transcription factor 1. Because the reduction of potassium channel activity is a common form of druginduced cardiotoxicity, the potent inhibition of cell surface expression by celastrol underscores a need to evaluate drug candidates for their chronic effects on biogenesis of potassium channels. Our results suggest that chronic exposure to certain drugs may be an important aspect of acquired QT prolongation.
Bcl-2 homology domain (BH) 3-only proteins couple stress signals to evolutionarily conserved mitochondrial apoptotic pathways. Caspase 8-mediated cleavage of the BH3-only protein Bid into a truncated protein (tBid) and subsequent translocation of tBid to mitochondria has been implicated in death receptor signaling. We utilized a recombinant fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) Bid probe to determine the kinetics of Bid cleavage and tBid translocation during death receptor-induced apoptosis in caspase 3-deficient MCF-7 cells. Cells treated with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (200 ng/ml) showed a rapid cleavage of the Bid-FRET probe occurring 75.4 +/- 12.6 min after onset of the tumor necrosis factor-alpha exposure. Cleavage of the Bid-FRET probe coincided with a translocation of tBid to the mitochondria and a collapse of the mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsim). We next investigated the role of Bid cleavage in a model of caspase-independent, glutamate-induced excitotoxic apoptosis. Rat cerebellar granule neurons were transfected with the Bid-FRET probe and exposed to glutamate for 5 min. In contrast to death receptor-induced apoptosis, neurons showed a translocation of full-length Bid to the mitochondria. This translocation occurred 5.6 +/- 1.7 h after the termination of the glutamate exposure and was also paralleled with a collapse of the DeltaPsim. Proteolytic cleavage of the FRET probe also occurred, however, only 25.2 +/- 3.5 min after its translocation to the mitochondria. Subfractionation experiments confirmed a translocation of full-length Bid from the cytosolic to the mitochondrial fraction during excitotoxic apoptosis. Our data demonstrate that both tBid and full-length Bid have the capacity to translocate to mitochondria during apoptosis.

The dynamics of attentional deployment before saccade execution was studied with a dual-task paradigm. Observers made a horizontal saccade whose direction was indicated by a symbolic precue and had to discriminate the orientation of a Gabor patch displayed at different delays after the precue (but before saccade onset). The patch location relative to the saccadic target was indicated to observers before each block. Therefore, on each trial, observers were informed simultaneously about the respective absolute locations of the saccadic and perceptual targets. The main result is that orientational acuity improved over a period of 150-200 ms after the precue onset at the saccadic target location, where overall performance is best, and at distant locations. This effect is due to attentional factors rather than to an alerting effect. It is also dependent on the efficiency of the temporal masks displayed before and after the Gabor patches.
Neurons in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMNV) are more severely affected by axonal injury than most other nerves, such as those of the hypoglossal nucleus. However, the mechanism underlying such a response remains unclear. In this study, we compared the expression of fibroblast growth factor 1 (FGF1), a neurotrophic factor, between the DMNV and the hypoglossal nucleus by RT-PCR and immunohistochemical analyses. RT-PCR showed that the level of FGF1 mRNA expression in the DMNV was lower than that in the hypoglossal nucleus (P&lt;0.01). Immunohistochemistry revealed that FGF1 was localized to neurons. FGF1-positive neurons in large numbers were evenly distributed in the hypoglossal nucleus, whereas FGF1-positive neurons were located in the lateral part of the DMNV. Double immunostaining for FGF1 and choline acetyltransferase demonstrated that 22.7% and 78% of cholinergic neurons were positive for FGF1 in the DMNV and hypoglossal nucleus, respectively. A tracing study with cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) demonstrated that cholinergic neurons sending their axons from the DMNV to the superior laryngeal nerve were FGF1-negative. The results suggest that the low expression of FGF1 in the DMNV is due to severe damage of neurons in the DMNV.

Quick and efficient traversal of learned routes is critical to the survival of many animals. Routes can be defined by both the ordering of navigational epochs, such as continued forward motion or execution of a turn, and the distances separating them. The neural substrates conferring the ability to fluidly traverse complex routes are not well understood, but likely entail interactions between frontal, parietal, and rhinal cortices and the hippocampus. This paper demonstrates that posterior parietal cortical neurons map both individual and multiple navigational epochs with respect to their order in a route. In direct contrast to spatial firing patterns of hippocampal neurons, parietal neurons discharged in a place- and direction-independent fashion. Parietal route maps were scalable and versatile in that they were independent of the size and spatial configuration of navigational epochs. The results provide a framework in which to consider parietal function in spatial cognition.
During cortical development, both activity-dependent and genetically determined mechanisms are required to establish proper neuronal connectivity. While activity-dependent transcription may link the two processes, specific transcription factors that mediate such a process have not been identified. We identified the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor Neurogenic Differentiation 2 (NeuroD2) in a screen for calcium-regulated transcription factors and report that it is required for the proper development of thalamocortical connections. In neuroD2 null mice, thalamocortical axon terminals fail to segregate in the somatosensory cortex, and the postsynaptic barrel organization is disrupted. Additionally, synaptic transmission is defective at thalamocortical synapses in neuroD2 null mice. Total excitatory synaptic currents are reduced in layer IV in the knockouts, and the relative contribution of AMPA and NMDA receptor-mediated currents to evoked responses is decreased. These observations indicate that NeuroD2 plays a critical role in regulating synaptic maturation and the patterning of thalamocortical connections.



Structural and functional neuroimagings are the most powerful tools for differential diagnosis and early diagnosis of dementia. Besides clinical use, they also contribute to neuroscience and to testing efficacy as surrogate measures in clinical trial. This paper, focusing on two different models beyond the therapeutic nihilism, discusses the roles of neuroimaging in relation to treatment of dementias; 1) treatable &quot;incurable dementia&quot; - Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 2) untreated &quot;curable dementia&quot; - idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (INPH).
Astrocytes play a crucial role in central nervous system (CNS) pathophysiology. White and gray matter astrocytes are regionally specialized, and likely to respond differently to CNS injury and in CNS disease. We previously showed that the calcium-binding protein S100A4 is exclusively expressed in white matter astrocytes and markedly up-regulated after injury. Furthermore, down-regulation of S100A4 in vitro significantly increases the migration capacity of white matter astrocytes, a property, which might influence their function in CNS tissue repair. Here, we performed a localized injury (scratch) in confluent cultures of white matter astrocytes, which strongly express S100A4, and in cultures of white matter astrocytes, in which S100A4 was down-regulated by transfection with short interference (si) S100A4 RNA. We found that S100A4-silenced astrocytes rapidly migrated into the injury gap, whereas S100A4-expressing astrocytes extended hypertrophied processes toward the gap, but without closing it. To explore the involvement of S100A4 in migration of astrocytes in vivo, we induced focal demyelination and transient glial cell elimination in the spinal cord white matter by ethidium bromide injection in S100A4 (-/-) and (+/+) mice. The results show that astrocyte migration into the demyelinated area is promoted in S100A4 (-/-) compared to (+/+) mice, in which a pronounced glial scar was formed. These data indicate that S100A4 reduces the migratory capacity of reactive white matter astrocytes in the injured CNS and is involved in glial scar formation after injury.

The ability to understand events that happen to other people is a characteristic feature of the human mind. Here, we investigate whether the links between mental representation of one's own body and the bodies of other people could form the basis of human social representations. We studied interpersonal body representation (IBR) in a series of behavioural cueing experiments. Subjects responded to tactile events on their own body after a visual event was presented in either the corresponding anatomical location on a model's body, or in a non-corresponding location. We found that reactions were faster when the visual cue was in register with the tactile stimulation. This effect was absent when identical visual events were presented on a non-body control stimulus, suggesting a body specific mechanism for interpersonal registration of purely sensory events. Similar interpersonal systems have been demonstrated previously for the coding of action and emotion, but we believe that our results provide the first behavioural evidence for interpersonal body representation at the purely sensory level. We show that a sensory processing mechanism specific for bodies is automatically activated when viewing another person. Interpersonal body representation may be an important precursor to empathy and theory of mind. In our social world, we understand the percepts of others by registering them against the representations used to perceive our own body, and this mechanism involves an interpersonal somatotopic map.
The aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness of a new nicotine lozenge ( Nicopass 1.5 mg) in reducing smoking urge after an overnight abstinence. Twenty-four moderate smokers participated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 2-period crossover trial. The results showed that 1.5 mg-nicotine lozenge is superior to placebo in reducing smoking urge (p = 0.0001). In addition, nicotine lozenge, but not placebo, significantly improved vigilance and psychomotor performances (p &lt; 0.05) and displayed a cardiac chronotropic effect. Thus, the 1.5-mg nicotine lozenge appears as an effective aid to alleviate acute tobacco withdrawal symptoms in moderate smokers.
Acamprosate and naltrexone are therapeutically effective drugs that promote abstinence and prevent drinking relapse among alcohol-dependent patients, and dose-dependently decrease alcohol self-administration in animals. The purpose of this experiment was to investigate the behavioral specificity of acamprosate and naltrexone treatment in mice on alcohol drinking elicited in a schedule-induced polydipsia (SIP) task. Food-deprived male C57BL/6J (B6) mice were divided into three groups assigned to a 5% alcohol SIP, water SIP, or a 1-hour limited access regulatory water drinking task. Injections (intraperitoneal) of acute (0, 50, 100, 200, 400 mg/kg) and chronic (2 x 100 mg/kg, 10 days) acamprosate, or naltrexone (0, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0 mg/kg) were administered. Behavioral drug specificity was determined by comparing alterations in alcohol or water consumption in SIP with alterations in limited access drinking. Additionally, drug effects on drinking-specific measures (g/kg consumption and lick efficiency) were compared with those of non-drinking measures (head entries for food and locomotor activity) during SIP. In comparison with saline injections, acute acamprosate (400 mg/kg) reduced both alcohol and water drinking in both SIP and the regulatory drinking conditions, but had no significant effects on non-drinking measures. Chronic administration of acamprosate reduced both alcohol and water drinking during SIP, but did not significantly affect regulatory drinking or non-drinking measures. Naltrexone (1.0, 2.5, 5.0 mg/kg) reduced alcohol and water drinking in both paradigms, and at the highest dose, significantly reduced head entries for food. These results indicate that acamprosate (acute and chronic) and naltrexone are relatively non-selective in their effects on alcohol self-administration in this task.
Today's neuroscience faculty member wears multiple hats and requires diverse skills to succeed in the competitive environment in which they find themselves. A common refrain from graduates is that there is a need for better training in the diverse, multiple skills that they will need to succeed in obtaining a faculty position and excelling in that position once it is obtained. Our university recently developed a new neuroscience graduate program that allowed us to create a curriculum and core courses de novo and that could be tailored to provide training in diverse skills used by everyday neuroscience faculty members. The current article details our rationale, design, and implementation of this new curriculum and its two major core courses. The genesis of the new curriculum also provided an opportune time to introduce and test new teaching technology in the two neuroscience core courses. The technology incorporated included on-line WebCT course sites, computer performance system, and the Tegrity system. Herein, we elaborate on our experiences with the use of this technology in the small class graduate course setting and provide insight on student feedback on the perceived effectiveness of the technology. The mechanisms and considerations that are needed for incorporation of such technology are also discussed. While no single curriculum or technology incorporation scheme will be applicable to all programs, it is hoped that our experiences in curriculum design and technology incorporation will be beneficial to other universities as they consider refining existing programs or beginning new ones.
The terms &quot;autonomous&quot; or &quot;vegetative&quot; are currently used to identify one part of the nervous system composed of sympathetic, parasympathetic, and gastrointestinal divisions. However, the concepts that are under the literal meaning of these words can lead to misconceptions about the actual nervous organization. Some clear-cut examples indicate that no element shows &quot;autonomy&quot; in an integrated body. Nor are they solely &quot;passive&quot; or generated &quot;without mental elaboration.&quot; In addition, to be &quot;not consciously controlled&quot; is not a unique attribute of these components. Another term that could be proposed is &quot;homeostatic nervous system&quot; for providing conditions to the execution of behaviors and maintenance of the internal milieu within normal ranges. But, not all homeostatic conditions are under the direct influence of these groups of neurons, and some situations clearly impose different ranges for some variables that are adaptative (or hazardous) in the tentative of successfully coping with challenging situations. Finally, the name &quot;nervous system for visceral control&quot; emerges as another possibility. Unfortunately, it is not only &quot;viscera&quot; that represent end targets for this specific innervation. Therefore, it is commented that no quite adequate term for the sympathetic, parasympathetic, and gastrointestinal divisions has already been coined. The basic condition for a new term is that it should clearly imply the whole integrated and collaborative functions that the components have in an indivisible organism, including the neuroendocrine, immunological, and respiratory systems. Until that, we can call these parts simply by their own names and avoid terms that are more &quot;convenient&quot; than appropriate.

This article represents the proceedings of a symposium presented at the 158th Annual Meeting of the American Psychiatric Association held in Atlanta, Georgia, on May 24, 2005. The organizer/chairman was Bankole A. Johnson, DSc, MD, PhD. The presentations included the following: (1) Neuropharmacological Basis of Alcohol Dependence, by George F. Koob, PhD; (2) Recent Developments in the Genetics of Alcohol Dependence, by Marc A. Schuckit, MD; (3) New Pharmacological Strategies for Treating Alcohol Dependence, by Barbara J. Mason, PhD; (4) New Medications: The Use of Anticonvulsants, Both Alone and in Combination, with Various Forms of Psychotherapy, by Bankole A. Johnson, DSc, MD, PhD; and (5) Differential Effects of Pharmacological Agents on Craving, by Nassima Ait-Daoud, MD.



As one of the most compelling technologies for imaging the brain, functional MRI (fMRI) produces measurements and persuasive pictures of research subjects making cognitive judgments and even reasoning through difficult moral decisions. Even after centuries of studying the link between brain and behavior, this capability presents a number of novel significant questions. For example, what are the implications of biologizing human experience? How might neuroimaging disrupt the mysteries of human nature, spirituality, and personal identity? Rather than waiting for an ethical agenda to emerge from some unpredictable combination of the concerns of ethicists and researchers, the attention of journalists, or after controversy is sparked by research that cannot be retracted, we queried key figures in bioethics and the humanities, neuroscience, media, industry, and patient advocacy in focus groups and interviews. We identified specific ethical, legal and social issues (ELSI) that highlight researcher obligations and the nonclinical impact of the technology at this new frontier.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a progressive muscle-wasting disease resulting from lack of the sarcolemmal protein dystrophin. However, the mechanism leading to the final disease status is not fully understood. Several lines of evidence suggest a role for nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB in muscle degeneration as well as regeneration in DMD patients and mdx mice. We investigated the effects of blocking NF-kappaB by inhibition of oxidative stress/lipid peroxidation on the dystrophic process in mdx mice. Five-week-old mdx mice received three times a week for 5 weeks either IRFI-042 (20 mg/kg), a strong antioxidant and lipid peroxidation inhibitor, or its vehicle. IRFI-042 treatment increased forelimb strength (+22%, P &lt; 0.05) and strength normalized to weight (+23%, P &lt; 0.05) and decreased fatigue (-45%, P &lt; 0.05). It also reduced serum creatine kinase levels (P &lt; 0.01) and reduced muscle-conjugated diene content and augmented muscle-reduced glutathione (P &lt; 0.01). IRFI-042 blunted NF-kappaB DNA-binding activity and tumor necrosis factor-alpha expression in the dystrophic muscles (P &lt; 0.01), reducing muscle necrosis (P &lt; 0.01) and enhancing regeneration (P &lt; 0.05). Our data suggest that oxidative stress/lipid peroxidation represents one of the mechanisms activating NF-kappaB and the consequent pathogenetic cascade in mdx muscles. Most importantly, these new findings may have clinical implications for the pharmacological treatment of patients with DMD.
Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy is an inherited muscular disorder clinically characterized by slowly progressive weakness affecting humero-peroneal muscles, early joint contractures, and cardiomyopathy with conduction block. The X-linked recessive form is caused by mutation in the EMD gene encoding an integral protein of the inner nuclear membrane, emerin. In this study, mutant mice lacking emerin were produced by insertion of a neomycin resistance gene into exon 6 of the coding gene. Tissues taken from mutant mice lacked emerin. The mutant mice displayed a normal growth rate indistinguishable from their littermates and were fertile. No marked muscle weakness or joint abnormalities were observed; however, rotarod test revealed altered motor coordination. Electrocardiography showed mild prolongation of atrioventricular conduction time in emerin-lacking male mice older than 40 weeks of age. Electron microscopic analysis of skeletal and cardiac muscles from emerin-lacking mice revealed small vacuoles, which mostly bordered the myonuclei. Our results suggest that emerin deficiency causes minimal motor and cardiac dysfunctions in mice with a structural fragility of myonuclei.
Kv4.2 is the primary pore-forming subunit encoding A-type currents in many neurons throughout the nervous system, and it also contributes to the transient outward currents of cardiac myocytes. A-type currents in the dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons are regulated by activation of ERK/MAPK, and Kv4.2 is the likely pore-forming subunit of that current. We showed previously that Kv4.2 is directly phosphorylated at three sites by ERK/MAPK (T602, T607, and S616). In this study we determined whether direct phosphorylation of Kv4.2 by ERK/MAPK is responsible for the regulation of the A-type current observed in neurons. We made site-directed mutants, changing the phosphosite serine (S) or threonine (T) to aspartate (D) to mimic phosphorylation. We found that the T607D mutation mimicked the electrophysiological changes elicited by ERK/MAPK activation in neurons: a rightward shift of the activation curve and an overall reduction in current compared with wild type (WT). Surprisingly, the S616D mutation caused the opposite effect, a leftward shift in the activation voltage. K(+) channel-interacting protein (KChIP)3 ancillary subunit coexpression with Kv4.2 was necessary for the T607D effect, as the T607D mutant when expressed in the absence of KChIP3 was not different from WT Kv4.2. These data suggest that direct phosphorylation of Kv4.2 at T607 is involved in the dynamic regulation of the channel function by ERK/MAPK and an interaction of the primary subunit with KChIP is also necessary for this effect. Overall these studies provide new insights into the structure-function relationships for MAPK regulation of membrane ion channels.
Advances in magnetic resonance imaging are driving the development of higher-resolution machines equipped with high-strength static magnetic fields (MFs). The behavioral effects of high-strength MFs are largely uncharacterized, although in male rats, exposure to 7 T or above induces locomotor circling and leads to a conditioned taste avoidance (CTA) if paired with a novel taste. Here, the effects of MFs on male and female rats were compared to determine whether there are sex differences in behavioral responses and whether these can be explained by ovarian steroid status. Rats were given 10-min access to a novel saccharin solution and then restrained within a 14-T magnet for 30 min. Locomotor activity after exposure was scored for circling and rearing. CTA extinction was measured with two-bottle preference tests. In experiment 1, males were compared with females across the estrous cycle after a single MF exposure. Females circled more and acquired a more persistent CTA than males; circling was highest on the day of estrus. In experiment 2, the effects of three MF exposures were compared among intact rats, ovariectomized females, and ovariectomized females with steroid replacement. Compared with intact rats, ovariectomy increased circling; estrogen replacement blocked the increase. Males acquired a stronger initial CTA but extinguished faster than intact or ovariectomized females. Thus the locomotor circling induced by MF exposure was increased in females and modulated by ovarian steroids across the estrous cycle and by hormone replacement. Furthermore, female rats acquired a more persistent CTA than male rats, which was not dependent on estrous phase or endogenous ovarian steroids.
We report a new approach for collecting and deconvoluting the data in Hadamard transform capillary electrophoresis, referred to as fast Hadamard transform capillary electrophoresis (fHTCE). Using fHTCE, total analysis times can be reduced by up to 48% per multiplexed separation compared to conventional Hadamard transform capillary electrophoresis (cHTCE) while providing comparable signal-to-noise ratio enhancements. In fHTCE, the sample is injected following a pseudorandom pulsing sequence derived from the first row of a simplex matrix (S-matrix) in contrast to cHTCE, which utilizes a sequence of twice the length. In addition to the temporal savings provided by fHTCE, a 50% reduction in sample consumption is also realized due to the decreased number of sample injections. We have applied fHTCE to the analysis of mixtures of neurotransmitters and related compounds to yield improved signal-to-noise ratios with a total analysis time under 10 s. In addition, we demonstrate the capability of fHTCE to perform time-resolved monitoring of changes in the concentration of model neurochemical compounds.
The carotid body (CB) senses changes in arterial blood PO2 and modulates respiratory movement. It is generally accepted that the dopaminergic type I cells in the CB are chemoreceptors. However, it has not been clarified whether the carotid body has the ability to perceive the stimulation of proinflammatory cytokines. Interleukin 6 (IL-6) as a multifunctional cytokine plays a pivotal role in host defense mechanism. In the present study, we observed the expression of IL-6Ralpha mRNA and protein in the carotid body using immunohistochemistry, Western blots, and in situ hybridization. The results confirmed the presence of IL-6Ralpha proteins and mRNAs in the glomus cells of rat carotid body. These results suggest that the function of the carotid body may be influenced by the proinflammatrory cytokines through their receptors.




Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is a neuromodulator in the brain and a relaxant for smooth muscle. H2S protects primary cortical neurons from oxidative stress by increasing the intracellular concentrations of glutathione, the major antioxidant in cells. However, changes in glutathione alone are not sufficient to account for full protection in all types of nerve cells. H2S is here shown to protect an immortalized mouse hippocampal cell line from oxidative glutamate toxicity by activating ATP-dependent K+ (KATP) and Cl- channels, in addition to increasing the levels of glutathione. The present study therefore identifies a novel pathway for H2S protection from oxidative stress.
Most previous studies on the controls of thirst and salt appetite in rats have focused on systemic factors. Our recent experiments suggest that presystemic factors also are likely to play an important role. For example, dehydrated rats were found to consume similar volumes in an initial drinking bout when given access either to water or 0.05, 0.10, 0.15, or 0.20 M NaCl solution. Thus, cessation of the bouts evidently was not related to the concentration of fluid consumed but to its volume. It occurred despite the continued presence of known systemic stimuli for thirst (i.e. either increased plasma osmolality or decreased plasma volume), and therefore it resulted from inhibition rather than satiation. This inhibition appeared to derive from signals related to the cumulative volume of ingested fluid in the stomach and small intestine. Similar findings were obtained in studies of NaCl solution intake by NaCl-deprived adrenalectomized rats. These and other observations suggest that gastrointestinal fill generates stimuli that inhibit drinking in rats regardless of whether thirst or salt appetite motivates fluid consumption and regardless of whether rats consume water or NaCl solution.
The aim of this study was to assess whether a pet therapy program had a favorable effect on psychopathological status and perception of quality of life in cognitively unimpaired institutionalized elderly. Seven elderly rest homes in Veneto Region of Northern Italy participated in the project, which was conducted on 144 cognitively intact elderly residents (97 females and 47 males). The participants were randomly divided into three groups: 48 subjects were given a canary, 43 subjects were given a plant, and 53 subjects were given nothing. The observation period (t0-t1) lasted for 3 months. At time t0 and t1 participants were administered the mini mental state examination (MMSE) to assess their cognitive status, the LEIPAD II-Short Version (LEIPAD-SV), to gauge subjective perception of quality of life in the elderly, and the brief symptom inventory (BSI), for self-evaluation of the presence of psychopathological symptoms. At the end of the 3-month trial, tests were re-administered, without removing the experimental condition. Even if the group that received a plant seemed to benefit from the experience, they did not achieve the same positive results on BSI and quality of life subscales exhibited by the group that received a pet. This study reinforces the hypothesis that pet therapy may have a beneficial effect on the psychological well being of institutionalized elderly, in particular on aspects related to depressive symptoms and perception of quality of life.


Knowledge about the neuronal pathways of the taste system is interesting both for studying taste coding and appetitive learning of odours. We here present the morphology of the sensilla styloconica on the proboscis of the moth Heliothis virescens and the projections of the associated receptor neurones in the central nervous system. The morphology of the sensilla was studied by light microscopy and by scanning- and transmission electron microscopy. Each sensillum contains three or four sensory neurones; one mechanosensory and two or three chemosensory. The receptor neurones were stained with neurobiotin tracer combined with avidin-fluorescein conjugate, and the projections were viewed in a confocal laser-scanning microscope. The stained axons entered the suboesophageal ganglion via the maxillary nerves and were divided into two categories based on their projection pattern. Category one projected exclusively ipsilaterally in the dorsal suboesophageal ganglion/tritocerebrum and category two projected bilaterally and more ventrally in the suboesophageal ganglion confined to the anterior surface of the neuropil. The bilateral projecting neurones had one additional branch terminating ipsilaterally in the dorsal suboesophageal ganglion/tritocerebrum. A possible segregation of the two categories of projections as taste and mechanosensory is discussed.
This study assessed the effects of nicotine pre-exposure on subsequent locomotor and rewarding effects of repeated Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol administration in Sprague-Dawley rats. Repeated administration of the same dose of Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (0.01-2 mg/kg) did not produce significant tolerance or behavioral sensitization to Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol's locomotor effects. An unbiased place conditioning paradigm was then used to obtain a measure of the rewarding effects of Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol. Rats received an injection of either Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (0.01-2 mg/kg) before being placed in one compartment (three trials) or saline before being placed in the other compartment (three trials) of a two-compartment apparatus. Control rats received saline injections associated with both compartments. Significant conditioned place preferences developed with 0.1 mg/kg Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol in control rats, but not in nicotine pre-exposed rats. Surprisingly, significant place aversions developed at higher 1 and 2 mg/kg doses of Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol in nicotine pre-exposed rats. To the extent that behavioral sensitization may reflect reward processes in drug dependence, the lack of behavioral sensitization on repeated Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol administration is consistent with the difficulties usually encountered in demonstrating rewarding or reinforcing effects of Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol in rats. The present findings suggest, moreover, that nicotine pre-exposure alters the qualitative nature of rewarding effects and accentuates aversive effects of Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol.
This study tested the time course of the discriminative stimulus effects of inhibitors of monoamine oxidase alone or in combination with cocaine. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were trained to discriminate cocaine (10 mg/kg, intraperitoneal) from saline using a two-lever choice methodology. The nonselective monoamine oxidase inhibitors tranylcypromine (0.01-5 mg/kg) and phenelzine (1-25 mg/kg), the monoamine oxidase-A selective compound clorgyline (1-25 mg/kg), and the monoamine oxidase-B selective compounds pargyline (0.005-50 mg/kg) and selegiline (1-25 mg/kg) were tested for substitution 15 min or 24 h following administration, and in combination with 10 mg/kg of cocaine 24 and 48 h after administration. At 15 min, selegiline fully substituted for the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine, whereas all other compounds partially substituted. At 24 h, substitution of cocaine was diminished for all compounds except phenelzine, which produced a greater amount of substitution at 24 h than at 15 min. When cocaine was administered 24 h after clorgyline, selegiline, pargyline, and phenelzine, cocaine-appropriate responding was attenuated at intermediate doses of these drugs, whereas the highest doses did not alter cocaine-lever responding. All compounds except selegiline substantially decreased response rate and produced various adverse effects. At 48 h, the effects of all compounds except phenelzine were markedly reduced. Selectivity for monoamine oxidase-A or monoamine oxidase-B did not predict the ability to substitute for or attenuate the subjective effects of cocaine. These findings suggest that monoamine oxidase inhibitors can modulate the discriminative stimulus effects of cocaine for at least 24 h, and may be useful for treatment of cocaine abuse.
Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) contamination of the human food chain most likely resulted from nervous system tissue in mechanically recovered meat used in the manufacture of processed meats. The availability of effective decontamination methods for products considered at risk for BSE or other transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) would be an attractive safeguard to human health, but neither of the two proven inactivating methods, autoclaving or exposure to strong alkali or bleach, are applicable to foodstuffs. Ultra high pressure-temperature treatment of foods is an effective decontamination method that can reduce the pathogen load while keeping unaltered the nutritional and organoleptic properties of the product. The application of different combinations of high pressure-temperature pulses to meat products 'spiked' with the agents of TSEs can reduce the level of infectivity by 10(3) to 10(6) mean lethal doses (LD(50)) per gram of tissue. These data indicate that the high pressure-temperature treatment is a ready-to-use and feasible strategy to reduce the risk of TSEs transmission via contaminated meat products.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is well established as having non-cholinergic functions and is also expressed in breast tumours where its function(s) is not known. Recently, a candidate peptide sequence towards the C-terminal of the AChE molecule has been identified, as the salient site remote from normal catalysis in neurons, and possibly other cells. The main aim of this study was to explore the possibility that 'AChE-peptide' might also affect human breast cancer cells. Uptake of the non-cytotoxic tracer horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was used as an index of endocytosis, a key component of the metastatic cascade, representing exocytosis/secretory membrane activity and/or plasma membrane protein turnover. AChE-peptide had no affect on the weakly metastatic MCF-7 human breast cancer cell line. By contrast, application of AChE-peptide to the strongly metastatic MDA-MB-231 cells resulted in a dose-dependent inhibition of HRP uptake; treatment with a scrambled variant of the peptide of comparable amino acid length was ineffective. The action of AChE-peptide was suppressed by lowering the extracellular Ca2+ concentration and co-applying a selective antagonist of alpha7, but not alpha4/beta2, nicotinic receptor. The results suggest that AChE-peptide has a novel, selective bioactivity on breast cancer cells and can potentiate metastatic cell behaviour.
The smooth-muscle cells of the testicular capsule (tunica albuginea) of man, rat, and mouse were examined by electron microscopy. They were characteristically flattened, elongated, branching cells and diffusely incorporated into the collagenous matrix and did not form a compact muscle layer. Contractile and synthetic smooth-muscle cell phenotypes were identified. Nerve varicosities in close apposition to smooth muscle were seen in human tissue. Contractions induced by adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), alpha, beta-methylene ATP, noradrenaline (NA), acetylcholine (ACh), and electrical field stimulation (EFS) of autonomic nerves were investigated. Nerve-mediated responses of the rabbit and human tunica albuginea were recorded. The EFS-induced human responses were completely abolished by prazosin. In the rabbit, EFS-induced contractile responses were reduced by pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid by 36% and by prazosin by 77%. Both antagonists together almost completely abolished all EFS-induced contractions. The human tunica albuginea was contracted by NA, ATP, and alpha, beta-methylene ATP, but not by ACh. The rabbit and rat tunica albuginea were contracted by NA, ATP, alpha, beta-methylene ATP, and ACh. The mouse tunica albuginea was contracted by ACh, ATP, and alpha, beta-methylene ATP, but relaxed to NA. Immunohistochemical studies showed that P2X1 (also known as P2RX1) and P2X2 (also known as P2RX2) receptors were expressed on the smooth muscle of the rodent testicular capsule, expression being less pronounced in man. The testicular capsule of the rat, mouse, rabbit, and man all contain contractile smooth muscle. ATP, released as a cotransmitter from sympathetic nerves, can stimulate the contraction of rabbit smooth muscle. Human, rat, and mouse testicular smooth muscle demonstrated purinergic responsiveness, probably mediated through the P2X1 and/or P2X2 receptors.
During development, neurons that synthesize and release gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GNRH1) extend their axons to the median eminence (ME) to establish neurosecretory contacts necessary for hormone secretion. Signals that coordinate this process are not known, but could involve the activation of fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFRs) expressed on developing GNRH1 neurons. Using both whole-animal and cell culture approaches, this study examines the direct role of FGFR signaling in the extension and guidance of GNRH1 axons to the ME. In vivo retrograde labeling with fluorogold (FG) first showed a significant reduction in the projections of GNRH1 axons to the circumventricular organs (including the ME) in transgenic mice expressing a dominant negative FGF receptor (dnFGFR) in GNRH1 neurons. Using a primary GNRH1 neuronal culture system, we examined if compromised axon extension and directional growth led to the reduced axon targeting efficiency seen in vivo. Primary cultures of GNRH1 neurons were established from Embryonic Day 15.5 embryos, an age when GNRH1 neurons are actively targeting the ME. Cultured GNRH1 neurons expressing dnFGFR (dnFGFR neurons) exhibited attenuated activation of signaling pathways and reduced neurite outgrowth in response to FGF2. Further, dnFGFR neurons failed to preferentially target neurites toward cocultured ME explant and FGF2-coated beads, suggesting a defect in axon pathfinding. Together, these findings describe a direct role of FGFR signaling in the elongation and guidance of GNRH1 axons to the ME.

Imidazo[1,2-a]pyrimidines are GABA(A) receptor benzodiazepine binding site ligands which can exhibit functional selectivity for the alpha(3) subtype over the alpha(1) subtype. SAR studies to optimize this functional selectivity are described.
A series of 4,4-disubstituted cyclohexylamine NK(1) antagonists containing a lactam ring is described. The compounds are brain penetrant and activity is demonstrated in a ferret emesis model.
A series of alpha-amino acids were identified as ligands which compete with gabapentin for binding to the alpha(2)delta subunit of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels. Potent analogs were identified. Their activity in an in vivo pain assay is described.
A novel series of 5-HT(7) receptor ligands has been identified and evaluated, providing compounds showing a broad spectrum of functional activities and good selectivity over selected receptors and ion channels.
A series of sarcosine based indandione hGlyT1 inhibitors has been developed. Optimization of substitution around the indandione and sarcosine moieties has led to highly potent inhibitors at hGlyT1, which show selectivity over a number of other receptors.
We have studied the functional role of CaV3 channels in triggering fast exocytosis in rat chromaffin cells (RCCs). CaV3 T-type channels were selectively recruited by chronic exposures to cAMP (3 days) via an exchange protein directly activated by cAMP (Epac)-mediated pathway. Here we show that cAMP-treated cells had increased secretory responses, which could be evoked even at very low depolarizations (-50, -40 mV). Potentiation of exocytosis in cAMP-treated cells did not occur in the presence of 50 microM Ni2+, which selectively blocks T-type currents in RCCs. This suggests that the &quot;low-threshold exocytosis&quot; induced by cAMP is due to increased Ca2+ influx through cAMP-recruited T-type channels, rather than to an enhanced secretion downstream of Ca2+ entry, as previously reported for short-term cAMP treatments (20 min). Newly recruited T-type channels increase the fast secretory response at low voltages without altering the size of the immediately releasable pool. They also preserve the Ca2+ dependence of exocytosis, the initial speed of vesicle depletion, and the mean quantal size of single secretory events. All this indicates that cAMP-recruited CaV3 channels enhance the secretory activity of RCCs at low voltages by coupling to the secretory apparatus with a Ca2+ efficacy similar to that of already existing high-threshold Ca2+ channels. Finally, using RT-PCRs we found that the fast inactivating low-threshold Ca2+ current component recruited by cAMP is selectively associated to the alpha1H (CaV3.2) channel isoform.
Genetically encoded calcium biosensors have become valuable tools in cell biology and neuroscience, but some aspects such as signal strength and response kinetics still need improvement. Here we report the generation of a FRET-based calcium biosensor employing troponin C as calcium-binding moiety that is fast, is stable in imaging experiments, and shows a significantly enhanced fluorescence change. These improvements were achieved by engineering magnesium and calcium-binding properties within the C-terminal lobe of troponin C and by the incorporation of circularly permuted variants of the green fluorescent protein. This sensor named TN-XL shows a maximum fractional fluorescence change of 400% in its emission ratio and linear response properties over an expanded calcium regime. When imaged in vivo at presynaptic motoneuron terminals of transgenic fruit flies, TN-XL exhibits highly reproducible fluorescence signals with the fastest rise and decay times of all calcium biosensors known so far.



The aim of this study was to compare image quality, level of diagnostic confidence and interobserver agreement in assessment of carotid stenosis with contrast enhanced MR angiography (CE MRA) in comparison with 2D time of flight MR angiography (2D TOF MRA). 60 carotid arteries in 30 patients were examined by three observers. Image quality and diagnostic confidence were assessed on the basis of a visual analogue scale. Interobserver variability was assessed with the help of intraclass correlation coefficient. Median values on the visual analogue scale for image quality and diagnostic confidence were higher for CE MRA compared with 2D TOF MRA for all three observers. Higher intraclass correlation values were recorded for interobserver variability for CE MRA compared with 2D TOF MRA both for visual estimation of carotid stenosis as well as for measurement of carotid stenosis on the basis of North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) and European Carotid Surgery Trial (ECST) criteria. CE MRA provides better image quality, higher level of diagnostic confidence and more interobserver agreement compared with 2D TOF MRA.

Movement-related brain activation patterns after subcortical stroke are characterized by relative overactivations in cortical motor areas compared with controls. In patients able to perform a motor task, overactivations are greater in those with more motor impairment. We hypothesized that recruitment of motor regions would shift from primary to secondary motor networks in response to impaired functional integrity of the corticospinal system (CSS). We measured the magnitude of brain activation using functional MRI during a motor task in eight chronic subcortical stroke patients. CSS functional integrity was assessed using transcranial magnetic stimulation to obtain stimulus/response curves for the affected first dorsal interosseus muscle, with a shallower gradient representing increasing disruption of CSS functional integrity. A negative correlation between the gradient of stimulus/response curve and magnitude of task-related brain activation was found in several motor-related regions, including ipsilesional posterior primary motor cortex [Brodmann area (BA) 4p], contralesional anterior primary motor cortex (BA 4a), bilateral premotor cortex, supplementary motor area, intraparietal sulcus, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and contralesional superior cingulate sulcus. There were no significant positive correlations in any brain region. These results suggest that impaired functional integrity of the CSS is associated with recruitment of secondary motor networks in both hemispheres in an attempt to generate motor output to spinal cord motoneurons. Secondary motor regions are less efficient at generating motor output so this reorganization can only be considered partially successful in reducing motor impairment after stroke.
Knowing how and when the degenerative process starts is important in neurodegenerative diseases. We have addressed this issue in fatal familial insomnia (FFI) measuring the cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) with 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose PET in parallel with detailed clinical, neuropsychological examinations and polysomnography with EEG spectral analyses. Nine asymptomatic carriers of the D178N mutation, 10 non-carriers belonging to the same family, and 19 age-matched controls were studied over several years. The CMRglc as well as clinical and electrophysiological examinations were normal in all cases at the beginning of the study. Four of the mutation carriers developed typical FFI during the study but CMRglc and the clinical and electrophysiological examinations remained normal 63, 56, 32 and 21 months, respectively before disease onset. The carrier whose tests were normal 32 months before disease onset was re-examined 13 months before the onset. At that time, selective hypometabolism was detected in the thalamus while spectral-EEG analysis disclosed an impaired thalamic sleep spindle formation. Following clinical disease onset, CRMglc was reduced in the thalamus in all 3 patients examined. Our data indicate that the neurodegenerative process associated with FFI begins in the thalamus between 13 and 21 months before the clinical presentation of the disease.
Activation of the basal ganglia has been shown during the preparation and execution of movement. However, the extent to which the activation during movement is related to efferent processes or feedback-related motor control remains unclear. We used motor imagery (MI), which eliminates peripheral feedback, to further investigate the role of the subthalamic area in the feedforward organization of movement. We recorded local field potential (LPF) activity from the region of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) in eight patients with Parkinson's disease off dopaminergic medication during performance of a warned reaction time task. Patients were instructed to either extend the wrist [motor execution (ME)], to imagine performing the same task without any overt movement (MI), or, in a subgroup, to perform a non-motor visual imagery (VI) task. MI led to event-related desynchronization (ERD) of oscillatory beta activity in the region of the STN in all patients that was similar in frequency, time course and degree to the ERD occurring during ME. The degree of ERD during MI correlated with the ERD in trials of ME and, like ME, was accompanied by a decrease in cortico-STN coherence, so that STN LFP activity during MI was similar to that in ME. The ERD in ME and MI were both significantly larger than the ERD in VI. In contrast, event-related synchronization (ERS) was significantly smaller in trials of MI, and even smaller in trials of VI, than during ME. The data suggest that the activity in the region of the human STN indexed by the ERD during movement is related to the feedforward organization of movement and is relatively independent of peripheral feedback. In contrast, sensorimotor feedback is an important factor in the ERS occurring in the STN area after completion of movement, consistent with a role for this region in trial-to-trial motor learning or the re-establishment of postural set following movements.
The goal of the current investigation was to probe the deficits in the alerting, orienting and executive components of visuospatial attention in individuals who have recently suffered a mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) and to assess the rate and degree of recovery for each of these components over a month post-injury. A group design was employed to assess and compare the performance of participants (12 males, 8 females; mean age: 21 +/- 1.74 years) identified with mTBI relative to control subjects matched for gender, age, height, weight and activity level. Participants performed the attentional network test, designed to isolate the constituents of attention into alerting, orienting and executive components. Reaction times (RTs) and response accuracy were the main dependent variables. The results showed that the orienting and executive components were significantly affected by mTBI immediately after the injury, whereas the alerting component was not. Furthermore, participants with mTBI recovered from the deficits in the orienting component of attention within a week of their injury, whereas the deficits in the executive component remained throughout the month post-injury. In addition, the RT cost to generate accurate compared with inaccurate responses was significantly larger in participants with mTBI than in controls, and this difference was maintained throughout the 1 month testing period. These findings indicate that the regions of the brain associated with the orienting and executive components of visuospatial attention may be most susceptible to neural damage resulting from mTBI. Moreover, the lack of recovery in the executive component indicates that the degree and time course for recovery may be regionally specific.


The nuclear envelope (NE) enclosing the cell nucleus, although morphologically and chemically distinct from the plasma membrane, has certain features in common with the latter including the presence of GM1 as an important modulatory molecule. This ganglioside influences Ca(2+) flux across both membranes, but by quite different mechanisms. GM1 in the NE contributes to regulation of nuclear Ca(2+) through potentiation of a Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger in the inner nuclear membrane, whereas in the cell membrane, it regulates cytosolic Ca(2+) through modulation of a nonvoltage-gated Ca(2+) channel. Studies with neuroblastoma cells suggest GM1 concentration becomes elevated in the NE with onset of axonogenesis. However, the nuclear GM1/exchanger complex is not limited to neuronal cells but also occurs in NE of astrocytes, C6 cells, and certain non-neural cells. Immunoprecipitation and immunoblot experiments have shown high affinity association of the nuclear Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger with GM1, in contrast to Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers of the plasma membrane, which bind GM1 less avidly or not at all. This is believed to be due to different isoforms of the exchanger and a difference in topology of GM1 relative to the large inner loop of the exchanger in the 2 membranes. Cultured neurons from mice genetically engineered to lack GM1 suffered Ca(2+) dysregulation as seen in their high vulnerability to Ca(2+)-induced apoptosis. They were rescued by GM1 and more effectively by LIGA20, a membrane-permeant derivative of GM1. The mutant animals were highly susceptible to kainate-induced seizures, which are also a reflection of Ca(2+) dysregulation. The seizures were effectively attenuated by LIGA20 in parallel with the ability of this agent to enter brain cells, insert into the NE, and potentiate Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange activity in the nucleus. The Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger of the NE, in association with nuclear GM1, is thus seen contributing to independent regulation of Ca(2+) by the nucleus in a manner that provides cytoprotection against Ca(2+)-induced apoptosis.
Gene therapy is a potentially useful approach in the treatment of human brain tumors, which are notoriously refractory to conventional approaches. Most human clinical trials to date have been unsuccessful in terms of improving patient outcome. Recent improvements in viral vectors, the development of stem cell technology, and increased understanding of the mechanism of action of therapeutic transgenes provide hope that the next generation of gene therapeutics may show increased efficacy in treatment of this devastating disease.
Changes in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) control the setting up of the neuro-muscular synapse in vitro and probably in vivo. Dissociated cultures of purified embryonic (E15) rat motoneurons were used to explore the molecular mechanisms by which endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) stores, via both ryanodine-sensitive and IP(3)-sensitive intracellular Ca(2+) channels control [Ca(2+)](i) homeostasis in these neurons during ontogenesis. Fura-2 microspectrofluorimetry monitorings in single neurons showed that caffeine-induced responses of [Ca(2+)](i) increased progressively from days 1-7 in culture. These responses were blocked by ryanodine and nicardipine but not by omega-conotoxin-GVIA or omega-conotoxin-MVIIC suggesting a close functional relationship between ryanodine-sensitive and L-type Ca(v)1 Ca(2+) channels. Moreover, after 6 days in vitro, neurons exhibited spontaneous or caffeine-induced Ca(2+) oscillations that were attenuated by nicardipine. In 1-day-old neurons, both thapsigargin or CPA, which deplete Ca(2+) stores from the endoplasmic reticulum, induced an increase in [Ca(2+)](i) in 75% of the neurons tested. The number of responding motoneurons declined to 25% at 5-6 days in vitro. Xestospongin-C, a membrane-permeable IP(3) receptor inhibitor blocked the CPA-induced [Ca(2+)](i) response in all stages. RT-PCR studies investigating the expression pattern of RYR and IP(3) Ca(2+) channels isoforms confirmed the presence of their different isoforms and provided evidence for a specific pattern of development for RYR channels during the first week in vitro. Taken together, present results show that the control of motoneuronal [Ca(2+)](i) homeostasis is developmentally regulated and suggest the presence of an intracellular ryanodine-sensitive Ca(2+) channel responsible for a Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release in embryonic motoneurons following voltage-dependent Ca(2+) entry via L-type Ca(2+) channels.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is caused by disturbances in the structure and function of the ER with the accumulation of misfolded proteins and alterations in the calcium homeostasis. The ER response is characterized by changes in specific proteins, causing translational attenuation, induction of ER chaperones and degradation of misfolded proteins. In case of prolonged or aggravated ER stress, cellular signals leading to cell death are activated. ER stress has been suggested to be involved in some human neuronal diseases, such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's and prion disease, as well as other disorders. The exact contributions to and casual effects of ER stress in the various disease processes, however, are not known. Here we will discuss the possible role of ER stress in neurodegenerative diseases, and highlight current knowledge in this field that may reveal novel insight into disease mechanisms and help to design better therapies for these disorders.
1. The signaling pathways activated by trkB neurotrophin receptor have been studied in detail in cultured neurons, but little is known about the pathways activated by trkB in intact brain. TrkB is a tyrosine kinase and protein phosphorylation is a key regulatory process in the neuronal signal transduction pathways. 2. We have investigated trkB signaling in the transgenic mice overexpressing trkB in postnatal neurons (trkB.TK) using phosphoproteomics. 3. We found that several proteins are overphosphorylated on tyrosine residues in the brain of trkB.TK mice and identified some of these proteins. 4. We demonstrate that the well characterized signaling molecules mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) were phosphorylated at a higher level in the brain of trkB.TK mice when compared to the wild type littermates. Furthermore, we found that beta-actin was tyrosine phosphorylated in the brain of the transgenic mice. 5. Our results demonstrate that phosphoproteomics is a sensitive approach to investigate signaling pathways activated in mouse brain.
The ability of the human prostacyclin receptor (hIP) to regulate the activities of signal transducers and activators of transcription (STATs) has not yet been documented. In the present study, we have delineated the mechanism by which hIP induces STAT3 phosphorylations in human erythroleukemia (HEL) cells. Stimulation of endogenous hIP by its specific agonist, cicaprost, resulted in STAT3 Tyr705 and Ser727 phosphorylations in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Cicaprost-induced STAT3 Tyr705 and Ser727 phosphorylations were resistant to pertussis toxin (PTX) treatment, suggesting that these responses were mediated through PTX-insensitive G proteins. In addition, extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), but not p38 MAPK, were shown to be phosphorylated by cicaprost in a time- and concentration-dependent manner via PTX-insensitive G proteins. The levels of the interaction between STAT3, ERK and JNK were enhanced by cicaprost treatment. The involvement of Raf-1, MEK1/2 and JNK in cicaprost-induced phosphorylations of STAT3 was illustrated by the use of their selective inhibitors. In contrast, p38 MAPK did not appear to be required. Similar observations were obtained with STAT1 upon stimulation by cicaprost. Taken together, these results demonstrate for the first time that hIP activation by cicaprost can lead to STAT1 and STAT3 phosphorylations via signaling pathways involving PTX-insensitive G proteins, ERK and JNK.
Survival or death of neurons during development is mediated by the integration of a diverse array of signal transduction cascades that are controlled by the availability and acquisition of neurotrophic factors and agonists acting at G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Recent studies have demonstrated that GPCRs can modulate signals elicited by receptor tyrosine kinases (RTK) and vice versa. Here, we examined the activity of pro-survival Akt kinase, in response to stimulation by muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) and co-activation with the nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor in PC12 cells endogenously expressing Gi-coupled M4 mAChR and Gq-coupled M1 and M5 mAChRs. Western blotting analysis using a phosphospecific anti-Akt antibody revealed a dose- and time-dependent increase in Akt phosphorylation in cells stimulated with mAChR specific agonist carbachol (CCh). Co-stimulation with CCh and NGF resulted in augmentation of Akt activity in a pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive manner, suggesting that M4 mAChR, but not M1 and M5 mAChRs, was associated with this synergistic Akt activation. The use of transducin as a Gbetagamma scavenger indicated that Gbetagamma subunits rather than Galphai/o acted as the signal transducer. Additional experiments showed that CCh treatment augmented NGF-induced phosphorylation and degradation of the Akt-regulated translation regulator tuberin. This augmentation was also inhibited by PTX pre-treatment or overexpression of transducin. Finally, co-stimulation of PC12 cells with CCh and NGF resulted in enhancement of cell survival. This is the first study that demonstrates the augmentation effect between M4 mAChR and NGF receptor, and the regulatory role of mAChR on tuberin.

Cluster headache (CH) is a primary headache with a close relation to sleep. CH presents a circa-annual rhythmicity; attacks occur preferably during the night, in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, and they are associated with autonomic and neuroendocrine modifications. The posterior hypothalamus is the key structure for the biological phenomenon of CH. Our aim is to describe a 55-year-old man presenting a typical episodic CH, in whom we performed a prolonged sleep study, consisting of a 9-week actigraphic recording and repeated polysomnography, with evaluation of both sleep macrostructure and microstructure. During the acute bout of the cluster we observed an irregular sleep-wake pattern and abnormalities of REM sleep. After the cluster phase these alterations remitted. We conclude that CH was associated, in this patient, with sleep dysregulation involving the biological clock and the arousal mechanisms, particularly in REM. All these abnormalities are consistent with posterior hypothalamic dysfunction.
Recent brain imaging studies have revealed that increased neural activity along the ventral visual stream and parietal and frontal areas is associated with visual awareness. In order to study the time-course and temporal aspects of awareness, we examined electrophysiological correlates of conscious vision in two masking experiments. The differences in event-related potentials (ERPs) between unmasked (consciously recognized) and masked (unrecognized) stimuli were considered to be electrophysiological correlates of awareness. Two attentional conditions (global, local) were included to examine the relationship between the scope of attention and awareness. Two ERP-deflections were found to correlate with awareness. First, awareness was associated with a posterior negative amplitude shift 130-320 ms after the stimulus. This effect was present in both attention conditions, suggesting that it emerges independent of the scope of attention. Second, ERPs to unmasked stimuli became more positive as compared with masked stimuli around 400 ms, peaking at parietal sites. This effect was attenuated in the local attention condition, although the participants were aware of the stimuli, suggesting that the late positivity does not directly correlate with visual awareness. The results imply that the earlier negativity is the earliest and most direct correlate of visual awareness.
The cognitive and neural mechanisms mediating category-selective responses in the human brain remain controversial. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging and effective connectivity analyses (Dynamic Causal Modelling), we investigated animal- and tool-selective responses by manipulating stimulus modality (pictures versus words) and task (implicit versus explicit semantic). We dissociated two distinct mechanisms that engender category selectivity: in the ventral occipito-temporal cortex, tool-selective responses were observed irrespective of task, greater for pictures and mediated by bottom-up effects. In a left temporo-parietal action system, tool-selective responses were observed irrespective of modality, greater for explicit semantic tasks and mediated by top-down modulation from the left prefrontal cortex. These distinct activation and connectivity patterns suggest that the two systems support different cognitive operations, with the ventral occipito-temporal regions engaged in structural processing and the dorsal visuo-motor system in strategic semantic processing. Consistent with current semantic theories, explicit semantic processing of tools might thus rely on reactivating their associated action representations via top-down modulation. In terms of neuronal mechanisms, the category selectivity may be mediated by distinct top-down (task-dependent) and bottom-up (stimulus-dependent) mechanisms.
Subjects switched between tasks that rely on separable &quot;low-level&quot; neural circuits, a motion and a color task. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we assessed anticipatory processes within these circuits during preparation to switch between tasks. Once the switch was made, we could then compare activation levels within the circuit associated with the newly relevant task to continuing activity in the circuit associated with the irrelevant task, allowing us to assess both the effectiveness of anticipatory switching mechanisms and the subsequent competition between alternative stimulus-response contingencies. Subjects prepared effectively for the color task, being equally fast and accurate on switch trials as on repeat trials, and this successful preparation was associated with robust preparatory activity within well-known color-processing regions. In contrast, subjects showed considerable behavioral costs when switching to the motion task, evincing a lack of effective preparation, borne out by the fact that motion circuits were silent during the preparatory period.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) plays an important role in higher cognitive processes, and in the regulation of stress-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity. Here we examined the effect of repeated restraint stress on dendritic spine number in the medial PFC. Rats were perfused after receiving 21 days of daily restraint stress, and intracellular iontophoretic injections of Lucifer Yellow were carried out in layer II/III pyramidal neurons in the anterior cingulate and prelimbic cortices. We found that stress results in a significant (16%) decrease in apical dendritic spine density in medial PFC pyramidal neurons, and confirmed a previous observation that total apical dendritic length is reduced by 20% in the same neurons. We estimate that nearly one-third of all axospinous synapses on apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons in medial PFC are lost following repeated stress. A decrease in medial PFC dendritic spines may not only be indicative of a decrease in the total population of axospinous synapses, but may impair these neurons' capacity for biochemical compartmentalization and plasticity in which dendritic spines play a major role. Dendritic atrophy and spine loss may be important cellular features of stress-related psychiatric disorders where the PFC is functionally impaired.
Synchronization is an emergent property in networks of interacting dynamical elements. Here we review some recent results on synchronization in randomly coupled networks. Asymptotical behavior of random matrices is summarized and its impact on the synchronization of network dynamics is presented. Robert May's results on the stability of equilibrium points in linear dynamics are first extended to systems with time delayed coupling and then nonlinear systems where the synchronized dynamics can be periodic or chaotic. Finally, applications of our results to neuroscience, in particular, networks of Hodgkin-Huxley neurons, are included.
We analyze the dynamics of networks of spiking neural oscillators. First, we present an exact linear stability theory of the synchronous state for networks of arbitrary connectivity. For general neuron rise functions, stability is determined by multiple operators, for which standard analysis is not suitable. We describe a general nonstandard solution to the multioperator problem. Subsequently, we derive a class of neuronal rise functions for which all stability operators become degenerate and standard eigenvalue analysis becomes a suitable tool. Interestingly, this class is found to consist of networks of leaky integrate-and-fire neurons. For random networks of inhibitory integrate-and-fire neurons, we then develop an analytical approach, based on the theory of random matrices, to precisely determine the eigenvalue distributions of the stability operators. This yields the asymptotic relaxation time for perturbations to the synchronous state which provides the characteristic time scale on which neurons can coordinate their activity in such networks. For networks with finite in-degree, i.e., finite number of presynaptic inputs per neuron, we find a speed limit to coordinating spiking activity. Even with arbitrarily strong interaction strengths neurons cannot synchronize faster than at a certain maximal speed determined by the typical in-degree.
Trpm5 is a calcium-activated cation channel expressed selectively in taste receptor cells. A previous study reported that mice with an internal deletion of Trpm5, lacking exons 15-19 encoding transmembrane segments 1-5, showed no taste-mediated responses to bitter, sweet, and umami compounds. We independently generated knockout mice null for Trpm5 protein expression due to deletion of Trpm5's promoter region and exons 1-4 (including the translation start site). We examined the taste-mediated responses of Trpm5 null mice and wild-type (WT) mice using three procedures: gustatory nerve recording [chorda tympani (CT) and glossopharyngeal (NG) nerves], initial lick responses, and 24-h two-bottle preference tests. With bitter compounds, the Trpm5 null mice showed reduced, but not abolished, avoidance (as indicated by licking responses and preference ratios higher than those of WT), a normal CT response, and a greatly diminished NG response. With sweet compounds, Trpm5 null mice showed no licking response, a diminished preference ratio, and absent or greatly reduced nerve responses. With umami compounds, Trpm5 null mice showed no licking response, a diminished preference ratio, a normal NG response, and a greatly diminished CT response. Our results demonstrate that the consequences of eliminating Trmp5 expression vary depending upon the taste quality and the lingual taste field examined. Thus, while Trpm5 is an important factor in many taste responses, its absence does not eliminate all taste responses. We conclude that Trpm5-dependent and Trpm5-independent pathways underlie bitter, sweet, and umami tastes.




Multiple sclerosis (MS) shows uneven geographic distribution globally as well as within countries. In epidemiological studies we have previously demonstrated that there is a high-risk focus for MS in the southern Ostrobothnian region of western Finland. In genetic studies we recently identified haplotypes that associate with MS specifically in patients originating from southern Ostrobothnia suggesting a founder effect. Such haplotypes can be used as molecular tools for tracing common ancestry between patients in different geographic locations. In addition to providing clues to the historical origin, such a genetic archeological approach should help narrow the size of the shared haplotype, thus facilitating the identification of etiological variants and possibly define a superfamily of MS patients with common pathogenetic mechanisms.
In developing countries hydatidosis is both a medical and economic problem related to environmental hygiene and healthy veterinary practice. This cestode parasitic infestation, uncommonly involving the nervous system, presents with varied clinical manifestation, at times causing diagnostic dilemmas. Multiple intracranial and spinal hydatidosis is rare. A series of 29 histologically confirmed cases of hydatidosis of neuraxis (21 intracranial and 8 spinal) from South India are presented. Among the 21 cases of intracranial hydatidosis, 12 cases were in pediatric age, while only 1 spinal lesion was noted in a 5-year-old child. The clinical presentation of intracranial lesions was predominantly that of raised intracranial pressure and visual symptoms, while spinal hydatidosis manifested with severe back pain, weakness and sphincter disturbances. The cranial cysts were usually single and uniloculated (12 cases), multiple in 7 and single but multiloculated in 2. In spinal hydatidosis, the cysts are usually multiple and extradural, rare ones being intramedullary and intradural. Based on clinical features and imaging, the differential diagnosis for intracranial lesions were cystic tumors and arachnoid cyst while metastasis and tuberculosis were considered in cases of spinal hydatidosis because of vertebral bony involvement. The majority of the cysts could be surgically resected totally and some were aspirated under control suction and resected. None of the cases had anaphylactic reaction, with no significant post-operative morbidity and no mortality. One intracranial and 2 spinal lesions caused by fertile cysts recurred to undergo repeated surgery.


Prior studies on brain blood flow in chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) did not find consistent results. This may be because they used single-photon emission computed tomography to measure brain blood flow, which could not measure absolute blood flow. Therefore, the aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that patients with CFS have reduced absolute cerebral blood flow. Xenon-computed tomography blood flow studies were done on 25 CFS patients and seven healthy controls. Analyses were done after stratifying the CFS patients based on the presence or absence of a current psychiatric disorder. Flow was diminished in both groups as follows: patients with no current psychiatric disorders had reduced cortical blood flow in the distribution of both right and left middle cerebral arteries (P&lt;0.05 for both) while those with current psychiatric disorders had reduced blood flow only in the left middle cerebral artery territory (P&lt;0.05). These data indicate that patients with CFS have reduced absolute cortical blood flow in rather broad areas when compared with data from healthy controls and that those devoid of psychopathology had the most reductions in cortical flow. These data support, in part, our earlier findings that patients devoid of psychopathology are the group most at risk of having some of the symptoms of CFS due to brain dysfunction.
Early studies of genetic effects on brain activity have been conducted to investigate primarily either the influence of polymorphisms in dopaminergic genes, especially the catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene, on prefrontal cognitive processes such as working memory, or that of polymorphisms in the serotonin transporter gene on the amygdala response to threatening stimuli. Here, we address genetic influences on the neural systems underlying cognitive-affective interactions. Specifically, we assess the effect of the CO MT val158met polymorphism onfrontal regulation of attentionunder emotional distraction. Healthy volunteers were scanned while performing a house-matching task with affectively negative versus neutral distractors. Effects of val allele load were examined on frontal regions associated with attentional control and emotion regulation, and on parahippocampal regions associated with perception of houses. As we predicted, val load correlated positively with activity in control- and task-related regions during performance under emotional distraction. These findings provide an initial step toward identifying genetic contributions to interindividual variability in recruitment of mechanisms that regulate affective processing.
Basic neuroscience research on brain plasticity, motor learning, and recovery has stimulated new concepts in motor rehabilitation. Combined with the development of methodological goal standards in clinical outcome research, these findings have effectuated the introduction of a double-paradigm shift in physical rehabilitation: (a) the move toward evidence-based procedures and disablement models for the assessment of clinical outcome and (b) the introduction of training-based concepts that are theoretically founded in learning theory. A major drive for new interventions has further come from recent findings on the adaptive capacities of neural networks and their linkage to perception, performance, and long-term recovery. In this context, constraint-induced movement therapy, an intervention initially designed for upper-limb hemiparesis, represents the theoretically and empirically most thoroughly founded training concept. Several clinical trials on constraint-induced therapy (CIT) have shown its efficacy in higher functioning patients; however, the transfer of the treatment into standard health care seems slow. Survey research further suggests a rather poor acceptance of CIT among clinical staff and it seems that the implementation of CIT is hindered by barriers constructed of beliefs and assumptions that demand a critical and evidence-based discussion. Within this context, we have conducted a series of experiments on amended CIT protocols and their application in the clinical environment which addressed the following issues: (1) massed practice: are 6 hours of daily training inevitable to achieve clinical benefits? (2) practicality: what is feasible in the standard care setting and what are the clinical benefits achieved by &quot;feasible compromise CIT protocols?&quot; (3) apprehensions: are concerns on increased muscular tone and pathologic movement patterns justified, and (4) learned nonuse: is the assumption of &quot;hidden&quot; residual abilities valid so that it warrants the constraint condition? In the present paper, the key findings of these studies will be summarized and critically discussed.
Through the preferential pairing of response positions to pitch, here we show that the internal representation of pitch height is spatial in nature and affects performance, especially in musically trained participants, when response alternatives are either vertically or horizontally aligned. The finding that our cognitive system maps pitch height onto an internal representation of space, which in turn affects motor performance even when this perceptual attribute is irrelevant to the task, extends previous studies on auditory perception and suggests an interesting analogy between music perception and mathematical cognition. Both the basic elements of mathematical cognition (i.e. numbers) and the basic elements of musical cognition (i.e. pitches), appear to be mapped onto a mental spatial representation in a way that affects motor performance.
Spectral EEG analysis in hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is usually performed disregarding the effect of epoch length, statistical errors and equipment noise. A study on these items was carried out. In addition, spectral analysis and a new analysis, performed in time domain, were compared in the assessment of HE. The EEG tracings of 73 cirrhotic patients with HE were analyzed. Artifact-free periods of about 1 min were selected. Equipment noise was measured by short-circuiting all the electrodes. The equipment noise was notable below 1.5 Hz; the best epoch length was 4s and the statistical errors were minimal for the band with the highest relative power. Nineteen per cent of the tracings were unstable. The spectral values were found to be related to liver function and to the degree of HE, whereas the relationship with psychometric variables was poor. The indexes computed by time-domain analysis were found to be better related to psychometric findings. We have provided information on the optimisation of spectral EEG analysis and presented a time-domain analysis giving results related to psychometric tests and liver function.


Skeletal muscle is an important target for genetic manipulation and its stable post-mitotic nature allows the use of both integrating and non-integrating viral and non-viral vectors. Adeno-associated viral vectors and naked plasmid DNA are currently the vectors of choice for gene transfer into muscle. The last couple of years have seen major breakthroughs in the field of vector delivery systems, particularly those using the vascular route, such that gene therapy of muscular dystrophies and the use of muscle as a platform for the production of secreted proteins has become a clinical possibility.


Neurulation in vertebrates is an intricate process requiring extensive alterations in cell contacts and cellular morphologies as the cells in the neural ectoderm shape and form the neural folds and neural tube. Despite these complex interactions, little is known concerning the molecules that mediate cell adhesion within the embryonic neural plate and neural folds. Here, we demonstrate the requirement for NF-protocadherin (NFPC) and its cytosolic partner TAF1/Set for proper neurulation in Xenopus. Both NFPC and TAF1 function in cell-cell adhesion in the neural ectoderm, and disruptions in either NFPC or TAF1 result in a failure of the neural tube to close. This neural tube defect can be attributed to a lack of proper organization of the cells in the dorsal neural folds, manifested by a loss in the columnar epithelial morphology and apical localization of F-actin. However, the epidermal ectoderm is still able to migrate and cover the open neural tube, indicating that the fusions of the neural tube and epidermis are separate events. These studies demonstrate that NFPC and TAF1 function to maintain proper cell-cell interactions within the neural folds and suggest that NFPC and TAF1 participate in novel adhesive mechanisms that contribute to the final events of vertebrate neurulation.
Membrane activity upregulates brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression to coordinately support neuronal survival in many systems. In parasympathetic ciliary ganglion (CG) neurons, activity mimicked by KCl depolarization provides nearly full trophic support. While BDNF has been considered unable to influence CG neuronal survival, we now document its expression during CG development and show that low concentrations do support survival via high-affinity TrkB receptors. Furthermore, a contribution of BDNF to activity-induced trophic support was demonstrated by showing that KCl depolarization increased BDNF mRNA and protein in, and release of BDNF from, CG neuron cultures. Application of anti-BDNF blocking antibody or mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase inhibitor, attenuated depolarization-supported survival, implicating canonical BDNF/TrkB signaling. Ca2+-Calmodulin kinase II (CaMKII) was also required since its inhibition combined with anti-BDNF or MAPK kinase inhibitor abolished or greatly reduced the trophic effects of depolarization. Membrane activity may thus support CG neuronal survival both by stimulating release of BDNF that binds high-affinity TrkB receptors to activate MAPK and by recruiting CaMKII. This mechanism could have relevance late in development in vivo as ganglionic transmission and the effectiveness of BDNF over other growth factors both increase.
A set of conserved molecules guides axons along the metazoan dorsal-ventral axis. Recently, Wnt glycoproteins have been shown to guide axons along the anterior-posterior (A/P) axis of the mammalian spinal cord. Here, we show that, in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, multiple Wnts and Frizzled receptors regulate the anterior migrations of neurons and growth cones. Three Wnts are expressed in the tail, and at least one of these, EGL-20, functions as a repellent. We show that the MIG-1 Frizzled receptor acts in the neurons and growth cones to promote their migrations and provide genetic evidence that the Frizzleds MIG-1 and MOM-5 mediate the repulsive effects of EGL-20. While these receptors mediate the effects of EGL-20, we find that the Frizzled receptor LIN-17 can antagonize MIG-1 signaling. Our results indicate that Wnts play a key role in A/P guidance in C. elegans and employ distinct mechanisms to regulate different migrations.
Maternal intrauterine inflammation during pregnancy poses a major threat of neurodevelopmental brain damage in offspring and may cause poor cognitive and perceptual outcomes. In mice, we have previously shown that maternal inflammation induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) at gestation day 17th increased the levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-6 in the fetal brain. In this study, we used the same system and examined the effect of short, systemic maternal inflammation on anxiety and social behavior of the offspring. Adult offspring from the maternal inflammation group showed increased anxiety, as indicated by the elevated plus maze. Social interaction among offspring from the test groups was examined when two unfamiliar mice from different litters were introduced into a new home-cage. Offspring from the maternal inflammation group showed reduced activity, indicating increased fear. In addition, offspring from the maternal inflammation group were less aggressive towards their cagemates and they spent a significantly longer time trimming the whiskers of their cagemates during the first 30 min of their interaction, compared to offspring from the control group. Our data suggest that short systemic maternal inflammation have long-lasting consequences on the adult mouse stress and social behavior.
Nuclei are aggregates of neurons distributed in the central nervous system and are fundamental functional units that share anatomical and physiological features. Despite their importance, the cellular basis that leads to nucleogenesis is only poorly understood. Using exo utero electroporation with an enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (EYFP) gene, we show that the precerebellar neurons derived from the lower rhombic lip (lRL) undergo multiple migration steps to form nuclei. After the unilateral transfer of EYFP to the lRL of embryonic day 12.5 mice, EYFP-labelled neurons migrate tangentially from the lRL in two distinct streams, one towards the ventral metencephalon and the other towards the ventral myelencephalon. These neurons cross the ventral midline and then become radially directed. Labelled neurons in the tangential migratory streams form contralateral clusters in the external cuneate nucleus (ECN) and lateral reticular nucleus (LRN) in the myelencephalon, and bilateral clusters in the pontine grey nucleus (PGN) and reticulotegmental nucleus (RTN) in the metencephalon. Before forming the clusters, EYFP-labelled neurons begin to migrate radially towards the ventricle in close apposition to nestin-positive radial fibres, and then they aggregate as they detach from the fibres. Inhibition of cadherin function in ECN and LRN progenitors caused ipsilateral formation of the ECN and LRN, implying that the transition of their migration from tangential to radial involves a cell-intrinsic mechanism. These observations suggest that nucleogenesis of precerebellar neurons is a result of multi-phasic migration, and that ventricle-directed radial glia-guided migration is a key step for nucleogenesis.
Hedgehog (Hh) signaling plays multiple roles in the development of the anterior craniofacial skeleton. We show that the earliest function of Hh is indirect, regulating development of the stomodeum, or oral ectoderm. A subset of post-migratory neural crest cells, that gives rise to the cartilages of the anterior neurocranium and the pterygoid process of the palatoquadrate in the upper jaw, condenses upon the upper or roof layer of the stomodeal ectoderm in the first pharyngeal arch. We observe that in mutants for the Hh co-receptor smoothened (smo) the condensation of this specific subset of crest cells fails, and expression of several genes is lost in the stomodeal ectoderm. Genetic mosaic analyses with smo mutants show that for the crest cells to condense the crucial target tissue receiving the Hh signal is the stomodeum, not the crest. Blocking signaling with cyclopamine reveals that the crucial stage, for both crest condensation and stomodeal marker expression, is at the end of gastrulation--some eight to ten hours before crest cells migrate to associate with the stomodeum. Two Hh genes, shh and twhh, are expressed in midline tissue at this stage, and we show using mosaics that for condensation and skeletogenesis only the ventral brain primordium, and not the prechordal plate, is an important Hh source. Thus, we propose that Hh signaling from the brain primordium is required for proper specification of the stomodeum and the stomodeum, in turn, promotes condensation of a subset of neural crest cells that will form the anterior neurocranial and upper jaw cartilage.
The optic chiasm is an important choice point at which retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons either cross the midline to innervate the contralateral brain or turn back to innervate the ipsilateral brain. Guidance cues that regulate this decision, particularly those directing the midline crossing of contralateral axons, are still not well understood. Here we show that Sema3d, a secreted semaphorin expressed at the midline, guides the crossing of RGC axons in zebrafish. Both Sema3d knockdown and ubiquitous overexpression induced aberrant ipsilateral projections, suggesting that Sema3d normally guides axons into the contralateral optic tract. Live imaging in vivo showed that RGC growth cones responded to ubiquitous Sema3d overexpression by pausing for extended periods and increasing their exploratory behavior at the midline, suggesting that Sema3d overexpression causes the midline environment to become less favorable for RGC axon extension. Interestingly, Sema3d overexpression did not affect growth cone behaviors before the midline, suggesting that RGC axons normally respond to Sema3d only upon reaching the midline. After Sema3d knockdown, growth cones grew across the midline but then paused or repeatedly retracted, impairing their ability to leave the midline region. Our results indicate that a proper balance of Sema3d is needed at the midline for the progression of RGC axons from the chiasm midline into the contralateral optic tract.
The Drosophila ventral midline has proven to be a useful model for understanding the function of central organizers during neurogenesis. The midline is similar to the vertebrate floor plate, in that it plays an essential role in cell fate determination in the lateral CNS and also, later, in axon pathfinding. Despite the importance of the midline, the specification of midline cell fates is still not well understood. Here, we show that most midline cells are determined not at the precursor cell stage, but as daughter cells. After the precursors divide, a combination of repression by Wingless and activation by Hedgehog induces expression of the proneural gene lethal of scute in the most anterior midline daughter cells of the neighbouring posterior segment. Hedgehog and Lethal of scute activate Engrailed in these anterior cells. Engrailed-positive midline cells develop into ventral unpaired median (VUM) neurons and the median neuroblast (MNB). Engrailed-negative midline cells develop into unpaired median interneurons (UMI), MP1 interneurons and midline glia.
During development, secreted signaling factors, called morphogens, instruct cells to adopt specific mature phenotypes. However, the mechanisms that morphogen systems employ to establish a precise concentration gradient for patterning tissue architecture are highly complex and are typically analyzed only at long times after secretion (i.e. steady state). We have developed a theoretical model that analyzes dynamically how the intricate transport and signal transduction mechanisms of a model morphogen, Sonic hedgehog (Shh), cooperate in modular fashion to regulate tissue patterning in the neural tube. Consistent with numerous recent studies, the model elucidates how the dynamics of gradient formation can be a key determinant of cell response. In addition, this work yields several novel insights into how different transport mechanisms or ;modules' control pattern formation. The model predicts that slowing the transport of a morphogen, such as by lipid modification of the ligand Shh, by ligand binding to proteoglycans, or by the moderate upregulation of dedicated transport molecules like Dispatched, can actually increase the signaling range of the morphogen by concentrating it near the secretion source. Furthermore, several transcriptional targets of Shh, such as Patched and Hedgehog-interacting protein, significantly limit its signaling range by slowing transport and promoting ligand degradation. This modeling approach elucidates how individual modular elements that operate dynamically at various times during patterning can shape a tissue pattern.
Tomosyn, a syntaxin-binding protein, is capable of dissociating mammalian homolog of the Caenorhabditis elegans unc-18 gene from syntaxin and is involved in the regulation of exocytosis. We have investigated the expression, cellular localization, and functional role of tomosyn in pancreatic beta-cells. Western blotting revealed a 130-kDa protein corresponding to tomosyn in insulin-secreting beta-cell lines. RT-PCR amplification showed that b-, m-, and s-tomosyn isoform mRNAs are expressed in beta-cell lines and rat pancreatic islets. Immunohistochemistry revealed punctate tomosyn immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm of insulin-, glucagon-, pancreatic polypeptide-, and somatostatin-containing islet cells. Syntaxin 1 coimmunoprecipitated with tomosyn in extracts of insulin-secreting cells. Overexpression of m-tomosyn in mouse beta-cells significantly decreased exocytosis, whereas inhibition of tomosyn expression by small interfering RNA increased exocytosis. Hence, in the pancreatic beta-cell, tomosyn negatively regulates insulin exocytosis.
With diabetes affecting 5% to 10% of the US population, development of a more effective treatment for chronic diabetic wounds is imperative. Clinically, the current treatment in topical wound management includes debridement, topical antibiotics, and a state-of-the-art topical dressing. State-of-the-art dressings are a multi-layer system that can include a collagen cellulose substrate, neonatal foreskin fibroblasts, growth factor containing cream, and a silicone sheet covering for moisture control. Wound healing time can be up to 20 weeks. The future of diabetic wound healing lies in the development of more effective artificial &quot;smart&quot; matrix skin substitutes. This review article will highlight the need for novel smart matrix therapies. These smart matrices will release a multitude of growth factors, cytokines, and bioactive peptide fragments in a temporally and spatially specific, event-driven manner. This timed and focal release of cytokines, enzymes, and pharmacological agents should promote optimal tissue regeneration and repair of full-thickness wounds. Development of these kinds of therapies will require multidisciplinary translational research teams. This review article outlines how current advances in proteomics and genomics can be incorporated into a multidisciplinary translational research approach for developing novel smart matrix dressings for ulcer treatment. With the recognition that the research approach will require both time and money, the best treatment approach is the prevention of diabetic ulcers through better foot care, education, and glycemic control.


The high immunogenicity of recombinant adenoviral vectors is one of the major issues in the field of gene therapy. Adenoviral-based vectors are susceptible both to cytotoxic T-lymphocyte and humoral immune responses. In addition, leaky adenoviral genes also render transduced cells susceptible to host immune responses. These are the main reasons why adenoviral-based vectors are not suitable to correct genetic disorders, which require long-term expression of the transgene. Another limit to long-term transgene expression is posed by the fact that adenoviral-based vectors do not integrate their genome into the cellular chromosomal DNA of transduced cell populations. As it stands, adenoviral-mediated gene transfer is a promising tool for cancer therapy and for genetic immunization programs against infectious diseases, provided that host immune responses are carefully controlled.



The initiation of mammalian puberty requires an increase in pulsatile release of GnRH from the hypothalamus. This increase is brought about by coordinated changes in transsynaptic and glial-neuronal communication. As the neuronal and glial excitatory inputs to the GnRH neuronal network increase, the transsynaptic inhibitory tone decreases, leading to the pubertal activation of GnRH secretion. The excitatory neuronal systems most prevalently involved in this process use glutamate and the peptide kisspeptin for neurotransmission/neuromodulation, whereas the most important inhibitory inputs are provided by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic and opiatergic neurons. Glial cells, on the other hand, facilitate GnRH secretion via growth factor-dependent cell-cell signaling. Coordination of this regulatory neuronal-glial network may require a hierarchical arrangement. One level of coordination appears to be provided by a host of unrelated genes encoding proteins required for cell-cell communication. A second, but overlapping, level might be provided by a second tier of genes engaged in specific cell functions required for productive cell-cell interaction. A third and higher level of control involves the transcriptional regulation of these subordinate genes by a handful of upper echelon genes that, operating within the different neuronal and glial subsets required for the initiation of the pubertal process, sustain the functional integration of the network. The existence of functionally connected genes controlling the pubertal process is consistent with the concept that puberty is under genetic control and that the genetic underpinnings of both normal and deranged puberty are polygenic rather than specified by a single gene. The availability of improved high-throughput techniques and computational methods for global analysis of mRNAs and proteins will allow us to not only initiate the systematic identification of the different components of this neuroendocrine network but also to define their functional interactions.
The developing hippocampus of both males and females is exposed to high levels of the gonadal steroid estradiol. The impact of this estradiol exposure on developing hippocampal neurons is essentially unknown. In the rat, the newborn hippocampus is relatively insensitive to excitotoxic brain injury, which in adults is associated with the release of amino acids, in particular glutamate, resulting in a significant increase in intracellular calcium and eventual cell death. We have shown previously in the rat that administration of the glutamate agonist, kainic acid (KA), on the day of birth results in limited hippocampal damage, which is ameliorated by treatment with the gonadal steroid, estradiol. We now show that KA induces an increase in intracellular calcium through L-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels early in development and, later in development, through polyamine-sensitive alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors with a modest increase through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Pretreatment with the gonadal steroid, estradiol, decreases the percentage of neurons responding to KA and decreases the peak amplitude of the calcium transient early in development but has no effect later in development. Taken together, these data suggest that there is a developmental shift in the route of KA-induced intracellular calcium and estradiol modulates KA-induced intracellular calcium to a time restricted to early development, but whether this is the basis of the neuroprotective effect of estradiol remains to be determined.

Traditional Chinese herbal medicine is the most widely practiced form of herbalism worldwide. It is based on a sophisticated system of medical theory and practice that is distinctly different from orthodox Western scientific medicine. Most traditional therapeutic formulations consist of a combination of several drugs. The combination of multiple drugs is thought to maximize therapeutic efficacy by facilitating synergistic actions and ameliorating or preventing potential adverse effects while at the same time aiming at multiple targets. Orthodox drug therapy has been subject to critical analysis by the &quot;evidence-based medicine&quot; movement, and demands have been made that herbal medicine should be subject to the same kind of scrutiny. However, evaluation of the effectiveness of herbal medicines can be challenging, as their active components are often not known. Accordingly, it may be difficult to ensure that an herbal preparation used in clinical trials contains the components underlying its purported therapeutic effect. We reasoned that the identification of actions of herbal medicines at well-defined molecular targets and subsequent identification of chemical compounds underlying these molecular effects might serve as surrogate markers in the hypothesis-guided evaluation of their therapeutic efficacy. A research program was initiated to characterize in vitro molecular actions of a collection of 58 traditional Chinese drugs that are often used for the treatment of stroke. The results indicate that these drugs possess activity at disparate molecular targets in the signaling pathways involved in N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated neuronal injury and death. Each herbal drug contains diverse families of chemical compounds, where each family comprises structurally related members that act with low affinity at multiple molecular targets. The data appear to support the multicomponent, multitarget approach of traditional Chinese medicine. Glutamate release and excessive stimulation of NMDA receptors cause status epilepticus-induced neuronal death and are involved in epileptogenesis. Therefore, these results are also relevant to the development of antiepileptogenic and neuroprotective therapy for seizures. The combination of principles of modern molecular medicine with certain ideas of traditional empirical Chinese medicine may be beneficial in translational medicine in general.
The aim of this study was to compare the neurophysiological and clinical pictures of a large sample of seronegative myasthenia gravis (SNMG) patients with and without anti-MuSK antibodies. Fifty-two consecutive SNMG patients were retrospectively evaluated. They had undergone an extended neurophysiological evaluation: repetitive nerve stimulation (RNS), single fiber EMG (SFEMG), and electromyography (EMG) with nerve conduction study. A muscle biopsy was performed in 11 of 52 patients, the edrophonium test in 44 of 52 patients and anti-AChR antibodies and anti-MuSK antibodies were tested in all patients. Anti-MuSK antibodies were detected in 25 SNMG patients (48.1%). The number of women in the MuSK+ group was significantly higher (P = 0.01) than in the MuSK- group. Seronegative MuSK+ patients are more severely affected and the deficit often involves the bulbar and the respiratory muscles. No statistically significant differences were observed in the edrophonium test between MuSK+ and MuSK- groups. The RNS test was abnormal in a significantly higher number of MUSK- patients than MUSK+ patients (P &lt; 0.00001). With regard to SFEMG data, MuSK- patients were characterized to have more severe neurophysiological pattern. Our observations showed several differences between the clinical and neurophysiological pictures of MUSK+ and MUSK- patients.
An improvement in patient arrival time to stroke unit (SU) is recommended, since earlier stroke management seems to improve 'per se' functional outcome. The objective of this study was to determine if early admission influences the outcome, reduces disability and mortality at discharge and three months later independent of tlirombolytic treatment. Consecutive acute stroke patients admitted to SU between January 1st 2000 and December 31st 2003 were studied in order to analyze the actual role of acute management independent specific pharmacological treatment, we excluded subjects who underwent rt-PA. 35.8% of 2,041 consecutive stroke patients arrived within 3 hours; 62.4% within 6 hours; 37.6% arrived later. Approximately 80% of the &lt;6 hour patients presented a National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) &gt;4 and modified Rankin Scale (mRS) score &gt;2 in comparison with 60% of the &gt;6 hour patients. In hospital (8.7%) and three-month (7.3%) mortality in &lt;3 hour patients were not significantly different from what observed in &gt;3 hour patients (6.8% and 6.1% respectively) while functional outcome after three months was better in &lt;3 hour patients (NIHSS: 34.6 vs 15.2; mRS: 32.9% vs 16.8%). Old age, history of TIA, cardioembolic etiology, severity of neurological deficit and hemorrhagic stroke type all led to earlier arrival time. Admission within 3 hours 'per se' improves outcome and reduced disability at three months.
Behaviourally relevant novel stimuli are known to activate the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic (DAergic) system. In this study we tested the reactivity of this system in response to distinct kinds of novelty processing. Using the in vivo microdialysis technique, we measured extracellular amounts of dopamine (DA) in different DAergic terminal regions during a social learning task in rats. In the first session (40 min) rats were exposed to two never previously encountered juveniles (i.e. unconditional novelty). Afterwards, the animals were divided into three groups: Control group was not exposed to any other stimulus; Discrimination group was exposed to one familiar and one new juvenile (i.e. novel stimulus discrimination); and Recognition group was re-exposed to the two familiar juveniles (i.e. familiarity recognition). In both the medial prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens shell DA increased in response to the first presentation of the juveniles, showing that both structures are involved in processing unconditional social novelty. During the novel stimulus discrimination, we found no change in the prefrontal cortex, although DA increased in the accumbal shell in comparison with the group exposed to two familiar juveniles, showing that the shell is also involved in processing novel social stimulus discrimination. None of the stimuli presented affected DA in the accumbal core. This study provided the original evidence that DA in the various terminal regions is differentially coupled to distinct aspects of novelty processing.
Recent findings in infant rats suggest that the preoptic area (POA) and/or basal forebrain (BF) contribute to developmental changes in sleep and wake organization between postnatal day 2 (P2) and P9. To examine the contributions of these forebrain areas to sleep and wakefulness, separate lesions of the POA or BF, or combined lesions (POA + BF), were performed at P9, and precollicular transections were performed at P2. In addition, modafinil, a drug of unknown mechanism of action the effects of which on sleep and wakefulness have been hypothesized to result from inhibition of POA activity, was administered at P2 and P9. Finally, extracellular neuronal activity was recorded from the POA and BF. POA lesions decreased sleep bout durations and increased wake bout durations. BF lesions inhibited sleep bout durations to a lesser extent, while leaving wake bout durations unaffected. POA + BF lesions produced a combination of these effects, resulting in short bouts of sleep and wakefulness similar to those of transected P8 rats. Even at P2, transections decreased sleep bout durations. The finding, however, that the sleep-inhibiting and wake-promoting effects of modafinil were more potent at P9 than at P2 suggests increasing sleep-wake modulation by the POA between these two ages. Finally, neuronal recordings confirmed the presence of state-dependent neurons within the infant POA and BF. We propose that the POA, in addition to promoting sleep, inhibits wakefulness via direct and indirect inhibitory connections with wake-promoting neurons in the BF, and that this inhibitory influence increases across early development.
A-type K(+) currents (I(A)s) have been detected from the ventral horn neurons in rat spinal cord during embryonic day (E) 14 to postnatal day (P) 8 but not in adulthood. It is not known which types of neurons and which A-type K(+) channel alpha subunits express the I(A)s and what the possible function might be. Here, we examined the expression of two A-type K(+) channel alpha subunits, Kv4.2 and Kv4.3, in rat spinal cord at various developmental stages by immunohistochemistry. We found a transient expression of Kv4.2 in somatic motoneurons during E13.5-P8 with a peak around E17.5, which coincides temporally with the natural selection of motoneurons. Transient expression of Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 was also observed in the intermediate gray (IG) interneurons. During E19.5-P14, some IG interneurons express Kv4.2, some express Kv4.3 and a subset co-express Kv4.2 and Kv4.3. Peak expression of Kv4.2 and Kv4.3 in the IG interneurons was detected around P1, which coincides temporally with the developmental selection of IG interneurons. In contrast to the I(A)-expressing subunits Kv4.2 and Kv4.3, a delayed-rectifier K(+) channel alpha subunit Kv1.6 is persistently expressed in somatic motoneurons and IG interneurons. Together, these data support the hypothesis that expression of I(A)s may protect I(A)-expressing somatic motoneurons, and possibly also IG interneurons, from naturally occurring cell death during developmental selection.
Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) was the first growth factor discovered that exerted prominent protective and regenerative effects in an animal model of Parkinson's disease, the MPTP-lesioned dopaminergic nigrostriatal system. To address the putative physiological relevance of endogenous FGF-2 for midbrain dopaminergic neurons, we have analysed densities of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells in the substantia nigra (SN) and TH-positive fibers in the striatum and amygdala of adult FGF-2-deficient mice. We found that densities of TH-immunoreactive (ir) cells in the SN as well as densities of TH-ir fibers in the striatum and amygdala were unaltered as compared with wild-type littermates. There is evidence to suggest that growth factor deficits do not become apparent unless a system is challenged in a lesioning paradigm. We therefore tested the ability of the nigrostriatal system with respect to its ability to cope with MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) intoxication. Treatment with 20 mg/kg MPTP on three consecutive days reduced dopamine levels in the striatum by about 80%. Densities of TH-positive neurons in the SN were reduced by 71%. However, both parameters did not significantly differ between FGF-2(-/-) mice and wild-type littermates. Our results therefore suggest that FGF-2, despite its prominent pharmacological potency as a neurotrophic factor for the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system, is not crucial for maintaining its structural integrity and ability to cope with MPTP intoxication.
The cerebral microvasculature has recently been identified as a source of factors that can influence the generation and survival of neurons, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). However, relatively little is known about signals that regulate secretion of endothelial cell derived BDNF. To approach this issue the present study examined BDNF secretion from brain endothelial cells in response to reduced oxygen availability (hypoxia), using the mouse brain microvascular endothelial cell line, bEnd.3. We found that exposure of bEnd.3 cells to either sustained or intermittent hypoxia (IH) stimulates BDNF expression and release and that IH is the more potent stimulus. IH-induced BDNF release can be partially inhibited by either N-acetyl-L-cysteine, a scavenger of reactive oxygen species, or by the stable superoxide dismutase mimetic manganese(III)tetrakis1-methyl-4-pyridylporphyrin, indicating that oxyradical formation contributes to enhanced secretion of BDNF. In addition, we found that IH-induced BDNF release requires Ca2+ mobilization from internal stores through ryanodine- and inositol (1,4,5-triphosphate) IP3 receptors and is completely blocked by SKF 96365, a nonselective inhibitor of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels. These data demonstrate that bEnd.3 cells respond to oxidative stress by increasing BDNF secretion and, in addition, highlight TRP channels as potential therapeutic targets for enhancing BDNF availability from the cerebral microvasculature.
In the primary visual cortex (V1), the responses of neurons to stimuli presented in their classical receptive fields (CRFs) are modulated by another stimulus concurrently presented in their surround (receptive field surround, SRF). We studied the nature of the modulatory effects of SRF stimulation with respect to stimulus contrast in cat V1. In 51 V1 neurons studied, large SRF stimuli (40 degreesx30 degrees ) induced only the suppression of responses to CRF stimulation and the suppressive effects became stronger as the contrast for SRF stimulation increased. The contrast sensitivity of SRF suppression did not correlate with that of CRF responses. By independently controlling contrast of CRF and SRF stimuli, we studied whether SRF effects vary with CRF response magnitude. Increasing contrast for CRF stimulation caused an upward shift of the range of effective contrasts for SRF stimulation, indicating that a high contrast for SRF stimulation is required for suppressing strong responses to CRF stimulation at high contrasts. To assess the possible origin of the suppressive SRF effect on V1 neurons, we also investigated the contrast dependency of SRF effects in 28 neurons from the lateral geniculate nucleus. Our results suggest that SRF effects obtained at the subcortical level strongly contribute to those in V1. Taken together, we conclude that along the thalamocortical projections, SRF modulation exhibits a gain-control mechanism that scales the suppressive SRF effect depending on the contrast for CRF stimulation. In addition, SRF effects can be facilitatory at low stimulus contrasts potentially due to the enlargement of the summation field.
The lateralization of functions to individual hemispheres of the mammalian brain remains, with the exception of the human brain, unresolved. The aim of this work was to investigate the ability to discriminate between falling and rising frequency-modulated (FM) stimuli in rats with unilateral or bilateral lesions of the auditory cortex (AC). Using an avoidance conditioning procedure, thirsty rats were trained to drink in the presence of a rising FM tone and to stop drinking when a falling FM tone was presented. Rats with a lesion of the AC were able to learn to discriminate between rising and falling FM tones; however, they performed significantly worse than did control rats. A greater deficit in the ability to discriminate the direction of frequency modulation was observed in rats with a right or bilateral AC lesion. The discrimination performance (DP) in these rats was significantly worse than the DP in rats with a left AC lesion. Animals with a right or bilateral AC lesion improved their DP mainly by recognizing the pitch at the beginning of the stimuli. The lesioning of the AC in trained animals caused a significant decrease in DP, down to chance levels. Retraining resulted in a significant increase in DP in rats with a left AC lesion; animals with a right lesion improved only slightly. The results demonstrate a hemispheric asymmetry of the rat AC in the recognition of FM stimuli and indicate the dominance of the right AC in the discrimination of the direction of frequency modulation.
Sleep-wake behavior is tightly controlled in many animal species, suggesting genetically encoded, homeostatic control mechanisms that determine arousal-state dynamics. We reported that two voltage-gated potassium channels, Kv3.1 and Kv3.3, control sleep in wild-type and Kv3-mutant mice. Compared with wild-type (WT), homozygous double mutants (DKO) that lack these channels sleep 40% less in the light and 22% less in the dark. To understand how the lack of these channels affects sleep, we analysed arousal-state changes during the light period where the differences are greatest between WT and DKO. We determined the kinetic complexity of each arousal state from the episode durations of wakefulness, slow-wave sleep and rapid eye movement sleep (REMS). Based on the number of exponential components in episode-duration histograms, WT and DKO mice have several kinetically distinct states of wakefulness, and these states are longer in duration in DKO. For slow-wave sleep, WT mice have a single slow-wave sleep (SWS) state in contrast to DKO mice, which show two distinct SWS states, one that is 60% shorter than that in WT and a second that is similar in duration. Both WT and DKO mice have two kinetically distinct REMS states. DKO mice show an 84% reduction in the frequency of short REMS episodes (&lt;45 s) without any change in the occurrence of long REMS episodes (&gt;60 s). In contrast to the stochastic control of episode durations of wakefulness and SWS, the durations of both REMS states are normally distributed, indicating that the underlying control processes are fundamentally different.
Neonatal seizures can result in long-term adverse consequences including alteration of seizure susceptibility and impairment in spatial memory. However, little is known about the effects of neonatal seizures on developmental changes occurring in synaptic transmission during the first postnatal weeks. The purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of neonatal seizures on several aspects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic and glutamatergic synaptic transmission in the developing rat hippocampus. Flurothyl was used to induce multiple recurrent seizures in rat pups during the first postnatal days. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from the hippocampal CA3 pyramidal cell and extracellular recordings from the CA3 pyramidal cell layer were made in slice preparations. In rats that experienced neonatal seizures the amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents at P15-17 was decreased by 27% compared with controls, whereas neither frequency nor the kinetic properties were altered. Neonatal seizures did not affect the timing of the developmental switch in the GABAA signaling from excitatory to inhibitory. None of the studied parameters of glutamatergic postsynaptic currents was different between the flurothyl and control groups, including the amplitude and frequency of the spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents, the ratio of the amplitudes and frequencies of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-mediated spontaneous postsynaptic currents, and the kinetics of AMPA and NMDA mediated postsynaptic currents in the age groups P8-10 and P15-17. We suggest that the selective depression of the amplitude of GABAergic synaptic responses may contribute to the adverse neurological and behavioral consequences that occur following neonatal seizures.
Hypertonic stimuli delivered into the supraoptic nucleus provoke neuropeptide release from the somata of magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) in the presence of tetrodotoxin, suggesting that such stimuli can increase intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) in the absence of action potentials. We therefore examined whether the stretch-inhibited cation (SIC) channels of MNCs can mediate calcium influx. Whole-cell recordings were made in MNCs isolated from the supraoptic nuclei of adult rats. Measurements of reversal potentials in different solutions revealed that the current induced by a suction-evoked decrease in cell volume (ISIC) displays a selectivity sequence for monovalent cations of K+&gt;Cs+&gt;Na+&gt;NMDG+. The permeability of SIC channels to Ca2+, relative to Na+, was approximately 5. In the presence of physiological concentrations of external Na+ and K+, the amplitude of inward ISIC was reduced dose-dependently by external Ca2+ with an IC50 of 4.9 mM. This was not due to reduced suction-evoked volume changes or to an accumulation of [Ca2+]i. Confocal imaging of cytoplasmic Calcium Green-1 fluorescence revealed that activation of ISIC significantly increases [Ca2+]i in physiological solutions. This effect is absent in Ca2+-free solution, or when Gd3+ (300 microM) is added to Ca2+-containing solution. Part of this effect is inhibited in the presence of dantrolene (10 microM) and heparin (4 mg/mL), suggesting that release from intracellular Ca2+ stores participates in suction-evoked Ca2+ signalling. These observations indicate that SIC channels are highly permeable to Ca2+, mediate significant Ca2+ entry and release of Ca2+ from internal stores under conditions when the volume of MNCs is decreased.
Clinical progression in hereditary and acquired demyelinating disorders of both the central and peripheral nervous system is mainly due to a time-dependent axonal impairment. We established 90-day dorsal root ganglia (DRG) cultures from a rat model of Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1A (CMT1A) neuropathy to evaluate the structure of myelin and axons, and the expression of myelin-related proteins and cytoskeletal components, by morphological and molecular techniques. Both wild-type and CMT1A cultures were rich in myelinated fibres. Affected cultures showed dysmyelinated internodes and focal myelin swellings. Furthermore, uncompacted myelin and smaller axons with increased neurofilament (NF) density were found by electron microscopy, and Western blots showed higher levels of nonphosphorylated NF. Confocal microscopy demonstrated an abnormal distribution of the myelin-associated glycoprotein which, instead of being expressed at the noncompact myelin level, showed focal accumulation along the internodes while other myelin proteins were normally distributed. These findings suggest that CMT1A DRG cultures, similarly to the animal model and human disease, undergo axonal atrophy over a period of time. This model may be utilized to study the molecular changes underlying demyelination and secondary axonal impairment. As axonal damage may occur after just 3 months and tissue cultures represent a strictly controlled environment, this model may be ideal for testing neuroprotective therapies.
Although the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor is known to play a crucial role in activity-dependent remodeling of synaptic connections in the fetal superior colliculus (SC), its contribution to the electrical activity of fetal SC neurons has not been determined. Furthermore, whether gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated inhibition occurs either as early as prenatal periods or only after eye opening has been controversial. We therefore performed optical recordings using voltage-, Ca2+- and Cl--sensitive fluorescent dyes to analyse synaptic transmission and changes in intracellular Ca2+ and Cl- in the SC of fetal rats that were still connected with the dams by the umbilical cord. Excitatory and inhibitory responses were evoked by focal SC stimulation. The excitatory synaptic responses are composed of early and late components. The early component was mediated by both non-NMDA and NMDA receptors, whereas the late component occurred mainly via NMDA receptors. Train pulse stimulation at higher currents was required for induction of the inhibition, which was antagonized by bicuculline, and blocking of the GABA-mediated inhibition by bicuculline uncovered masked excitatory synaptic responses. Focal SC stimulation induced increases in [Cl-]i and [Ca2+]i that were mediated by GABA-A receptors and mainly by NMDA receptors, respectively. GABA antagonists augmented SC-induced increases in [Ca2+]i. These results indicate that, in the fetal SC, excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmissions occur before birth, that the NMDA receptor is a major contributor to excitatory synaptic transmission and increased [Ca2+]i, and that the GABA-A receptor is already functioning to inhibit excitatory neurotransmission.

We measured cortical hemoglobin-concentration changes under the coil induced by single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) using a technique of simultaneous recording with near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Single-pulse TMS was delivered over the hand area of the left primary motor cortex at an intensity of 100, 120, or 140% of the active motor threshold (AMT). NIRS recordings were also made during sham stimulation. These four different stimulation sessions (TMS at three intensities and sham stimulation) were performed both when the subject slightly contracted the right first dorsal interosseous muscle and when relaxed it (active and resting conditions). Under the active condition with TMS at 100% AMT, we observed a transient increase in oxy-hemoglobin (oxy-Hb), which was significantly larger than sham stimulation. Under the resting conditions with TMS at 120 and 140% AMT, we observed significant decreases in both deoxy-hemoglobin (deoxyHb) and total-hemoglobin (total-Hb) as compared to sham stimulation. We suggest that the increase of oxy-Hb concentration at 100% AMT under the active condition reflects an add-on effect by TMS to the active baseline and that decrease of deoxy-Hb and total-Hb concentrations at 120 and 140% AMT under the resting condition are due to reduced baseline firings of the corticospinal tract neurons induced by a lasting inhibition provoked by a higher intensity TMS.
Prism adaptation is a useful paradigm to study the integration and reorganization of various sensory modalities involved in sensory-motor tasks. By prolonging the prismatic aftereffect and well-timed observation, we aimed to dissociate the components and mechanisms involved in human prism adaptation by their differential decay and development time courses. Here, we show that a single session of prism adaptation training, combining small increments of prism strength below the subjects' awareness threshold, during a pointing task with a free walk session with total prism exposure duration of 75 min, generated a surprisingly long-lasting aftereffect. The aftereffect was measured by the magnitude of the proprioceptive shift (assessed by straight-ahead pointing in the dark) for 7 days. An aftereffect was observed, which lasted for more than 6 days, by a single prism adaptation session. The aftereffect did not decay gradually. Unlike previous descriptions, the aftereffect showed two separate time-courses of decay and increase. After a significant initial decay within 6 h, the aftereffect increased again from 1 day up to 3 days. The novel decay and delayed development profile of this adaptation aftereffect suggests two separate underlying neural mechanisms with different time scales. Our experimental paradigms promise to reveal directly the temporal characteristics of early versus late long-term neural plasticity in complex human adaptive behavior.
To reduce the complexity of controlling hand-shaping, recent evidence suggests that the central nervous system uses synergies. In this study, two Rhesus monkeys reached-to-grasp 15 objects, varying in geometric properties, at five grasp force levels. Hand kinematics were recorded using a video-based tracking system. Individual finger movements were described as vectors varying in length and angle. Inflection points (i.e., stereotypic minima/maxima in the temporal profile of each finger vector) exhibited a temporal synchrony for individual fingers and in the coupling across fingers. Inflection point amplitudes varied significantly across objects grasped, scaling linearly with the object grasp dimension. Thus, differences in the vectors as a function of the objects were in the relative scaling of the vector parameters over time rather than a change in the temporal structure. Mahalanobis distance analysis of the inflection points confirmed that changes in inflection point amplitude as a function of objects were greater than changes in timing. Inflection points were independent of the grasp force, consistent with the observation that reach-to-grasp kinematics and grasp force are controlled independently. In summary, the shaping of the hand during reach-to-grasp involves scaling the amplitude of highly stereotypic temporal movements of the fingers.
It is well known that the somatotopic representation of sensory and motor cortices reorganises in response to sustained changes in sensory input. It is also clear that the extent of the effect depends on whether or not subjects pay attention during the procedure. Here we show that the pattern of reorganisation produced by sustained sensory input depends not only on the subjects' attention but also on the spatial focus of their attention on the body surface. Maximal effects are observed only when subjects pay attention to the site of the input; if they attend to an adjacent body part then the effects are reduced. These results may be relevant to rehabilitation procedures commonly used in patients after stroke.
The aim of the present study was to assess the effect of bilateral subthalamic nucleus (STN) stimulation and dopaminergic medication on speed of mental processing and motor function. Thirty-nine patients suffering from advanced Parkinson disease (PD) were operated on. Motor function and reaction time (RT) performance [simple RT (SRT) and complex RT (CRT)] were evaluated under four experimental conditions with stimulation (stim) and medication (med) on and off: stim-on/med-on, stim-on/med-off, stim-off/med-off and stim-off/med-on. In the last condition, the patients received either low medication (usual dose) or high medication (suprathreshold dose). STN stimulation improved the motor performance in the SRT and CRT tasks. Furthermore, STN deep brain stimulation (DBS) also improved response preparation as shown by the significant improvement of the RT performance in the SRT task. This effect of STN DBS on the RT performance in the SRT task was greater as compared with the CRT task. This is due to the more complex information processing that is required in the CRT task as compared to the SRT task. These data suggest that treatment of STN hyperactivity by DBS improves motor function, confirming earlier reports, but has a differential effect on cognitive functions. The STN seems to be an important modulator of cognitive processing and STN DBS can differentially affect motor and associative circuits.
In muscles, sarcopenia, the loss of muscle mass, is the major cause of aging-related functional decline and frailty. Several factors are correlated with sarcopenia during aging, including contraction-related cellular injury, oxidative stress, endocrine changes and reduced regenerative potential. However the involvement of these factors has not been experimentally investigated. Here, we report that contraction-related injury may significantly promote the progression of sarcopenia in the pharynx of the nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans, a model of aging in non-regenerative tissues. Both functional and structural declines in the pharynx during aging were significantly delayed in mutants with reduced muscle contraction rates. We also examined the role of bacteria in pharynx muscle decline during aging, as previous studies reported that antimicrobial treatments could extend C. elegans lifespan. Although microbial infection may have enhanced functional decline in the pharynx during aging, it was not the sole cause of decreased pumping rates in old animals. This study identifies contraction-related injury as a factor affecting the initiation and progression of sarcopenia during aging. Further, characterization of the specific types of damage induced by muscle contraction will be helpful for understanding the underlying causes of sarcopenia.
Hearing function in the Fischer 344 (F344) albino inbred strain of rats deteriorates with aging faster than in other strains, in spite of the small hair cell loss in old F344 animals [Popelar, J., Groh, D., Pelanova, J., Canlon, B., Syka, J., 2005. Age-related changes in cochlear and brainstem auditory function. Neurobiol. Aging, in press.]. This study was aimed at elucidating the structural changes in the inner ear of this rat strain during aging. Cochlear histopathology was examined in 20-24-month-old F344 rats and compared with that of young F344 rats (4 months) and of old rats of the Long-Evans (LE) strain. Hematoxylin/eosin staining in aged F344 rats showed degenerative changes in the organ of Corti, consisting of a damaged layer of marginal cells, reduced vascularization of the stria vascularis and a distorted tectorial membrane detached from the organ of Corti. Age-related changes in collagen distribution were observed with Masson's trichrome staining in the spiral ligament of old F344 rats. The results of immunohistochemical staining for type II collagen revealed a marked decrease in collagen fibers in the area connecting the spiral ligament and stria vascularis and a decrease in area IV fibrocytes in old F344 but not in LE rats. These findings may contribute to an explanation of the substantial hearing loss found in old F344 rats.
In neural transplantation studies, there is an interest in identifying and isolating mesencephalic dopamine (mesDA) neuron precursors that have the capacity to differentiate into fully mature mesDA neurons after transplantation. We report here that in the developing ventral mesencephalon (VM) the proneural gene Neurogenin2 (Ngn2) is expressed exclusively in the part of the ventricular zone that gives rise to the migrating mesDA neuroblasts, but not in the differentiated mesDA neurons. From other studies, we know that Ngn2 is involved in the generation of mesDA neurons and that the development of mesDA neurons is severely compromised in Ngn2-null mutant mice. We show here that cells isolated by FACS from the developing VM of Ngn2-GFP knock-in mice are capable of generating mesDA neurons, both in vitro and after transplantation to the striatum of neonatal rats. All mesDA neuron precursors, but not the serotonergic or GABAergic neuron precursors, are contained in the Ngn2-GFP-expressing population. Moreover, all glial cells were generated from cells contained in the GFP-negative cell fraction. The results show that surviving mesDA neurons in VM grafts are derived from early postmitotic, probably Nurr1-expressing precursors before they have acquired their fully differentiated neuronal phenotype. The Ngn2-GFP reporter construct used here thus provides a tool for the identification of mesDA neuron precursors in the VM and selective isolation of transplantable mesDA neuron precursors for transplantation.
In contrast to mouse embryonic stem cells and in spite of overlapping gene expression profiles, neural stem cells (NSCs) isolated from the embryonic spinal cord do not respond to physiological morphogenetic stimuli provided by Sonic hedgehog and retinoic acid and do not generate motor neurons upon differentiation. Transcription factors expressed in motor neuron progenitors during embryogenesis include Pax6, Ngn2, Nkx6.1 and Olig2, whose expression precedes that of factors specifying motor neuron fate, including HB9, Islet1 and LIM3. We showed that all these factors were present in neural progenitors derived from mouse ES cells, whereas NSCs derived from the rat embryonic spinal cord expressed neither HB9 nor Islet1 and contained low levels of Nkx6.1 and LIM3. We constructed a lentivirus vector to express HB9 and GFP in NSCs and examined the consequences of HB9 expression on other transcription factors and cell differentiation. Compared to cell expressing GFP alone, NSCs expressing GFP and HB9 cycled less rapidly, downregulated Pax6 and Ngn2 mRNA levels, produced higher proportions of neurons in vitro and lower numbers of neurons after transplantation in the spinal cord of recipient rats. Oligodendrocytic and astrocytic differentiations were not affected. HB9 expressing NSCs did not express Islet1 or upregulate LIM3. They neither responded to Sonic hedgehog and retinoic acid nor produced cholinergic neurons. We concluded that forced HB9 expression affected neurogenesis but was not sufficient to confer motor neuron fate to NSCs.
A previous phase III clinical trial failed to show significant therapeutic benefit of repeated subcutaneous nerve growth factor (NGF) administration in the treatment of diabetic neuropathy. Animal studies have since shown that site-specific viral-mediated expression of NGF in the lumbar dorsal root ganglia prevents peripheral nerve dysfunction associated with chemically induced neuropathy. Using a Herpes simplex virus expression vector, we have investigated the effect of localized NGF expression in a genetic mouse model of progressive diabetic neuropathy, the +/+ Leprdb mouse. We found that site-specific delivery of NGF initially delayed the appearance of hypoalgesia, assessed by the Hargreaves test, by 1 month and effectively attenuated this deficit for 2 months over the approximately 10 months normal life-span of these animals. Once the disease progressed into its more severe stages, NGF, although still capable of altering the electrophysiological profile of the sensory A- and C-fibers and influencing the expression of p75 and substance P in the dorsal root ganglia, could no longer maintain normal nociception. These data suggest that maximal therapeutic benefit in future NGF-based gene therapy trials will be gained from early applications of such viral-mediated neurotrophin delivery.
The adult mammalian hippocampus contains neural progenitor cells capable of neuronal production under normal conditions. Cerebral injuries such as ischemia lead to their upregulation in rodent models, resulting in neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG) and CA1 sector. The adult primate DG also has neurogenic potential under normal conditions, and we have previously shown that transient global cerebral ischemia increases progenitor cell proliferation in monkey DG, with a peak in the second postischemic week. Until now, however, long-term effects of ischemia on adult-generated cells in the primate hippocampus have not been described. We show here that nearly 15% of the adult-generated cells in monkey DG express neuronal features in the dentate granule layer for at least 79 days after the insult. At the same time, most adult-born cells in DG sustained their localization in the subgranular zone with an immature progenitor phenotype. In contrast to DG, no signs of neuronal production were observed in the postischemic hippocampus proper and in particular in the CA1 sector, where the newly-born cells were consistently of glial phenotype. Proliferating progenitors in DG but not in the subventricular zone adjacent to CA1 expressed the pro-neural transcription factors Emx2, Pax6 and Ngn2. Taken together, these results suggest that the neuronal production in adult monkey hippocampus after global brain ischemia is limited to DG and does not occur in the hippocampus proper. The present data implicate the proteins Emx2, Pax6 and Ngn2 as putative molecular signals controlling the fate of progenitor cells of the adult primate hippocampus.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a progressive muscle-wasting disease due to a mutation in the dystrophin gene and the consequential protein deficiency in muscle. How the lack of the sarcolemmal protein dystrophin gives rise to the final disease status is still not clear. Several evidences suggest a role of nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kappaB), a pleiotropic transcription factor, in muscle degeneration and regeneration in DMD patients and mdx mice. We investigated the effects of NF-kappaB blocking by pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC), a well-known NF-kappaB inhibitor, on dystrophic process in mdx mice. Five-week-old mdx and wild-type mice received three times a week for 5 weeks either PDTC (50 mg/kg) or its vehicle. PDTC treatment: (i) increased forelimb strength (+20%; P &lt; 0.05) and strength normalized to weight (+24%; P &lt; 0.05) and a decreased fatigue percentage (-61%; P &lt; 0.05) in mdx mice, (ii) blunted the augmented NF-kappaB nuclear binding activity and the enhanced TNF-alpha expression in dystrophic muscles (P &lt; 0.01), (iii) at a quantitative morphological evaluation of extensor digitorum longus (EDL) and biceps muscles, increased area with normal fibers (P &lt; 0.05, in EDL), reduced muscle necrosis (P &lt; 0.05 in biceps; P &lt; 0.01 in EDL), and enhanced muscle regeneration (P &lt; 0.01, in biceps). Our data support the hypothesis that NF-kappaB contributes to the perpetuation of the dystrophic damage and show that its blockade produces beneficial effects on functional, biochemical, and morphological parameters in mdx mice. Most importantly, these new findings may have clinical implications for the pharmacological treatment of patients with DMD.
Despite that deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the globus pallidus internus (GPi) is emerging as the favored intervention for patients with medically intractable dystonia, the pathophysiological mechanisms of dystonia are largely unclear. In eight patients with primary dystonia who were treated with bilateral chronic pallidal stimulation, we correlated symptom-related electromyogram (EMG) activity of the most affected muscles with the local field potentials (LFPs) recorded from the globus pallidus electrodes. In 5 dystonic patients with mobile involuntary movements, rhythmic EMG bursts in the contralateral muscles were coherent with the oscillations in the pallidal LFPs at the burst frequency. In contrast, no significant coherence was seen between EMG and LFPs either for the sustained activity separated out from the compound EMGs in those 5 cases, or in the EMGs in 3 other cases without mobile involuntary movements and rhythmic EMG bursts. In comparison with the resting condition, in both active and passive movements, significant modulation in the GPi LFPs was seen in the range of 8-16 Hz. The finding of significant coherence between GPi oscillations and rhythmic EMG bursts but not sustained tonic EMG activity suggests that the synchronized pallidal activity may be directly related to the rhythmic involuntary movements. In contrast, the sustained hypertonic muscle activity may be represented by less synchronized activity in the pallidum. Thus, the pallidum may play different roles in generating different components of the dystonic symptom complex.
An important issue in stem cell biology relates to mechanisms of cellular plasticity. Specifically, could any observed multipotency of, e.g., adult stem cells arise from true transdifferentiation or as a result of cell-cell fusion? We studied this issue using a culture paradigm of astrocyte monolayers and multipotent neurospheres generated from neonatal cerebellar cortex and the subventricular zone (SVZ). Based on fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), cells from these cultures were found to contain an abnormal number of sex chromosomes, suggesting that cellular fusion is a common in vitro occurrence. A Cre/lox recombination method was also exploited to further confirm the evidence of fusion. Next, we assessed the potential of fusogenic microglial involvement by combining CD11b immunolabeling with FISH sex chromosome analysis. Differentiating neurospheres were also studied from the PU.1 knockout mouse that lacks cells of myeloid origin, presumed to be a source of central nervous system microglia. Very few cells immunopositive for the microglial marker CD11b were found to be aneuploid, and there was no difference in fusion frequency between PU.1+/+ and PU.1-/- neurospheres. These results, together, suggest that stem and/or progenitor cells that generate neurons and glia in culture possess the ability to generate fused polyploidal cells, but microglial participation is not a requirement for fusion to occur. In addition to caution that should be exerted during the interpretation of in vitro neural cell plasticity, the data also suggest that novel therapeutic treatments could be designed that exploit cellular fusion in rescue paradigms for degenerating neuronal populations.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) can be a highly effective treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD). However, therapeutic efficacy is limited by difficulties in consistently and correctly targeting this nucleus. Increasing evidence suggests that there is abnormal synchronization of beta frequency band activity (approximately 20 Hz) in the STN of PD patients, as reflected in the oscillatory nature of the local field potential (LFP). We hypothesized that an increase in the power of the LFP beta activity may provide intra-operative confirmation of STN targeting in patients undergoing STN implantation for the treatment of advanced PD. Accordingly, we recorded LFPs from the four contacts of DBS electrodes as the latter were advanced in 2 mm steps from a point 4-6 mm above the intended surgical target point in the STN, to a point 4 mm below this. Contacts were configured to give three bipolar recordings of LFPs. These were analyzed on 16 sides in 9 patients. The power in the 13-35 Hz band recorded at the lowest contact pair underwent a steep but focal increase during electrode descent. The depth of the peak beta activity showed excellent agreement with the level of the intra-operative clinical stun effect (k coefficient = 0.792). The depth of peak beta activity also showed 100% specificity and 100% sensitivity for placement within STN in comparison to pre- and Post-operative stereotactic MRI. Functional physiological localization of STN by the on-line spectral analysis of LFPs is quick to perform and may provide information directly relevant to the position of the electrode contact actually used for DBS.
Partly because they are vital but vulnerable, neuromuscular receptors/ion channels are frequently the focus of attack in autoimmune diseases. With such well defined targets and patient subgroups, and with such clear antibody-mediated pathogeneses, these diseases offer excellent scope for highly specific diagnostic tests, which already help to point patients towards optimal treatments. This review focuses on the autoantibodies and their detection, and briefly considers prospects for novel therapeutic approaches. These disorders have also proved fertile ground for detailed studies on pathogenic mechanisms. Moreover, it is hoped that the distinct patient subgroups and the characteristic tumor associations therein will hold valuable clues to pathways of autoimmunization.
Microglia are the resident antigen-presenting cells within the central nervous system (CNS), and they serve immune-like functions in protecting the brain against injury and invading pathogens. By contrast, activated microglia can secrete numerous reactants that damage neurons. The pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative diseases has been associated with microglial activation, but the signaling pathways that program a neuronally protective or destructive phenotype in microglia are not known. To increase the understanding of microglial activation, microarray analysis was used to profile the transcriptome of BV-2 microglial cells after activation. Microglia were activated by lipopolysaccharide, the HIV neurotoxic protein TAT, and dopamine quinone, each of which has been linked to dopamine neuronal damage. We identified 210 of 9882 genes whose expression was differentially regulated by all activators (116 increased and 94 decreased in expression). Gene ontology analysis assigned up-regulated genes to a number of specific biological processes and molecular functions, including immune response, inflammation, and cytokine/chemokine activity. Genes down-regulated in expression contribute to conditions that are permissive of microglial migration, lowered adhesion to matrix, lessened phagocytosis, and reduction in receptors that oppose chemotaxis and inflammation. These results elaborate a broad profile of microglial genes whose expression is altered by conditions associated with both neurodegenerative diseases and microglial activation.
Mutations in the human Crumbs homologue 1 (CRB1) gene are a frequent cause of various forms of retinitis pigmentosa. The CRB1-membrane-associated palmitoylated protein (MPP)5 protein complex is thought to organize an intracellular protein scaffold in the retina that is involved in maintenance of photoreceptor-Mller glia cell adhesion. This study focused on the binding characteristics and subcellular localization of MPP3, a novel member of the MPP5 protein scaffold at the outer limiting membrane (OLM), and of the DLG1 protein scaffold at the outer plexiform layer of the retina. MPP3 localized at the photoreceptor synapse and at the subapical region adjacent to adherens junctions at the OLM. Localization studies in human retinae revealed that MPP3 colocalized with MPP5 and CRB1 at the subapical region. MPP3 and MPP4 colocalized with DLG1 at the outer plexiform layer. Mouse Dlg1 formed separate complexes with Mpp3 and Mpp4 in vivo. These data implicate a role for MPP3 in photoreceptor polarity and, by association with MPP5, pinpoint MPP3 as a functional candidate gene for inherited retinopathies. The separate Mpp3/Dlg1 and Mpp4/Dlg1 complexes at the outer plexiform layer point towards additional yet unrecognized functions of these membrane associated guanylate kinase proteins.

An increasing body of evidence suggests that nitric oxide (NO) can be cytotoxic and induce apoptosis. NO can also be genotoxic and cause DNA damage and mutations. It has been shown that NO damages mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) to a greater extent than nuclear DNA. Previously, we reported that conditional targeting of the DNA repair protein hOGG1 into mitochondria using a mitochondria targeting sequence (MTS) augmented mtDNA repair of oxidative damage and enhanced cellular survival. To determine whether enhanced repair resulting from augmented expression of hOGG1 could also protect against the deleterious effects of NO, we used HeLa TetOff/MTS-OGG1-transfected cells to conditionally express hOGG1 in mitochondria. The effects of additional hOGG1 expression on repair of NO-induced mtDNA damage and cell survival were evaluated. These cells, along with vector transfectants, in either the presence or absence of doxycycline (Dox), were exposed to NO produced by the rapid decomposition of 1-propanamine, 3-(2-hydroxy-2-nitroso-1-propylhydrazino) (PAPA NONOate). Functional studies revealed that cells expressing recombinant hOGG1 were more proficient at repairing NO-induced mtDNA damage, which led to increased cellular survival following NO exposure. Moreover, the results described here show that conditional expression of hOGG1 in mitochondria decreases NO-induced inhibition of ATP production and protects cells from NO-induced apoptosis.
Hypericum perforatum is a medicinal plant species containing many polyphenolic compounds, namely flavonoids and phenolic acids. Since polyphenolic compounds have a high antioxidant potential, in this study we evaluated the effect of H. perforatum in an animal model of acute inflammation, carrageenan-induced pleurisy. We report here that H. perforatum extract (given at 30 mg/kg orally, bolus prior to carrageenan) exerts potent anti-inflammatory effects in an animal model of acute inflammation. Injection of carrageenan into the pleural cavity of mice elicited an acute inflammatory response characterized by fluid accumulation in the pleural cavity which contained a large number of neutrophils (PMNs) as well as an infiltration of PMNs in lung tissues and subsequent lipid peroxidation (as determined by thiobarbituric acid-reactant substance measurement) and increased production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1 beta). All parameters of inflammation were attenuated by H. perforatum extract. Furthermore, carrageenan induced an upregulation of the expression of adhesion molecules ICAM-1, as well as an increase in the amounts of nitrotyrosine and poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR), as determined by immunohistochemical analysis of lung tissues. The degree of staining for the ICAM-1, nitrotyrosine, and PAR was significantly reduced by H. perforatum extract. Additionally, we demonstrate that these inflammatory events were associated with the activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and signal transducer and activator transcription-3 (STAT-31) activation in the lung. NF-kappaB and STAT-3 activation were significantly inhibited by H. perforatum extract treatment. Taken together, our results indicate that prevention of the activation of NF-kappaB and STAT-3 by H. perforatum extract reduces the development of acute inflammation.
In the wild, animals survive by responding to perceived threats with adaptive and appropriate changes in their behaviors and physiological states. The exact nature of these responses depends on species-specific factors plus the external context and internal physiological states associated with the stressful condition. The neuroendocrine mechanisms that control context-dependent stress responses are poorly understood for most animals, but some progress has been made recently. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) plays an important role in mediating neuroendocrine, autonomic, and behavioral responses to stress. Across many vertebrate taxa, CRF not only stimulates the HPA axis by increasing the secretion of ACTH and glucocorticoid hormones, but also acts centrally by modifying neurotransmitter systems and behaviors. CRF or one of several CRF-related neuropeptides acts to stimulate locomotor activity during periods of acute stress. This behavioral activation consists of anxiety-related non-ambulatory motor activity, ambulatory locomotion, or swimming depending on the species and context. CRF-related neuropeptides increase swimming behaviors in amphibians and fish, apparently by activating brainstem serotonergic systems because the administration of fluoxetine (a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor) greatly enhances CRF-induced locomotor activity. Thus, our working model is that CRF, in part via interactions with brainstem serotonergic systems, modulates context-dependent behavioral responses to perceived threats, including both anxiety-related risk assessment behaviors and fight-or-flight locomotor responses.
The endocrine stress response is pivotal in vertebrate physiology. The stress hormone cortisol-the end product of the endocrine stress axis-(re-)directs energy flows for optimal performance under conditions where homeostasis may be or become at risk. Key players in the continuous adaptation process are corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) from the hypothalamic nucleus preopticus (NPO), pituitary adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and cortisol produced by the interrenal cells in the headkidney (adrenal equivalent of fish). CRF is a member of a large family of related peptides that signals through CRF-receptor subtypes specific for central and peripheral actions of the peptide. CRF is &quot;chaperoned&quot; by a unique and phylogenetically very well-conserved binding protein (CRFBP); the functions of the CRFBP can only be speculated on so far, but its mRNA and protein abundance are important indicators of the central CRF-system activity, and indeed its mRNA levels are altered by restraint stress. Moreover, the unique structure and size of the CRFBP provide good tools in phylogenetic studies, that date the CRF-system to at least one billion years old. Pro-opiomelanocortin is produced and processed to ACTH and endorphin in the hypothalamic NPO and pituitary pars distalis ACTH-cells, to MSH and acetylated endorphins in the pituitary pars intermedia MSH-cells. ACTH is the prime corticotrope in acute stress conditions. In carp, MSH, considered a mild corticotrope in chronic stress responses in other fish, lacks corticotropic effects (in line with the absence of the melanocortin-5 receptor in headkidney); yet, an unknown corticotropic signal substance in the pars intermedia of carp awaits elucidation. Interesting observations were made on the CRF control of pituitary cells. CRF stimulates ACTH-cells, but only when these cells experience a mild dopaminergic block. Endorphin, produced in the NPO and transported via axons to the pituitary gland in vivo, reverses the stimulatory CRF action on MSH-cells to a differential inhibition of N-acetyl beta-endorphin release in vitro (MSH release is not affected). We speculate that the consistently observed elevation of plasma MSH during chronic stress may exert central actions related to feeding and leptin regulated processes. A BOLD-fMRI study revealed the functional anatomy of the stress response at work in a paradigm, where carp were exposed to a sudden water temperature drop. In carp (and other fish), the endocrine stress axis is already operational in very early life stages, viz., around hatching and comprises hypothalamic, pituitary, and interrenal signaling to adjust the physiology of the hatchling to its dynamically changing environment. Understanding of stress during early life stages is critical as the consequent rises in cortisol may have long lasting effects on survival and fish quality.
Experimental recapitulation of recessive human genetic neurodegenerative disease in rodents can be classically addressed through genetic disruption of the related gene. Although very informative, this specific gene targeting is restricted to mice and precludes a species scale-up towards non-human primates. Concomitantly, this requirement to silence a specific gene in a broad range of animal models is important in the design of therapeutic approaches to dominantly inherited neurodegenerative diseases. The emergence of RNA interference (RNAi), a highly specific mechanism of post-translational gene silencing, has opened a plethora of biological application ranging from reverse genetic analysis to therapeutic schemes. Recombinant viral vectors, by promoting a long-lasting delivery of genetic instructions in a broad range of cellular types of different species origins, represent potential platforms mandating silencing of specific gene products through RNAi. This review aims at providing an overview of the different viral systems engineered so far for efficient in vitro and in vivo delivery of RNAi instructions. Additionally, the potential of RNAi for functional analysis and therapy for polyglutamine disorders or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is discussed.
Parkinson's disease is a prevalent progressive degenerative disorder of the elderly. There is a current need for novel therapeutic strategies because the standard levodopa pharmacotherapy is only temporarily efficacious. Recently, there have been some high-profile successful preclinical results obtained in animal models of neurological disorders using small interfering RNAs delivered by viral vectors. RNA interference can theoretically be applied to Parkinson's disease since over-expression of various proteins is known to kill the dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra in animal models and in familial forms of Parkinson's disease. Potential RNA interfering strategies and caveats are discussed in this review.
The field of directed RNA interference (RNAi) has rapidly developed into a highly promising approach for specifically down regulating genes to alleviate disease pathology. This technology is especially well-suited to treating viral infections, and numerous examples now illustrate that a wide range of viruses can be inhibited with RNAi, both in vitro and in vivo. One principle that has arisen from this work is that antiviral RNAi therapies must be tailored to the unique life cycle of each pathogen, including the choice of delivery vehicle, route of administration, gene(s) targeted and regulation and duration of RNAi induction. Although effective strategies will be customized to each virus, all such therapies must overcome similar challenges. Importantly, treatment strategies must compensate for the inevitable fact that viral genome sequences evolve extremely rapidly, and computational and bioinformatics approaches may aid in the development of therapies that resist viral escape. Furthermore, all RNAi strategies involve the delivery of nucleic acids to target cells, and all will therefore benefit from the development of enhanced gene design and delivery technologies. Here, we review the substantial progress that has been made towards identifying effective antiviral RNAi targets and discuss strategies for translating these findings into effective clinical therapies.
Individual mouse strains differ significantly in terms of behaviour, cognitive function and long-term potentiation. Hippocampal gene expression profiling of eight different mouse strains points towards strain-specific regulation of genes involved in neuronal information storage. Protein expression with regard to strain- dependent expression of structures related to neuronal information storage has not been investigated yet. Herein, a proteomic approach based on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis coupled with mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/TOF) has been chosen to address this question by determining strain-dependent expression of proteins involved in neurotransmission and activity-induced actin remodelling in hippocampal tissue of five mouse strains. Of 31 spots representing 16 different gene products analysed and quantified, N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein, N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein-alpha, actin-like protein 3, profilin and cofilin were expressed in a strain-dependent manner. By treating protein expression as a phenotype, we have shown significant genetic variation in brain protein expression. Further experiments in this direction may provide an indication of the genetic elements that contribute to the phenotypic differences between the selected strains through the expressional level of the translated protein. In view of this, we propose that proteomic analysis enabling to concomitantly survey the expression of a large number of proteins could serve as a valuable tool for genetic and physiological studies of central nervous system function.
In humans, anxiety disorders are often accompanied by an overactive autonomic nervous system, reflected in increased body temperature (BT) and heart rate (HR). In rodents, comparable effects are found after exposure to stress. These autonomic parameters can give important information on stress and anxiety responses in mice. In the present experiments, stress reactivity of three frequently used mouse strains [129 Sv/Ev, Swiss Webster (SW) and C57 BL/6] was assessed using their autonomic stress responses. BT, HR and activity were telemetrically measured. Undisturbed circadian rhythms already showed clear differences between the mouse strains. Hereafter, autonomic responses to stressors with increasing intensity were measured. Strain differences were found in magnitude and duration of the stress responses, especially after high-intensity stressors. Generally, C57BL/6 mice showed the largest autonomic response, SW the lowest and the 129Sv/Ev the intermediate response. Interestingly, the observed ranking in autonomic stress response does not match the behavioral stress responsivity of these strains. Finally, sensitivity to the anxiolytic diazepam (0, 1, 2, 4 and 8 mg/kg) was tested using the stress-induced hyperthermia paradigm. Pharmacological sensitivity to diazepam differed between the strains with the 129Sv/Ev being most sensitive. These studies show that simultaneous measurement of behavioral and autonomic parameters under stressful conditions contributes considerably to a better interpretation of anxiety and stress levels in mice.
Endophenotypes are quantifiable components in the genes-to-behaviors pathways, distinct from psychiatric symptoms, which make genetic and biological studies of etiologies for disease categories more manageable. The endophenotype concept has emerged as a strategic tool in neuropsychiatric research. This emergence is due to many factors, including the modest reproducibility of results from studies directed toward etiologies and appreciation for the complex relationships between genes and behavior. Disease heterogeneity is often guaranteed, rather than simplified, through the current diagnostic system; inherent benefits of endophenotypes include more specific disease concepts and process definitions. Endophenotypes can be neurophysiological, biochemical, endocrine, neuroanatomical, cognitive or neuropsychological. Heritability and stability (state independence) represent key components of any useful endophenotype. Importantly, they characterize an approach that reduces the complexity of symptoms and multifaceted behaviors, resulting in units of analysis that are more amenable to being modeled in animals. We discuss the benefits of more direct interpretation of clinical endophenotypes by basic behavioral scientists. With the advent of important findings regarding the genes that predispose to psychiatric illness, we are at an important crossroads where, without anthropomorphizing, animal models may provide homologous components of psychiatric illness, rather than simply equating to similar (loosely analogized) behaviors, validators of the efficacy of current medications or models of symptoms. We conclude that there exists a need for increased collaboration between clinicians and basic scientists, the result of which should be to improve diagnosis, classification and treatment on one end and to increase the construct relevance of model organisms on the other.
Guanine nucleotides are key players in mediating growth-cone signaling during neural development. The supply of cellular guanine nucleotides in animals can be achieved via the de novo synthesis and salvage pathways. The de novo synthesis of guanine nucleotides is required for lymphocyte proliferation in animals. Whether the de novo synthesis pathway is essential for any other cellular processes, however, remains unknown. In a search for genes required for the establishment of neuronal connectivity in the fly visual system, we identify the burgundy (bur) gene as an essential player in photoreceptor axon guidance. The bur gene encodes the only GMP synthetase in Drosophila that catalyzes the final reaction of de novo GMP synthesis. Loss of bur causes severe defects in axonal fasciculation, retinotopy, and growth-cone morphology, but does not affect photoreceptor differentiation or retinal patterning. Similar defects were observed when the raspberry (ras) gene, encoding for inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase catalyzing the IMP-to-XMP conversion in GMP de novo synthesis, was mutated. Our study thus provides the first in vivo evidence to support an essential and specific role for de novo synthesis of guanine nucleotides in axon guidance.
The dual role of microglia in cytotoxicity and neuroprotection is believed to depend on the specific, temporal expression of microglial-related genes. To better clarify this issue, we used high-density oligonucleotide microarrays to examine microglial gene expression after spinal cord injury (SCI) in rats. We compared expression changes at the lesion site, as well as in rostral and caudal regions after mild, moderate, or severe SCI. Using microglial-associated anchor genes, we identified two clusters with different temporal profiles. The first, induced by 4 h postinjury to peak between 4 and 24 h, included interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, osteopontin, and calgranulin, among others. The second was induced 24 h after SCI, and peaked between 72 h and 7 days; it included C1qB, Galectin-3, and p22(phox). These two clusters showed similar expression profiles regardless of injury severity, albeit with slight decreases in expression in mild or severe injury vs. moderate injury. Expression was also decreased rostral and caudal to the lesion site. We validated the expression of selected cluster members at the mRNA and protein levels. In addition, we demonstrated that stimulation of purified microglia in culture induces expression of C1qB, Galectin-3, and p22(phox). Finally, inhibition of p22(phox) activity within microglial cultures significantly suppressed proliferation in response to stimulation, confirming that this gene is involved in microglial activation. Because microglial-related factors have been implicated both in secondary injury and recovery, identification of temporally distinct clusters of genes related to microglial activation may suggest distinct roles for these groups of factors.
Erythropoietin (Epo) expression, which regulates erythropoiesis, has been shown in rat and mouse brain after hypoxia. A previous study from our laboratory showed that astrocytes from manganese-superoxide dismutase (SOD2) homozygous knockout (SOD2(-/-)) mice can survive under 5% O(2), but not under normal aerobic conditions. However, the mechanism involved is not clear. Our preliminary study using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction showed increased Epo mRNA expression in astrocytes cultured with 5% hypoxia compared with astrocytes under normal conditions. After administration of anti-sense Epo, protection decreased with time. Dose-dependent administration of Epo to SOD2(-/-) mouse astrocytes improved their survivability under normal conditions. Survivability of heterozygous SOD2(-/+) mutant and wild-type mouse astrocyte cultures was the same under normal conditions but, after administration of 2 mM of paraquat, a reactive oxygen species generator, survivability of the SOD2(-/+) astrocytes decreased remarkably compared with the wild-type cells. Epo administration 24 h before exposure to paraquat significantly improved the survivability of the SOD2(-/+) astrocytes. Western blot studies suggest that Jak-Stat signal transduction pathways are involved in this process. Our study demonstrates an important role for Epo in the protection of astrocytes from reactive oxygen species. We suggest that Epo can compensate in part for the antioxidant properties of mitochondrial SOD2 deficiency.
Transplantation of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) into the damaged rat spinal cord leads to directed elongative axonal regeneration and improved functional outcome. OECs are known to produce a number of neurotrophic molecules. To explore the possibility that OECs are neuroprotective for injured corticospinal tract (CST) neurons, we transplanted OECs into the dorsal transected spinal cord (T9) and examined primary motor cortex (M1) to assess apoptosis and neuronal loss at 1 and 4 weeks post-transplantation. The number of apoptotic cortical neurons was reduced at 1 week, and the extent of neuronal loss was reduced at 4 weeks. Biochemical analysis indicated an increase in BDNF levels in the spinal cord injury zone after OEC transplantation at 1 week. The transplanted OECs associated longitudinally with axons at 4 weeks. Thus, OEC transplantation into the injured spinal cord has distant neuroprotective effects on descending cortical projection neurons.
Radial glia play an essential role in the generation of the cerebral cortex through their function as neuronal precursors and as neuronal migration guides. A molecular marker for radial glia in the developing central nervous system is the brain lipid-binding protein (BLBP). To generate mouse models for the visualization and study of radial glia, we expressed EGFP, EYFP, or dsRed2 in transgenic mice under the control of the BLBP promoter. In these transgenic lines, fluorescent protein expression is restricted to radial glia in the embryonic cortex and to astrocytes in the adult brain. Electroporation of the transgenes into embryonic cortex also resulted in radial glia-specific transgene expression. These BLBP promoter driven transgenic mice and organotypic brain slices expressing different fluorescent markers in a radial glia-specific manner will be useful tools to further study the differentiation and function of radial glia in distinct regions of the developing CNS.
The role of insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) as neural survival factor for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease has recently gained attention. The present study shows that IGF-1 protects lymphocytes from (10, 30 microM) Abeta[(25-35)] and (25, 50, 100 microM) H(2)O(2)-induced apoptosis through NF-kappaB activation and p53 down regulation involving the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI-3K)-dependent pathway as demonstrated by using either (25 microM) LY294002 (PI-3K inhibitor), (10 nM) ammonium pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate (PDTC; NF-kappaB inhibitor), 50 nM pifithrin-alpha (PFT; p53 inhibitor) or by using immunocytochemistry detection of NF-kappaB and p53 transcription factors activation. Importantly, IGF-1, PDTC and PFT were able to protect and rescue lymphocytes pre-exposed to 10 muM Abeta[(25-35)], even when the three compounds were added up-to 12 h post- Abeta[(25-35)] exposure. Altogether these results suggest that survival/rescue of lymphocytes from Abeta[(25-35)] toxicity is determined by p53 inactivation via IGF-1/ PI-3K pathway.
Patients with severe haemophilia often experience pain caused by haemophilic arthropathy, and it is known that pain acts as a predictor of disability. The role of pain in functional limitations in these patients, however, has not been systematically investigated. The aim of this study was to describe pain as experienced by patients with haemophilia and to address the role of pain in subsequent functional limitations. Seventy-eight adult patients (18-70 years) with severe haemophilia completed one questionnaire on pain and one on self-perceived functional abilities. Two-thirds of the patients suffered from more than one painful joint, the ankle being mentioned most frequently (n=43). Analgesics were used by 36% of the patients indicating having pain. Six of 10 most frequently mentioned pain descriptors were of evaluative nature. Evaluative qualities of pain were associated with pain intensity, which in turn was associated with the impact of pain on daily life. Pain outcomes, after adjusting for age and treatment modality, explained 3-22% of the variance in self-perceived functional abilities. Data on radiological joint damage (Pettersson scores) were retrieved for a subgroup of 28 younger patients on prophylaxis and no significant correlations with pain parameters were found. Over two-thirds of the patients with severe haemophilia had one or more painful joints. Pain plays a small, but significant role in functional limitations. In the identified subgroup, arthropathy, as measured by the Pettersson score, seemed to have no role in pain experience. Promoting analgesic use might decrease the impact of pain on functional limitations.


Thomas Jefferson had severe headaches on a number of occasions during his adult life, as noted by most of his biographers. Some occurred during important historical events, including the period just before the writing of the Declaration of Independence. Historians generally have considered these headaches to be migraines, while some physician authors have considered the alternative diagnoses of tension-type headaches and cluster headaches. A review of the literature, including Jefferson's many letters, suggests that they probably were migraines, although not all of the current diagnostic criteria can be met.
Several studies have already demonstrated that patients with steeply sloping hearing loss of cochlear origin exhibit an improvement in frequency discrimination performance at or around the cut-off frequency. This enhancement cannot be explained in terms of peripheral mechanisms and should rather be interpreted in terms of central reorganization: i.e., injury-induced cortical plasticity. However, the reversibility and time course of such reorganization has not yet been described. The main goal of the present study was therefore to investigate the occurrence of rehabilitation plasticity associated with hearing-aid fitting in human subjects. Nine subjects with steeply sloping hearing loss and who were candidates for auditory rehabilitation were tested. Discrimination-limen-for-frequency (DLF) enhancement was investigated at the frequency with the best DLF (bDLF) for each individual subject before and during auditory rehabilitation (at 1 month, 3 months and 6 months). From 1 month on, frequency discrimination performance decreased significantly at the bDLF frequency, while remaining stable at other frequencies. This normalization may reflect a new central reorganization reversing the initial injury-induced changes in the cortical map. A correlation between subject's age and alteration in DLF at 1 month was also found, suggesting that plasticity operates faster in younger patients.

The present study investigated the effect of social status in Long-Evans hooded rats established during food competition on V(1a) vasopressin receptor (V(1a)R) binding in the lateral septum (LS), medial preoptic area (MPOA), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), anterior hypothalamus (AH), and central/basolateral amygdala (CeB). Serum concentration of testosterone (T) and corticosterone (CORT) was also measured. In Experiment 1, thirty-two lever-trained weight-matched rat pairs were placed in operant chambers where a single bar press provided access to milk reinforcement. A dominant-subordinate relationship, determined by the duration of drinking, was evident in 88% of the pairs. Sixteen rats were lever-trained but did not interact and served as no-treatment (NT) controls. In the LS, V(1a)R binding in the subordinate (SUB) group was significantly higher than in the dominant (DOM) group. V(1a)R binding was significantly higher in the LS, BNST, CeB, and AH in the NT group than in the other groups. The levels of CORT and T were not affected significantly by group membership. Experiment 2 investigated whether the binding effect in the LS was related to differences in fluid consumption. The results did not indicate a significant effect of fluid consumption. In the rat, V(1a)R binding in several forebrain areas seems to be affected by brief periods of social interactions, and, in the LS, it also appears to be related to dominance status.
Targacept Inc, under license from the University of South Florida, is developing a low-dose, liquid gel capsule formulation of the nicotinic acetylcholine antagonist mecamylamine, as a potential treatment for various neuropsychiatric disorders.



Members of the Culex pipens mosquito group including C. quinquefasciatus are responsible for the transmission of Bancroftian filarisis as well as West Nile Virus (WNV) in the United States. As is the case for other mosquitoes, the host preference of this disease vector relies on olfaction and accordingly mediated via G-protein coupled signal transduction pathways. Here, we identify and characterize CqOR7, the first candidate member of the odorant receptor gene family from C. quinquefasciatus. CqOR7 displays extremely high primary amino acid conservation with other apparent orthologs including AaOR7, from the Dengue virus vector mosquito Aedes aegypti, AgOR7 from the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae and DOr83b from the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster that form an essential non-conventional odorant receptor sub-family. CqOR7 transcripts can be detected in adult chemosensory tissues and during several pre-adult stages of C. quinquefasciatus, and the CqOR7 protein is localized to characteristic olfactory tissues such as the antennae and maxillary palps as well as the proboscis, a typically gustatory appendage. These results suggest that CqOR7 and its orthologs are likely to play a role in the chemosensory processes of Culicine and other mosquitoes that underlie their vectorial capacity.
Non-adherence to antidepressant drug treatment is common. In a recent study in depressed primary care patients, we reported a strong relationship between adherence and response after 6 months. With the use of a naturalistic design, the patients in that study were prospectively followed for 2 years. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the patients' long-term outcome and, in particular, to examine the impact of patients' treatment adherence on response, remission and relapse. Of the 1031 patients in the intent-to-treat (ITT) sample, 835 completed the study. After 2 years, the overall remission rate defined as a Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale score of nine or less was 68% in the ITT sample analysed with the last observation carried forward (LOCF) technique, and 75% in observed cases. In total, 34% of the responders experienced at least one relapse. Response rates (LOCF) were significantly higher in adherent compared to non-adherent patients at week 24 [95% confidence interval (CI) = 21.4-32.1], year 1 (95% CI = 12.3-22.2) and year 2 (95% CI = 9.2-19.0). Remission rates (LOCF) were also significantly higher in the group of adherent patients at week 24 (95% CI = 9.6-21.5), year 1 (95% CI = 10.0-21.5) and year 2 (95% CI = 11.0-22.0). No relationship between adherence and relapse rate was observed, although the mean time from response to first sign of relapse was significantly longer in the adherent patients (95% C I= 9-97 days). In conclusion, this 2-year follow-up study showed superior long-term recovery in patients who were adherent to antidepressant medication compared to non-adherent patients.
Several cardiovascular risk factors have been linked to antipsychotic treatment and cardiovascular mortality is increased in these patients compared to the general population. The full metabolic syndrome (or its components) is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disorders. The prevalence of the metabolic syndrome was investigated using a cross-sectional study design in a cohort of 269 patients, aged 20-69 years, with schizophrenia living in Northern Sweden, and was defined according to the criteria of the National Cholesterol Education program. The prevalence of the metabolic syndrome was 34.6% (95% CI = 28.8-40.3) and highest (43%; 95% CI = 32-53) for participants aged 40-49 years. Clozapine treated subjects reached the highest prevalence of the metabolic syndrome (48%; 95% CI = 34-62). The prevalence was similar for men (32.8%; 95% CI = 25.8-39.8) and women (38.0%; 95% CI = 27.9-48.2). Men had a high prevalence of hypertension (49.2%; 95% CI = 41.7-56.6) and women had high prevalence of low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (40.2%; 95% CI = 30.0-50.4) and abdominal obesity (75.0%; 95% CI = 66.0-84.0). Subjects with the metabolic syndrome had significantly higher mean body mass index (BMI) (P &lt; 0.001), HbA1c (P = 0.002), and fasting serum insulin (P &lt; 0.001) compared to non-metabolic syndrome subject. Subjects with the metabolic syndrome had also significantly more often a positive history of cardiovascular diseases compared to non-metabolic syndrome subjects (25.8% versus 12.5%; P = 0.01). Of all study subjects 36.8% were obese (BMI &gt; 30). These results clearly show that the metabolic syndrome and its components are highly prevalent in patients with schizophrenia. Physicians treating patients with schizophrenia are recommended to monitor the components included in the metabolic syndrome.
The author has discovered a new syndrome with quadrupedal gait, flexed head and body, primitive speech, severe mental retardation, and mild cerebellar signs with a disturbed conscious experience. This syndrome was exhibited by 5 of 19 children from a consanguineous family. The pedigree demonstrated a typical autosomal-recessive inheritance. The genetic nature of this syndrome suggests a backward stage in human evolution, which is most probably caused by a genetic mutation, rendering, in turn, the transition from quadrupedality to bipedality. This would then be consistent with theories of punctuated evolution. On the other hand, the extensor motor system causing a resistance of the body against the gravity may actually be subjected to evolutionary forces. This new syndrome may be used as a live model for human evolution. An accompanying video clip for this article is available as a downloadable file accompanying the official online version of International Journal of Neuroscience. To access it, click on the issue link for 116(3), then select this article. A download option appears at the bottom of this abstract.
Testicular germ cell tumors (TGCTs) include various malignancies with distinct pathologies that share a common precursor lesion (intratubular germ cell neoplasia, unclassified, ITGCNU, or carcinoma in situ, CIS). TGCTs, as a whole, represent a highly curable tumor paradigm, with high sensitivity to radiotherapy and, especially, to cisplatin-based chemotherapy. However, a percentage of cases display therapeutic resistance, and the molecular mechanisms underlying such resistant phenotype remain to be elucidated. We put forward the notion that expression of oncogenic forms of the PCPH gene, which are known to confer resistance to radiation and chemotherapeutic drugs, including cisplatin, may be expressed in TGCTs, and thus contribute to the development of therapeutic resistance. To begin testing this concept, we studied PCPH expression in human TGCT cell lines and in 54 solid tumors by RT-PCR, western immunoblot and immunohistochemistry. The results demonstrated that: i) PCPH is expressed in TGCT cell lines and tumors, including CIS; ii) its expression levels vary among different TGCT pathologies, being generally higher in well differentiated regions and lower in areas of predominant proliferation; iii) PCPH expression is substantially increased in tumors relative to matched normal testicular tissue; iv) tumor samples express PCPH polypeptides of low molecular mass, consistent with the known size of the PCPH oncoprotein, that are either absent from, or markedly reduced in, matched normal tissue. Collectively, these results positively identify PCPH as a good early molecular marker for testicular neoplasms, and strongly indicate that immunodetection of truncated PCPH polypeptides may be a useful diagnostic tool for TGCT.
The effect of endo-alveolar and sub-mucosal administration of dexamethasone sodium phosphate to prevent inflammatory sequelae after surgical removal of lower third molars was studied. Forty-three patients underwent bilateral extractions of lower third molars and were randomly assigned to receive either dexamethasone 4 mg (group A) or 10 mg (group B) as endo-alveolar powder or 10 mg as sub-mucosal injection (group C) unilaterally. The controlateral site served as control and did not receive any steroid administration. Facial edema, trismus and pain perception were evaluated at the 2nd and 7th postoperative day. A multivariate analysis revealed that treatment and ostectomy time were both significantly positively associated with the degree of postoperative trismus and edema. Other baseline classification variables (e.g., molar classification) were also predictive of the degree of change in all clinical parameters. Test sites treated (any steroid application) showed greater reductions in all clinical parameters recorded compared to control. No statistically significant differences were observed between the three test groups. Both sub-mucosal and endo-alveolar administration of dexamethasone are effective in reducing postoperative sequelae of surgical removal of lower wisdom teeth.

Invertebrates have been deployed very successfully in experimental studies of the nervous system and neuromuscular junctions. Many important discoveries on axonal conduction, synaptic transmission, integrative neurobiology and behaviour have been made by investigations of these remarkable animals. Their advantages as model organisms for investigations of nervous systems include (a) the large diameter of neurons, glia and muscle cells of some invertebrates, thereby facilitating microelectrode recordings; (b) simple nervous systems with few neurons, enhancing the tractability of neuronal circuitry; and (c) well-defined behaviours, which lend themselves to physiological and genetic dissection. Genetic model organisms such as Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans have provided powerful genetic approaches to central questions concerning nervous system development, learning and memory and the cellular and molecular basis of behaviour. The process of attributing function to particular gene products has been greatly accelerated in recent years with access to entire genome sequences and the application of reverse genetic (e.g. RNA interference, RNAi) and other post-genome technologies (e.g. microarrays). Studies of many other invertebrates, notably the honeybee (Apis mellifera), a nudibranch mollusc (Aplysia californica), locusts, lobsters, crabs, annelids and jellyfish have all assisted in the development of major concepts in neuroscience. The future is equally bright with ease of access to genome-wide reverse genetic technologies, and the development of optical recordings using voltage and intracellular calcium sensors genetically targeted to selected individual and groups of neurons.


We investigated the association of PON1 55/192 polymorphisms with type, severity and prognosis of stroke and oxidative markers. Paraoxonase1 (PON1), Glutathione Reductase (GSH-Rd) and Malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were measured at day 1 and at day 5 following the onset of stroke. Genotypes were determined by polymerase chain reaction and restriction digestion. The frequencies of QQ and MM genotypes of PON1 192 and PON1 55, respectively, were significantly higher in controls than in patients. However, the allele frequencies of PON1 192 R and PON1 55 L were significantly more frequent in patients compared to controls. The frequency of combined genotype of RR/LL was significantly higher in cardioembolic group than in atherothrombotic group. PON1 activities were significantly diminished in stroke patients compared to controls. In contrast, serum MDA levels were significantly greater in patients than the values in controls. GSH-Rd activity was higher in patients with small lesion and good prognosis than those with large and poor prognosis. Low density lipoprotein (LDL) levels in patients with large lesions were higher than those with small lesions. PON1 55/192 polymorphisms influence activity of the enzyme. PON1 55/192 genotypes have been associated with MDA levels. In conclusion, PON1 genetic variations are associated with risk factors, severity, type and prognosis of stroke and oxidative stress.
The stimulatory effect of dopamine through dopamine D2 receptor on glucose-induced insulin secretion was studied in the pancreatic islets in vitro. Dopamine significantly stimulated insulin secretion at a concentration of 10-8 M in the presence of high glucose (20 mM). The higher concentrations of dopamine (10(-7)-10(-4)) inhibited glucose-induced insulin secretion in the presence of both 4 mM and 20 mM glucose. Stimulatory and inhibitory effect of dopamine on glucose-induced insulin secretion was reverted by the addition of dopamine D2 receptor antagonists such as butaclamol and sulpiride. Norepinephrine (NE) at 10(-4) M concentration inhibited the dopamine uptake as well as its stimulatory effect at 10(-8) M concentration on glucose induced insulin secretion. Our results suggest that dopamine exerts a differential effect on glucose-induced insulin secretion through dopamine D2 receptor and it is essential for the regulation of glucose-induced insulin secretion by pancreatic islets.


The central nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICC) receives inputs from all parts of the auditory brainstem and transmits the information to the forebrain. Fibrodendritic laminae of the ICC provide a structural basis for a tonotopic organization, and the interaction of inputs within a single layer is important for ICC processing. Transverse slice planes of the ICC sever the layers and many of the ascending axons that enter through the lateral lemniscus. Consequently, the activity initiated within a lamina by a pure lemniscal stimulus is not well characterized. Here, we use a slice plane that maintains the integrity of the laminae in ICC and allows the axons in the lateral lemniscus to be stimulated at a distance from the ICC. We examined both the postsynaptic currents and potentials of the same neurons to lemniscal stimuli in this laminar brain slice. Our main finding is that lemniscal stimulation evokes prolonged synaptic potentials in ICC neurons. Synaptic potential amplitudes and durations increase with lemniscal shock strength. In approximately 50% of ICC neurons, the postsynaptic potential is equal in duration to the postsynaptic current, whereas in the remaining neurons it is three to four times longer. Synaptic responses to single shocks or shock trains exhibit plateau potentials that enable sustained firing in ICC neurons. Plateau potentials are evoked by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation, and their amplitudes and durations are regulated by both NMDA-R and gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA)-R activation. These data suggest that in the intact laminae of the ICC, lemniscal inputs initiate sustained firing through monosynaptic and polysynaptic NMDA-mediated synapses regulated by GABAA synapses.
Measurement of neurite outgrowth is a common assay of neurotrophic activity. However, currently available techniques for measuring neurite outgrowth are either time or resource intensive. The authors established a system in which chronic treatment of a subcloned SH-SY5Y cell line with aphidicolin and various concentrations of nerve growth factor (NGF) induced discernable alterations in proliferation and differentiation. Cells were fixed, labeled with a nonfluorescent dye, and evaluated both manually and with an automated analysis system. NGF increased multiple parameters of differentiation, including neurite length, the proportion of cells extending neurites, and branching, as well as promoting cellular survival/proliferation. Interestingly, although NGF treatment increased the total number of branches, it actually decreased the proportion of branches per neurite length. The authors observed no differences in results obtained using the manual and automated systems, but the automated system was orders of magnitude faster. To demonstrate the flexibility of the system, the authors also show that they could measure changes in differentiation induced by a small-molecule Rho kinase inhibitor, as well as by retinoic acid cotreatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor. In addition to this flexibility, this system does not require specialized equipment or fluorescent antibodies for analysis and therefore provides a less resource-intensive alternative to fluorescence-based systems.

Estrogens have antiinflammatory actions and protect the brain from ischemic injury. Cerebral ischemia is accompanied by an inflammatory reaction that contributes to the tissue damage, an effect mediated in part by toxic amounts of nitric oxide (NO) produced by the inducible isoform of NO synthase (iNOS). Therefore, estrogens may protect the female brain by modulating postischemic iNOS expression. To test this hypothesis, we studied whether iNOS plays a role in the mechanisms of the reduced susceptibility to ischemic injury observed in female mice. The middle cerebral artery was occluded for 20 mins using an intraluminal filament in C57Bl/6 mice, and infarct volume was assessed 3 days later in cresyl violet-stained sections. Infarcts were 53% smaller in female mice than in males (P &lt; 0.05), a reduction abolished by ovariectomy (OVX) and reinstated by estrogen replacement. In normal female mice, postischemic iNOS mRNA was lower than in males (P &lt; 0.05). Ovariectomy increased iNOS mRNA after ischemia and estrogen replacement blocked this effect. Furthermore, the iNOS inhibitor aminoguanidine reduced infarct volume in male, but not in female, mice. Similarly, male iNOS-null mice had smaller infarcts than wild-type mice, but female iNOS nulls were not protected. Ovariectomy and OVX with estrogen replacement did not affect infarct volume in iNOS-null female mice. The findings suggest that the neuroprotection conferred by estrogens is, in part, related to attenuation of iNOS expression. Such attenuation could result from the potent antiinflammatory effects of estrogens that downregulate iNOS expression via transcriptional or posttranscriptional mechanisms.
Adolescence is a time of considerable development at the level of behaviour, cognition and the brain. This article reviews histological and brain imaging studies that have demonstrated specific changes in neural architecture during puberty and adolescence, outlining trajectories of grey and white matter development. The implications of brain development for executive functions and social cognition during puberty and adolescence are discussed. Changes at the level of the brain and cognition may map onto behaviours commonly associated with adolescence. Finally, possible applications for education and social policy are briefly considered.
Disruption of cholinergic neurotransmission contributes to the memory impairment that characterizes Alzheimer disease (AD). Since the amyloid cascade hypothesis of AD pathogenesis postulates that amyloid beta (A beta) peptide accumulation in critical brain regions also contributes to memory impairment, we assessed cholinergic function in transgenic mice where the human A beta peptide is overexpressed. We first measured hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) release in young, freely moving PDAPP mice, a well-characterized transgenic mouse model of AD, and found marked A beta-dependent alterations in both basal and evoked ACh release compared with WT controls. We also found that A beta could directly interact with the high-affinity choline transporter which may impair steady-state and on-demand ACh release. Treatment of PDAPP mice with the anti-A beta antibody m266 rapidly and completely restored hippocampal ACh release and high-affinity choline uptake while greatly reducing impaired habituation learning that is characteristic of these mice. Thus, soluble &quot;cholinotoxic&quot; species of the A beta peptide can directly impair cholinergic neurotransmission in PDAPP mice leading to memory impairment in the absence of overt neurodegeneration. Treatment with certain anti-A beta antibodies may therefore rapidly reverse this cholinergic dysfunction and relieve memory deficits associated with early AD.

Psychologists consider emotion regulation a critical developmental acquisition. Yet, there has been very little research on the neural underpinnings of emotion regulation across childhood and adolescence. We selected two ERP components associated with inhibitory control-the frontal N2 and frontal P3. We recorded these components before, during, and after a negative emotion induction, and compared their amplitude, latency, and source localization over age. Fifty-eight children 5-16 years of age engaged in a simple go/no-go procedure in which points for successful performance earned a valued prize. The temporary loss of all points triggered negative emotions, as confirmed by self-report scales. Both the frontal N2 and frontal P3 decreased in amplitude and latency with age, consistent with the hypothesis of increasing cortical efficiency. Amplitudes were also greater following the emotion induction, only for adolescents for the N2 but across the age span for the frontal P3, suggesting different but overlapping profiles of emotion-related control mechanisms. No-go N2 amplitudes were greater than go N2 amplitudes following the emotion induction at all ages, suggesting a consistent effect of negative emotion on mechanisms of response inhibition. No-go P3 amplitudes were also greater than go P3 amplitudes and they decreased with age, whereas go P3 amplitudes remained low. Finally, source modeling indicated a developmental decline in central-posterior midline activity paralleled by increasing activity in frontal midline regions suggestive of the anterior cingulate cortex. Negative emotion induction corresponded with an additional right ventral prefrontal or temporal generator beginning in middle childhood.
Neurons in the anteroventral periventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (AVPV) mediate a variety of autonomic functions. In adults they primarily innervate neuroendocrine nuclei in the periventricular zone of the hypothalamus, including the paraventricular and arcuate nuclei (PVH, ARH). Ascending projections from the AVPV also provide inputs to the ventrolateral septum (LSv) and the principal division of the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BSTp). Consistent with a role in regulating preovulatory luteinizing hormone secretion, rostral projections from the AVPV contact gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons surrounding the vascular organ of the lamina terminalis (OVLT). To study the development of these pathways, we placed implants of the lipophilic tracers DiI and CMDiI into the AVPV of female rats ranging in age from embryonic day 19 (E19) through adulthood. The earliest projections targeted a population of GnRH neurons, with apparent contacts from labeled fibers observed as early as E19. These connections appeared to be fully developed before birth, as similar numbers of appositions from AVPV projections onto the GnRH-immunoreactive cells were observed at all ages examined. Caudal projections were delayed relative to projections to the OVLT. Labeled AVPV fibers reached the PVH during the first postnatal week, and fibers targeting the BSTp and LSv were not observed until the second and third postnatal weeks, respectively. Labeled AVPV fibers were not seen in the ARH of animals at any age. Our results demonstrate that projections from the AVPV develop with both spatial and temporal specificity, innervating each target with a unique developmental profile.
The avian nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (LM) is a visual structure involved in the optokinetic response. The LM consists of several morphologically distinct cell types. In the present study we sought to determine if different cell types had differential projections. Using retrograde tracers, we examined the morphology and distribution of LM neurons projecting to the vestibulocerebellum (VbC), inferior olive (IO), dorsal thalamus, nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR), and midline mesencephalon. From injections into the latter two structures, small LM cells were labeled. More were localized to the lateral LM as opposed to medial LM. From injections into the dorsal thalamus, small neurons were found throughout LM. From injections into the VbC, large multipolar cells were found throughout LM. From injections into IO, a strip of medium-sized fusiform neurons along the border of the medial and lateral subnuclei was labeled. To investigate if neurons project to multiple targets we used fluorescent retrograde tracers. After injections into IO and VbC, double-labeled neurons were not observed in LM. Likewise, after injections into nBOR and IO, double-labeled neurons were not observed. Finally, we processed sections through LM for glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD). Small neurons, mostly in the lateral LM, were labeled, suggesting that projections from LM to nBOR and midline mesencephalon are GABAergic. We conclude that two efferents of LM, VbC and IO, receive input from morphologically distinct neurons: large multipolar and medium-sized fusiform neurons, respectively. The dorsal thalamus, nBOR, and midline mesencephalon receive input from small neurons, some of which are likely GABAergic.
The distribution of putative nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-containing cells in the opisthobranch mollusc Aplysia californica was studied by using NADPH-diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry in the CNS and peripheral organs. Chemosensory areas (the mouth area, rhinophores, and tentacles) express the most intense staining, primarily in the form of peripheral highly packed neuropil regions with a glomerular appearance as well as in epithelial sensory-like cells. These epithelial NADPH-d-reactive cells were small and had multiple apical ciliated processes exposed to the environment. NADPH-d processes were also found in the salivary glands, but there was no or very little staining in the buccal mass and foot musculature. In the CNS, most NADPH-d reactivity was associated with the neuropil of the cerebral ganglia, with the highest density of glomeruli-like NADPH-d-reactive neurites in the areas of the termini and around F and C clusters. A few NADPH-d-reactive neurons were also found in other central ganglia, including paired neurons in the buccal, pedal, and pleural ganglia and a few asymmetrical neurons in the abdominal ganglion. The distribution patterns of NADPH-d-reactive neurons did not overlap with other known neurotransmitter systems. The highly selective NADPH-d labeling revealed here suggests the presence of NOS in sensory areas both in the CNS and the peripheral organs of Aplysia and implies a role for NO as a modulator of chemosensory processing.
We have used a direct, non-immunochemical and highly accurate method to quantify the effects of testosterone and oestrogen on mitotic and apoptotic activity in the young, male rat anterior pituitary in vivo. Surgical gonadectomy resulted in a 3-fold increase in mitotic activity by the fourth post-operative day, which returned gradually to levels seen in intact animals over the subsequent 3-4 weeks. Both a single dose of Sustanon, a mixture of long-acting testosterone esters in arachis oil, and the same dose divided over 7 days (starting 6 days after gonadectomy), initially suppressed mitotic activity to levels seen in intact animals, but was associated after 48-96 h with a wave of increased mitotic activity. The latter was blocked by co-administration of Sustanon with the non-steroidal aromatase inhibitor letrozole and was not seen when the non-aromatisable androgen dihydrotestosterone was substituted for Sustanon. Oestrogen alone in gonadectomised and intact rats produced a marked increase in mitosis as expected. With the exception of a transient increase in response to a single high-dose injection of Sustanon in gonadectomised animals, apoptotic activity was unaffected by all of the above. This study suggests that pituitary mitotic activity is tonically inhibited by gonadal hormone production (at least in the short term) in adult male rats. The study also suggests that supraphysiological testosterone treatment -- while unable to reduce anterior pituitary mitotic activity in untreated, intact animals --suppresses the early increase in mitotic activity induced by gonadectomy. Oestrogen, either exogenous or generated locally by aromatisation, stimulates anterior pituitary mitotic activity in a time-dependent manner.
One difficulty in understanding the brain is that of linking the structure of the neurons with their computational roles in neural circuits. In this paper we address this subject in a relative simple system, the fast electrosensory pathway of an electric fish, where sensory images are coded by the relative latency of a volley of single spikes. The main input to this path is a stream of discrete electric images resulting from the modulation of a self-generated carrier by the environment. At the second order cell level, a window of low responsiveness, reducing potential interference from other stimuli, follows activation of the path. In the present study, we further characterize the input-output relationship at the second order neurons by recording field potentials, and ascertain its cellular basis using in vitro whole cell patch recordings. The field potentials from freely behaving, socially interacting fish were obtained from chronically implanted fish restrained in a mesh pen. In addition, at the end of some experiments the fish was curarized and the fast electrosensory path responses to artificial stimuli were further explored. These in vivo approaches showed that larger stimuli cause larger and longer windows of low responsiveness. The simple spherical geometry of the second order cells allowed us to unveil the membrane mechanisms underlying this phenomenon in vitro. These spherical cells respond with a single spike at the onset of current steps of any amplitude and duration, showing inward and outward rectification, and a long refractory period. We postulate that a low-threshold K+ conductance generates the outward rectification. The most parsimonious interpretation of our data indicates that slow deactivation of this conductance causes the long refractory period. These non-linear properties of the membrane explain the single spiking profile of spherical cells and the low-responsiveness window observed in vivo. Since the electric organ discharges are emitted at intervals slightly longer than the duration of the low-responsiveness window, we propose that the described cellular mechanisms allow fish streaming self-generated images.
Animal signals can consist of multiple parts within or across sensory modalities (multi-component signals or multimodal signals). While recent work has focused on multimodal signals, the production, processing and evolution of multi-component signals has received considerably less attention. Here, using synchronous high-speed video and laser vibrometer recordings followed by experimental manipulations of putative sound-producing structures, we explored the mechanisms of seismic signal production in the courtship display of Schizocosa stridulans Stratton. Two types of seismic courtship signals were observed: 'rev' and 'idle' signals. Revs consist of a high-frequency component produced by flexions of the male pedipalp (stridulation) simultaneous with a low-frequency component produced by movements of the abdomen (tremulation). This multi-component signal is produced by independent structures and represents a parallel multi-component display. By contrast, idle displays consist of a high-intensity component produced by drumming of the forelegs on the substrate (percussion) followed by a high-frequency component produced by flexions of the male pedipalp (stridulation). While the components of the idle display are also produced by independent structures, the leg drumming and palp flexions occur serially and do not overlap in time. We discuss the selective pressures that may drive the evolution of multiple sound-producing structures as well as the selective pressures that drive the evolution of parallel versus serial multi-component signals.
The lobster Homarus americanus inhabits ocean waters that vary in temperature over a 25 degrees C range, depending on the season and water depth. To investigate whether the lobster heart functions effectively over a wide range of temperatures we examine the temperature dependence of cardiac performance of isolated lobster hearts in vitro. In addition, we examined whether modulation of the heart by serotonin depends on temperature. The strength of the heartbeat strongly depends on temperature, as isolated hearts are warmed from 2 to 22 degrees C the contraction amplitude decreases by greater than 60%. The rates of contraction and relaxation of the heart are most strongly temperature dependent in the range from 2 to 4 degrees C but become temperature independent at warmer temperatures. Heart rates increase as a function of temperature both in isolated hearts and in intact animals, however hearts in intact animals beat faster in the temperature range of 12-20 degrees C. Interestingly, acute Q10 values for heart rate are similar in vivo and in vitro over most of the temperature range, suggesting that temperature dependence of heart rate arises mainly from the temperature effects on the cardiac ganglion. In contrast to earlier reports suggesting that the strength and the frequency of the lobster heartbeat are positively correlated, we observe no consistent relationship between these parameters as they change as a function of temperature. Stroke volume decreases as a function of temperature. However, the opposing temperature-dependent increase in heart rate partially compensates to produce a relationship between cardiac output and temperature in which cardiac output is maximal at 10 degrees C and significantly decreases above 20 degrees C. Serotonin potentiates contraction amplitude and heart rate in a temperature-independent manner. Overall, our results show that although the parameters underlying cardiac performance show different patterns of temperature dependence, cardiac output remains relatively constant over most of the wide range of environmental temperatures the lobster inhabits in the wild.
Epidemiological and experimental studies have indicated a possible role of human papillomavirus (HPV) in the etiopathogenesis of oral premalignant lesions and tumors. The aim of this study was to establish the incidence of HPV infection and the typing of genotypes in some patients with nonmalignant oral cavity pathology and healthy subjects. We selected 80 subjects affected by the following pathologies: oral leukoplakia (20), squamous cell papilloma (6), various forms of stomatitis (30), lichen planus (15), burning mouth syndrome (BMS, 9). Ten healthy subjects were used as control. The patients underwent a brushing directly on the lesion or on the lower gums and on the dorsal surface of the tongue and a new, sensitive method of in situ hybridization (ISH) with colorimetric signal amplification was used for HPV detecting. The samples were tested with a Mix probe, which identifies most of the HPV genotypes and, in positive cases, the specific probe for the 6-11, 31-33-51 and 16-18 genotypes, was used. Leukoplakia and papilloma were , therefore, associated with the HPV infection, differently from the other pathologies and healthy oral mucosa (chi-squared &lt; 0.005). In conclusion, according to our findings, HPV is a specific risk factor for the development of oral premalignant lesions.
Voltage-gated sodium channel function from neonatal and adult rat cardiomyocytes was measured and compared. Channels from neonatal ventricles required an approximately 10 mV greater depolarization for voltage-dependent gating events than did channels from neonatal atria and adult atria and ventricles. We questioned whether such gating shifts were due to developmental and/or chamber-dependent changes in channel-associated functional sialic acids. Thus, all gating characteristics for channels from neonatal atria and adult atria and ventricles shifted significantly to more depolarized potentials after removal of surface sialic acids. Desialylation of channels from neonatal ventricles did not affect channel gating. After removal of the complete surface N-glycosylation structures, gating of channels from neonatal atria and adult atria and ventricles shifted to depolarized potentials nearly identical to those measured for channels from neonatal ventricles. Gating of channels from neonatal ventricles were unaffected by such deglycosylation. Immunoblot gel shift analyses indicated that voltage-gated sodium channel alpha subunits from neonatal atria and adult atria and ventricles are more heavily sialylated than alpha subunits from neonatal ventricles. The data are consistent with approximately 15 more sialic acid residues attached to each alpha subunit from neonatal atria and adult atria and ventricles. The data indicate that differential sialylation of myocyte voltage-gated sodium channel alpha subunits is responsible for much of the developmental and chamber-specific remodeling of channel gating observed here. Further, cardiac excitability is likely impacted by these sialic acid-dependent gating effects, such as modulation of the rate of recovery from inactivation. A novel mechanism is described by which cardiac voltage-gated sodium channel gating and subsequently cardiac rhythms are modulated by changes in channel-associated sialic acids.
Dystroglycan (DG) is an extracellular matrix receptor necessary for the development of metazoans from flies to humans and is also an entry route for various pathogens. Lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV), a member of the family Arenaviridae, infects by binding to alpha-DG. Here, the role of cholesterol lipid rafts in infection by LCMV via alpha-DG was investigated. The cholesterol-sequestering drugs methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (MbetaCD), filipin and nystatin inhibited the infectivity of LCMV selectively, but did not affect infection by vesicular stomatitis virus. Cholesterol loading after depletion with MbetaCD restored infectivity to control levels. DG was not found in lipid rafts identified with the raft marker ganglioside GM1. Treatment with MbetaCD, however, enhanced the solubility of DG. This may reflect the association of DG with cholesterol outside lipid rafts and suggests that association of DG with non-raft cholesterol is critical for infection by LCMV through alpha-DG.

Since the 1890s Theodor Kaes (1852-1913), then alienist at the Hamburg asylum Friedrichsberg, began to explore myeloarchitectonics. He was particularly interested in dementia paralytica and the fibers of the association system. Following Paul Flechsig (1847-1929) and Theodor Meynert (1833-1892), Kaes read class and ethnical hierarchies into myelinated fibers and so could &quot;decipher&quot; the hierarchical structure of Wilhelminian society in the brain. Since 1908 he was in a fierce dispute with Korbinian Brodmann (1868-1918) about the correctness of his measurements. The article depicts the life and work of Kaes against the backdrop of the development of German neurosciences around 1900.
The 1953 drawing by Netter of the thalamus mistakenly placed the dorsolateral nucleus on the wrong side of the internal medullary lamina. This error has been perpetuated in the best known texts on neuroscience for over fifty years.


Between 1937 and 1959 John Fulton (1899-1960), Sterling Professor of Physiology at Yale University (New Haven) and Willem Verhaart (1889-1983), neuropsychiatrist at Batavia Medical School (Java, Dutch East Indies) corresponded on neuroanatomical topics. Verhaart had easy access to primate brains in Batavia and stayed at Fulton's lab as a Rockefeller fellow (1938-1939), learning techniques of surgery and histology of the primate brain in order to apply it in his own lab. The correspondence relates of their undertakings in research, the preparations for Verhaart's stay in New Haven, the failure of subsequent research plans because of World War II, the camp experiences in Asia by Verhaart, the period of restoration after the war, helped by Fulton, and the political changes (independence) in Indonesia that finally lead to Verhaart's return to the Netherlands in 1950, where he became professor of histology and Director of the Neurological Institute at Leiden University. The correspondence shows how neuroscientists from different parts of the world cooperated. Moreover it is an example of the gradual change from a German (like his teacher Winkler) to an Anglo-American orientation in medical science that started in the beginning of the nineteenth century.
Although the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is consistently found to be associated with various working memory processes, the necessity of the PFC for such processes remains unclear. To elucidate PFC contributions to storage and rehearsal/maintenance processes engaged during verbal working memory function, we assessed behavior of patients with lesions to the left or right lateral PFC, and neural activity of healthy young subjects during fMRI scanning, during performance of working memory tasks. We found that PFC lesions did not affect storage processes--which is consistent with the notion that posterior cortical networks can support simple retention of information. We also found that PFC lesions did not affect rehearsal/maintenance processes, which was in contrast to our finding that healthy subjects performing a verbal delayed recognition task showed bilateral PFC activation. These combined imaging and behavioral data suggest that working memory rehearsal/maintenance processes may depend on both hemispheres, which may have implications for recovery of function and development of rehabilitation therapies after frontal injury.
This article considers the scientific process whereby new and better clinical tests of executive function might be developed, and what form they might take. We argue that many of the traditional tests of executive function most commonly in use (e.g., the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test; Stroop) are adaptations of procedures that emerged almost coincidentally from conceptual and experimental frameworks far removed from those currently in favour, and that the prolongation of their use has been encouraged by a sustained period of concentration on &quot;construct-driven&quot; experimentation in neuropsychology. This resulted from the special theoretical demands made by the field of executive function, but was not a necessary consequence, and may not even have been a useful one. Whilst useful, these tests may not therefore be optimal for their purpose. We consider as an alternative approach a function-led development programme which in principle could yield tasks better suited to the concerns of the clinician because of the transparency afforded by increased &quot;representativeness&quot; and &quot;generalisability.&quot; We further argue that the requirement of such a programme to represent the interaction between the individual and situational context might also provide useful constraints for purely experimental investigations. We provide an example of such a programme with reference to the Multiple Errands and Six Element tests.
Recent investigations have emphasized the importance of the prefrontal cortex for humor processing. Although the prefrontal cortex is thought to be affected by normal aging, relatively little work has been carried out to investigate the effects of aging on humor processing. In the present investigation participants in three age groups were assessed on a humor comprehension task. They then answered mentalistic and nonmentalistic questions. Executive tasks were also administered. The older group selected significantly fewer correct punchlines from alternatives than the other groups. They were also poorer at answering mentalistic questions, but did not differ significantly for nonmentalistic questions. The findings of the present investigation showed altered in humor processing in normal aging, and this appeared to be related to mentalizing ability.
The current study aimed to investigate whether children and adolescents diagnosed with Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder Predominantly Inattentive (AD/HD-in; Child n = 24, Adolescent n = 33) and Combined (AD/HD-com; Child n = 30, Adolescent n = 42) subtypes were more distractible than controls (Child n = 54; Adolescents n = 75), by assessing event-related potential (ERP), performance and peripheral arousal measures. All AD/HD groups displayed smaller amplitudes and/or shorter latencies of the P3a ERP component - thought to reflect involuntary attention switching - following task-deviant novel stimuli (checkerboard patterns) embedded in a Working Memory (WM) task. The P3a results suggested that both AD/HD-in and AD/HD-com subtypes ineffectively evaluate deviant stimuli and are hence more &quot;distractible&quot;. These abnormalities were most pronounced over the central areas. AD/HD groups did not display any abnormalities in averaged heart rate over the WM task, a measure of peripheral arousal. They did display abnormalities in performance measures from the task, but these were unrelated to P3a abnormalities. AD/HD groups also displayed a number of deficits on Switching of Attention and Verbal Memory tasks, however, the pattern of abnormality mostly reflected general cognitive deficits rather than resulting from distraction.
Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is characterized by symptoms of hyperarousal, avoidance and intrusive trauma-related memories and deficits in everyday memory and attention. Separate studies in PTSD have found abnormalities in electroencephalogram EEG, in event-related potential (ERP) and behavioral measures of working memory and attention. The present study seeks to determine whether these abnormalities are related and the extent to which they share this relationship with clinical symptoms. EEG data were collected during an eyes-open paradigm and a one-back working memory task. Behavioral and clinical data (CAPS) were also collected. The PTSD group showed signs of altered cortical arousal as indexed by reduced alpha power and an increased theta/alpha ratio, and clinical and physiological measures of arousal were found to be related. The normal relationship between theta power and ERP indices of working memory was not affected in PTSD, with both sets of measures reduced in the disordered group. Medication appeared to underpin a number of abnormal parameters, including P3 amplitude to targets and the accuracy, though not speed, of target detection. The present study helps to overcome a limitation of earlier studies that assess such parameters independently in different groups of patients that vary in factors such as comorbidity, medication status, gender and symptom profile. The present study begins to shed light on the relationship between these measures and suggests that abnormalities in brain working memory may be linked to underlying abnormalities in brain stability.
The Gordon [37-40] framework of Integrative Neuroscience is used to develop a continuum model for understanding the central role of motivationally-determined &quot;significance&quot; in organizing human information processing. Significance is defined as the property which gives a stimulus relevance to our core motivation to minimize danger and maximize pleasure. Within this framework, the areas of cognition and emotion, theories of motivational arousal and orienting, and the current understanding of neural systems are brought together. The basis of integration is a temporal continuum in which significance processing extends from the most rapid millisecond time scale of automatic, nonconscious mechanisms to the time scale of seconds, in which memory is shaped, to the controlled and conscious mechanisms unfolding over minutes. Over this continuum, significant stimuli are associated with a spectrum of defensive (or consumptive) behaviors through to volitional regulatory behaviors for danger (versus pleasure) and associated brainstem, limbic, medial forebrain bundle and prefrontal circuits, all of which reflect a balance of excitatory (predominant at rapid time scales) to inhibitory mechanisms. Across the lifespan, the negative and positive outcomes of significance processing, coupled with constitutional and genetic factors, will contribute to plasticity, shaping individual adaptations and maladaptions in the balance of excitatory-inhibitory mechanisms.
Epidermolytic palmoplantar keratoderma (EPPK) is an autosomal dominant genodermatosis characterized by epidermolytic hyperkeratosis restricted to the palm and sole epidermis. The disorder is normally associated with dominant-negative mutations in the keratin 9 (K9) gene; however, a small number of cases have been reported where causative mutations were identified in the K1 gene. Here, we present two unrelated Dutch EPPK families with striking ultrastructural findings: tubular keratin structures in the cytoplasm of suprabasal cells. Similar structures were reported previously in a German EPPK family and were termed &quot;tonotubular&quot; keratin. After excluding the involvement of the K9 gene by complete sequencing, we identified a novel mutation, S233L, at the beginning of the 1B domain of K1 in both families. Protein expression studies in cultured cells indicated pathogenicity of this mutation. This is the first report of a genetic defect in this domain of K1. The unusual gain-of-function mutation points to a subtle role of the 1B domain in mediating filament-filament interactions with regular periodicity.
Clinical and electrophysiologic findings on 136 patients (39 women and 97 men; mean age = 33.2 years) with traumatic peripheral nerve injuries were reviewed. Motor vehicular collisions (MVCs) caused 39.7% and gunshot wounds (GSWs) produced 32.4% of the nerve injuries studied. Other factors such as falls, lacerations, work-related injuries, knife wounds, and blunt traumas produced the remaining 27.9% of the nerve injuries in the study group. Peripheral nerves of the upper limbs (79.6%) were disproportionately damaged in MVCs compared with those of the lower limbs (20.4 %). In MVCs, the brachial plexus was involved in 37.0% and radial nerve in 22.2% of the cases. Patients with GSWs were predominantly men (88.6%) and slightly younger (mean age = 28.7 years). The frequencies of peripheral nerve injuries to the upper extremities (52.3%) and lower extremities (45.5%) were nearly similar in GSWs. The sciatic nerve was involved in 34.1% of GSWs, followed by the ulnar nerve (22.7%).
Atrial cardiac myocytes secrete the vasoactive hormone atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) by both constitutive and regulated exocytotic fusion of ANP-containing large dense core vesicles (LDCV) with the sarcolemma. Detailed information, however, regarding the identity and function of specific membrane fusion proteins (SNARE proteins) involved in exocytosis in the endocrine heart is lacking. In the current study, we identified SNARE proteins and determined their association with ANP-containing secretory granules using primary cultures of neonatal and adult rat atrial cardiac myocytes. Using RT-PCR, cardiac myocytes were screened for SNARE and SNARE-associated transcripts. Identified SNARE proteins that have been implicated in exocytosis in neuroendocrine cells were further characterized by Western blot analysis. Functional interaction between SNARE proteins was demonstrated using immunoprecipitation. Using cell fractionation and immunocytochemical methods, it was revealed that VAMP-1, VAMP-2 and synaptotagmin-1 (the putative Ca(2+) sensor) localized to subpopulations of ANP-containing secretory granules in atrial myocytes. Currently, there is conflicting data regarding the role of Ca(2+) in ANP exocytosis. To judge whether secretory activity could be evoked by intracellular Ca(2+) elevation, time-resolved membrane capacitance measurements were used in combination with the flash photolysis of caged compounds to follow the exocytotic activity of single neonatal atrial myocytes. These studies demonstrated that multiple SNARE proteins are present in neonatal and adult cardiac myocytes and suggest the importance of Ca(2+) in exocytosis of ANP from neonatal atrial cardiac myocytes.
Based on internal medicine and psychiatry and in close connection with pathology, the neurosciences in Austria began to develop in the 18(th) century, e.g. with the description of inflammation of the central nervous system by J. P. Franck (1745-1823) and the &quot;phrenology&quot; by F. J. Gall (1745-1823). Under the influence of the great pathologist C. Rokitansky (1804-1878), the tripode of the Vienna neurology - L. Trck (1810-1868), as initiator, Th. v. Meynert (1833-1892) the activator, and H. Obersteiner (1847-1922) as the founder of the Vienna Neurological Institute, presented basic contributions to the morphology and pathology of the nervous system. At the end of the 19(th) and in the early 20(th) century, they were followed by important publications by S. Fred (aphasia), C. Redlich (tabes dorsalis), F. Strussler (CNS syphilis), A. Spitzer (fiber anatomy of the brain), P. Schilder (diffuse sclerosis), R. Barany (Nobel price for physiology and medicine 1914), J. Wagner v. Jauregg (Nobel price for medicine, 1927), O. Loewi (Nobel Price for Physiology and Medicine together with Sir H. Dale, 1936), A. Schller (histiocytosis X), C. v. Economo (encephalitis lethargica and cytoarchitectonics of the human cerebral cortex), E. Pollak (Wilson disease), E. Gamper (mesencephalic subject), J. Gerstmann (Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker syndrome and Gerstmann parietal syndrome), H. Hoff with L. Schnbauer (brain tumors and surgery), and others. Major research institutions were the departments of psychiatry I and II at the University of Vienna School of Medicine (foundation 1870), unification 1911, separation into departments of neurology, psychiatry and neuropsychiatry of children and adolescents in 1971), the Obersteiner Institute in Vienna (foundation 1882, separation 1993), the university departments at Graz and Innsbruck, both founded in 1891, and other laboratories, where renouned clinicans and neuroscientists, like O. Marburg, H. Hoff, O. Ptzl, O. Kauders, F. Seitelberger, H. Tschabitscher, K. Weingarten, H. Reisner,W. Birkmayer, H. Petsche, F. Gerstenbrand, H. Bernheimer, H. W. Heiss, H. Lassmann, W. Poewe, L. Deecke, and many of their associates produced important contributions to wide areas of modern neurosciences. Important for the future are the foundation of the Institute of Brain Research at Vienna Medical University and of the Austrian Society of Neurology which will give further impact for the future progress of neuroscience research in Austria and its integration into the international science community.
Embryonic birds and mammals display a remarkable ability to regenerate axons after spinal injury, but then lose this ability during a discrete developmental transition. To explain this transition, previous research has emphasized the emergence of myelin and other inhibitory factors in the environment of the spinal cord. However, research in other CNS tracts suggests an important role for neuron-intrinsic limitations to axon regeneration. Here we re-examine this issue quantitatively in the hindbrain-spinal projection of the embryonic chick. Using heterochronic cocultures we show that maturation of the spinal cord environment causes a 55% reduction in axon regeneration, while maturation of hindbrain neurons causes a 90% reduction. We further show that young neurons transplanted in vivo into older spinal cord can regenerate axons into myelinated white matter, while older axons regenerate poorly and have reduced growth cone motility on a variety of growth-permissive ligands in vitro, including laminin, L1, and N-cadherin. Finally, we use video analysis of living growth cones to directly document an age-dependent decline in the motility of brainstem axons. These data show that developmental changes in both the spinal cord environment and in brainstem neurons can reduce regeneration, but that the effect of the environment is only partial, while changes in neurons by themselves cause a nearly complete reduction in regeneration. We conclude that maturational events within neurons are a primary cause for the failure of axon regeneration in the spinal cord.
BDNF is thought to provide critical trophic support for serotonin neurons. In order to determine postnatal effects of BDNF on the serotonin system, we examined a line of conditional mutant mice that have normal brain content of BDNF during prenatal development but later depletion of this neurotrophin in the postnatal period. These mice show a behavioral phenotype that suggests serotonin dysregulation. However, as shown here, the presynaptic serotonin system in the adult conditional mutant mice appeared surprisingly normal from histological, biochemical, and electrophysiological perspectives. By contrast, a dramatic and unexpected postsynaptic 5-HT2A deficit in the mutant mice was found. Electrophysiologically, serotonin neurons appeared near normal except, most notably, for an almost complete absence of expected 5-HT2A -mediated glutamate and GABA postsynaptic potentials normally displayed by these neurons. Further analysis showed that BDNF mutants had much reduced 5-HT2A receptor protein in dorsal raphe nucleus and a similar deficit in prefrontal cortex, a region that normally shows a high level of 5-HT2A receptor expression. Recordings in prefrontal slice showed a marked deficit in 5-HT2A -mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents, similar to that seen in the dorsal raphe. These findings suggest that postnatal levels of BDNF play a relatively limited role in maintaining presynaptic aspects of the serotonin system and a much greater role in maintaining postsynaptic 5-HT2A and possibly other receptors than previously suspected.
Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) exhibits a sequence of actions on neurons ranging from acute enhancement of transmission to long-term promotion of neurite outgrowth and synaptogenesis associated with learning and memory. The manifold effects of BDNF on neuronal modifications may be mediated by genomic alterations. We previously found that BDNF treatment acutely increases transcription of the synaptic vesicle protein Rab3A, required for trophin-induced synaptic plasticity, as well as the peptide VGF, which increases during learning. To elucidate comprehensive transcriptional programs associated with short- and long-term BDNF exposure, we now examine mRNA abundance and complexity using Affymetrix GeneChips in cultured hippocampal neurons. Consistent with the modulation of synaptic plasticity, BDNF treatment (3-6 h) induced mRNAs encoding the synapse-associated proteins synaptojanin 2, neuronal pentraxin 1, septin 9, and ryanodine receptor 2. BDNF also induced expression of mRNAs encoding neuropeptides (6-12 h), including prepronociceptin, neuropeptide Y, and secretogranin. To determine whether these neuropeptides induced by BDNF mediate neuronal development, we examined their effects on hippocampal neurons. The four mature peptides derived from post-translational processing of the ppNociceptin propeptide induced the expression of several immediate early genes in hippocampal cultures, indicating neuronal activation. To examine the significance of activation, the effects of nociceptin (orphanin FQ) and nocistatin on neurite outgrowth were examined. Quantitative morphometric analysis revealed that nociceptin significantly increased both average neurite length and average number of neurites per neuron, while nocistatin had no effect on these parameters. These results reveal a novel role for nociceptin and suggest that these neuropeptide systems may contribute to the regulation of neuronal function by BDNF.

N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDA) are glutamate-activated ligand-gated ion channels that participate in diverse forms of synaptic plasticity as well as glutamate-dependent excitotoxicity. Inhibition of the NMDA receptor function may underlie some of the behavioral actions associated with acute exposure to ethanol. The sensitivity of NMDA receptors to ethanol is influenced by the subunit composition of the receptor and, by association, with certain cytoskeletal proteins. Previous studies have also suggested that phosphorylation may regulate the sensitivity of NMDA receptors to ethanol. In this study, the ethanol inhibition of recombinant NMDA receptor currents was determined under conditions designed to enhance or inhibit the activity of protein kinase A (PKA). Human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells were transfected with cDNAs encoding NMDA subunits and channel activity was monitored with whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiology. Under control recording conditions, ethanol (100 mM) inhibited NR1/2A and NR1/2B receptor currents by approximately 25-30%. The degree of ethanol inhibition was not affected or was slightly enhanced under conditions designed to enhance PKA activity. This included treatment of cells with cAMP analogs, inclusion of phosphatase inhibitors or purified PKA in the pipette filling solution, co-expression of catalytically active PKA, expression of the NR1 PKA-site phosphorylation site mimic (S897D) or by co-expression of the PKA scaffolding protein yotiao or the dopamine D(1) receptor. Ethanol inhibition of NR1/2A and NR1/2B receptors was not altered when PKA effects were suppressed, either by co-expression of a PKI inhibitory peptide or the phosphorylation-deficient NR1 mutants (S897A, S896A, S896A/S897A). In addition, ethanol inhibition of NMDA-induced currents in cultured cortical or hippocampal neurons was not affected by modulators of PKA. These results suggest that PKA does not appear to play a major role in determining the acute ethanol sensitivity of NMDA receptors.
Administration of psychostimulants modulates mRNA of several regulators of guanine nucleotide-binding protein signaling (RGSs) proteins in the brain. In the present study, the regulation of amphetamine-induced decrease of RGS4 expression in the rat forebrain was evaluated. RGS4 mRNA was reduced by amphetamine in an inverse, dose-dependent manner. The lowest dose (2.5 mg/kg) decreased RGS4 mRNA in caudate putamen for up to 6 h after injection whereas the decrease in several frontal cortical areas was detected at 3 h only. Analysis of RGS4 immunoreactivity by western blotting revealed a decrease 3 h after amphetamine solely in the caudate putamen. Systemic administration of D(1) (SCH23390) or D(2) (eticlopride) receptor antagonists blocked amphetamine-induced locomotion but amphetamine augmented both the SCH23390-induced increase and the eticlopride-induced decrease in RGS4 mRNA in the caudate putamen. Further, the down-regulation of RGS4 immunoreactivity by eticlopride was robust whereas the effect of SCH23390 was blunted as compared with its effect on mRNA. These data suggest that, by decreasing RGS4 expression in the caudate putamen via D(1) receptors, acute amphetamine could disinhibit RGS4-sensitive guanine nucleotide-binding protein alpha-subunit i- and/or q-coupled signaling pathways and favor mechanisms that counterbalance D(1) receptor stimulation.
Mechanisms by which odorants activate signaling pathways in addition to cAMP are hard to evaluate in heterogeneous mixtures of primary olfactory neurons. We used single cell calcium imaging to analyze the response to odorant through odorant receptor (OR) U131 in the olfactory epithelial cell line Odora (Murrell and Hunter 1999), a model system with endogenous olfactory signaling pathways. Because adenylyl cyclase levels are low, agents activating cAMP formation do not elevate calcium, thus unmasking independent signaling mediated by OR via phospholipase C (PLC), inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)), and its receptor. Unexpectedly, we found that extracellular calcium is required for odor-induced calcium elevation without the release of intracellular calcium, even though the latter pathway is intact and can be stimulated by ATP. Relevant signaling components of the PLC pathway and G protein isoforms are identified by western blot in Odora cells as well as in olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs), where they are localized to the ciliary zone or cell bodies and axons of OSNs by immunohistochemistry. Biotinylation studies establish that IP(3) receptors type 2 and 3 are at the cell surface in Odora cells. Thus, individual ORs are capable of elevating calcium through pathways not directly mediated by cAMP and this may provide another avenue for odorant signaling in the olfactory system.
Mitochondrial respiratory chain dysfunction, impaired intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis and activation of the mitochondrial apoptotic pathway are pathological hallmarks in animal and cellular models of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis associated with Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase mutations. Although intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis is thought to be intimately associated with mitochondrial functions, the temporal and causal correlation between mitochondrial Ca2+ uptake dysfunction and motor neuron death in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis remains to be established. We investigated mitochondrial Ca2+ handling in isolated brain, spinal cord and liver of mutant Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase transgenic mice at different disease stages. In G93A mutant transgenic mice, we found a significant decrease in mitochondrial Ca2+ loading capacity in brain and spinal cord, as compared with age-matched controls, very early on in the course of the disease, long before the onset of motor weakness and massive neuronal death. Ca2+ loading capacity was not significantly changed in liver G93A mitochondria. We also confirmed Ca2+ capacity impairment in spinal cord mitochondria from a different line of mice expressing G85R mutant Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase. In excitable cells, such as motor neurons, mitochondria play an important role in handling rapid cytosolic Ca2+ transients. Thus, mitochondrial dysfunction and Ca2+-mediated excitotoxicity are likely to be interconnected mechanisms that contribute to neuronal degeneration in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
There is compelling evidence to suggest that inflammation significantly contributes to neurodegenerative changes. Consistent with this is the observation that several neurodegenerative disorders are accompanied by an increase in the concentration of interleukin (IL)-1beta. IL-1beta has a negative impact on synaptic plasticity and therefore an increased concentration of IL-1beta, such as that in the hippocampus of the aged rat, is associated with a deficit in long-term potentiation (LTP). IL-1beta is derived mainly from activated microglia but the trigger leading to this activation, specifically in the aged brain, remains to be identified. Here we examined the possibility that interferon (IFN)gamma may stimulate microglial activation and increase IL-1beta concentration, thereby inhibiting LTP. The IFNgamma concentration was increased in hippocampus prepared from aged, compared with young, rats and inversely correlated with the ability of rats to sustain LTP. Intracerebroventricular injection of IFNgamma inhibited LTP, and increased microglial activation was observed in both IFNgamma-injected and aged rats. The age-related increase in IFNgamma was accompanied by a decrease in the hippocampal concentration of insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1. The evidence presented suggests that IGF-1 acts to antagonize the IFNgamma-induced microglial activation, the accompanying increase in IL-1beta concentration and the consequent deficit in LTP.
We studied the effects of the positive allosteric modulator GS39783 on GABA(B) receptors at a biochemical level in vivo. Changes in extracellular levels of cyclic AMP following GABA(B) receptor activation were monitored in the striatum of freely moving rats using microdialysis. Locally applied GABA(B) agonist R(-)-baclofen inhibited cyclic AMP formation stimulated by a water-soluble forskolin analogue in a concentration-dependent manner (EC50 7.3 microM, maximal inhibition 40%). The selective GABA(B) antagonist CGP56999 reversed R(-)-baclofen-induced cyclic AMP inhibition to control levels, but not higher. Orally applied GS39783 lacked effects on its own but, together with a threshold concentration of R(-)-baclofen (1 microM), significantly decreased cyclic AMP formation in a dose-dependent fashion. Effects of GS39783 were revoked with CGP56999, showing dependence on GABA(B) receptor activation and suggesting allosteric modulation as a mechanism of action in vivo. Administered with a maximally active dose of R(-)-baclofen, GS39783 failed to further inhibit cyclic AMP formation. The data obtained with CGP56999 and the lack of effect of GS39783 alone suggest that there is no detectable endogenous activation of GABA(B) receptors controlling cyclic AMP formation in rat striatum. To our knowledge, these results provide the first biochemical demonstration of in vivo activity of a G protein-coupled receptor-positive allosteric modulator.
L-glutamate (Glu) is the predominant excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system. It plays major roles in normal neurophysiology and many brain disorders by binding to membrane-bound Glu receptors. To overcome the spatial and temporal limitations encountered in previous in vivo extracellular Glu studies, we employed enzyme-coated microelectrode arrays to measure both basal and potassium-evoked release of Glu in the anesthetized rat brain. We also addressed the question of signal identity, which is the predominant criticism of these recording technologies. In vivo self-referencing recordings demonstrated that our Glu signals were both enzyme- and voltage-dependent, supporting the identity of L-glutamate. In addition, basal Glu was actively regulated, tetrodotoxin (TTX)-dependent, and measured in the low micromolar range (approximately 2 microm) using multiple self-referencing subtraction approaches for identification of Glu. Moreover, potassium-evoked Glu release exhibited fast kinetics that were concentration-dependent and reproducible. These data support the hypothesis that Glu release is highly regulated, requiring detection technologies that must be very close to the synapse and measure on a second-by-second basis to best characterize the dynamics of the Glu system.
The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus contains three classes of neurones: (i) magnocellular and (ii) parvocellular neurosecretory neurones and (iii) nonendocrine projection neurones. The present study aimed to determine whether functional GABA(B) receptors are present on axon terminals that synapse with parvocellular neurosecretory and nonendocrine paraventricular neurones and to determine how activation of GABA(B) receptors control GABAergic input to these neurones. Whole-cell recordings were performed in coronal hypothalamic slices of the rat containing the paraventricular nucleus. GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (i.p.s.c.) were isolated pharmacologically in the presence of antagonists of glutamatergic ionotropic receptors. We found that baclofen, an agonist of GABA(B) receptors, decreased the frequency of spontaneous and miniature i.p.s.c. It also decreased the amplitude of evoked i.p.s.c. These effects were suppressed by CGP55845A, a competitive antagonist of GABA(B) receptors. CGP55845A also increased the frequency of miniature i.p.s.c. and the amplitude of evoked i.p.s.c., suggesting that, in physiological conditions, presynaptic GABA(B) receptors exert a tonic inhibition on GABA release. Baclofen had no effect on GABA-evoked postsynaptic currents, suggesting that the baclofen-dependent suppression of GABAergic i.p.s.c. was exclusively due to a presynaptic action of the agonist. Our data indicate that GABA(B) receptors are present on axon terminals of GABAergic presynaptic neurones contacting parvocellular neurosecretory and nonendocrine paraventricular neurones, and suggest that GABA(B) receptors exert a tonic inhibition of GABA release from GABAergic terminals. Activation of these receptors causes disinhibition of parvocellular neurosecretory and nonendocrine paraventricular neurones.
Chronic administration of escalating doses ofmorphine leads to neuroadaptive changes precipitating development of tolerance to many of the acute effects of morphine, such as analgesia, activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and suppression of immune cell activities. Interestingly, morphine tolerance has also been shown to be accompanied by heightened immunosuppressive effects of restraint stress using a rodent model. These observations have led to the hypothesis that the altered neuronal state accompanying opioid tolerance may contribute to this enhanced immune sensitivity to stress. To further test this hypothesis using different stressors, Sprague-Dawley rats were treated chronically with morphine for at least 8 days and then challenged with either psychological (water stress) or systemic stressors [morphine withdrawal, lipopolysaccharide (10 mug/kg i.p. challenge)]. It was found that, independent of the type of stress employed, morphine-tolerant animals displayed significantly lower mitogen-stimulated blood lymphocyte responses when compared to the responses of similarly treated saline controls. To determine whether direct activation of central stress pathways may also lead to enhanced immune sensitivity, morphine-tolerant animals were centrally injected with IL-1beta (1 ng/mul i.c.v.), a cytokine that activates the HPA axis by central mechanisms. Similar to the other types of stress, this direct central challenge was also found to be more immunosuppressive in morphine-tolerant animals compared to controls. Collectively, these studies demonstrate that morphine-tolerant animals have an enhanced susceptibility to the debilitating effects of a variety of stressors on immune cell function, an effect that is likely due to the neuroadaptive changes that develop during chronic morphine exposure.
The study of marijuana cannabinoid biology has led to many important discoveries in neuroscience and immunology. These studies have uncovered a new physiological system, the endocannabinoid system, which operates in the regulation of not only brain function but also the regulation of the immune system. Studies examining the effect of cannabinoid-based drugs on immunity have shown that many cellular and cytokine mechanisms are suppressed by these agents leading to the hypothesis that these drugs may be of value in the management of chronic inflammatory diseases. In this report, we review current information on cannabinoid ligand and receptor biology, mechanisms involved in immune suppression by cannabinoids with emphasis on antigen-presenting cells, and preclinical and clinical models analyzing the therapeutic potential of cannabinoid-based drugs.
It has long been postulated that drugs of abuse may represent significant cofactors in the progression of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-induced disease. Both HIV infection and drugs of abuse have significant effect on the immune system as well as on the nervous system. In HIV infection, abnormalities in these systems intersect to lead to a constellation of symptoms known as neuroAIDS. Drugs of abuse may synergize with such damage, acting on immune and/or neural cells. However, definitive epidemiological evidence for such an interaction is lacking. Here we review such studies as well as the use of the nonhuman primate/simian immunodeficiency virus system to investigate the interaction of neuroAIDS with drugs of abuse. Furthermore, recent findings on mechanisms of actions of selected drugs reveal the possibility of protective as well as detrimental effects on the central nervous system damage induced by HIV.
Macrophage colony stimulating factor (M-CSF) appears to play a major role in promoting and maintaining reservoirs of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) in infected individuals. HIV-1 infection induces production of M-CSF by macrophages, which in turn promotes further infection of macrophages via increases in CD4 and CCR5 receptors, as well as increases in virus gene expression. M-CSF promotes the ontogeny and survival of macrophages, contributing to both the number and longevity of these infected cells. M-CSF dysregulation promotes the differentiation of monocytes toward macrophages and osteoclasts and at the same time may inhibit differentiation toward dendritic cells, resulting in immune impairment. The potential role of M-CSF in HIV-associated end organ diseases including HIV-associated dementia, HIV-associated nephropathy, and osteoporosis is discussed. This review emphasizes the need for developing M-CSF antagonists for treatment of HIV-1-infected patients.
Infection with the Group A Streptococcus (GAS) can result in immune mediated brain disease characterised by a spectrum of movement and psychiatric disorders. We have previously described anti-neuronal antibodies in patients that bind to a restricted group of brain antigens with molecular weights 40 kDa, 45 kDa (doublet) and 60 kDa. The aim of this study was to define these antigens using 2-dimensional electrophoresis or ion exchange and hydrophobic interaction chromatography, followed by mass spectrometry. The findings were confirmed using commercial antibodies, commercial antigens and recombinant human antigens. The autoantigens were neuronal glycolytic enzymes--NGE (pyruvate kinase M1, aldolase C, neuronal-specific and non-neuronal enolase). These are multifunctional proteins that are all expressed intracellularly and on the neuronal cell surface. On the neuronal plasma membrane, NGE are involved in energy metabolism, cell signalling and synaptic neurotransmission. Anti-NGE antibodies were more common in the 20 unselected post-streptococcal CNS patients compared to 20 controls. In vitro experiments using cultured neurons showed that commercial anti-NGE antibodies induced apoptosis compared to blank incubation and control anti-HuD antibody. GAS also expresses glycolytic enzymes on cell surfaces that have 0-49% identity with human NGE, suggesting molecular mimicry and autoimmune cross-reactivity may be the pathogenic mechanism in post-streptococcal CNS disease.





Esthesioneuroblastoma is an uncommon malignancy of the nasal vault with a treatment regimen consisting of surgical resection followed by radiotherapy for primary lesions and addition of chemotherapy for patients with advanced, recurrent or metastatic lesions. We report a case of a 39-year-old female with a history of esthesioneuroblastoma, previously treated with resection, radiation and chemotherapy, presenting with a recurrent disease that was successfully treated with re-resection and placement of Gliadel) wafers in the surgical resection cavity. The novel option of controlled-release and local delivery of a chemotherapeutic agent for treatment of recurrent esthesioneuroblastoma should be recognized and considered.
Molecular diffusion plays an important role in many biologic phenomena. The ability to study diffusion, therefore, is extremely useful in physiology and medicine. MRI offers a non-invasive window to diffusion, particularly water self-diffusion. MRI techniques, which provide diffusion sensitivity or quantitation (diffusion tensor MRI [DTI]), have found widespread application in neuroscience and medicine, including the evaluation of stroke, brain development, tumor imaging, and demyelinating disorders. We discuss the tensor nature of diffusion and provide an overview of how DTI offers unique information on tissue organization, water mobility, and disease states, particularly those of neuro-ophthalmologic interest.
The aging brain is characterized by a demonstrable decrease in weight and volume, particularly after the age of 50. This atrophy, which affects both grey and white matter, is presumed to result from a loss of neurons and myelinated axons. Glial cells, on the other hand, appear to increase in the aging brain, which exhibits greater immunoreactivity with both astrocytic and microglial markers. This review is focused on the morphologic and phenotypic changes that occur in microglial cells with normal aging. Although there is a consistent aging-related upregulation of microglial activation markers in experimental animals and humans that could be interpreted as aging-related neuroinflammation, it is generally difficult to show a direct correlation between ostensible microglial activation and neurodegeneration. This raises questions about whether aging-related microglial activation indeed represents reactive gliosis in the conventional sense. As an alternative, we discuss the possibility that structural and phenotypic changes that occur in microglia are a direct reflection of the aging process on microglia. Thus, microglia cells themselves may be subject to cellular senescence in the sense that they no longer function efficiently. The concept of microglial senescence offers a novel perspective on aging-related neurodegeneration, namely that neurodegeneration could also occur secondary to microglial degeneration.
This essay looks at the historical significance of four APS classic papers that are freely available online: Rall W. Distinguishing theoretical synaptic potentials computed for different soma-dendritic distributions of synaptic input. J Neurophysiol 30: 1138-1168, 1967 (http://jn.physiology.org/cgi/reprint/30/5/1138). Rall W, Burke RE, Smith TG, Nelson PG, and Frank K. Dendritic location of synapses and possible mechanisms for the monosynaptic EPSP in motoneurons. J Neurophysiol 30: 1169-1193, 1967 (http://jn.physiology.org/cgi/reprint/30/5/1169). Rall W and Shepherd GM. Theoretical reconstruction of field potentials and dendrodendritic synaptic interactions in olfactory bulb. J Neurophysiol 31: 884-915, 1968 (http://jn.physiology.org/cgi/reprint/31/6/884). Segev I and Rall W. Computational study of an excitable dendritic spine. J Neurophysiol 60: 499-523, 1988 (http://jn.physiology.org/cgi/reprint/60/2/499).
The output of the spinal central pattern generator for locomotion falls into two broad categories: alternation between antagonistic muscles and double bursting within muscles acting on multiple joints. We first model an alternating half-center and then present two different models of double bursting. The first double-bursting model consists of a central clock with an explicit one-to-one mapping between interneuron activity and model output. The second double-bursting model consists of a half-center with an added feedback neuron. Models are built using rate-coded leaky integrator neurons with slow self-inhibition. Structure-function relationships are explored by the addition of noise. The interaction of noise with the dynamics of each network creates a unique pattern of correlation between phases of the simulated cycle. The effects of noise can be explained by perturbation of deterministic versions of the networks. Three basic results were obtained: slow self-inhibitory currents lead to correlations between parts of the step cycle that are separated in time and network relative; model outputs are most sensitive to perturbations presented just before competitive switches in network activity, and clock-like models possess substantial symmetries within the correlation structure of burst durations, whereas the correlation structure of feedback models are asymmetric. Our models suggest that variability in burst length durations can be analyzed to make inferences about the structure of the spinal networks for locomotion. In particular, correlation patterns within double-bursting outputs may yield important clues regarding the interaction between more central, clock-like networks and feedback from more peripheral interneurons.
It is known that GABA is a major inhibitory neurotransmitter in mature mammalian brains, but the effect of this substance is sometimes converted into depolarizing or even excitatory when the postsynaptic Cl- concentration becomes high. Recently we have shown that seizurelike afterdischarge induced by tetanic stimulation in normal extracellular fluid (posttetanic afterdischarge) is mediated through GABAergic excitation in mature hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. In this study, we examined the possible contribution of similar depolarizing/excitatory GABAergic input to the CA1 pyramidal cells to the seizurelike afterdischarge induced in a low extracellular Mg2+ condition, another experimental model of epileptic seizure activity (low-Mg2+ afterdischarge). Perfusion of the GABAA antagonist bicuculline abolished the low-Mg2+ afterdischarge, but not the interictal-like activity, in most cases. Each oscillatory response during the low-Mg2+ afterdischarge was dependent on Cl- conductance and contained an F- -insensitive depolarizing component in the pyramidal cells, thus indicating that the afterdischarge response may be mediated through both GABAergic and nonGABAergic transmissions. In addition, local GABA application to the recorded cells revealed that GABA responses were indeed depolarizing during the low-Mg2+ afterdischarge. Furthermore, the GABAergic interneurons located in the strata pyramidale and oriens fired in oscillatory cycles more actively than those in other layers of the CA1 region. These results suggest that the depolarizing GABAergic input may facilitate oscillatory synchronization among the hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells during the low-Mg2+ afterdischarge in a manner similar to the expression of the posttetanic afterdischarge.
Slob binds to and modulates the Drosophila Slowpoke (dSlo) calcium-activated potassium channel and also recruits the ubiquitous signaling protein 14-3-3 to the channel regulatory complex. RT-PCR reveals the presence of multiple slob transcripts in Drosophila heads. The transcripts are predicted to encode proteins that we call Slob51 (kDa), Slob57, Slob65, and Slob71. Slob51 and Slob65 are splice variants that lack a motif important for the binding of 14-3-3. Previous microarray analyses demonstrated the circadian cycling of slob mRNA, and we show by quantitative PCR that more than one transcript cycles in fly heads. Using in situ hybridization, we observe differences in the expression patterns of the different transcripts. Immunohistochemistry on Drosophila heads reveals Slob71/65 protein to be enriched in the lateral neurons, in contrast to Slob57/51 protein, which is expressed most prominently in the pars intercerebralis neurons and dorsal giant interneurons. Using a heterologous expression system, we show that different Slobs bind to different extents to dSlo and 14-3-3. These data reveal an unexpected diversity of the dSlo/Slob/14-3-3 dynamic regulatory complex.
Interaural time differences, a cue for azimuthal sound location, are first encoded in the superior olivary complex (SOC), and this information is then conveyed to the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) and inferior colliculus (IC). The DNLL provides a strong inhibitory input to the IC and may serve to transform the coding of interaural time differences (ITDs) in the IC. Consistent with the projections from the SOC, the DNLL and IC had similar distributions of peak- and trough-type neurons, characteristic delays, and best ITDs. The ITD tuning widths of DNLL neurons were intermediate between those of the SOC and IC. Further sharpening is seen in the auditory thalamus, indicating that sharpening mechanisms are not restricted to the midbrain. The proportion of neurons that phase-locked to the tones delivered to each ear progressively decreased from the SOC to the auditory thalamus. The degree of phase-locking for a large majority of DNLL neurons was too weak to support their involvement in processing monaural inputs to generate a sensitivity to ITDs. The response rates of DNLL neurons were on average approximately 60% greater than in the IC or SOC, indicating that the inhibitory input provided to the IC by the DNLL is robust.
One of the fundamental principles of neuroscience is that direct electrical interactions between neurons are not possible without specialized electrical contacts, gap junctions, because the transmembrane resistance of neurons is typically much higher than the resistance of the adjacent extracellular space. However it has been proposed that in the retina direct electrical interactions between cones and second-order neurons occur due to the specific morphology of the cone synaptic terminal. This electrical mechanism could potentially explain the phenomenon of &quot;negative feedback&quot; from horizontal cells to cones and the recent finding that the tips of horizontal cell dendrites contain hemichannels has rekindled interest in the idea. We quantitatively evaluated the possibility that hemichannels and/or glutamate channels mediate electrical feedback from horizontal cells to cones. The calculations show that it is unlikely that an electrical mechanism plays a significant functional role because 1) the necessity of preserving adequate cone-to-horizontal-cell synaptic transmission limits the extracellular space resistance and the horizontal-cell dendritic transmembrane resistances to values at which the effectiveness of electrical feedback is very low and its electrical effect on the cone presynaptic membrane is negligible, 2) electrical feedback is most effective in the dark and weaker during light adaptation, which contradicts the experimental data, and 3) electrical negative feedback is associated with much stronger electrical positive feedback from horizontal cells to cones, a phenomenon that has never been reported. Therefore it is likely that negative feedback from horizontal cells to cones is chemical in nature.
Visual stimuli can both inhibit and activate motor mechanisms. In one well-known example, the latency of saccadic eye movements is prolonged in the presence of a fixation stimulus, relative to the case in which the fixation stimulus disappears before the target appears. This automatic sensory-motor effect, known as the gap effect or fixation-offset effect, has been associated with inhibitory connections within the superior colliculus (SC). Visual information is provided to the SC and other oculomotor areas, such as the frontal eye fields (FEF), mainly by the magnocellular geniculostriate pathway, and also by the retinotectal pathway. We tested whether signals in these pathways are necessary to create fixation-related inhibition, by using stimuli invisible to them. We found that such stimuli, visible only to short-wave-sensitive cones (S cones), do produce fixation-related inhibition (including when warning effects were equated). We also demonstrate that this fixation-related inhibition cannot be explained by residual activation of luminance pathways and must be caused by a route separate from that of luminance fixation signals. Thus there are at least two routes that cause fixation-related inhibition, and direct sensory input to the SC or FEF by the magnocellular or retinotectal pathways is not required. We discuss the implications that there may be both cortical and collicular mechanisms.
A classical question in neuroscience is which features of a stimulus or of an action are represented in brain activity. When several features are interdependent either at a given point in time or at distinct points in time, neural activity related to one feature appears to be correlated with other features. Thus techniques that simultaneously consider multiple features cannot account for delayed interdependencies between features. The result is an ambiguity with respect to the encoded features. Here, we resolve this ambiguity by applying a novel statistical method based on partial cross-correlations. The method yields estimates of linear correlations between neural activity and a given feature that are not affected by linear correlations with other features at multiple time delays. The method also provides a graphical output measured on a scale that allows for comparisons between different features, neurons, and experiments. We use real movement data and neural activity simulated according to a wide range of tuning models to illustrate the method. When applied to real neural activity, the procedure yields results that indicate which of the considered features the neural activity is related to and at what time delays.
Genetically encoded optical probes of neuronal activity offer the prospect of simultaneous recordings of neuronal activity and behavior in intact animals. A central problem in simultaneous imaging is that the field of view of the high-power objective required for imaging the neuron is often too small to allow the experimenter to assess the overall behavioral state of the animal. Here we present a method that solves this problem using a microscope with two objectives focused on the preparation: a high-power lens dedicated to imaging the neuron and low-power lens dedicated to imaging the behavior. Images of activity and behavior are acquired simultaneously but separately using different wavelengths of light. The new approach was tested using the cameleon calcium sensor expressed in Caenorhabditis elegans sensory neurons. We show that simultaneous recordings of neuronal activity and behavior are practical in C. elegans and, moreover, that such recordings can reveal subtle, transient correlations between calcium levels and behavior that may be missed in nonsimultaneous recordings. The new method is likely to be useful whenever it would be desirable to record simultaneously at two different spatial resolutions from a single location, or from two different locations in space.
In the in vivo brain background synaptic activity has a strong modulatory influence on neuronal excitability. Here we report that in rat hippocampal slices, blockade of endogenous in vitro background activity results in an increased excitability of CA1 pyramidal neurons within tens of minutes. The increase in excitability constitutes a leftward shift in the input-output relationship of pyramidal neurons, indicating a reduced threshold for the induction of action potentials. The increase in excitability results from an adaptive decrease in a sustained K+ conductance, as recorded from somatic cell-attached patches. After 20 min of blockade of background activity, the mean sustained K+ current amplitude in somatic patches was reduced to 46 +/- 9% of that in time-matched control patches. Blockade of background activity did not affect fast Na+ conductance. Together, these results suggests that the reduction in K+ conductance serves as an adaptive mechanism to increase the excitability of CA1 pyramidal neurons in response to changes in background activity such that the dynamic range of the input-output relationship is effectively maintained.
We used transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and electrophysiological techniques to characterize the morphology and stimulus-evoked compound action potential (CAP), respectively, of the adult mouse optic nerve (MON). Electrophysiological recordings demonstrated an identical CAP profile for each MON. An initial peak, smallest in area and presumably composed of the fastest-conducting axons displayed the lowest threshold for activation as expected for large axons. The second peak, the largest, was presumably composed of axons of intermediate diameter and conduction velocity, and the third peak was composed of the slowest and presumably smallest axons. In 10 mM fructose, the first CAP peak area was reduced by 78%, but the second and third peaks were unaffected. Histological analysis revealed a cross-sectional area of 33,346 microm2, containing 24,068 axons per MON. All axons were myelinated and axon diameter ranged from 0.09 to 2.58 microm, although 80 +/- 6% of the axons were &lt;0.75 microm in diameter and only 0.6 +/- 0.3% of the axons were &gt;2 microm in diameter. After bathing in fructose for 2 h 94 +/- 2% of normal appearing axons were &lt;0.75 microm in diameter and none were &gt;1.5 microm-all of the larger axons being grossly abnormal in structure. We conclude that fructose is unable to support function of the larger axons contributing to the first CAP peak, thus enabling us to identify a distinct population of axons that contributes to that peak.
Long-term cyclic treatment with 17beta-estradiol reverses age-related impairment in ovariectomized rhesus monkeys on a test of cognitive function mediated by the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Here, we examined potential neurobiological substrates of this effect using intracellular loading and morphometric analyses to test the possibility that the cognitive benefits of hormone treatment are associated with structural plasticity in layer III pyramidal cells in PFC area 46. 17beta-Estradiol did not affect several parameters such as total dendritic length and branching. In contrast, 17beta-estradiol administration increased apical and basal dendritic spine density, and induced a shift toward smaller spines, a response linked to increased spine motility, NMDA receptor-mediated activity, and learning. These results document that, although the aged primate PFC is vulnerable in the absence of factors such as circulating estrogens, it remains responsive to long-term cyclic 17beta-estradiol treatment, and that increased dendritic spine density and altered spine morphology may contribute to the cognitive benefits of such treatment.
Regulator of G-protein signaling 9-1 (RGS9-1) and RGS9-2 are highly related RGS proteins with distinctive C termini arising from alternative splicing of RGS9 gene transcripts. RGS9-1 is expressed in photoreceptors where it functions as a regulator of transducin. In contrast, RGS9-2 is abundantly expressed in the brain, especially in basal ganglia, where its specific function remains poorly understood. To gain insight into the function of RGS9-2, we screened a human cDNA library for potential interacting proteins. This screen identified a strong interaction between RGS9-2 and alpha-actinin-2, suggesting a possible functional relationship between these proteins. Consistent with this idea, RGS9-2 and alpha-actinin-2 coimmunoprecipitated after coexpression in human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK-293) cells. Furthermore, endogenous RGS9-2 and alpha-actinin-2 could also be coimmunoprecipitated from extracts of rat striatum, an area highly enriched in both these proteins. These results supported the idea that RGS9-2 and alpha-actinin-2 could act in concert in central neurons. Like alpha-actinin-2, RGS9-2 coimmunoprecipitated NMDA receptors from striatal extracts, suggesting an interaction between RGS9-2, alpha-actinin-2, and NMDA receptors. Previous studies have shown that alpha-actinin mediates calcium-dependent inactivation of NMDA receptors. In HEK-293 cells expressing NMDA receptors, expression of RGS9-2 significantly modulated this form of NMDA receptor inactivation. Furthermore, this modulation showed remarkable preference for NMDA receptor inactivation mediated by alpha-actinin-2. Using a series of deletion constructs, we localized this effect to the RGS domain of the protein. These results identify an unexpected functional interaction between RGS9-2 and alpha-actinin-2 and suggest a potential novel role for RGS9-2 in the regulation of NMDA receptor function.
Physiological studies in vocal animals such as songbirds indicate that vocalizations drive auditory neurons particularly well. But the neural mechanisms whereby vocalizations are encoded differently from other sounds in the auditory system are unknown. We used spectrotemporal receptive fields (STRFs) to study the neural encoding of song versus the encoding of a generic sound, modulation-limited noise, by single neurons and the neuronal population in the zebra finch auditory midbrain. The noise was designed to match song in frequency, spectrotemporal modulation boundaries, and power. STRF calculations were balanced between the two stimulus types by forcing a common stimulus subspace. We found that 91% of midbrain neurons showed significant differences in spectral and temporal tuning properties when birds heard song and when birds heard modulation-limited noise. During the processing of noise, spectrotemporal tuning was highly variable across cells. During song processing, the tuning of individual cells became more similar; frequency tuning bandwidth increased, best temporal modulation frequency increased, and spike timing became more precise. The outcome was a population response to song that encoded rapidly changing sounds with power and precision, resulting in a faithful neural representation of the temporal pattern of a song. Modeling responses to song using the tuning to modulation-limited noise showed that the population response would not encode song as precisely or robustly. We conclude that stimulus-dependent changes in auditory tuning during song processing facilitate the high-fidelity encoding of the temporal pattern of a song.
Accumulating evidence suggests that inflammation plays a major role in the pathogenesis of motor neuron death in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Important mediators of inflammation such as the cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and its superfamily member fibroblast-associated cell-surface ligand (FasL) have been implicated in apoptosis. We found increased TNF-alpha and FasL immunoreactivity in lumbar spinal cord sections of ALS patients and G93A transgenic mice. Both increased TNF-alpha and FasL immunostaining in the lumbar spinal cord of the G93A SOD1 transgenic mice occurred at 40-60 d, well before the onset of symptoms and loss of motor neurons. We tested the neuroprotective effect of thalidomide and its analog lenalidomide, pharmacological agents that inhibit the expression of TNF-alpha and other cytokines by destabilizing their mRNA. Treatment with either thalidomide or lenalidomide attenuated weight loss, enhanced motor performance, decreased motor neuron cell death, and significantly increased the life span in G93A transgenic mice. Treated G93A mice showed a reduction in TNF-alpha and FasL immunoreactivity as well as their mRNA in the lumbar spinal cord. Both compounds also reduced interleukin (IL)-12p40, IL-1alpha, and IL-1beta and increased IL-RA and TGF-beta1 mRNA. Therefore, both thalidomide and lenalidomide bear promise as therapeutic interventions for the treatment of ALS.
In the mammalian CNS, oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) express most neurotransmitter receptors, but their function remains unclear. The current studies suggest a physiological role for glutamate (AMPA and/or kainate) receptors in OPC migration. AMPA stimulated alphav integrin-mediated OPC migration by increasing both the rate of cell movement and the frequency of Ca2+ transients. A protein complex containing the myelin proteolipid protein (PLP) and alphav integrin modulated the AMPA-stimulated migration, and stimulation of OPC AMPA receptors resulted in increased association of the AMPA receptor subunits themselves with the alphav integrin/PLP complex. Thus, after AMPA receptor stimulation, an alphav integrin/PLP/neurotransmitter receptor protein complex forms that reduces binding to the extracellular matrix and enhances OPC migration. To assess the extent to which PLP was involved in the AMPA-stimulated migration, OPCs from the myelin-deficient (MD) rat, which has a PLP gene mutation, were analyzed. OPCs from the MD rat had a normal basal migration rate, but AMPA did not stimulate the migration of these cells, suggesting that the PLP/alphav integrin complex was important for the AMPA-mediated induction. AMPA-induced modulation of OPC migration was abolished by pertussis toxin, although baseline migration was normal. Thus, G-protein-dependent signaling is crucial for AMPA-stimulated migration of OPCs but not for basal OPC migration. Other signaling pathways involved in this AMPA-stimulated OPC migration were also determined. These studies highlight novel signaling determinants of OPC migration and suggest that glutamate could play a pivotal role in regulating integrin-mediated OPC migration.
A basic question in neuroscience is how different forms of learning are related. To further address that question, we examined whether gill withdrawal in Aplysia, which has already been studied extensively for neuronal mechanisms contributing to habituation, sensitization, and classical conditioning, also undergoes operant conditioning. Animals were run in pairs. During the initial training period, the contingent (experimental) animal received a siphon shock each time its gill relaxed below a criterion level, and the yoked control animal received a shock whenever the experimental animal did, regardless of its own gill position. This was followed by an extinction period when there was no shock, a retraining period when both animals were contingent, and another extinction period. The experimental animals spent more time with their gills contracted above the criterion level than did the control animals during each period, demonstrating operant conditioning. The type of gill behavior modified by learning shifted over time: the experimental animals had a larger increase in the frequency and duration of spontaneous contractions than did the control animals during the first but not the last extinction period and a larger increase in the level of tonic contraction during the last but not the first extinction period. Because many of the neurons controlling spontaneous and tonic gill withdrawal have already been identified, it should now be possible to examine the cellular locus and mechanism of operant conditioning and compare them with those for other forms of learning of the same behavior.
The nucleus accumbens (NAcc) and central amygdala (CeA) are parts of the extended amygdala, a complex that plays a key role in drug abuse and dependence. Our previous studies showed that opiates and ethanol alter glutamatergic transmission in these regions. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are key components of glutamatergic transmission likely involved in the development of opiate tolerance and dependence. In this study we examined the effects of chronic morphine administration on gene and protein expression of three major NMDA receptors subunits (NR1, NR2A, and NR2B) in NAcc and CeA. Real-time PCR showed no differences in mRNA levels of any of the subunits in the whole NAcc between nave and morphine-dependent rats. However, at the protein level, immunoblotting revealed that chronic morphine significantly increased levels of NR1 and NR2B subunits. In contrast to the case for NAcc, in CeA we found an increased mRNA level for the NR1 subunit only but unchanged protein levels of all three subunits in morphine-dependent rats. The altered expressions of NMDA receptor subunits, especially in NAcc, of morphine-dependent rats may represent a neuroadaptation to chronic morphine and suggest a mechanism for the changes of glutamatergic transmission found in the extended amygdala in dependent rats. In addition, our results indicate a region-specific response of NMDA receptor subunits to chronic morphine administration at the gene and protein levels.
Alterations in neuronal morphology occur in the brain during normal aging, but vary depending on neuronal cell types and brain regions. Such alterations have been related to memory and cognitive impairment. Changes in hippocampal spine densities are thought to represent a morphological correlate of altered brain functions associated with hippocampal-dependent learning and memory. We therefore have analyzed the impact of aging on different hippocampal-dependent learning tasks and on changes in dendritic spines of CA1 hippocampal and dentate gyrus neurons by analyzing adult (6-7 months) and aged (21-22 months) C57/Bl6 mice. We found a significant decrease in spine numbers of basal CA1 dendrites and decreases in spine length of apical dendrites of CA1 and dentate gyrus neurons. Furthermore, aged mice exhibited significant deficits in hippocampus-dependent learning tasks, such as the probe trial of the Morris water maze and T maze learning. Given the fact that there is no neuronal loss in the hippocampus in aged mice (von Bohlen und Halbach and Unsicker [2002] Eur. J. Neurosci. 16:2434-2440), we suggest that the memory and cognitive decline in the context of aging may be accompanied by rather subtle anatomical changes, such as numbers and morphology of dendritic spines.
The central nervous system (CNS) is considered a nonpermissive environment for axonal regeneration because of the presence of myelin and associated repulsive molecules. However, neural cells transplanted to the CNS preferably migrate and extend their fibers in white matter areas. We previously showed that white matter astrocytes in vivo express the calcium-binding protein S100A4, which is strongly up-regulated in areas of white matter degeneration. To investigate the role of white matter astrocytes and their specific protein S100A4 in axonal regeneration, we developed white matter astrocyte cultures with strong S100A4 expression and grew dissociated adult dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells on top of astrocytes for 24 hr. By using small interfering S100A4 RNA, we were able to eliminate S100A4 expression and compare growth of DRG cell neurites on S100A4-silenced and S100A4-expressing astrocytes. In addition, we studied whether extracellular S100A4 has an effect on neurite growth from adult DRG cells cultured on S100A4-expressing white matter astrocytes. Our data show that white matter astrocytes are permissive for neurite growth, although high levels of S100A4 in white matter astrocytes have a negative effect on this growth. Extracellular application of S100A4 induced extensive growth of DRG cell neurites on white matter astrocytes. These findings suggest that white matter astrocytes are able to support axonal regeneration and, furthermore, that administration of extracellular S100A4 provides strong additional support for axonal regeneration.


Gait analysis plays an important role in the assessment of neurological function in many disease models. In this review, we focus on the newly developed CatWalk system for gait analysis. CatWalk was originally developed as a tool to enhance assessment of functional outcome in spinal cord injury (SCI) models. Although it is also of value in models of among others (neuropathic) pain and peripheral nerve damage, we will limit ourselves to its use in SCI models in this review. The system is positioned against well-established locomotor function tests, and it is indicated how CatWalk can enhance the usefulness of such tests. Development of the system started with the idea that it should enable objective assessment of coordination, and powerful measures of coordination are nowadays included in the analysis options provided by CatWalk. Therefore, a major part of this review is devoted to the history and meaning of these coordination measures.
Acute traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) results in a devastating loss of neurological function below the level of injury and adversely affects multiple systems within the body. The pathobiology of SCI involves a primary mechanical insult to the spinal cord and activation of a delayed secondary cascade of events, which ultimately causes progressive degeneration of the spinal cord. Whereas cell death from the mechanical injury is predominated by necrosis, secondary injury events trigger a continuum of necrotic and apoptotic cell death mechanisms. These secondary events include vascular abnormalities, ischemia-reperfusion, glutamate excitotoxicity and disturbances in ionic homeostasis, oxidative cell injury, and a robust inflammatory response. No gold standard therapy for SCI has been established, although clinical trials with methylprednisolone (NASCIS II and III) and GM-1 ganglioside (Maryland and Sygen) have demonstrated modest, albeit potentially important therapeutic benefits. In light of the overwhelming impact of SCI on the individual, other therapeutic interventions are urgently needed. A number of promising pharmacological therapies are currently under investigation for neuroprotective abilities in animal models of SCI. These include the sodium (Na+) channel blocker riluzole, the tetracycline derivative minocycline, the fusogen copolymer polyethylene glycol (PEG), and the tissue-protective hormone erythropoietin (EPO). Moreover, clinical trials investigating the putative neuroprotective and neuroregenerative properties ascribed to the Rho pathway antagonist, Cethrin (BioAxone Therapeutic, Inc.), and implantation of activated autologous macrophages (ProCord; Proneuron Biotechnologies) in patients with thoracic and cervical SCI are now underway. We anticipate that these studies will harken an era of renewed interest in translational clinical trials. Ultimately, due to the multi-factorial pathophysiology of traumatic SCI, effective therapies will require combined approaches.

Opioids are used in clinical practice for sedation, anesthesia, and analgesia. Their effects depend on their pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics. The liver is the major site for the biotransformation of most opioids. The major metabolic pathway is oxidation. Metabolism influences distribution, clearance, onset, and offset of opioid drugs. Action also depends on the coupling of opioids with the class of receptors involved and on localization of specific receptors. Three major types of opioid receptors, designated as mu, delta, and kappa, present in the central nervous system, are coupled to G proteins and inhibit adenylyl cyclase. Down's syndrome is a congenital condition characterized by mental retardation and particular physical features. Neurotransmission alterations are important. Alteration in the concentration of opioids in the cortex of these patients has been demonstrated. Neurobiological abnormalities and, in some, abnormalities in the neurotransmission systems, anxiety, and, in particular, nociception all suggest that structural and functional alterations of opioid receptors may be present. A clear knowledge of these multiple abnormalities is essential for skillful management of the perioperative period and for a good outcome for patients with Down's syndrome.

The acute lesions of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) consist of endoneurial foci of chemokine and chemokine receptor expression and T cell and macrophage activation. The myelin protein antigens, P2, P0, and PMP22, each induce experimental autoimmune neuritis in rodent models and might be autoantigens in CIDP. The strongest evidence incriminates P0, to which antibodies have been found in 20% of cases. Failure of regulatory T-cell mechanism is thought to underlie persistent or recurrent disease, differentiating CIDP from the acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy form of Guillain-Barr syndrome. Corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin and plasma exchange each provide short term benefit but the possible long-term benefits of immunosuppressive drugs have yet to be confirmed in randomised, controlled trials.

Alpha5IA is a compound that binds with equivalent subnanomolar affinity to the benzodiazepine (BZ) site of GABA(A) receptors containing an alpha1, alpha2, alpha3, or alpha5 subunit but has inverse agonist efficacy selective for the alpha5 subtype. As a consequence, the in vitro and in vivo effects of this compound are mediated primarily via GABA(A) receptors containing an alpha5 subunit. In a mouse hippocampal slice model, alpha5IA significantly enhanced the burst-induced long-term potentiation of the excitatory postsynaptic potential in the CA1 region but did not cause an increase in the paroxysmal burst discharges that are characteristic of convulsant and proconvulsant drugs. These in vitro data suggesting that alpha5IA may enhance cognition without being proconvulsant were confirmed in in vivo rodent models. Hence, alpha5IA significantly enhanced performance in a rat hippocampal-dependent test of learning and memory, the delayed-matching-to-position version of the Morris water maze, with a minimum effective oral dose of 0.3 mg/kg, which corresponded to a BZ site occupancy of 25%. However, in mice alpha5IA was not convulsant in its own right nor did it potentiate the effects of pentylenetetrazole acutely or produce kindling upon chronic dosing even at doses producing greater than 90% occupancy. Finally, alpha5IA was not anxiogenic-like in the rat elevated plus maze nor did it impair performance in the mouse rotarod assay. Together, these data suggest that the GABA(A) alpha5-subtype provides a novel target for the development of selective inverse agonists with utility in the treatment of disorders associated with a cognitive deficit.
Elevated levels of nerve growth factor have been linked to the onset and persistence of many pain-related disorders and asthma. Described here are the design, expression, refolding, and purification of a monomeric (nonstrand-swapped) form of the binding domain of the nerve growth factor receptor, designated TrkAd5. We have shown that TrkAd5 produced recombinantly binds nerve growth factor with picomolar affinity. TrkAd5 has been characterized using a variety of biophysical and biochemical assays and is shown here to be stable in both plasma and urine. The palliative effects of TrkAd5 are demonstrated in animal models of inflammatory pain and allergic asthma. We conclude that TrkAd5 will prove effective in ameliorating both acute and chronic conditions where nerve growth factor acts as a mediator and suggest a role for its application in vivo as a novel therapeutic.
Recordings have been made from 127 single muscle spindle afferents from the longissimus lumborum muscles of anaesthetized cats. They have been characterized by their responses to passive muscle stretch and the effects of succinylcholine (SCh) and by their sensitivity to vibration. The use of SCh permitted the assessment for each afferent of the influence of bag1 (b1) and bag2 (b2) intrafusal muscle fibres. From this, on the assumption that all afferents were affected by chain (c) fibres, they were classified in four groups: b1b2c (41.9%), b2c (51.4%), b1c (1.3%) and c (5.4%). All the afferents with b1 influence were able to respond one to one to vibration at frequencies above 100 Hz and were considered to belong to primary endings. On the basis of the vibration test, 64% of the b2c type afferents appeared to be primaries and 36% secondaries. Of the units classified as primaries, 41% were designated as b2c and would not therefore be able to respond to dynamic fusimotor activity. The significance of this relatively high proportion of b2c-type spindle primary afferents is discussed in relation to the specialized postural function of the back muscles.
The regeneration potential of the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS) is very modest, due to, among other factors, the presence of either a glial scar, or myelin-associated regeneration inhibitors such as Nogo-A, MAG and OMgp, which all interact with the same receptor (NgR). After a brief review of the key proteins (Rho and PKC) implicated in NgR-mediated signalling cascades, we will tackle the implications of cAMP and Arginase I in overcoming myelin growth-inhibitory influence, and then will focus on the effects of polyamines and aminoguanidine to propose (and to briefly support this proposal by our own preliminary data) that their association might be a potent way to enable functionally-relevant regeneration in the adult mammalian CNS.
When animals learn hippocampus-dependent associative and spatial tasks such as trace eyeblink conditioning and the water maze, CA1 hippocampal neurons become more excitable as a result of reductions in the post-burst, slow afterhyperpolarization. The calcium-activated potassium current that mediates this afterhyperpolarization is activated by the calcium influx that occurs when a series of action potentials fire and serves as a modulator of neuronal firing frequency. As a result, spike frequency accommodation is also reduced after learning. Neuronal calcium buffering processes change and/or voltage-dependent calcium currents increase during aging; leading to enhancements in the slow afterhyperpolarization, increased spike frequency accommodation and age-associated impairments in learning. We describe a series of studies done to characterize this learning-specific enhancement in intrinsic neuronal excitability and its converse in aging brain. We have also combined behavioral pharmacology and biophysics in experiments demonstrating that compounds that increase neuronal excitability in CA1 pyramidal neurons also enhance learning rate of hippocampus-dependent tasks, especially in aging animals. The studies reviewed here include those using nimodipine, an L-type calcium current blocker that tends to cross the blood-brain barrier; metrifonate, a cholinesterase inhibitor; CI1017, a muscarinic cholinergic agonist; and galantamine, a combined cholinesterase inhibitor and nicotinic agonist. Since aging is the chief risk factor for Alzheimer's disease, a disease that targets the hippocampus and associated brain regions and markedly impairs hippocampus-dependent learning, these compounds have potential use as treatments for this disease. Galantamine has been approved by the USDA for this purpose. Finally, we have extended our studies to the TG2576 transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD), that overproduces amyloid precursor protein (APP) and increases levels of toxic beta-amyloid in the brain. Not only do these mice show deficits in hippocampus-dependent learning as they age, but their hippocampal neurons show a reduced capacity to increase their levels of intrinsic excitability with reductions in the slow afterhyperpolarization after application of the muscarinic agonist carbachol. These TG2576 APP overproducing mice were crossed with BACE1 knockout mice, that do not produce beta-amyloid because cleavage of APP by the beta-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is a critical step in its formation. Not only was hippocampus-dependent learning rescued in the bigenic TG2576-BACE1 mice, but the capacity of hippocampal neurons to show normal enhancements of intrinsic excitability was restored. The series of studies reviewed here support our hypothesis that enhancement in intrinsic excitability by reductions in calcium-activated potassium currents in hippocampal neurons is an important cellular mechanism for hippocampus-dependent learning.
The two hallmark lesions of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are extracellular amyloid plaques, mainly formed by a small peptide called amyloid-beta (Abeta), and neurofibrillary tangles, which are intracellular inclusions formed by aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. One of the major neurochemical features of AD is the marked reduction of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in disease-relevant brain regions such as the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. This loss is further compounded by the loss of cholinergic cells, which contributes to the cognitive dysfunction. This observation has had a major impact on therapeutic treatments, as efforts to restore cholinergic function such as the administration of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors have been, until recently, the major treatment options available for AD. Understanding the relationship of these hallmark lesions with the plethora of other changes that occur in the AD brain has proven to be a difficult challenge to resolve. The utilization of transgenic mouse models, that recapitulate one or more neuropathological and neurochemical features of the AD brain is providing some inroads, as they offer a means to gain mechanistic insights into the disease process in an in vivo setting. In this review, we consider the role of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in transgenic models and in AD.
Substrate integrated microelectrode arrays (MEAs) offer an alternative to classical electrophysiological methods like the patch clamp technique for recording the electrical activity from cells and tissue of neuronal or cardiac origin. Since its introduction 30 years ago, this technology has made possible the repeated simultaneous recording from multiple sites in a non-invasive manner. The MEA technology can be applied to any electrogenic cells or tissue (i.e., central and peripheral neurons, heart cells, and muscle cells), either as cultures or acute cell or slice preparations. The combination of culture techniques and MEAs offers the possibility to monitor the activity of a designed specimen over extended periods of time, up to several months. Furthermore, recording the electrical activity of distributed regions of a preparation yields information on spatial effects that might go undetected with other recording methods. Development, plasticity, and regeneration are examples of applications that could especially benefit from long term monitoring of neuronal activity, as they concern processes that develop over extended periods of time. Here we highlight recent MEA studies on signal regulation of neuronal network behavior and axonal regeneration. We illustrate the use of MEAs to study long term potentiation (LTP) and summarize the advantages of MEA technology over traditional electrophysiological methods for studies aimed at understanding the transcription-dependent late phase of plasticity.
The Djungarian hamster is a highly seasonal small mammal. The rhythmic secretion of melatonin by the pineal gland is under control of the circadian clock, conveying the photoperiodic message to the organism. Trans-pineal microdialysis permits the in vivo study of this well-defined and precise clock output by measuring melatonin release directly in the pineal gland. The aim of this study was to adapt this method to the Djungarian hamster in order to monitor clock properties during photoperiodic changes. Male adult Djungarian hamsters were kept in a long photoperiod (LD 16:8) and melatonin release was measured hourly during the dark period for several weeks. Melatonin showed a regular secretion between ZT 17 and ZT 23.5 whereas the amplitude became stable only after the third day of perfusion. To test how quickly changes in melatonin profile can be measured, 15-min light pulses were given at different time points throughout the scotophase. Light-pulses immediately interrupted melatonin secretion at any time point during the scotophase and the temporal resolution for measurement could be reduced to 30 min. In accordance with studies in the rat, long-term effects of light on the clock could only be observed when a light pulse was administered in the second half of the night. For the first time we established a method to measure precisely a direct and reliable clock-output in a highly seasonal species which allows us now to study the circadian and seasonal properties of the clock in detail.

It has been hypothesized that a decrease in the synthesis of new neurons in the adult hippocampus might be linked to major depressive disorder (MDD). This hypothesis arose after it was discovered that antidepressant medications increased the synthesis of new neurons in the brain, and it was noted that the therapeutic effects of antidepressants occurred over a time span that approximates the time taken for the new neurons to become functional. Like antidepressants, exercise also increases the synthesis of new neurons in the adult brain: a 2-3-fold increase in hippocampal neurogenesis has been observed in rats with regular access to a running wheel when they are compared with control animals. We hypothesized, based on the adult-neurogenesis hypothesis of MDD, that exercise should alleviate the symptoms of MDD and that potential mechanisms should exist to explain this therapeutic effect. Accordingly, we evaluated studies that suggest that exercise is an effective treatment for MDD, and we explored potential mechanisms that could link adult neurogenesis, exercise and MDD. We conclude that there is evidence to support the hypothesis that exercise alleviates MDD and that several mechanisms exist that could mediate this effect through adult neurogenesis.
Bipolar disorder is an important and serious mental illness associated with significant morbidity and mortality. However, unfortunately, the evidence base regarding treatment is less than satisfactory. In such circumstances clinicians often resort to reputable sets of guidelines. A number of these currently exist; in the United Kingdom the most prominent being that produced by the British Association of Psychopharmacology (BAP). This paper reviews the methodology of this guideline and its recommendations regarding the long-term treatment of bipolar disorder and compares this with guidelines produced by the American Psychiatric Association (APA), the Canadian Network for Mood and Anxiety Treatments (CANMAT) and the Texas Implementation of Medication Algorithms (TIMA) for bipolar I disorder. It is concluded that the BAP guidelines continue to be a reasonable set of recommendations, though there are new data available since their publication. All the guidelines reviewed place lithium and valproate at the top of the list of options for long-term treatment. There is a trend to increasingly recognize atypical antipsychotics, particularly olanzapine, as an additional alternative and an increasing prominence of lamotrigine for prevention of depressive relapses. All other treatment options currently have an extremely limited evidence base and do not feature consistently in the published guidelines.
The current study examined the long-term effect of brief exposure to 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) on local cerebral glucose utilization (LCGU) in specific brain regions immediately following administration of the 5-HT2A/2C receptor agonist, 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI). Wistar rats (post-natal day (PND) 28, n = 24) were administered MDMA (5 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline (1 ml/kg, i.p.) four times daily for 2 consecutive days and core body temperature was recorded. Fifty-five days later and 10 min following injection of DOI (1 mg/kg, i.p.) or saline, LCGU was measured using the [14C]2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) technique. In the 4 hours following the initial injection (PND 28), MDMA-treated rats exhibited significant hyperthermia compared with saline-treated controls (p &lt; 0.05-0.01). Eight weeks later, immediately following DOI challenge, LCGU was significantly elevated (an increase of 47%, p &lt; 0.05) in the nucleus accumbens of MDMA/DOI pretreated rats, compared with that in MDMA/saline pre-treated controls. A similar trend was observed in other areas such as the lateral habenula, somatosensory cortex and hippocampal regions (percentage changes of 27-41%), but these did not reach significance. Blood glucose levels were significantly elevated in both groups of DOI-treated rats (p &lt; 0.05-0.01). Thus, brief exposure of young rats to an MDMA regimen previously shown to cause anxiety-like behaviour and modest serotonergic neurotoxicity (Bull et al., 2004) increased DOI-induced energy metabolism in the nucleus accumbens and tended to increase metabolism in other brain regions, including the hippocampus, consistent with the induction of long-term brain region specific changes in synaptic plasticity.
Users of ecstasy (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine; MDMA) may be at risk of developing MDMA-induced injury to the serotonin (5-HT) system. Previously, there were no methods available for directly evaluating the neurotoxic effects of MDMA in the living human brain. However, development of in vivoneuroimaging tools have begun to provide insights into the effects of ecstasy on the human brain. Single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), positron emission computed tomography (PET) and proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS) studies which have evaluated ecstasy's neurotoxic potential will be reviewed and discussed in terms of technical aspects, conceptual issues and future prospects. Although PET and SPECT may be limited by several factors such as the low cortical uptake and the use of a non-optimal reference region (cerebellum) the few studies conducted so far provide suggestive evidence that people who heavily use ecstasy are at risk of developing subcortical, and probably also cortical reductions in serotonin transporter (SERT) densities, a marker of 5-HT neurotoxicity. There seem to be dose-dependent and transient reductions in SERT for which females may be more vulnerable than males. 1H-MRS appears to be a less sensitive technique for studying ecstasy's neurotoxic potential. Whether individuals with a relatively low ecstasy exposure also demonstrate loss of SERT needs to be determined. Because most studies have had a retrospective design, in which evidence is indirect and differs in the degree to which any causal links can be implied, longitudinal studies in human ecstasy users are needed to draw definite conclusions.


Fear extinction is defined as a decline in conditioned fear responses (CRs) following nonreinforced exposure to a feared conditioned stimulus (CS). Behavioral evidence indicates that extinction is a form of inhibitory learning: Extinguished fear responses reappear with the passage of time (spontaneous recovery), a shift of context (renewal), and unsignaled presentations of the unconditioned stimulus (reinstatement). However, there also is evidence to suggest that extinction is an &quot;unlearning&quot; process corresponding to depotentiation of potentiated synapses within the amygdala. Because depotentiation is induced more readily at short intervals following LTP induction and is not inducible at all at a sufficient delay, it may be that extinction initiated shortly following fear acquisition preferentially engages depotentiation/&quot;unlearning,&quot; whereas extinction initiated at longer delays recruits a different mechanism. We investigated this possibility through a series of behavioral experiments examining the recoverability of conditioned fear following extinction. Consistent with an inhibitory learning mechanism of extinction, rats extinguished 24-72 h following acquisition exhibited moderate to strong reinstatement, renewal, and spontaneous recovery. In contrast, and consistent with an erasure mechanism, rats extinguished 10 min to 1 h after acquisition exhibited little or no reinstatement, renewal, or spontaneous recovery. These data support a model in which different neural mechanisms are recruited depending on the temporal delay of fear extinction.
A common cellular alteration, reduced post-burst afterhyperpolarization (AHP) in CA1 neurons, is associated with acquisition of the hippocampus-dependent tasks trace eyeblink conditioning and the Morris water maze. As a similar increase in excitability is correlated with these two learning paradigms, we sought to determine the interactive behavioral effects of training animals on both tasks by using either a consecutive or simultaneous training design. In the consecutive design, animals were trained first on either the trace eyeblink conditioning task for six sessions, followed by training on the water maze task for six sessions, or vice versa. The simultaneous design consisted of six or 11 training days; animals received one session/day of both trace eyeblink conditioning and water maze training. Separate groups were used for consecutive and simultaneous training. Animals trained on both tasks simultaneously were significantly facilitated in their ability to acquire the trace eyeblink conditioning task; no effect of simultaneous training was seen on the water maze task. No effect was seen on acquisition for either task when using the consecutive training design. Taken together, these findings provide insight into how the hippocampus processes information when animals learn multiple hippocampus-dependent tasks.
Previous studies showed that the serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinase (sgk) gene plays an important role in long-term memory formation. The present study further examined the role of SGK in long-term potentiation (LTP). The dominant-negative mutant of sgk, SGKS422A, was used to inactivate SGK. Results revealed a time-dependent increase in SGK phosphorylation after tetanization with a significant effect observed 3 h and 5 h later. Transfection of SGKS422A impaired the expression, but not the induction, of LTP. Furthermore, the constitutively active sgk, SGKS422D, up-regulated postsynaptic density-95 expression in the hippocampus. These results together support the role of SGK in neuronal plasticity.
Stress facilitates memory formation, but only when the stressor is closely linked to the learning context. These effects are, at least in part, mediated by corticosteroid hormones. Here we demonstrate that corticosterone rapidly facilitates synaptic potentiation in the mouse hippocampal CA1 area when high levels of the hormone and high-frequency stimulation coincide in time, but not when corticosterone is given either before or after repetitive stimulation. This effect could not be blocked by antagonists of the mineralocorticoid receptor and glucocorticoid receptor (spironolactone and RU 38486, respectively). These data provide a biological substrate for the important behavioral observation that stress and corticosteroid hormones can facilitate learning and memory processes.
Few large demographic studies of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) are derived from population-based registries. Demographic and karyotypic data were provided for AML cases from two regional leukemia registry databases in Scotland and the Northern Region of England. A population-based dataset was compiled, comprising 1709 patients aged &gt;16 years (1235 North England/474 Scotland patients). The most common cytogenetic abnormalities involved chromosomes 5 and/or 7 (17%). Patients with the following abnormal chromosome 5/7 combinations: -5, del(5q), -5/-7 and del(5q)/-7 represented a significantly older population (P &lt; 0.01, ANOVA). t(8;21) was the only 'favourable' karyotype found in older age. Karyotypic complexity varied within chromosome 5/7 combination groups; those containing -5, -5/-7, -5/del(7q), del(5q)/-7 or del(5q)/del(7q) combinations were significantly more frequently complex than those containing -7 and del(7q) (P &lt; 0.01, chi2 test). Additional recurring cytogenetic abnormalities within complex karyotypes containing chromosome 5/7 combinations included (in order of frequency), abnormalities of chromosomes 17, 12, 3 and 18. Complex karyotypes not involving chromosomes 5 or 7 represented 30% of all complex karyotypes, occurred in younger patients than those involving chromosomes 5 and 7, and frequently included additional trisomy 8 (26%). In conclusion, we describe subgroups within adverse karyotypes, with different demographics, degree of complexity and additional chromosome abnormalities.
Quantification of cerebral blood flow (CBF) using dynamic susceptibility contrast MRI requires determination of the arterial input function (AIF) representing the delivery of intravascular tracer to tissue. This is typically accomplished manually by inspection of concentration time curves (CTCs) in regions containing the ICA, VA, and MCA. This is, however, a time consuming and operator dependent procedure. We suggest a completely automatic procedure for establishing the AIF based on a cluster analysis algorithm. In 20 normal subjects CBF maps calculated in 2 slices by the automatic procedure were compared to maps obtained with AIFs selected individually by 7 experienced operators. The average manual to automatic CBF ratio was 1.03+/-0.15 in the lower slice and 1.05+/-0.12 in the upper slice, demonstrating excellent agreement between the manual and automatic method. The algorithm provides means for objectively assessing AIF candidates in local AIF search algorithms designed to reduce bias due to delay and dispersion. Given the reproducibility and speed (10 s) of the automatic method, we speculate that it will greatly improve the accuracy of perfusion images and facilitate their use in clinical diagnosis and decision-making, particularly in acute stroke but also in cerebrovascular disease in general.
Spinal cord evoked potentials (SCEPs) used as a technique for intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring can be divided into several groups depending on the stimulation method. SCEP evoked by direct motor cortex stimulation enables the recording of the descending volley passing through the corticospinal tract. Such potentials are termed D (direct)- and I (indirect)-waves. D-wave reflects the function of the corticospinal tract directly and is regarded as an appropriate parameter for the intraoperative monitoring of motor function. On the other hand, the corticospinal tract may be activated by transcranial stimulation and a potential similar to D-wave can be recorded from the spinal epidural space. Previous studies, however, indicated that the site of transcranial stimulation is around the lower level of the brainstem and the response includes the potentials coming from other neural tracts. In addition, the responses of SCEPs evoked by spinal cord and peripheral nerve stimulations are generally considered to reflect mainly the function of the deep sensory pathway. Therefore, SCEPs evoked by transcranial, spinal cord and peripheral nerve stimulations cannot be used as a parameter to monitor motor function directly. It is particularly important to know the characteristics of each SCEP and apply each potential to the most appropriate situation.
Protein O-mannose beta1,2-N-acetyglucosaminyltransferase 1 (POMGnT1) is an enzyme involved in the synthesis of O-mannosyl glycans. Mutations of POMGnT1 in humans result in the muscle-eye-brain (MEB) disease. In this study, we have characterized a null mutation generated by gene trapping with a retroviral vector inserted into the second exon of the mouse POMGnT1 locus. Expression of POMGnT1 mRNA was abolished in mutant mice. Glycosylation of alpha-dystroglycan was also reduced. POMGnT1 mutant mice were viable with multiple developmental defects in muscle, eye, and brain, similar to the phenotypes observed in human MEB disease. The present study provides the first genetic animal model to further dissect the roles of POMGnT1 in MEB disease.
We report one case of posterior fossa intracranial haemorrhage in a full-term Malay baby boy following vacuum assisted delivery. The patient, a term baby boy was delivered by a vacuum extraction and later developed signs of increased intracranial pressure 72 hours after birth. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain showed a posterior fossa intracranial haemorrhage with acute obstructive hydrocephalus. He was initially treated with isolated ventricular shunting which later caused an upward cerebellar herniation. An immediate suboccipital craniectomy for evacuation of cerebellar haematoma was performed which resulted in a gradual recovery.
Recordings of neuronal activity in freely moving rats are common in experiments where electrical signals are transmitted using cables. Such techniques are not common in monkeys because their prehensile abilities are thought to preclude such techniques. However, analysis of brain mechanisms underlying spatial navigation and cognition require the subject to walk. We have developed techniques for recordings in freely moving monkeys in two different situations: a 5 x 5 m testing laboratory and in a 50 m2 open field environment. Neuronal signals are sent to amplifiers and data acquisition systems using cables or telemetry. These techniques provide high quality recordings of single neurons during behaviors such as foraging, walking, and the performance of memory tasks and thus provide a unique opportunity to study primate behavior in a semi-natural situation.
Gene expression profiling of brain tissue samples applied to DNA microarrays promises to provide novel insights into the neurobiological bases of primate behavior. The strength of the microarray technology lies in the ability to simultaneously measure the expression levels of all genes in defined brain regions that are known to mediate behavior. The application of microarrays presents, however, various limitations and challenges for primate neuroscience research. Low RNA abundance, modest changes in gene expression, heterogeneous distribution of mRNA among cell subpopulations, and individual differences in behavior all mandate great care in the collection, processing, and analysis of brain tissue. A unique problem for nonhuman primate research is the limited availability of species-specific arrays. Arrays designed for humans are often used, but expression level differences are inevitably confounded by gene sequence differences in all cross-species array applications. Tools to deal with this problem are currently being developed. Here we review these methodological issues, and provide examples from our experiences using human arrays to examine brain tissue samples from squirrel monkeys. Until species-specific microarrays become more widely available, great caution must be taken in the assessment and interpretation of microarray data from nonhuman primates. Nevertheless, the application of human microarrays in nonhuman primate neuroscience research recovers useful information from thousands of genes, and represents an important new strategy for understanding the molecular complexity of behavior and mental health.
The binding of many pathogens and toxins to human cells can be inhibited by (1) depleting host cells of their surface glycosphingolipids; (2) coating the binding sites on pathogens (adhesins) with glycosphingolipid-like substances (decoys); (3) coating the host's glycosphingolipids with substances that compete with the pathogen for binding. Details of using these methods are described.
Risk-taking propensity is a critical component of judgment and decision-making in military operations. The Evaluation of Risks scale (EVAR) was recently developed to measure state and trait aspects of risk proneness. The scale, however, was psychometrically normed in French and no data are available for the English translation. We administered the English version of the EVAR to 165 U.S. soldiers to obtain reliability, validity, and normative data for English-speaking respondents. Confirmatory factor analysis suggested that the factor structure of the English EVAR differs from that obtained in the French studies. Instead, a three-factor solution, including recklessness/impulsivity, self-confidence, and need for control, emerged. Internal consistency was comparable to the French version. EVAR scores correlated with age, military rank, and years of service, and discriminated soldiers with histories of high-risk behavior. The data support the reliability and validity of the English version of the EVAR for evaluating risk propensity in U.S. soldiers.
HuD is an RNA-binding protein that has been shown to induce neuronal differentiation by stabilizing labile mRNAs carrying AU-rich instability elements. Here, we show a novel mechanism of arginine methylation of HuD by coactivator-associated arginine methyltransferase 1 (CARM1) that affected mRNA turnover of p21cip1/waf1 mRNA in PC12 cells. CARM1 specifically methylated HuD in vitro and in vivo and colocalized with HuD in the cytoplasm. Inhibition of HuD methylation by CARM1 knockdown elongated the p21cip1/waf1 mRNA half-life and resulted in a slow growth rate and robust neuritogenesis in response to nerve growth factor (NGF). Methylation-resistant HuD bound more p21cip1/waf1 mRNA than did the wild type, and its overexpression upregulated p21cip1/waf1 protein expression. These results suggested that CARM1-methylated HuD maintains PC12 cells in the proliferative state by committing p21cip1/waf1 mRNA to its decay system. Since the methylated population of HuD was reduced in NGF-treated PC12 cells, downregulation of HuD methylation is a possible pathway through which NGF induces differentiation of PC12 cells.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is expressed in the parasympathetic ciliary ganglion (CG) and modulates nicotinic acetylcholine receptor function. PACAP also provides trophic support, promoting partial survival of CG neurons in culture and full survival when accompanied by membrane depolarization. We probed the adenylate cyclase (AC) and phospholipase-C (PLC) transduction cascades stimulated by PACAP to determine their respective roles in supporting neuronal survival and examined their interaction with signals generated by membrane activity. While PLC-dependent signaling was dispensable, AC-generated signals proved critical for PACAP to support neuronal survival. Specifically, PACAP-supported survival was mimicked by 8Br-cAMP and blocked by inhibiting either PKA or the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). The ability of PACAP to promote survival was additionally dependent on spontaneous activity as blocking Na+ or Ca2+ channel currents completely abrogated trophic effects. Our results underscore the importance of coordinated MAPK- and activity-generated signals in transducing neuropeptide-mediated parasympathetic neuronal survival.
AMPA receptor (AMPAR) trafficking at CNS synapses is regulated by several receptor-binding proteins. One model of AMPAR endocytosis entails the cotargeting of the GluR2-interacting protein PICK1 and activated PKC to synapses. We demonstrate that NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activation mediates bidirectional changes in surface AMPARs through two additional forms of PICK1 redistribution. In neurons, NMDAR activation, which induces AMPAR endocytosis, increases endosomal PICK1 clustering. In contrast, stronger NMDAR activation rapidly reduces PICK1 clustering accompanied by decreases in PICK1/GluR2 association and increases in surface AMPAR levels. PICK1-siRNA similarly increases surface AMPARs and occludes the NMDAR-mediated effect, demonstrating the role of PICK1 in this process. Bidirectional NMDAR-mediated changes in PICK1 localization are determined by the magnitude of receptor-activated dendritic calcium signals. Our results show that PICK1 localization in dendrites is subject to multiple forms of regulation that contribute to surface AMPAR expression, likely by modulating the numbers of AMPARs maintained in intracellular compartments.
Olfactory bulb (OB) interneurons are generated from neuroblast cells derived from the anterior subventricular zone (SVZa) of the forebrain. The mechanisms guiding the rostral migration of these neuronal precursors are not well understood. Here, we show that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is produced in the olfactory bulb but distributed along the rostral migratory stream (RMS) in a pattern concordant with the expression of its GPI-anchored receptor GFRalpha1. We demonstrate that GDNF is a chemoattractant factor for RMS-derived neuronal precursors, but not for SVZa neuroblast cells. In agreement with this, GDNF increased Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) activity in RMS cells, a kinase critically involved in neuronal migration and guidance. GDNF-mediated cell chemoattraction was abrogated in RMS explants treated with the Cdk5 inhibitor Roscovitine as well as in RMS explants isolated from Ncam mutant mice. Chemical cross-linking assays showed that 125I-GDNF is able to interact directly with NCAM in RMS-derived cells. Taken together, these data demonstrate that GDNF is a direct chemoattractant factor for neuroblast cells migrating along the RMS and support the participation of NCAM during this guidance process.
Glycosphingolipids are constituents of lipid rafts which might function in sorting apical and axonal cargoes in the trans-Golgi network. In fact, two GPI-linked proteins, Thy1 and PrPC, require lipid raft lipids for sorting to the axon. It was previously shown that inhibition of glycosphingolipid synthesis by FumonisinB1 (FB1) impairs axon outgrowth but not axon specification, leading to the hypothesis that formation of axonally-targeted vesicles is coupled to sphingolipid synthesis. Since the axonal cell adhesion molecule L1/NgCAM can partition into membrane rafts biochemically, we asked whether correct targeting to the axon is FB1-sensitive, similarly to GPI-linked proteins. We previously showed that cultured hippocampal neurons use more than one trafficking pathway to the axon: a transcytotic pathway and a direct pathway. We show here that reducing raft lipid levels does not disrupt axonal targeting of L1/NgCAM along either pathway. Unexpectedly, FB1 selectively slowed the kinetics of surface expression of a truncated NgCAM using the direct pathway, but not of NgCAM using the transcytotic pathway. Therefore, the formation and/or transport of a subset of axonally-targeted vesicles are coupled to sphingolipid synthesis. Our results yield a mechanism for the axon outgrowth defect observed in FB1.
The homeostatic plasticity hypothesis suggests that neuronal activity scales synaptic strength. This study analyzed effects of activity deprivation on GABAergic synapses in cultured hippocampal neurons using patch clamp electrophysiology to record mIPSCs and immunocytochemistry to visualize presynaptic GAD-65 and the gamma2 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor. When neural activity was blocked for 48 h with tetrodotoxin (TTX, 1 microM), the amplitude of mIPSCs was reduced, corresponding with diminished sizes of GAD-65 puncta and gamma2 clusters. Treatment with the NMDA receptor antagonist APV (50 microM) or the AMPA receptor antagonist DNQX (20 microM) mimicked these effects, and co-application of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF, 100 ng/mL) overcame them. Moreover, when neurons were treated with BDNF alone for 48 h, these effects were reversed via the TrkB receptor. Overall, these results suggest that activity-dependent scaling of inhibitory synaptic strength can be modulated by BDNF/TrkB-mediated signaling.
Soil bacteria are heavily exposed to environmental methylating agents such as methylchloride and may have special requirements for repair of alkylation damage on DNA. We have used functional complementation of an Escherichia coli tag alkA mutant to screen for 3-methyladenine DNA glycosylase genes in genomic libraries of the soil bacterium Bacillus cereus. Three genes were recovered: alkC, alkD and alkE. The amino acid sequence of AlkE is homologous to the E. coli AlkA sequence. AlkC and AlkD represent novel proteins without sequence similarity to any protein of known function. However, iterative and indirect sequence similarity searches revealed that AlkC and AlkD are distant homologues of each other within a new protein superfamily that is ubiquitous in the prokaryotic kingdom. Homologues of AlkC and AlkD were also identified in the amoebas Entamoeba histolytica and Dictyostelium discoideum, but no other eukaryotic counterparts of the superfamily were found. The alkC and alkD genes were expressed in E. coli and the proteins were purified to homogeneity. Both proteins were found to be specific for removal of N-alkylated bases, and showed no activity on oxidized or deaminated base lesions in DNA. B. cereus AlkC and AlkD thus define novel families of alkylbase DNA glycosylases within a new protein superfamily.
The defining characteristic of G protein-coupled receptor homologous desensitization is that the receptor must be occupied by an agonist or in an activated conformation that mimics an agonist-induced state. In most instances, the mechanistic basis for this characteristic is the high selectivity of G protein-coupled receptor kinases for the activated receptor. In this issue, Rankin et al. (p. 759) demonstrate that under some conditions, at least, the G protein-coupled receptor kinase GRK4 does not display a preference for the agonist-occupied D1 dopamine receptor. Coexpression of GRK4 and the D1 receptor in a heterologous system induces phosphorylation of the receptor in the absence of agonist, causing constitutive desensitization and internalization of the receptor. Lacking the normal rapid feedback mechanisms associated with homologous desensitization, a system incorporating constitutively active GRK4 will be prone to dysregulation, perhaps explaining the generally low expression of GRK4. Indeed, considerable evidence suggests that just such dysregulation resulting from mutationally activated GRK4 contributes to the heritable component of human essential hypertension (Physiol Genomics 19:223-246, 2004).
Anandamide (AEA) and delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) are endogenous and exogenous ligands, respectively, for cannabinoid receptors. Whereas most of the pharmacological actions of cannabinoids are mediated by CB1 receptors, there is also evidence that these compounds can produce effects that are not mediated by the activation of identified cannabinoid receptors. Here, we report that THC and AEA, in a CB1 receptor-independent manner, cause a significant potentiation of the amplitudes of glycine-activated currents (I(Gly)) in acutely isolated neurons from rat ventral tegmental area (VTA) and in Xenopus laevis oocytes expressing human homomeric (alpha1) and heteromeric (alpha1beta1) subunits of glycine receptors (GlyRs). The potentiation of I(Gly) by THC and AEA is concentration-dependent, with respective EC50 values of 86 +/- 9 and 319 +/- 31 nM for alpha1 homomeric receptors, 73 +/- 8 and 318 +/- 24 nM for alpha1beta1 heteromeric receptors, and 115 +/- 13 and 230 +/- 29 nM for native GlyRs in VTA neurons. The effects of THC and AEA are selective for I(Gly), because GABA-activated current in VTA neurons or in X. laevis oocytes expressing alpha2beta3gamma2 GABA(A) receptor subunits were unaffected by these compounds. The maximal potentiation by THC and AEA was observed at the lowest concentration of glycine; with increasing concentrations of glycine, the potentiation significantly decreased. The site for THC and AEA seems to be distinct from that of the alcohol and volatile anesthetics. The results indicate that THC and AEA, in pharmacologically relevant concentrations, directly potentiate the function of GlyRs through an allosteric mechanism.
Post-mortem studies conducted over the past 15 years suggest that apoptosis could play a role in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder (BD) and, to a lesser degree, schizophrenia (SZ). To test this hypothesis, we have performed a post hoc analysis of an extant gene expression profiling database obtained from the hippocampus using a novel methodology with improved sensitivity. Consistent with the working hypothesis, BDs showed a marked upregulation of 19 out of 44 apoptosis genes; however, contrary to the hypothesis, the SZ group showed a downregulation of genes associated with apoptotic injury and death. These changes in the regulation of apoptosis genes were validated using quantitative RT-PCR. Additionally, antioxidant genes showed a marked downregulation in BDs, suggesting that accumulation of free radicals might occur in the setting of a previously reported decrease of the electron transport chain in this disorder. Overall, the changes seen in BDs and SZs do not appear to be related to exposure to either neuroleptics or mood stabilizers. We conclude that fundamental differences in the genetic regulation of apoptosis and antioxidant genes may help discriminate between the pathophysiology of BD and SZ and potentially point to new treatment strategies that are specific for each disorder.
Recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) is derived from a small human parvovirus with an excellent safety profile. In addition, this viral vector efficiently transduces and supports long-term transgene expression in the nervous system. These properties make rAAV a reasonable candidate vector for treating neurological disorders. Indeed, rAAV is currently being used in five early stage clinical trials for various neurodegenerative disorders. Therefore, we will review the currently available preclinical data using rAAV in animal models of central nervous system (CNS) disorders. Moreover, potential caveats for rAAV-based gene therapy in the CNS are also presented.
Lentiviral vectors have been used extensively as gene transfer tools for the central nervous system throughout the past decade since they transduce most cell types in the brain, resulting in high-level and long-term transgene expression. This review discusses some of the recent progress in this field, including preclinical gene therapy experiments in disease models, development of regulated vectors, and the application of siRNA's using lentiviral vectors. We also describe some of the features that make lentiviral vectors a likely candidate for human gene therapy in the brain.
Adeno-associated virus (AAV) serotype 8 appears to be the strongest of the natural serotypes reported to date for gene transfer in liver and muscle. In this study, we evaluated AAV8 in the brain by several methods, including biophotonic imaging of green fluorescent protein (GFP). In the adult rat hippocampus, levels of GFP expressed were clearly greater with AAV8 than with AAV2 or AAV5 by Western blot and biophotonic imaging and slightly but significantly greater than AAV1 by Western blot. In the substantia nigra, the GFP expression conferred by AAV8 was toxic to dopamine neurons, although toxicity could be avoided with dose titration. At the low dose at which there was no GFP toxicity from the GFP vector, another AAV8 vector for a disease-related (P301L) form of the microtubule-associated protein tau caused a 78% loss of dopamine neurons and significant amphetamine-stimulated rotational behavior. The AAV8 tau vector-induced cell loss was greater than that from AAV2 or AAV5 tau vectors, demonstrating that the increased gene transfer was functional. While the toxicity observed with GFP expression warrants great caution, the efficient AAV8 is promising for animal models of neurodegenerative diseases and potentially as well for gene therapy of brain diseases.
Camptocormia (CC) or pronounced forward flexion of the trunk is a common symptom of Parkinson's disease. We describe 2 patients with probable, respectively possible multiple-system atrophy and CC. Magnetic resonance imaging of the erector trunci showed focal patchy hyperintensities with gadolinium enhancement and muscle biopsy was indicative of variably pronounced focal myositis. CC was progressive and the major handicap for both patients after 1 and 1.5 years of follow-up, respectively. The therapeutic response was poor. Similarities with the dropped-head syndrome suggest that the muscle pathology may be either the primary cause of CC, a focal reaction to the CC posture, or a coincident syndrome of old age.
We have used MR segmented inversion recovery ratio imaging (SIRRIM) of the substantia nigra pars compacta to detect and correlate nigral signal change in idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) and parkin patients with striatal (18)F-dopa uptake. Nine PD patients, nine parkin patients, and eight control subjects were studied with a combination of MR inversion recovery sequences sensitive to nigral cell loss. Blinded independent observer rating and quantified nigral signal analysis were performed on all subjects. Striatal regions of interest were defined on T(1)-weighted MRI co-registered to (18)F-dopa positron emission tomography. On blinded observer rating of the SIRRIM dorsal and ventral nigral images, 25% (2/8) of control subjects, 44% (4/9) of PD patients, and 67% (6/9) of parkin patients were classified as abnormal. Quantified total nigral signal intensities were reduced to a greater extent in the parkin compared to PD patients. There was a greater predilection for signal reduction in the ventral nigral slice of the PD compared to the parkin patient group, who showed a more uniform involvement. All PD and parkin patients were discriminated from controls on the basis of caudate and putamen (18)F-dopa Ki reductions. Our results suggest that MR segmented inversion recovery ratio imaging shows poor sensitivity for discriminating parkin and idiopathic PD patients from normal controls. Where nigral signal abnormalities were seen, parkin patients manifested generalized nigral cell loss with widespread striatal dopamine terminal dysfunction compared with the lateral nigral targeting seen in PD and selective loss of putamen (18)F-dopa uptake.
We investigated the influence of the history of activity on the contractile properties of abductor pollicis brevis (APB) to define how the forces produced by individual stimuli change within a stimulus train, with a view to clarifying the optimal discharge frequency for force production in brief trains. Supramaximal electrical stimuli were delivered to the median nerve at the wrist singly or in trains of 2-5 at various interstimulus intervals (ISIs). The force and electromyographic (EMG) responses to trains of n stimuli were defined by online subtraction of the responses to n - 1 stimuli. The force attributable to the nth stimulus was normalized to that produced by a single stimulus. The contraction force produced by 2 stimuli exceeded the force expected with linear summation of 2 single twitches by 30-40% at ISIs of 2-100 ms. Increasing the number of stimuli resulted in less augmentation of the force produced by the last stimulus in the train for ISIs up to 20 ms, but greater augmentation for ISIs of 50-100 ms. At ISIs of less than 10 ms, the time to peak force produced by the last stimulus in a 5-pulse train was delayed by approximately 100 ms, the peak force produced by that stimulus was less than that produced by a single stimulus, and it occurred on the falling phase of the overall contraction. These properties are best explained by the catchlike property of muscle. This implies that the augmentation of contraction force due to this property can increase throughout a stimulus train, and is not restricted to the doublet discharges that have conventionally been studied. We conclude that, with brief discharge trains, maximal forces occur at ISIs of 56-75 ms, intervals that are longer than those conventionally associated with the catchlike property. Discharge rates of 15-20 HZ appear to be optimal for force generation by APB during steady contractions.
Motor neuron diseases (MND), such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), are progressive neurodegenerative diseases that share the common characteristic of upper and/or lower motor neuron degeneration. Therapeutic strategies for MND are designed to confer neuroprotection, using trophic factors, anti-apoptotic proteins, as well as antioxidants and anti-excitotoxicity agents. Although a large number of therapeutic clinical trials have been attempted, none has been shown satisfactory for MND at this time. A variety of strategies have emerged for motor neuron gene transfer. Application of these approaches has yielded therapeutic results in cell culture and animal models, including the SOD1 models of ALS. In this study we describe the gene-based treatment of MND in general, examining the potential viral vector candidates, gene delivery strategies, and main therapeutic approaches currently attempted. Finally, we discuss future directions and potential strategies for more effective motor neuron gene delivery and clinical translation.
Retrograde actin flow works in concert with cell adhesion to generate traction forces that are involved in axon guidance in neuronal growth cones. Myosins have been implicated in retrograde flow, but identification of the specific myosin subtype(s) involved has been controversial. Using fluorescent speckle microscopy (FSM) to assess actin dynamics, we report that inhibition of myosin II alone decreases retrograde flow by 51% and the remaining flow can be almost fully accounted for by the 'push' of plus-end actin assembly at the leading edge of the growth cone. Interestingly, actin bundles that are associated with filopodium roots elongated by approximately 83% after inhibition of myosin II. This unexpected result was due to decreased rates of actin-bundle severing near their proximal (minus or pointed) ends which are located in the transition zone of the growth cone. Our study reveals a mechanism for the regulation of actin-bundle length by myosin II that is dependent on actin-bundle severing, and demonstrate that retrograde flow is a steady state that depends on both myosin II contractility and actin-network treadmilling.

Ichthyosis vulgaris (OMIM 146700) is the most common inherited disorder of keratinization and one of the most frequent single-gene disorders in humans. The most widely cited incidence figure is 1 in 250 based on a survey of 6,051 healthy English schoolchildren. We have identified homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations R501X and 2282del4 in the gene encoding filaggrin (FLG) as the cause of moderate or severe ichthyosis vulgaris in 15 kindreds. In addition, these mutations are semidominant; heterozygotes show a very mild phenotype with incomplete penetrance. The mutations show a combined allele frequency of approximately 4% in populations of European ancestry, explaining the high incidence of ichthyosis vulgaris. Profilaggrin is the major protein of keratohyalin granules in the epidermis. During terminal differentiation, it is cleaved into multiple filaggrin peptides that aggregate keratin filaments. The resultant matrix is cross-linked to form a major component of the cornified cell envelope. We find that loss or reduction of this major structural protein leads to varying degrees of impaired keratinization.
The pore-forming subunits of many ion channels exist in the membrane as one component of a regulatory protein complex, which may also contain one or more signaling proteins that contribute to the modulation of channel properties. Here I review this field, with emphasis on several different kinds of neuronal potassium channels for which the evidence for ion channel signaling complexes is most compelling. A key challenge for the future is to determine the roles of such signaling protein complexes in neuronal physiology and behavior.
A major challenge in systems neuroscience is to perform precise molecular genetic analyses of a single neuronal population in the context of the complex mammalian brain. Existing technologies for profiling cell type-specific gene expression are largely limited to immature or morphologically identifiable neurons. In this study, we developed a simple method using fluorescent activated cell sorting (FACS) to purify genetically labeled neurons from juvenile and adult mouse brains for gene expression profiling. We identify and verify a new set of differentially expressed genes in the striatonigral and striatopallidal neurons, two functionally and clinically important projection neuron subtypes in the basal ganglia. We further demonstrate that Ebf1 is a lineage-specific transcription factor essential to the differentiation of striatonigral neurons. Our study provides a general approach for profiling cell type-specific gene expression in the mature mammalian brain and identifies a set of genes critical to the function and dysfunction of the striatal projection neuron circuit.
Episodic ataxia type-2 (EA2) is caused by mutations in P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels that are expressed at high densities in cerebellar Purkinje cells. Because P/Q channels support neurotransmitter release at many synapses, it is believed that ataxia is caused by impaired synaptic transmission. Here we show that in ataxic P/Q channel mutant mice, the precision of Purkinje cell pacemaking is lost such that there is a significant degradation of the synaptic information encoded in their activity. The irregular pacemaking is caused by reduced activation of calcium-activated potassium (K(Ca)) channels and was reversed by pharmacologically increasing their activity with 1-ethyl-2-benzimidazolinone (EBIO). Moreover, chronic in vivo perfusion of EBIO into the cerebellum of ataxic mice significantly improved motor performance. Our data support the hypothesis that the precision of intrinsic pacemaking in Purkinje cells is essential for motor coordination and suggest that K(Ca) channels may constitute a potential therapeutic target in EA2.
Local GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) circuits contribute to sensory experience-dependent refinement of neuronal connections in the developing nervous system, but whether GABAergic synapses themselves can be rapidly modified by sensory stimuli is largely unknown. Here we report that repetitive light stimuli or theta burst stimulation (TBS) of the optic nerve in the developing Xenopus retinotectal system induces long-term potentiation (LTP) of glutamatergic inputs but long-term depression (LTD) of GABAergic inputs to the same tectal neuron. The LTD is due to a reduction in presynaptic GABA release and requires activation of presynaptic NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors (NMDARs) and coincident high-level GABAergic activity. Thus, the presynaptic NMDAR may function as a coincidence detector for adjacent glutamatergic and GABAergic activities, leading to coordinated synaptic modification by sensory experience.
The frequent observation of organized lymphoid structures that resemble secondary lymphoid organs in tissues that are targeted by chronic inflammatory processes, such as autoimmunity and infection, has indicated that lymphoid neogenesis might have a role in maintaining immune responses against persistent antigens. In this Review, we discuss recent progress in several aspects of lymphoid neogenesis, focusing on the similarities with lymphoid tissue development, the mechanisms of induction, functional competence and pathophysiological significance. As more information on these issues becomes available, a better understanding of the role of lymphoid neogenesis in promoting chronic inflammation might eventually lead to new strategies to target immunopathological processes.
People's faces show fear in many different circumstances. However, when people are terrified, as well as showing emotion, they run for cover. When we see a bodily expression of emotion, we immediately know what specific action is associated with a particular emotion, leaving little need for interpretation of the signal, as is the case for facial expressions. Research on emotional body language is rapidly emerging as a new field in cognitive and affective neuroscience. This article reviews how whole-body signals are automatically perceived and understood, and their role in emotional communication and decision-making.
The quest to disentangle the aetiopathogenesis of Parkinson's disease has been heavily influenced by the genes associated with the disease. The alpha-synuclein-centric theory of protein aggregation with the adjunct of parkin-driven proteasome deregulation has, in recent years, been complemented by the discovery and increasing knowledge of the functions of DJ1, PINK1 and OMI/HTRA2, which are all associated with the mitochondria and have been implicated in cellular protection against oxidative damage. We critically review how these genes fit into and enhance our understanding of the role of mitochondrial dysfunction in Parkinson's disease, and consider how oxidative stress might be a potential unifying factor in the aetiopathogenesis of the disease.
The notion of prediction error has established itself at the heart of formal models of animal learning and current hypotheses of dopamine function. Several interpretations of prediction error have been offered, including the model-free reinforcement learning method known as temporal difference learning (TD), and the important Rescorla-Wagner (RW) learning rule. Here, we present a model-based adaptation of these ideas that provides a good account of empirical data pertaining to dopamine neuron firing patterns and associative learning paradigms such as latent inhibition, Kamin blocking and overshadowing. Our departure from model-free reinforcement learning also offers: 1) a parsimonious distinction between tonic and phasic dopamine functions; 2) a potential generalization of the role of phasic dopamine from valence-dependent &quot;reward&quot; processing to valence-independent &quot;salience&quot; processing; 3) an explanation for the selectivity of certain dopamine manipulations on motivation for distal rewards; and 4) a plausible link between formal notions of prediction error and accounts of disturbances of thought in schizophrenia (in which dopamine dysfunction is strongly implicated). The model distinguishes itself from existing accounts by offering novel predictions pertaining to the firing of dopamine neurons in various untested behavioral scenarios.
In examining spike trains, different models are used to describe their structure. The different models often seem quite similar, but because they are cast in different formalisms, it is often difficult to compare their predictions. Here we use the information-geometric measure, an orthogonal coordinate representation of point processes, to express different models of stochastic point processes in a common coordinate system. Within such a framework, it becomes straightforward to visualize higher-order correlations of different models and thereby assess the differences between models. We apply the information-geometric measure to compare two similar but not identical models of neuronal spike trains: the inhomogeneous Markov and the mixture of Poisson models. It is shown that they differ in the second- and higher-order interaction terms. In the mixture of Poisson model, the second- and higher-order interactions are of comparable magnitude within each order, whereas in the inhomogeneous Markov model, they have alternating signs over different orders. This provides guidance about what measurements would effectively separate the two models. As newer models are proposed, they also can be compared to these models using information geometry.
Inclusion body myositis (IBM) is the most common age-related degenerative skeletal muscle disorder. The aberrant intracellular accumulation of the beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide within skeletal muscle is a pathological hallmark of IBM. Skeletal muscle is comprised of both slow and fast twitch fibers, which are present in different proportions in various muscles. It remains unclear if fast and/or slow twitch fibers are differentially involved in IBM pathogenesis. To better understand the molecular pathogenesis of IBM, we analyzed human IBM muscle biopsies and muscle from a transgenic mouse model of IBM (MCK-betaAPP). Here we report that the majority of histopathologically-affected fibers in human IBM biopsies were type II fast fibers. Skeletal muscle from MCK-betaAPP mice exhibited higher transgene expression and steady-state levels of human betaAPP in fast type IIB fibers compared to slow type I fibers. These findings indicate that fast twitch fibers may selectively accumulate and be more vulnerable to betaAPP- and Abeta-mediated damage in IBM. These findings also highlight parallels between the MCK-betaAPP mice and the human IBM condition.
Abnormalities in the function of alpha-synuclein are implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). We found that alpha-synuclein-deficient mice are resistant to MPTP-induced degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. There was dose-dependent protection against loss of both dopamine in the striatum and dopamine transporter (DAT) immunoreactive neurons in the substantia nigra. These effects were not due to alterations in MPTP processing. We found that alpha-synuclein-deficient mice are also resistant to both malonate and 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) neurotoxicity. There was reduced generation of reactive oxygen species in alpha-synuclein-deficient mice following administration of 3-NP. These findings implicate alpha-synuclein as a modulator of oxidative damage, which has been implicated in neuronal death produced by MPTP and other mitochondrial toxins.
In two recent double-blind clinical trials of fetal ventral mesencephalic cell transplants into the striatum in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), a significant proportion of the grafted patients developed dyskinetic side effects, which were not seen in the sham operated patients. Comparison between dyskinetic and non-dyskinetic grafted patients in one of the trials suggested that an uneven pattern of striatal reinnervation might be the leading cause of the dyskinesias. Here, we studied the importance of graft placement for the development of dyskinesias in parkinsonian rats. Abnormal involuntary movements resembling peak-dose dyskinesias seen in PD patients were induced by daily injections of L-DOPA for 6 weeks. The dyskinetic animals received about 130.000 fetal ventral mesencephalic cells as single grafts placement in the rostral or the caudal aspect of the head of striatum. The results show that grafts placed in the caudal, but not the rostral, part are effective in reducing the L-DOPA-induced limb and orolingual dyskinesia, predominantly seen as hyperkinesia. The same grafts, however, also induced a new type of dyskinetic behavior after activation with amphetamine, which were not seen in non-grafted lesion controls. The severity of these abnormal involuntary movements was significantly correlated with a higher graft-derived dopaminergic reinnervation in the caudal aspect of the head of striatum relative to the rostral part. The results indicate that graft-induced dyskinesias in PD patients may be linked to single, small graft deposits that provide an uneven, patchy reinnervation of the putamen.
Much has been said about how significant life events modulate our response to stimuli that are integral to those events. However, we know less about the more general consequences of these events, that is, how they affect subsequent learning abilities that are seemingly irrelevant to the initial event. Here, it is proposed that significant life events, most often stressful in nature, alter future learned responses by inducing nonspecific and persistent changes in neuroanatomical structures. These changes are induced in the presence of sex and stress hormones, which are released either in response to the event itself or as a consequence of stages of life. To illustrate, the effects of acute stressful experience on learning processes and their regulation by the release of hormones are reviewed. I discuss how these events and their hormonal consequences alter anatomical substrates such as those involved in neurogenesis and synaptogenesis. It is proposed that these modulatory processes allow past experiences to change the shape of memories to come. In this way, memorable life events become less about the past and more about the future.
A significant number of animal and human studies demonstrate that memories for new experiences are encoded more effectively under environmental or laboratory conditions which elevate peripheral concentrations of the hormone epinephrine and in turn, induce emotional arousal. Although this phenomenon has been replicated across several learning paradigms, understanding of how this arousal related hormone affects memory processing remains obscure because epinephrine does not freely enter into the central circulation to produce any direct effects on the brain. This study examined whether epinephrine's actions on the CNS may be mediated by the initial activation of peripheral vagal fibers that project to the brain. The vagus was selected as a candidate for this role since it is densely embedded with beta-adrenergic receptors and the peripheral endings of this nerve innervate a broad spectrum of sensory organs that are directly affected by epinephrine release. Electrophysiological recordings of cervical vagal activity was measured over 110 min in urethane-anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats given saline, epinephrine (0.3 mg/kg), the peripherally acting beta-adrenergic antagonist sotalol (2.0 mg/kg), or a combination of sotalol followed 15 min later by an injection of epinephrine. Epinephrine produced a significant increase in vagal nerve firing 10 min post-injection (p &lt; .05) relative to controls and neural impulses recorded from the vagus remained significantly elevated for the remaining 55 min collection period. The excitatory actions of epinephrine were not observed in groups given an identical dose of the hormone after peripheral beta-adrenergic receptor blockade with sotalol. These findings demonstrate that neural discharge in vagal afferent fibers is increased by elevations in peripheral concentrations of epinephrine and the significance of these findings in understanding how epinephrine modulates brain limbic structures to encode and store new information into memory is discussed.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a fatal neurodegenerative disease and glutamate excitotoxicity has been implicated in its pathogenesis. Platelets contain a glutamate uptake system and express components of the glutamate-glutamine cycle, such as the predominant glial excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2). In several neurological diseases platelets have proven to be systemic markers for the disease. We compared properties of key components of the glutamate-glutamine cycle in blood platelets of ALS patients and healthy controls. Platelets were analyzed for (3)H-glutamate uptake in the presence or absence of thrombin and for EAAT2 and glutamine synthetase protein expression by Western blotting. Platelets of ALS patients showed a 37% increase in expression of glutamine synthetase, but normal expression of glutamate transporter EAAT2. Glutamate uptake in resting or thrombin-stimulated platelets did not differ significantly between platelets from ALS patients and controls. Thrombin-stimulation resulted in about a seven-fold increase in glutamate uptake. Our data suggest that glutamine synthetase may be a peripheral marker of ALS and encourage further investigation into the role of this enzyme in ALS.
It has been well known that oxytocin (OT)-ergic and arginine vasopressin (AVP)-ergic neurons located in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and super optic nucleus (SON) are two kinds of neuroendocrine cells with diverse functions. It has also been demonstrated that immune stimuli can activate these neurons to secret OT and AVP. However, the intracellular signal transduction molecules responsible for the activation of these OT-ergic and AVP-ergic neurons in PVN by immune stimuli are still unclear. In this experiment, the roles of Fos, a protein product of immediate early gene c-fos, and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) 1/2, a signal transduction molecule of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family, in these processes were studied in the PVN of the rat following IL-1beta stimulation. The Sprague-Dawley rats were received either 750 ng/kg IL-1beta or equal volume normal saline (NS) injection intravenously (i.v.), and perfused transcardially by 4% paraformaldehyde 3h later. Fos and phosphorylated ERK1/2 (pERK1/2)-immunoreactivity (-ir) was observed in PVN by ABC immunohistochemical staining. Meanwhile, the double staining for OT/Fos, AVP/Fos, OT/pERK1/2 and AVP/pERK1/2 were also processed. The ABC immunohistochemical staining results showed that after an i.v. injection of IL-1beta, the expressions of Fos and pERK1/2 increased evidently in the PVN. Double-staining results showed that a large number of OT-ir cells contained strong Fos-ir products in their nuclei, while only a few of OT cells were double labeled with pERK1/2. As to AVP neurons, great quantities of AVP cells were strongly double labeled with pERK1/2 while there were nearly no Fos-ir nuclei in AVP-ir cells. We conclude from these results that the intracellular IL-1beta-induced events in OT and AVP neurons in PVN are quite different. The OT neurons are mainly activated via Fos without involvement of ERK1/2 pathway, while the latter, but not Fos, involves the intracellular event in AVP neurons activated by IL-1beta.
Parasympathetic system plays an important role in insulin secretion from the pancreas. Cholinergic effect on pancreatic beta cells exerts primarily through muscarinic receptors. In the present study we investigated the specific role of muscarinic M1 and M3 receptors in glucose induced insulin secretion from rat pancreatic islets in vitro. The involvement of muscarinic receptors was studied using the antagonist atropine. The role of muscarinic M1 and M3 receptor subtypes was studied using subtype specific antagonists. Acetylcholine agonist, carbachol, stimulated glucose induced insulin secretion at low concentrations (10(-8)-10(-5) M) with a maximum stimulation at 10(-7) M concentration. Carbachol-stimulated insulin secretion was inhibited by atropine confirming the role of muscarinic receptors in cholinergic induced insulin secretion. Both M1 and M3 receptor antagonists blocked insulin secretion induced by carbachol. The results show that M3 receptors are functionally more prominent at 20 mM glucose concentration when compared to M1 receptors. Our studies suggest that muscarinic M1 and M3 receptors function differentially regulate glucose induced insulin secretion, which has clinical significance in glucose homeostasis.
Changes in intestinal motility and visceral sensitivity are found after resolution of acute enteric inflammation. The study investigates whether a transient nematode-induced intestinal inflammation may result in long-lasting remodelling of epithelial transport. Ferrets infected with Trichinella spiralis or sham-infected animals were euthanized on day 10, 30 or 60 postinfection (PI) and the jejunum was isolated. The net transport of electrolytes was measured electrophysiologically as transmucosal short-circuit current (I(sc)) and responses to electrical field stimulation (EFS: 1-32 Hz) or secretagogues were investigated. Myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, a marker of mucosal inflammation, was maximal during the enteric stage of T. spiralis infection (day 10 PI) and returned to normal on days 30 and 60 PI. Mucosal inflammation caused a reduction in basal I(sc), increased electrical conductance (G) and decreased the maximal responses to EFS, carbachol or histamine. On days 30 and 60 PI the inflammation resolved and basal electrogenic transport appeared normal; however, the secretion induced by EFS, carbachol or histamine remained suppressed. Moreover, EFS-induced responses were shifted from predominantly cholinergic in controls to non-cholinergic in the infected animals. The results suggest that a transient small intestinal inflammation causes a long-term remodelling of epithelial function.

We have used brain tissue from clinically well-documented and neuropathologically confirmed cases of sporadic Parkinson's disease to establish the transcriptomic expression profile of the medial and lateral substantia nigra. In addition, the superior frontal cortex was analyzed in a subset of the same cases. DNA oligonucleotide microarrays were employed, which provide whole human genome coverage. A total of 570 genes were found to be differentially regulated at a high level of significance. A large number of differentially regulated expressed sequence tags were also identified. Levels of mRNA sequences encoded by genes of key interest were validated by means of quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Comparing three different normalization procedures, results based on the recently published GeneChip Robust Multi Array algorithm were found to be the most accurate predictor of real-time PCR results. Several new candidate genes which map to PARK loci are reported. In addition, the DNAJ family of chaperones is discussed in the context of Parkinson's disease pathogenesis.
In the human LGN and V1, saccades in darkness lead to enhanced activity while saccades made during strong visual stimulation suppress activity [Sylvester, R., Haynes, J.D., and Rees, G., 2005. Saccades differentially modulate human LGN and V1 responses in the presence and absence of visual stimulation. Curr. Biol. 15, 37-41]. Here, we explored this differential modulation further using graded changes in the strength of visual stimulation by changing the mean luminance of a flickering visual stimulus. We replicate the finding of differential modulation of activity in human LGN and V1, and show that this relationship also holds in retinotopic areas V2 and V3. Suppression of visually evoked activity during saccades was detectable during strong visual stimulation, but not during weaker stimulation. This suggests that the activation of visual cortex by saccades in darkness represents a signal that persists irrespective of the state of visual stimulation, masking suppressive effects of saccades when visual stimulation is weak. Such a signal may represent a motor signal in a sensory area. We discuss the possible role of oculomotor corollary discharge in changes in visual perception that occur peri-saccadically, which contribute to the successful negation of the disruptive effects of saccades on our seamless visual experience of the world.
Craniometaphyseal dysplasia (CMD) is a rare congenital bone dysplasia with abnormal bony overgrowth leading to characteristic facial features and cranial nerve compression. We present a 10-year-old child with bony swelling at the nasal root since birth along with decreased hearing in both ears. She had normal developmental milestones and intelligence. On examination, she had bossing of forehead with very broad nasal root, short septum, hypertelorism and epicanthic folds. CT scan with 3D reconstruction revealed grossly thickened calvarium and hyperostosis and sclerosis of the cranial base. As the major concern of the parents was cosmetic, craniofacial reconstruction was performed with good cosmetic outcome.
Five Indian cases of Aicardi syndrome, aged 1-13 years and all with the classic triad of infantile spasm, corpus callosal agenesis and chorioretinal lacunae, were presented. The purpose of this report was to demonstrate the clinical, electroencephalographic (EEG) and radiological spectrum and the treatment outcome of this disorder among the Indians. None of the patient had any family history of similar illness. All had profound psychomotor impairment with no meaningful speech development. There were microphthalmia in 2, optic disc coloboma in 1, interhemispheric cyst in 1, periventricular heterotopia in 2 and thoracolumbar kyphoscoliosis in 2 cases. They all had early onset epilepsy and there were multiple types of seizures. Two cases (40%) had the characteristic dissociated burst-suppression pattern in EEG. Two cases whose antiepileptic medications included vigabatrin had complete control of seizure.
Head injuries account for significant proportion of neurosurgical admissions and bed occupancy. Patients with head injuries also consume significant proportions of neurosurgical resources. A prospective 6-month study has been carried out to evaluate the expenditure incurred on head injury patients in a modern neurosurgical center equipped with state of the art infrastructure. Costing areas included wages / salaries of health care personnel, cost of medicines / surgical items / crystalloids, general store items, stationary, all investigation charges, equipment cost, overhead building cost, maintenance cost, electricity and water charges and cost of medical gases, air conditioning and operation theatre expenses. Expenditure in each area was calculated and apportioned to each bed. The statistical analysis was done using X2 test. The cost of stay in ward was found to be Rs. 1062 / bed / day and in neurosurgical ICU Rs. 3082 / bed / day. The operation theatre cost for each surgery was Rs. 11948. The cost of hospital stay per day for minor, moderate and severe head injury group was found to be Rs. 1921, Rs. 2569 and Rs. 2713 respectively. The patients who developed complications, the cost of stay per day in the hospital were Rs. 2867. In the operative group, the cost of hospital stay per day was Rs. 3804. The total expenditure in minor head injury was Rs. 7800 per patient, in moderate head injury was Rs. 22172 per patient, whereas in severe head injury, it was found to be Rs. 32852 per patient. Patients who underwent surgery, the total cost incurred was Rs. 33100 per operated patient.

Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is characterised by brain intracellular deposition of abnormally phosphorylated tau protein, considered responsible for neuronal death. Several familial cases with different mutations in the tau encoding gene (MAPT), located on chromosome 17, have been described. Besides, in a Danish family, the genetic defect has been associated to chromosome 3. Although many FTD families exhibit known mutations, in some cases none of them occur. Recent findings demonstrate an increased intrathecal production of both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in sporadic FTD patients. Besides, increased cerebrospinal fluid monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and interleukin-8 levels have been observed in FTD, whereas interferon-gamma-inducible protein-10 levels were similar to controls.
The adult brain maintains the ability to reorganise throughout life. Motor cortical representations can reorganise rapidly in response to different stimuli. Important mechanisms for mediating reorganisation in the cerebral cortex involve the unmasking of existing, but latent, horizontal connections and modulation of GABAergic inhibition and synaptic efficacy. Interfering with these mechanisms can either block or enhance reorganisational processes. Following injury to the motor cortex alterations of the neurotransmitter system regulation, recruitment of additional undamaged brain areas even remote from the injury, and anatomical alterations such as axonal sprouting and synaptogenesis in the brain tissue surrounding the lesion or in the homotopic motor area of the non-affected hemisphere occur. The understanding of cortical reorganisation may enable us to apply principles of plasticity to the rehabilitation of patients after brain injury.
Antagonizing glutamatergic neurotransmission by blockade of AMPA-type glutamate receptors is a promising pharmacological strategy in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. We investigated the interaction of two new pyrazine derivatives (RPR119990 and RPR117824) with recombinant AMPA-type glutamate receptors. Recombinant homooligomeric GluR1flop, GluR2flip, GluR2flop, GluR6, non-desensitizing GluR2 L504Y channels and heterooligomeric GluR1/2 channels were expressed in HEK293 cells. AMPA-type channels were competitively inhibited by RPR119990 or RPR117824 with an IC(50) around 10 nM, at GluR6 channels the dose-response relation of the inhibition was shifted to higher concentrations. Non-desensitizing GluR2 L504Y channels were used to further characterize the inhibition. After equilibration with the agonist a marked dose-dependent current decay upon coapplication of glutamate and RPR119990 and a dose-independent time course of recovery from block was observed. The extents of current inhibition as well as the time constant of current decay upon addition of the blocker to the test solution were dependent on agonist concentration, pointing to a competitive inhibition. Quantitative analysis of the experimental data using computerized simulations are compatible with a competitive block mechanism and provides hints to binding sites at unliganded and liganded closed states of the receptor.
Selective radioligands for histamine H(3) receptors have been used to characterize H(3) receptor pharmacology by radioligand binding assays and to determine H(3) receptor distribution by tissue autoradiography. Here we report the synthesis and receptor binding characterization of [(3)H]A-317920 (furan-2-carboxylic acid(2-[4-[3-([3,5-(3)H]4-cyclopropanecarbonyl-phenoxy)-propyl]-piperazin-1-yl]-1-methyl-2-oxo-ethyl)-amide), a high affinity inverse agonist radioligand for the rat H(3) receptor. The binding of [(3)H]A-317920 to rat cortical and cloned H(3) receptors revealed fast on- and slower off-rate kinetics with calculated K(d) values in agreement with those determined in saturation binding assays (0.2 nM for both receptors). Further, we compared [(3)H]A-317920 with the agonist [(3)H](N)-alpha-methylhistamine ([(3)H]NalphaMH) as radioligand tools to study receptor pharmacology. Agonists and antagonists displaced [(3)H]NalphaMH with one-site binding characteristics and Hill slopes approached unity. In contrast, although antagonists exhibited one-site binding, [(3)H]A-317920 displacement by agonists was best fit by two-site binding models, and the potencies of the high affinity, GDP-sensitive sites correlated with the potencies defined in [(3)H]NalphaMH binding. Unlike [(125)I]iodoproxyfan, [(3)H]A-317920 exhibits potent and selective binding to rat H(3) receptors with low binding to non-H(3) sites, including cytochrome P450. These findings show that [(3)H]A-317920 is a potent rat H(3) receptor antagonist radioligand and has utility for studying H(3) receptor pharmacology.
Recent work in our laboratories has demonstrated that an opioid-independent form of stress-induced analgesia (SIA) is mediated by endogenous cannabinoids [Hohmann et al., 2005. Nature 435, 1108]. Non-opioid SIA, induced by a 3-min continuous foot shock, is characterized by the mobilization of two endocannabinoid lipids--2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) and anandamide--in the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG). The present studies were conducted to examine the contributions of spinal endocannabinoids to nonopioid SIA. Time-dependent increases in levels of 2-AG, but not anandamide, were observed in lumbar spinal cord extracts derived from shocked relative to non-shocked rats. Notably, 2-AG accumulation was of smaller magnitude than that observed previously in the dorsal midbrain following foot shock. 2-AG is preferentially degraded by monoacylglycerol lipase (MGL), whereas anandamide is hydrolyzed primarily by fatty-acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). This metabolic segregation enabled us to manipulate endocannabinoid tone at the spinal level to further evaluate the roles of 2-AG and anandamide in nonopioid SIA. Intrathecal administration of the competitive CB1 antagonist SR141716A (rimonabant) failed to suppress nonopioid SIA, suggesting that supraspinal rather than spinal CB1 receptor activation plays a pivotal role in endocannabinoid-mediated SIA. By contrast, spinal inhibition of MGL using URB602, which selectively inhibits 2-AG hydrolysis in the PAG, enhanced SIA through a CB1-selective mechanism. Spinal inhibition of FAAH, with either URB597 or arachidonoyl serotonin (AA-5-HT), also enhanced SIA through a CB1-mediated mechanism, presumably by increasing accumulation of tonically released anandamide. Our results suggest that endocannabinoids in the spinal cord regulate, but do not mediate, nonopioid SIA.
As brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor trkB are linked to the etiology and treatment of mood disorders, we examined the effects of acute and long-term treatment of mood-stabilizer lithium on trkB activation and signaling and BDNF levels in the mouse anterior cingulate cortex (AC) and hippocampus (HC). The trkB activity was measured using specific antibodies against the phosphorylated trkB catalytic domain (pY705/6) and the shc binding site (pY515). In the AC, both acute and long-term LiCl treatment enhanced the pY705/6 of trkB. In contrast, acute or long-term LiCl treatment did not significantly alter the pY705/6 of trkB in the HC. Interestingly, however, acute LiCl treatment significantly reduced the phosphorylation of cAMP related element binding protein (CREB), a major intracellular target of trkB, in the HC. Moreover, pY515 of trkB in the AC and HC was not altered by any of the treatment. Also, prolonged LiCl treatment had no significant effects on BDNF levels or CREB activation in either the AC or HC. The present results suggest that acute and long-term lithium treatment induces trkB activation in the AC but not in the HC. The activation of CREB is, however, significantly reduced in the HC after acute LiCl treatment.
Current approaches to obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) have suggested that neurobiological abnormalities play a crucial role in the etiology and course of this psychiatric illness. In particular, a fronto-subcortical circuit, including the orbitofrontal cortex, basal ganglia and thalamus appears to be involved in the expression of OCD symptoms. Neuropsychological studies have also shown that patients with OCD show deficits in cognitive abilities that are strictly linked to the functioning of the frontal lobe and its related fronto-subcortical structures, such as executive functioning deficits and insufficient cognitive-behavioral flexibility. This article focuses on decision making, an executive ability that plays a crucial role in many real-life situations, whereby individuals choose between pursuing strategies of action that involve only immediate reward and others based on long-term reward. Although the role of decision-making deficits in the evolution of OCD requires further research, the collected findings have significant implications for understanding the clinical and behavioral heterogeneity that characterizes individuals with OCD.
Mice lacking DARPP-32, a striatal-enriched phosphoprotein, show abnormal behavioral and biochemical responses to cocaine, but the role of individual phosphorylation sites in DARPP-32 in these responses is unknown. We show here that mutation of Thr-34 in DARPP-32 mimicked the behavioral phenotype of the constitutive DARPP-32 knockout in cocaine-induced place conditioning, locomotor activity, and sensitization paradigms. In contrast, mutations of Thr75 did not affect conditioned place preference or the acute locomotor response to cocaine, but DARPP-32 Thr-75 mutants showed no locomotor sensitization in response to repeated cocaine administration. Consistent with these behavioral findings, we found that cocaine regulation of gene expression in striatum, including the acute induction of the immediate early genes c-fos and arc (activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated gene), was abolished in DARPP-32 Thr-34 mutants, but not in Thr-75 mutants. Similarly, induction of the transcription factor DeltaFosB in the ventral striatum (nucleus accumbens) by chronic cocaine was diminished by the Thr-34, but not the Thr-75, mutation. These findings highlight distinct roles of the Thr-34 and Thr-75 phosphorylation sites of DARPP-32 in mediating short- and long-term behavioral and biochemical actions of cocaine.
Dysfunctional neurotransmission within striatal networks is believed to underlie the pathophysiology of several neurological and psychiatric disorders. Nitric oxide (NO)-producing interneurons have been shown to play a critical role in modulating striatal synaptic transmission. These interneurons receive synaptic contacts from midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons and may be regulated by DA receptor activation. In the current study, striatal NO efflux was measured in anesthetized male rats using an NO-selective electrochemical microsensor and the role of DA in modulating NO synthase (NOS) activity was assessed during electrical or chemical (bicuculline) stimulation of the substantia nigra (SN). Electrical stimuli were patterned to approximate the natural single spike or burst firing activity of midbrain DA neurons. Electrical stimulation of the SN at low frequencies induced modest increases in striatal NO efflux. In contrast, train stimulation of the SN robustly increased NO efflux in a stimulus intensity-dependent manner. NO efflux evoked by SN stimulation was similar in chloral hydrate- and urethane-anesthetized rats. The facilitatory effect of train stimulation on striatal NO efflux was transient and attenuated by systemic administration of the neuronal NOS inhibitor 7-nitroindazole and the nonselective NOS inhibitor methylene blue. Moreover, the increase in NO efflux observed during chemical and train stimulation of the SN was attenuated following systemic administration of the DA D(1/5) receptor antagonist SCH 23390. SCH 23390 also blocked NO efflux induced by systemic administration of the D(1/5) agonist SKF 81297. These results indicate that neuronal NOS is activated in vivo by nigrostriatal DA cell burst firing via a DA D(1/5)-like receptor-dependent mechanism.
Although methylphenidate (MPH), a catecholaminergic reuptake blocker, is prescribed for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, there is a dearth of information regarding the cellular basis of its actions. To address this issue, we used whole-cell patch-clamp recordings to investigate the roles of various catecholamine receptors in MPH-induced changes in cortical neuron excitability. We bath-applied dopamine or noradrenaline receptor antagonists in combination with MPH to pyramidal cells located in deep layers of the infralimbic and prelimbic prefrontal cortices. Application of MPH (10 microM) by itself increased cortical cell excitability in slices obtained from juvenile rats. This MPH-mediated increase in excitability was lost when catecholamines were depleted with reserpine prior to recording, demonstrating the requirement for a presynaptic monoamine component. Antagonist studies further revealed that stimulation of alpha-2 noradrenergic receptors mediates the MPH-induced increase in intrinsic excitability. Dopamine D1 receptors played no observable role in the actions of MPH. We therefore propose that MPH is acting to increase catecholaminergic tone in the PFC, and thereby increases cortical excitability by mediating the disinhibition of pyramidal cells through mechanisms that may include activation of alpha-2 adrenoreceptors located in interneurons.

Neurosurgeons are familiar with the anatomic investigations of Thomas Willis, but his intellectual legacy actually extends into the arena of philosophy. John Locke was a student of Willis while at Oxford, and this essay explores how some of Willis's anatomic discoveries might have influenced the ideas Locke expressed in his Essay Concerning Human Understanding. It also includes historical information about 17th century England and the group of men (including Christopher Wren and Robert Boyle) who worked with Willis and founded the Oxford Experimental Philosophy Club, which became the Royal Society.
Traditionally, the ideal academic neurosurgeon has been a &quot;quadruple threat,&quot; with excellence in clinical work, teaching, research, and administration. This tradition was best exemplified in Harvey Cushing, who developed the field of neurosurgery 90 years ago. This paradigm will probably have to change as academic neurosurgeons face major challenges. In patient care, these include increasing regulatory control, increasing malpractice costs, consolidation of expensive care in academic centers, and decreasing reimbursement; in resident teaching, work hour limitations and a changing resident culture; in research, the increasing dominance of basic scientists in governmental funding decisions and decreased involvement of neurosurgeons in scientific review committees; and in administration, problems of relationships in the workplace, patient safety, and employment compliance in an increasingly bureaucratic system. To meet these challenges, the new academic neurosurgeon will probably not be a quadruple threat personally but will be part of a quadruple threat in a department and institution. Neurosurgeons in such a setting will have to work with hospital, medical school, and national and international groups to address malpractice, reimbursement, subspecialization, and training problems; find supplemental sources of income through grants, development funds, and hospital support; lead in the development of multidisciplinary centers for neuroscience, brain tumor, spine, and other initiatives; and focus on training leaders for hospital, regional, and national groups to reconfigure neurosurgery. Collaboration, flexibility, and leadership will be characteristic of the academic neurosurgeon in this new era.


Maternal cocaine abuse is a societal problem with serious impact on both mother and child. Few studies exist that study the mother/offspring dyad of neurological effects of maternal cocaine abuse. The present study was designed to study alterations in D2, D3 and sigma receptor density in nucleus accumbens and striatum of dams and male and female offspring following gestational cocaine. Long-Evans female rats were implanted with an intravenous (i.v.) access port prior to breeding and were administered saline or 3.0 mg/kg of cocaine from gestational day (GD) GD8-20 (1 injection/day-GD8-14, 2 injections/day-GD15-20). Offspring were raised by maternal dams and allowed to mature until postnatal days 31-35, at which time dams and offspring were sacrificed for assay of radioligand binding. In dams, decreased D2 (24.6%) and D3 (36.9%) binding was observed in striatum. Female offspring displayed no differences in receptor binding in either region. Male offspring displayed decreased D2 receptor binding (27.1%) in nucleus accumbens and increased D3 (75.2% and 33.5%) and sigma receptor binding (73.4% and 53.1%) in accumbens and striatum, respectively. Collectively, these data clearly demonstrate that male offspring exhibit significant alterations in D2, D3 and sigma receptor binding. These results suggest that dams and offspring display long-lasting alterations (5 weeks) in dopamine receptor binding. These alterations in dopamine and sigma receptor binding in offspring following prenatal cocaine and rearing by maternal dams are sex specific and could have profound effects on the development of behavior.
Prenatal exposure to cigarette smoke is known to produce lasting arousal, attentional and cognitive deficits in humans. The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), as the cholinergic arm of the reticular activating system (RAS), is known to modulate arousal, waking and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. REM sleep decreases between 10 and 30 days postnatally in the rat, especially at 12-21 days. Pregnant dams were exposed to 350 ml of cigarette smoke for 15 min, 3 times per day, from day E14 until birth, and the pups allowed to mature. Intracellularly recorded PPN neurons in 12-21 day rat brainstem slices were tested for intrinsic membrane properties, including the hyperpolarization-activated cation current Ih, which is known to drive oscillatory activity. Type II (A-current) PPN cells from 12-16 day old offspring of treated animals had a 1/2max Ih amplitude of (mean +/- SE) 4.1 +/- 0.9 mV, while 17-21 day cells had a higher 1/2max Ih of 9.9 +/- 1.1 mV (p &lt; 0.0001). Cells from 12-16 day old control brainstems had a 1/2max Ih of 1.3 +/- 0.1 mV, which was lower (p &lt; 0.05) than in cells from prenatally treated offspring; while 17-21 day old cells from controls had a 1/2max Ih of 3.3 +/- 0.3 mV, which was also lower (p &lt; 0.01) than in cells from prenatally treated offspring. In addition, changes in resting membrane potential [control -65. +/- 0.9 mV (n=32); exposed -55.0 +/- 1.4 mV (n = 27) (p &lt; 0.0001)], and action potential (AP) threshold [control -56.5 +/- 0.7 mV (n = 32), exposed -47.0 +/- 1.4 mV (n = 27) (p &lt; 0.0001)], suggest that prenatal exposure to cigarette smoke induced marked changes in cells in the cholinergic arm of the RAS, rendering them more excitable. Such data could partially explain the differences seen in individuals whose parents smoked during pregnancy, especially in terms of their hypervigilance and increased propensity for attentional deficits and cognitive/behavioral disorders.
The present study examined the potential neuroteratological effects of paternal cocaine (COC) exposure using the novel mouse model of inhalational drug administration. In this model, mice were trained to self-administer COC in multi-hour daily inhalation sessions reminiscent of crack binges. The controls included males pair-fed with COC-inhaling animals as well as ad-lib-fed males. All males were bred with drug-naive females. The newborn pups sired by COC-inhaling males had a reduced biparietal head diameter, suggesting a decreased cerebral volume. When the pups reached adulthood, their sustained visuo-spatial attention and spatial working memory were tested using a 5-arm maze paradigm. During the attention tests, the percentage of correct trials at the shortest stimulus duration employed in the study (0.5 s) was significantly lower for the male offspring of COC-inhaling fathers as compared to the offspring of both pair-fed and ad-lib-fed controls. For the females sired by COC-inhaling fathers, the deficit was observed at light stimulus durations of 0.5 and 0.75 s. Also, during the working memory tests, the male offspring of COC-inhaling fathers required more sessions than the offspring of either pair-fed or ad-lib-fed fathers to reach the selected criterion at retention intervals of 16 min and longer. The impairment of working memory in female offspring of COC-inhaling fathers was even stronger, as the offspring needed more sessions to reach the criterion as compared to their control counterparts, even at retention intervals as short as 4 min. These findings suggest that paternal COC abuse prior to coitus may impact the development of the offspring, particularly if they are females. We further showed that chronic COC exposure in male mice does not result in substantial breakage of spermatozoal DNA, but significantly alters expression of DNA methyltransferases 1 and 3a in the germ cell-rich seminiferous tubules of the testis. Since these enzymes are essential for generating and maintaining parental gene imprinting in germ cells, our observations point to an intriguing possibility that COC may cause paternally induced neuroteratological effects by interfering with gene-imprinting patterns in male gametes.
We developed a novel inhalation-based mouse model of prenatal cocaine exposure. This model approximates cocaine abuse via smoking, the preferred route of cocaine administration by heavy drug users. The model is also characterized by (i) absence of procedural stress from drug administration, (ii) long-term drug exposure starting weeks before pregnancy and continuing throughout the entire gestation, and (iii) self-administration of cocaine in multi-hour daily sessions reminiscent of drug binges, which allows animals to set up the levels of their own drug consumption. The offspring of female mice inhaling cocaine in our model displayed no gross alterations in their cortical cytoarchitecture. These offspring, however, showed significant impairments in sustained attention and spatial working memory. We hope that the introduction of the present model will lead to a significant increase in our understanding of outcomes of prenatal cocaine exposure.
It is becoming widely accepted that psychoactive drugs can significantly alter the progression of neuropathological changes in the HIV-infected brain. The use of cocaine can aggravate the neurotoxic effects of HIV-1 proteins such as HIV-1 transactivating protein Tat and virus' envelope protein gp120. HIV-1 Tat is believed to play an important role in pathogenesis of HIV dementia (HAD). Tat is neurotoxic and a constantly growing body of evidence suggests that the toxic effects of Tat are oxidative stress-dependent. The current study reports that recombinant Tat 1-72 triggered mitochondrial depolarization, increased intracellular production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and protein oxidation, and caused neuronal degeneration in primary hippocampal rat cell cultures. A 10 microM dose of the antioxidant Trolox, the water-soluble analog of Vitamin E, ameliorated increased intracellular ROS production and prevented cell viability decline in Tat-treated cell cultures. This fact demonstrates that Tat-induced changes in neuronal oxidative status play an important role in the mechanism of Tat neurotoxicity. While non-toxic by itself, a physiologically relevant dose of cocaine (1.5 microM) significantly enhanced Tat-induced oxidative stress and neurotoxicity in rat hippocampal cell cultures. The antioxidant Trolox significantly improved the survival of neurons exposed to the combination of 50 nM Tat and 1.5 microM cocaine but did not provide complete protection. The specific D1 dopamine receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (10 microM) did not affect Tat toxicity, but did suppress cocaine-mediated potentiation of Tat toxicity. Our results demonstrate that cocaine-mediated potentiation of Tat neurotoxicity may be related to its ability to augment Tat-induced oxidative stress.
Indoxacarb (DPX-JW062) was recently developed as a new oxadiazine insecticide with high insecticidal activity and low mammalian toxicity. Previous studies showed that indoxacarb and its bioactive metabolite, N-decarbomethoxyllated JW062 (DCJW), block insect sodium channels in nerve preparations and isolated neurons. However, the molecular mechanism of indoxacarb/DCJW action on insect sodium channels is not well understood. In this study, we identified two cockroach sodium channel variants, BgNa(v)1-1 and BgNa(v)1-4, which differ in voltage dependence of fast and slow inactivation, and channel sensitivity to DCJW. The voltage dependence of fast inactivation and slow inactivation of BgNa(v)1-4 were shifted in the hyperpolarizing direction compared with those of BgNa(v)1-1 channels. At the holding potential of -90 mV, 20 microM of DCJW reduced the peak current of BgNa(v)1-4 by about 40%, but had no effect on BgNa(v)1-1. However, at the holding potential of -60 mV, DCJW also reduced the peak currents of BgNa(v)1-1 by about 50%. Furthermore, DCJW delayed the recovery from slow inactivation of both variants. Substitution of E1689 in segment 4 of domain four (IVS4) of BgNa(v)1-4 with a K, which is present in BgNa(v)1-1, was sufficient to shift the voltage dependence of fast and slow inactivation of BgNa(v)1-4 channels to the more depolarizing membrane potential close to that of BgNa(v)1-1 channels. The E1689K change also eliminated the DCJW inhibition of BgNa(v)1-4 at the hyperpolarizing holding potentials. These results show that the E1689K change is responsible for the difference in channel gating and sensitivity to DCJW between BgNa(v)1-4 and BgNa(v)1-1. Our results support the notion that DCJW preferably acts on the inactivated state of the sodium channel and demonstrate that K1689E is a major molecular determinant of the voltage-dependent inactivation and state-dependent action of DCJW.



A 45-year-old woman, who had had rheumatoid arthritis for 12 years, had three attacks of cerebral embolism over two months and died after the final attack. Intensive clinical laboratory investigations did not disclose any specific origins of emboli, but an autopsy revealed a nodule at the base of the aortic valve which was pathologically proved to be a rheumatoid nodule. The thrombi were present from the distal part of left internal carotid artery up to the proximal part of the left middle cerebral artery. They were rich in fiber, but poorly organized endothelial cell, raising the possibility that they originated from other parts and have recently reached there. On the top of the rheumatoid nodule, a thrombus was present. It was easily ablated and a small amount of fibrin stuck the nodule. Based on these results, we concluded that cerebral emboli were originally generated at the top of a rheumatoid nodule in the heart. In patients with RA, rheumatoid nodules are rarely seen in the heart. If present, they usually cause cardiac failure or atrioventricular block, and seldom result in cerebral infarction. This is the first case in which an autopsy proved rheumatoid nodule in the heart which had caused multiple cerebral emboli. We should consider the possibility of rheumatoid nodules in the heart as an origin of cerebral emboli in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

While there is a significant amount of data showing health benefits of increased fish consumption, there are conflicting reports about the cardiovascular risks of mercury in seafood. A recent long-term study attempted to resolve this controversy, providing an opportunity to balance recommendations from the US Environmental Protection Agency for mercury with those from the American Heart Association for fish consumption.
Determining causes of poor reading ability is an important step in trying to ameliorate reading performance in low-vision patients. One important parameter is word acuity. The principal aim of the current study is to develop a method to reliably measure acuities for isolated lowercase letters and words of differing length that can be used to test low-vision patients. Using isolated stimuli means that testing is relatively free of potential crowding and/or distracting attentional effects from surrounding words, it is unambiguous which stimulus subjects are trying to read and response times can be recorded for each stimulus. Across a series of experiments, subjects with normal vision were asked to read isolated lowercase single letters and lowercase words of 4, 7 and 10 letters, in separate tests. Acuities for uppercase Sloan letters were also measured to provide a reference, as they are commonly used to measure visual acuity. Each test was based upon the design principles and scoring procedures used in the Bailey-Lovie and ETDRS charts. Acuities for uppercase Sloan letters were found to be equivalent whether measured using ETDRS charts or the computer-based method. Measurement of acuities for lowercase single letters and lowercase words of 4, 7 and 10 letters had a reliability that was no worse than acuities for uppercase Sloan letters. Lowercase word acuities were essentially independent of word length. Acuities for single lowercase letters and lowercase words were slightly better than uppercase Sloan letters acuity. Optimal processing of lowercase single letters and 4-, 7- and 10-letter words occurred at character sizes that were at least 0.2-0.40 log MAR above acuity threshold, i.e. between 1.5 and 3 times threshold acuity for that particular stimulus. In general, critical character sizes appear similar across word lengths as progressive increases or decreases in these values were not observed as a function of the number of letters in the stimulus. We conclude that a computer-based method of stimulus presentation can be used to obtain highly repeatable measures of acuity for lowercase single letters and lowercase words in normal vision.
The aim of this work was to study the relation between subjective symptoms at near and ocular accommodation in terms of the amplitude of accommodation and the relative accommodation. A secondary aim was to discuss the diagnosis of accommodative insufficiency. The chosen cohort was examined on two occasions with 1.8 years in between. The first examination included 72 children, 43 boys (mean age 8.1 years, ranging from 5.8 to 9.8) and 29 girls (mean age 8.3 years, ranging from 6.2 to 10.0). The second examination included 59 of these children, 34 boys (mean age 9.9 years, ranging from 7.8 to 11.7) and 25 girls (mean age 10.1 ranging from 8.0 to 11.8). Subjective symptoms at near work (headache, asthenopia, floating text, facility problems) were recorded and the amplitude and the relative accommodation, both positive and negative, were measured. The result from the questionnaire showed that at the first examination more than one-third of the children (34.7%) reported at least one subjective symptom when doing near work and 42.4% at the second examination. No symptoms were found among children younger than 7.5 years, but for children between 7.5 and 10 years old at the first examination, the prevalence of at least one symptom was 47.2%. At the second examination, symptoms were reported also for the youngest children, i.e. from the age of 8 years. The discrimination ability for the amplitude of accommodation, both monocular and binocular, was significant. In the first examination the difference between the mean for the two groups (i.e. with and without at least one symptom) was around 2.00 D monocular and 3.00 D binocular. Corresponding figures from the second examination was a difference between the mean for the two groups of around 3.50 D monocular and nearly 4.00 D binocular. We suggest that accommodation measurements should be performed more routinely and regularly, maybe as screening, especially in children over 8 years of age.
Chronic pain may impair performance on attentional processing capacity tasks. In the present study, event-related potentials were recorded to examine whether pain patients show performance decrements on attentional processing capacity tasks due to shared resources by pain and attention or, alternatively, due to deficits in allocating attentional resources during pain. Fourteen chronic pain patients and thirty age and education matched healthy controls were investigated. An attentional capacity probe task was used in which the difficulty level was manipulated, resulting in an easy and a difficult condition, while task-irrelevant visual probes were presented. These probe-elicited P3 amplitudes were assumed to provide the most pure estimate of processing capacity since they are relatively free from target-related processes. Event-related potentials were recorded from the midline electrodes Fz, Cz, Pz, and Oz. For the behavioral measures, it was found that pain patients maintained a different speed-accuracy tradeoff. Pain patients showed faster reaction time responses and higher error rates compared to controls. No significant differences were found between pain patients and controls on the primary task. Pain patients differed from controls with respect to amplitudes elicited by task-irrelevant probe stimuli. For healthy controls, the expected decreased amplitude was found for probe stimuli in the difficult compared to the easy task. In contrast, the pain patients did not show decreased probe amplitudes with increasing task load. The data may imply that allocation of attentional resources is deficient in pain patients, instead of attentional capacity.
Expectation/placebo-related mechanisms and specific effects of therapies show additive effects, such that a therapy is less effective if the placebo component is absent. So far, the placebo component has been disrupted experimentally by using covert administrations of treatments. Here, we show for the first time that disruption of expectation/placebo-related analgesic mechanisms may occur in a clinical condition, Alzheimer's disease (AD). In order to assess the placebo component of a therapy, we used the recently developed open-hidden paradigm. A local anesthetic was applied, either overtly or covertly, to the skin of AD patients to reduce burning pain after venipuncture. The placebo (psychological) component is represented by the difference between the analgesic effect after open (expected) and after hidden (unexpected) application. We correlated the placebo component with both cognitive status and functional connectivity among different brain regions. We found that AD patients with reduced Frontal Assessment Battery scores showed reduced placebo component of the analgesic treatment. We also found that the disruption of the placebo component occurred when reduced connectivity of the prefrontal lobes with the rest of the brain was present. Remarkably, the loss of these placebo-related mechanisms reduced treatment efficacy, such that a dose increase was necessary to produce adequate analgesia. These findings highlight the active role of cognition and prefrontal lobes in the therapeutic outcome and underscore the need of considering a possible revision of the therapeutic approach in Alzheimer patients in order to compensate for the loss of the endogenous expectation and placebo mechanisms.
Although peripheral nerve function is strongly dependent on energy stores, the role of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, which drives ATP synthesis, in peripheral pain mechanisms, has not been examined. In models of HIV/AIDS therapy (dideoxycytidine), cancer chemotherapy (vincristine), and diabetes (streptozotocin)-induced neuropathy, inhibitors of mitochondrial electron transport chain complexes I, II, III, IV, and V significantly attenuated neuropathic pain-related behavior in rats. While inhibitors of all five complexes also attenuated tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced hyperalgesia, they had no effect on hyperalgesia induced by prostaglandin E2 and epinephrine. Two competitive inhibitors of ATP-dependent mechanisms, adenosine 5'-(beta,gamma-imido) triphosphate and P1,P4-di(adenosine-5') tetraphosphate, attenuated dideoxycytidine, vincristine, and streptozotocin-induced hyperalgesia. Neither of these inhibitors, however, affected tumor necrosis factor alpha, prostaglandin E2 or epinephrine hyperalgesia. These experiments demonstrate a role of the mitochondrial electron transport chain in neuropathic and some forms of inflammatory pain. The contribution of the mitochondrial electron transport chain in neuropathic pain is ATP dependent.
Refractory neuropathic pain can be devastating to a patient's quality of life. Ideally, the primary goal of therapy would be to prevent the pain, yet even the most appropriate treatment strategy may be only able to reduce the pain to a more tolerable level. Pharmacotherapy is currently the mainstay of treatment in patients with neuropathic pain, although at present the drugs are used on a mainly &quot;off-label&quot; basis. A wide variety of agents are used, especially antidepressants (ie, tricyclic antidepressants, selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors) and anticonvulsants, but also opioids and tramadol, topical agents (eg, lidocaine), systemic local anesthetics, and anti-inflammatories. Even so, effective pain relief is achieved in less than half of patients with chronic neuropathic pain. In refractory patients, combination therapy using two agents with synergistic mechanisms of action may offer greater pain relief without compromising the side-effect profile of each agent.


The water-borne protein attractin is a potent sex pheromone involved in forming and maintaining mating and egg-laying aggregations in the marine mollusk Aplysia. Binary blends of attractin and either enticin, temptin, or seductin, three other Aplysia protein pheromones, stimulate mate attraction. The four pheromones are thought to act in concert during egg-laying. The new data presented here show that: (1) the water-borne odor of non-laying Aplysia brasiliana further increases the attractiveness of attractin and of eggs in T-maze bioassays. This suggests that individual Aplysia release additional factors that enhance the effects of attractin, enticin, temptin, and seductin during egg-laying; (2) the N-terminal region of enticin aligns well with the conserved epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domain of mammalian reproductive proteins known as fertilins, which may mediate intercellular adhesion interactions between eggs and sperm; (3) temptin, according to fold recognition servers, may also have an EGF-like fold. Enticin and temptin also have conserved metal binding sequences that may play a role in their signaling behavior. These results suggest that aspects of mammalian egg-sperm interactions (fertilins) may have evolved from pheromonal signaling mechanisms. We also review the structure, expression, localization, release, and behavioral actions of attractin, enticin, temptin, and seductin.
Few studies have examined underlying mechanisms linking social behavior, motivated behavior, and reward and punishment systems. The current study was designed to investigate these mechanisms by examining responses to both rewarding and punishing non-social stimuli in shy and non-shy adults. Ninety-three participants, comprising three social behavior groups (Shy, Non-shy, Control) completed the Monetary Incentive Delay task. Consistent with previous research, all participants were sensitive to incentive manipulations. There were also significant individual differences in response. Non-shy participants demonstrated sensitivity to both reward and punishment stimuli, and behavior indicative of high levels of arousal in approach motivation. Shy individuals demonstrated a large discrepancy in sensitivity to reward compared to punishment, with this discrepancy being driven by enhanced sensitivity to reward. Their behavior suggested conflict generated by increased arousal in both approach and withdrawal motivation systems. Current findings contribute to theoretical accounts of relations between social behavior and behavior modulated by reward and punishment. These findings carry implications for the study of psychopathology and neuroimaging research designed to examine relationships between social behavior, motivated behavior, and underlying reward and punishment systems.
Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic drug with unique pharmacological and therapeutic properties. Unlike the typical antipsychotic drug, haloperidol, clozapine does not cause extrapyramidal side effects; however, weight gain, dyslipidemia, and type II diabetes are commonly associated with the use of this drug in subjects with schizophrenia. The aim of this study was to profile gene expression in the rat striatum following clozapine treatment. Chronic treatment with clozapine revealed upregulation of several genes including the glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) gene by over 200% in the rat striatum. The cDNA array results for the GIP gene were confirmed by real-time RT-PCR as well as by radioimmunoassay. Expression of the GIP gene in the central nervous system is consistent with the results of retinal GIP gene expression as reported by other investigators. Taken together, these findings implicate the possible role of GIP as a neuromodulator in the central nervous system. GIP is an insulinotropic agent with stimulatory effects on insulin synthesis and release from the pancreas. However, changes in brain GIP levels are most likely unrelated to the metabolic adverse effects (dyslipidemia, type II diabetes, weight gain) associated with clozapine treatment. Therefore, we also measured GIP gene expression in the K-cell-rich regions, duodenum and jejunum (small intestine), and plasma GIP levels using radioimmunoassay following chronic treatment with clozapine. GIP mRNA levels in the small intestine and the plasma GIP at the protein level were significantly elevated in clozapine-treated subjects. Furthermore, as observed in humans, chronic clozapine treatment also caused weight gain, and increased levels of insulin, triglycerides and leptin in the plasma. These results suggest that adverse metabolic effects associated with clozapine treatment may be related to its ability to increase intestinal gene expression for GIP.
Withdrawal from psychostimulants, including methamphetamine, induces a depressive state associated with lethargy, dysphoria, hyperphagia and psychomotor retardation. Previous work with repeated administration of amphetamine in rats has shown that amphetamine withdrawal produces decreased motivation to work for a non-drug reward, and this withdrawal is reversed by administration of a dopamine partial agonist. The purpose of the present study was to examine decreased motivation to work for a non-drug reward during methamphetamine withdrawal and explore the effects of a dopamine agonist, dopamine partial agonist, and indirect monoamine agonist on methamphetamine withdrawal. During withdrawal from repeated methamphetamine administration, rats showed reduced responding for a sweet solution in a progressive-ratio schedule of reinforcement, and this effect was significantly more pronounced than previously observed with amphetamine. Repeated systemic treatment with the dopamine partial agonist terguride (0.2 and 0.4 mg/kg, i.p., twice daily), the full dopamine agonist ropinirole (1 mg/kg, i.p., twice daily), and acetyl-L-carnitine (60 and 100 mg/kg, i.p.), a compound with a potential antidepressant effect, during methamphetamine withdrawal restored responding for the sweet solution, suggesting that these drugs may represent potential therapeutic strategies for the treatment of methamphetamine addiction during the withdrawal phase.
The neuropeptide galanin impairs learning and memory in rodents. The mechanism underlying the cognitive effects of galanin may be related to inhibitory effects of galanin on cholinergic transmission. As cholinergic function is thought to modulate sustained attention, the present study examined whether galanin-overexpressing transgenic mice have impairments in sustained attention. Galanin transgenic (GAL-tg) mice and wild-type (WT) littermate controls were trained in a 5-choice serial reaction time task, modified to assess sustained attention. GAL-tg and WT mice performed similarly during acquisition with respect to accuracy, total omissions, and response speed. Attentional mechanisms were challenged by parametric changes including increased event rate, event asynchrony, or decreased stimulus duration. Singly, these challenges did not differentially affect performance between genotypes. Concurrent administration of these challenges, which represents an optimal test of sustained attention, also had similar effects on GAL-tg and WT mice. When stimulus discriminability was reduced by constant illumination of the house light, GAL-tg mice omitted more trials than WT mice, but other measures of performance did not differ by genotype. Moreover, intraventricular injection of galanin in WT mice did not affect sustained attention. These data indicate that previously reported learning and memory effects of galanin are not secondary to attentional dysfunction.
Morphine and opiates are known to exert anxiolytic effects, probably by interacting with the GABAergic system. The lateral septum (LS), mainly constituted of GABA neurons, exhibits high densities of mu-opiate receptors and could thus represent one the brain sites where opiates interact with GABAergic transmission to modulate anxiety. We examined the effects of intra-LS morphine injections on measures of anxiety using the elevated plus-maze and hole-board tests. Fos imaging was used to identify neural circuits involved in anxiety modulation. Unilateral intra-LS morphine (100 or 500 ng/100 nl) decreased open-arm exploration in the plus-maze and reduced head-dipping frequency in the hole-board, an anxiogenic-like effect associated with decreased Fos expression in the ventral LS, the dorsal hippocampus and the anterior hypothalamus. Anatomical specificity was assessed by injecting morphine into the medial septum, which failed to produce anxiogenesis. Pre-injection of the mu-opioid receptor antagonist naloxonazine (100 ng/100 nl) into LS reversed morphine-induced anxiogenesis and the associated pattern of Fos expression, indicating a specific recruitment of mu-opioid receptors by morphine. Surprisingly, bilateral morphine injections (20 to 500 ng/100 nl) were not found anxiogenic, perhaps due to their stimulant effect. Taken together, these results suggest that LS mu-opioid receptors participate to the modulation of anxiety.
The validity of the Spontaneously Hypertensive rat (SHR) as a model for Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is explored by comparing the SHR with Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) and Wistar rats in a number of different tests. In the open field, SHR are hyperactive compared to both Wistar and WKY, but only at specific ages. At those ages, methylphenidate (1mg/kg) did not attenuate hyperactivity. Subsequently, a dose response study of methylphenidate (0.1-10mg/kg) was conducted in the Differential Reinforcement of Low-rate responding (DRL)-72s and five-choice serial reaction time tests (5-CSRTT). Compared to WKY but not Wistar rats, SHR performed worse on the DRL-72s. Performance was not improved by methylphenidate (0.1-1.0mg/kg). In the 5-CSRTT, attentional performance was similar for all rat strains, but Wistar rats made more impulsive responses than both the SHR and the WKY. Methylphenidate only attenuated impulsivity in Wistar rats. Because SHR do not consistently display symptoms of ADHD across the different tests, and methylphenidate effects were observed in both WKY and Wistar rats, but not in SHR, we conclude that SHR is not a representative animal model for ADHD.
The concept of a purinergic signaling system, using purine nucleotides and nucleosides as extracellular messengers, was first proposed over 30 years ago. After a brief introduction and update of purinoceptor subtypes, this article focuses on the diverse pathophysiological roles of purines and pyrimidines as signaling molecules. These molecules mediate short-term (acute) signaling functions in neurotransmission, mechanosensory transduction, secretion and vasodilatation, and long-term (chronic) signaling functions in cell proliferation, differentiation, and death involved in development and regeneration. Plasticity of purinoceptor expression in pathological conditions is frequently observed, including an increase in the purinergic component of autonomic cotransmission. Recent advances in therapies using purinergic-related drugs in a wide range of pathological conditions will be addressed with speculation on future developments in the field.
Psychiatric and neurological disorders are among the most complex, poorly understood, and debilitating diseases in medicine. The burgeoning advances in functional genomic technologies have led to the identification of a vast number of novel genes that are potentially implicated in the pathophysiology of such disorders. However, many of these candidate genes have not yet been functionalized and require validation in vivo. Traditionally, abrogating gene function is one of the primary means of examining the physiological significance of a given gene product. Several methods have been developed for gene ablation or knockdown, however, with limited levels of success. The recent discovery of RNA interference (RNAi), as a highly efficient method for gene knockdown, has been one of the major breakthroughs in molecular medicine. In vivo application of RNAi is further demonstrating the promise of this technology. Recent efforts have focused on applying RNAi-based knockdown to understand the genes implicated in neuropsychiatric disorders. However, the greatest challenge with this approach is translating the success of RNAi from mammalian cell cultures to the brain in animal models of disease and, subsequently, in patients. In this review, we describe the various methods that are being developed to deliver RNAi into the brain for down-regulating gene expression and subsequent phenotyping of genes in vivo. We illustrate the utility of various approaches with a few successful examples and also discuss the potential benefits and pitfalls associated with the use of each delivery approach. Appropriate tailoring of tools that deliver RNAi in the brain may not only aid our understanding of the complex pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders, but may also serve as a valuable therapy for disorders, where there is an immense unmet medical need.
We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study neural correlates of a robust somatosensory illusion that can dissociate tactile perception from physical stimulation. Repeated rapid stimulation at the wrist, then near the elbow, can create the illusion of touches at intervening locations along the arm, as if a rabbit hopped along it. We examined brain activity in humans using fMRI, with improved spatial resolution, during this version of the classic cutaneous rabbit illusion. As compared with control stimulation at the same skin sites (but in a different order that did not induce the illusion), illusory sequences activated contralateral primary somatosensory cortex, at a somatotopic location corresponding to the filled-in illusory perception on the forearm. Moreover, the amplitude of this somatosensory activation was comparable to that for veridical stimulation including the intervening position on the arm. The illusion additionally activated areas of premotor and prefrontal cortex. These results provide direct evidence that illusory somatosensory percepts can affect primary somatosensory cortex in a manner that corresponds somatotopically to the illusory percept.
Biomarkers proposed in the schizophrenia diathesis have included neurocognitive deficits in domains such as working memory that implicate prefrontal systems. However, the relationship between these biomarkers and psychopathological markers such as schizotypy has not been systematically assessed, particularly in adolescent offspring of schizophrenia patients. Convergence between these markers may identify individuals at especially high risk for schizophrenia. In the current study the authors assessed whether functional deficits in working memory assessed using the oculomotor delayed response task (ODR) and executive function assessed using the Wisconsin Card Sort task (WCST), and structural deficits in prefrontal cortex, in the adolescent offspring of patients were predictive of schizotypy. Schizotypal offspring made more perseverative errors on the WCST (p&lt;.002) and showed age-related deficits on the ODR task (p&lt;.02) compared to their non-schizotypal counterparts or healthy controls. Reduced gray matter concentration in prefrontal cortex (p&lt;.001) was also associated with schizotypy. Schizotypy in offspring of schizophrenia patients appears to be highly associated with known biomarkers of the illness such as executive function impairment and reductions in cortical gray matter. Furthermore, schizotypy appears to interact with development leading to greater impairment in working memory in schizotypal offspring closer to the typical age of onset of schizophrenia than non-schizotypal offspring. Thus, clinical and neurocognitive biomarkers of the illness appear to be highly interrelated in this sample of at-risk offspring. We propose that schizotypy may define a hyper vulnerable sub-sample among individuals genetically predisposed to schizophrenia and that future studies that attempt to assess risk may benefit from such a convergent approach.
Idiopathic epiretinal membranes (ERMs) in the macular region can cause a reduction in vision and sometimes recurs after surgical removal, but its pathogenic mechanisms are still unknown. On the other hand, the presence of secondary ERMs has been associated with various clinical conditions including proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) and proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR). Recent studies have shown a significant association between clinical grades of PDR or PVR, and the expression levels of specific cytokines and/or growth factors in the vitreous fluid. Expression of these factors and their receptors are also observed in secondary ERMs. ERMs are composed of many cell types such as retinal pigment epithelial cells and vascular endothelial cells, however the role of glial cells is yet unclear. Interestingly, glial cells in ERMs express some trophic factor receptors and transcription factors, such as NF-kappaB, suggesting an involvement of glial signal transduction in the pathogenesis of ERMs. In this review, we summarize recent progress regarding the clinical and laboratory findings of ERMs.
Social cognition is an ability to perceive socially relevant stimuli and to behave accordingly. It is connected with the processing of information brought about by significant social stimuli. Recently, social cognition is a topic of intensive research in psychology, neurosciences and psychiatry. Processes involved in social cognition include: perception of emotion, input of eye contact, reaction to voice prosody or decision-making in social situations. A particular role is played by the mentalizing capabilities (mind-reading) i.e. ability to interpret behaviour of others by attributing them certain mental states. Such an ability is often conceptualized as the Theory of Mind (ToM). This paper is a review of issues connected with disturbances of social cognition in patients with schizophrenia. Deficits in perceptions of face emotion and disturbances of Theory of Mind function in schizophrenia were discussed with special regard to their potential role as endophenotypes of vulnerability to schizophrenia. Also, relations between social cognition and basic neurocognitive processes were presented, as well as the effect on social cognition of different methods of schizophrenia treatment.
A population-based sample of Caucasians, African Americans, and Latino Americans, 50-68 years of age (M = 57.5), from Cook County, Illinois (N = 229), was tested to examine how loneliness and co-occurring psychosocial factors (depressive symptoms, perceived stress, social support, and hostility) were related to indices of cardiovascular and endocrine functioning. Extending prior research, the authors found that loneliness was associated with elevated systolic blood pressure (SBP) and age-related increases in SBP, net of demographic variables, health behavior variables, and the remaining psychosocial factors. Loneliness was not associated with differences in autonomic or endocrine functioning. Although the results are limited by the cross-sectional methods used, they are consistent with the hypothesis that cardiovascular disease contributes to increased morbidity and mortality among lonely individuals.
The extent to which loneliness is a unique risk factor for depressive symptoms was determined in 2 population-based studies of middle-aged to older adults, and the possible causal influences between loneliness and depressive symptoms were examined longitudinally in the 2nd study. In Study 1, a nationally representative sample of persons aged 54 and older completed a telephone interview as part of a study of health and aging. Higher levels of loneliness were associated with more depressive symptoms, net of the effects of age, gender, ethnicity, education, income, marital status, social support, and perceived stress. In Study 2, detailed measures of loneliness, social support, perceived stress, hostility, and demographic characteristics were collected over a 3-year period from a population-based sample of adults ages 50-67 years from Cook County, Illinois. Loneliness was again associated with more depressive symptoms, net of demographic covariates, marital status, social support, hostility, and perceived stress. Latent variable growth models revealed reciprocal influences over time between loneliness and depressive symptomatology. These data suggest that loneliness and depressive symptomatology can act in a synergistic effect to diminish well-being in middle-aged and older adults.
Neuroelectric and imaging studies of meditation are reviewed. Electroencephalographic measures indicate an overall slowing subsequent to meditation, with theta and alpha activation related to proficiency of practice. Sensory evoked potential assessment of concentrative meditation yields amplitude and latency changes for some components and practices. Cognitive event-related potential evaluation of meditation implies that practice changes attentional allocation. Neuroimaging studies indicate increased regional cerebral blood flow measures during meditation. Taken together, meditation appears to reflect changes in anterior cingulate cortex and dorsolateral prefrontal areas. Neurophysiological meditative state and trait effects are variable but are beginning to demonstrate consistent outcomes for research and clinical applications. Psychological and clinical effects of meditation are summarized, integrated, and discussed with respect to neuroimaging data.

The aims of this naturalistic study are to present patient characteristics and analyse various outcome measures at termination for psychoanalytic psychotherapies with young adults. Patients (n = 134) between 18 and 25 years were included, of whom 92 received individual and 42 group therapy. One third had a self-reported personality disorder. The patients were considerably more troubled than Swedish norm groups at intake and they showed improvement on all outcome measures during therapy. However, the post therapy means did not fully reach the norm group means. The largest positive changes (pre- versus post-therapy) were with respect to the patients' overall health and functioning. Changes were more moderate in self-reported symptoms, self-concept, and self-representation, while changes in interpersonal problems and object representations were small. The results of this study are discussed in the context of advantages and disadvantages of naturalistic versus randomized controlled study designs.






The process of reproductive senescence in many female mammals, including humans, is characterized by a gradual transition from regular reproductive cycles to irregular cycles to eventual acyclicity, and ultimately a loss of fertility. In the present review, the role of the hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons is considered in this context. GnRH neurons provide the primary driving force upon the other levels of the reproductive axis. With respect to aging, GnRH cells undergo changes in biosynthesis, processing and release of the GnRH decapeptide. GnRH neurons also exhibit morphologic and ultrastructural alterations that appear to underlie these biosynthetic properties. Thus, functional and morphologic changes in the GnRH neurosecretory system may play causal roles in the transition to acyclicity. In addition, GnRH neurons are regulated by numerous inputs from neurotransmitters, neuromodulators and glia. The relationship among GnRH cells and their inputs at the cell body (thereby affecting GnRH biosynthesis) and the neuroterminal (thereby affecting GnRH neurosecretion) is crucial to the function of the GnRH system, with age-related changes in these relationships contributing to the reproductive senescent process. Therefore, the aging hypothalamus is characterized by changes intrinsic to the GnRH cell, as well as its regulatory inputs, which summate to contribute to a loss of reproductive competence in aging females.
For students orienting medical technologist (MT) and cytotechnologist (CT), a peculiar system of education is operated in Department of Life Science, Kurashiki University of Science and the Arts. Forty candidates for MT are selected from 90 students at end of the university first year. They study from lectures and practices specialized in medicine and face another selection at end of the third year. Selected candidates (ten and some in number) will challenge examination for CT license as well as that for MT license in the forth year in &quot;double-license course&quot;. Prior to these selections, education for CT is started at the first year in order to clarify suitability of each student as a CT from earlier stage. In parallel, education for basic medical research is opened to all students at the first year for developing another suitability in them. Topics in cytopathology, neuroscience, cellular culture and regenerative medicine are presented to stimulate their interest in graduate school. Kake Educational Institution Cytopathological Center is located in the university campus and provides excellent facility for basic medical research. The university develops talent of students both for MT and CT through license acquisition and basic researcher for modern medicine in collaboration with this research center. The premier group of students under application of this system is active at the third year at present. They understand their own suitability and spend their time in the best manner toward their goal. We are confident that this system activates talent of students without overload.


Tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a multiorgan genetic disease caused by inactivation of either the TSC1 or TSC2 genes. The disorder typically has profound neurologic involvement and often presents early in life with epilepsy, developmental delay, mental retardation, and autism. These features are generally accepted to result from structural brain abnormalities that are found in patients with TSC. Although much progress has recently been made in discerning the function(s) of the TSC genes, many questions remain as to the role of these genes in brain development and homeostasis. This review will summarize recent progress and suggest future avenues of basic science research.



To investigate the encoding of behaviorally relevant stimuli in the rodent whisker-somatosensory system, we recorded responses to moving gratings from trigeminal ganglion neurons. This allowed us to quantify how spike patterns in these neurons encode behaviorally distinguishable tactile stimuli presented with the variability inherent in a freely moving whisker paradigm. Our stimulus set consisted of three grating plates with raised bars of the same thickness (275 microm) having different spatial periods (1.0, 1.1, and 1.5 mm) swept rostro-caudally past the whiskers at velocities ranging from 50 to 330 mm/s. This resulted in 20 presentations each of nine different temporal frequencies (ranging from 50 to 220 Hz) for every grating plate. We found that despite the additional degrees of freedom introduced in this freely moving whisker paradigm, firing patterns from the majority (83%) of trigeminal ganglion neurons were statistically distinguishable, and corresponded to the temporal frequency of stimulation. The range of velocities (100-160 mm/s) that resulted in the most accurate and least variable representation of stimulus temporal frequency by trigeminal firing patterns closely corresponds to the whisking velocities employed by trained rats performing similar discrimination tasks. This suggests that, during naturally occurring whisking, individual primary afferents faithfully encode temporal frequency evoked by whisker contacts.
Motoneuron recruitment order determinations were made for acute, 2-week chronic, and 3-month chronic spinal cats by comparing cutaneous nerve stimulation thresholds for evoking single unit tibialis anterior (TA) electromyogram (EMG) spikes of different sizes. Recruitment order was largely ( approximately 80%) orderly (small spikes recruited at lower stimulus intensities than large spikes) in acute and 3-month chronic spinal animals. However, in 2-week chronic spinal animals recruitment order was reversed, with large units more often recruited at lower stimulus intensities than small units ( approximately 65%). Morphological analyses of TA muscle fibers suggested that fiber size changes were unlikely to account for the dramatic alterations in recruitment order results of the 2-week chronic spinal animals. Additional studies suggested that the recruitment order reversal in the 2-week chronic animals coincided with an enhanced reflex neural output (increased recruitment or reflex gain) for the flexion reflex which compensated for disuse atrophy related decreases in flexor muscle force generation capability in these animals. The data from 2-week chronic spinal animals represent a functionally significant example of deviation from the normal size principle of motoneuron recruitment order as the corresponding reflex gain increases can enhance the rapidity of motor function recovery (standing, locomotion) following spinal injury.

Like other cell populations, undifferentiated human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) express a characteristic set of proteins and mRNA that is unique to the cells regardless of culture conditions, number of passages, and methods of propagation. We sought to identify a small set of markers that would serve as a reliable indicator of the balance of undifferentiated and differentiated cells in hESC populations. Markers of undifferentiated cells should be rapidly downregulated as the cells differentiate to form embryoid bodies (EBs), whereas markers that are absent or low during the undifferentiated state but that are induced as hESCs differentiate could be used to assess the presence of differentiated cells in the cultures. In this paper, we describe a list of markers that reliably distinguish undifferentiated and differentiated cells. An initial list of approximately 150 genes was generated by scanning published massively parallel signature sequencing, expressed sequence tag scan, and microarray datasets. From this list, a subset of 109 genes was selected that included 55 candidate markers of undifferentiated cells, 46 markers of hESC derivatives, four germ cell markers, and four trophoblast markers. Expression of these candidate marker genes was analyzed in undifferentiated hESCs and differentiating EB populations in four different lines by immunocytochemistry, reverse transcription-polymer-ase chain reaction (RT-PCR), microarray analysis, and quantitative RT-PCR (qPCR). We show that qPCR, with as few as 12 selected genes, can reliably distinguish differentiated cells from undifferentiated hESC populations.
Neural stem cells in the subventricular zone of adult rodents produce new striatal neurons that may replace those that have died after stroke; however, the neurogenic response has been considered acute and transient, yielding only small numbers of neurons. In contrast, we show herein that striatal neuroblasts are generated without decline at least for 4 months after stroke in adult rats. Neuroblasts formed early or late after stroke either differentiate into mature neurons, which survive for several months, or die through caspase-mediated apoptosis. The directed migration of the new neurons toward the ischemic damage is regulated by stromal cell-derived factor-1alpha and its receptor CXCR4. These results show that endogenous neural stem cells continuously supply the injured adult brain with new neurons, which suggests novel self-repair strategies to improve recovery after stroke.
During the 1970s, as part of his work for a doctor's thesis in which he described the development of the human orbit in great detail, the first author established the largest anatomical collection of embryonic and fetal orbits ever. Unfortunately, he died before the thesis could be finished. The thousands of sections have now been scanned at high resolution and made publicly available on the Internet at www.visible-orbit.org; 3-D reconstruction software is being developed. The Discussion and part of the 'Methods' section of this thesis are published in translation in this article. The conclusions of the first author at the time read as follows: (1) initially, the developing orbit is vaguely indicated by condensations in the mesenchymal connective tissue area; (2) in this connective tissue area, chondral, osseous and muscular structures develop and grow until, in the fully developed stage, the orbital content is surrounded by bony surfaces with a thin layer of connective tissue as periosteum, and by a muscle fragment; (3) the embryonic and early fetal phase, during which one can only speak of a 'regio orbitalis,' is followed by a period in which we can speak of a primordial orbit; (4) the phase of the primordial orbit extends until after birth; (5) the surface area of all orbital walls increases more or less linearly; (6) the 'musculus orbitalis Mlleri' occupies a special place in the orbital wall; (7) the so-called 'regio craniolateralis' is the primordium, which, in the fully developed stage, is occupied by the thick intersection of the frontolateral and the horizontal part of the frontal bone; (8) in the frontal plane, the shape of the primordial orbit, as well as that of the fully developed orbit, is more or less round; (9) the prenatal development of an eye socket is a complex event, characterized by changes in composition, shape and size of the orbital wall; and (10) the orbit can only be denoted by the term &quot;eye socket&quot; when it is fully developed. At the end of the thesis, he also presented the following postulates: (1) in the prenatal orbit, the development of the so-called 'periorbita' is at the forefront; (2) the mutual rotation of the orbital axes and the frontalization of the eyes from approx. 180 degrees in the early prenatal stages to approx. 50 degrees in adulthood do not seem to be caused by mechanical influences of the surrounding tissue; (3) the pterygopalatine fossa and the 'cavum cerebri' are not part of the orbit at any developmental stage; (4) in the prenatal skull, the inferior nasal concha, which forms part of the maxilla in the fully developed skull, is part of the 'capsula nasalis'; and (5) in order to achieve normal development of the eye socket in microphthalmus and anophthalmus, the normal orbital content should be restored.
Emotionally-salient stressors are processed by cortical and limbic circuits that provide important regulatory input to the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. However, exposure to chronic or severe stress may cause disregulation of the axis and a variety of physiological and psychological symptoms. The mechanisms that underlie stress-induced alterations in HPA axis function are not well characterized, but one possibility is that severe stress causes plastic changes in limbic inputs to the hypothalamus. We examined plasticity within the bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BNST) and the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) with a stimulating electrode in the BNST and a recording electrode in the PVN. High-frequency BNST stimulation produced long-lasting suppression of evoked field potentials recorded from the PVN, and this effect was blocked by administration of MK-801. Accordingly, rapid glutamate-mediated neuroplasticity in the BNST to PVN neurocircuitry may contribute to plasticity in limbic regulation of the HPA axis.





Paradoxical facilitation of olfactory learning following entorhinal cortex (EC) lesion has been described, which may result from widespread functional alterations taking place within the olfactory system. To test this hypothesis, expression of the immediate early genes c-fos, junB, and zif 268 was studied in response to an olfactory stimulation in several brain areas in control and in EC-lesioned rats. Olfactory stimulation in control rats induced the expression of the three genes in the granular/mitral and glomerular layers of the olfactory bulb, as well as c-fos and junB expression in the piriform cortex. However EC lesion was devoid of effects in nonstimulated animals; it significantly amplified the odor-induced expression of the three genes in these areas, as well as in the amygdala, hippocampus, and parietal-temporal cortices. The data suggest that EC lesion modifies the neural processing of odor by suppressing an inhibitory influence on brain areas connected to this cortex.
The present study evaluated the effects of phenytoin (DPH) on the binding to synaptosomal fraction membranes from guinea pig brain of the prototypic sigma1 (sigma1) receptor agonist [3H](+)-pentazocine and the putative sigma1 antagonist [3H]NE-100. Equilibrium and binding kinetics studies were done. The order of affinity of 12 sigma1 ligands for binding sites labeled with [3H](+)-pentazocine correlated well with their order of affinity for sites labeled with [3H]NE-100, suggesting that both radioligands label the same receptor. Phenytoin increased the binding of [3H](+)-pentazocine, enhancing its affinity (K(D) value) for sigma1 receptors and decreasing its dissociation rate from these receptors. The maximal number of receptors (B(max) value) labeled with [3H](+)-pentazocine was not changed. In contrast, phenytoin decreased the specific binding and maximal number of receptors labeled with [3H]NE-100, and increased its dissociation rate from sigma1 receptors. The affinity of this radioligand for sigma1 receptors was not modified. In conclusion, phenytoin behaved as a positive allosteric modulator on the binding of [3H](+)-pentazocine, whereas it negatively modulated the binding of [3H]NE-100. These results add evidence in favor of the use of phenytoin in vitro to distinguish between agonists and antagonists of sigma1 receptors.
Molecular and cellular immune activities have a fundamental role in all stages of the atherosclerotic process and in the pathogenesis of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular diseases. Recent studies have demonstrated how chronic infections can support a local and systemic chronic inflammation, leading to the atherosclerotic process. The pathogenic link between infection and cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease is not completely defined. Some therapeutic strategies, able to influence the persistence of the infections or to modify the inflammatory process, could be useful in primary and secondary vascular disease prevention and in modifying the acute event outcome.
Recent advances in research and clinical practice concerning aging and auditory communication have been driven by questions about age-related differences in peripheral hearing, central auditory processing, and cognitive processing. A &quot;site-of-lesion'' view based on anatomic levels inspired research to test competing hypotheses about the contributions of changes at these three levels of the nervous system. A &quot;processing'' view based on psychologic functions inspired research to test alternative hypotheses about how lower-level sensory processes and higher-level cognitive processes interact. In the present paper, we suggest that these two views can begin to be unified following the example set by the cognitive neuroscience of aging. The early pioneers of audiology anticipated such a unified view, but today, advances in science and technology make it both possible and necessary. Specifically, we argue that a synthesis of new knowledge concerning the functional neuroscience of auditory cognition is necessary to inform the design and fitting of digital signal processing in &quot;intelligent'' hearing devices, as well as to inform best practices for resituating hearing aid fitting in a broader context of audiologic rehabilitation. Long-standing approaches to rehabilitative audiology should be revitalized to emphasize the important role that training and therapy play in promoting compensatory brain reorganization as older adults acclimatize to new technologies. The purpose of the present paper is to provide an integrated framework for understanding how auditory and cognitive processing interact when older adults listen, comprehend, and communicate in realistic situations, to review relevant models and findings, and to suggest how new knowledge about age-related changes in audition and cognition may influence future developments in hearing aid fitting and audiologic rehabilitation.
Despite substantial advances, the question of how we make decisions and judgments continues to pose important challenges for scientific research. Historically, different disciplines have approached this problem using different techniques and assumptions, with few unifying efforts made. However, the field of neuroeconomics has recently emerged as an inter-disciplinary effort to bridge this gap. Research in neuroscience and psychology has begun to investigate neural bases of decision predictability and value, central parameters in the economic theory of expected utility. Economics, in turn, is being increasingly influenced by a multiple-systems approach to decision-making, a perspective strongly rooted in psychology and neuroscience. The integration of these disparate theoretical approaches and methodologies offers exciting potential for the construction of more accurate models of decision-making.

The hypothesis that Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) reflects a primary inhibitory executive function deficit has spurred a substantial literature. However, empirical findings and methodological issues challenge the etiologic primacy of inhibitory and executive deficits in ADHD. Based on accumulating evidence of increased intra-individual variability in ADHD, we reconsider executive dysfunction in light of distinctions between 'hot' and 'cool' executive function measures. We propose an integrative model that incorporates new neuroanatomical findings and emphasizes the interactions between parallel processing pathways as potential loci for dysfunction. Such a reconceptualization provides a means to transcend the limits of current models of executive dysfunction in ADHD and suggests a plan for future research on cognition grounded in neurophysiological and developmental considerations.
Behavioural pharmacology is an interdisciplinary field at the intersection of several research areas that ultimately lead to the development of drugs for clinical use and build understanding of how brain functions enable cognition and behaviour. In this article, the development of behavioural pharmacology in the UK is briefly surveyed, and the current status and success of the field is highlighted by the progress in our understanding of learning and memory that has resulted from discoveries in glutamate receptor pharmacology allied to theoretical and methodological advances in behavioural neuroscience. We describe the original breakthrough in terms of the role of NMDA receptors in hippocampal-mediated spatial learning and long-term potentiation, and review recent advances that demonstrate the involvement of glutamate receptor in working memory, recognition memory, stimulus-response learning and memory, and higher cognitive functions. We also discuss the unique functions of NMDA receptors and the fundamental role of AMPA receptors in processes that are common to some of these forms of memory, including encoding, consolidation and retrieval.
Purinergic signalling is now recognized to be involved in a wide range of activities of the nervous system, including neuroprotection, central control of autonomic functions, neural-glial interactions, control of vessel tone and angiogenesis, pain and mechanosensory transduction and the physiology of the special senses. In this article, I give a personal retrospective of the discovery of purinergic neurotransmission in the early 1970s, the struggle for its acceptance for approximately 20 years, the expansion into purinergic cotransmission and its eventual acceptance when receptor subtypes for ATP were cloned and characterized and when purinergic synaptic transmission between neurons in the brain and peripheral ganglia was described in the early 1990s. I also discuss the current status of the field, including recent interest in the pathophysiology of purinergic signalling and its therapeutic potential.
It is well-known that reducing the contrast of a slow moving stimulus reduces its apparent speed. [Thompson, P. (1982). Perceived rate of movement depends on contrast. Vision Research, 22, 377-380.] report of this finding also suggested that at speeds above 8 cycles/s reducing contrast increased perceived speed. However in a later report, Stone and Thompson (1992), using a more rigorous, forced-choice procedure, failed to collect reliable data at these higher speeds. Here, we confirm that faster moving stimuli can appear to move faster than their true speed at low contrasts and we propose a physiologically plausible ratio model that unlike recent Bayesian models (e.g. Weiss, Y., Simoncelli, E. P., &amp; Adelson, E. H. (2002). Motion illusions as optimal percepts. Nature Neuroscience, 5, 598-604) can account well for the results.

Feline defensive rage is a form of aggression occurring in nature in response to a threatening condition and is elicited under laboratory conditions by electrical stimulation of the medial hypothalamus or midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG). Since it has recently been shown that cytokines can modulate neurotransmitter release, the present study was designed to determine the effects of administration of interleukin 2 (IL-2) into the PAG upon defensive rage elicited from the medial hypothalamus. Microinjections of relatively low doses of IL-2 into the dorsal PAG significantly facilitated defensive rage behavior elicited from the medial hypothalamus. The specificity of this phenomenon was supported by the following findings: (1) IL-2 induced effects were dose- and time-dependent, (2) the facilitative effects of IL-2 could be completely blocked by pre-treatment of the injection site with either anti-IL-2 or anti-IL-2 receptor antibody and (3) IL-2 administration into the PAG showed no effect upon another form of aggression, namely predatory attack, elicited from the lateral hypothalamus. The findings further demonstrated that the effects of IL-2 were mediated by an NK(1) receptor mechanism since pre-treatment of the PAG with an NK(1) receptor antagonist completely blocked the facilitating effects of IL-2. Immunocytochemical observations supported these findings by demonstrating an extensive pattern of labeling of IL-2Ralpha in the dorsal PAG. The present study thus demonstrates that IL-2 in the dorsal PAG potentiates defensive rage behavior and is mediated through an NK(1) receptor mechanism.
Despite a growing body of neuroimaging data, little consensus has been reached regarding the neural correlates of temporal processing in humans. This paper presents a reanalysis of two previously published neuroimaging experiments, which used two different cognitive timing tasks and examined both sub- and supra-second intervals. By processing these data in an identical manner, this reanalysis allows valid comparison and contrasting across studies. Conjunction of these studies using inclusive masking reveals shared activity in right hemispheric dorsolateral and ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and anterior insula, supporting a general-purpose system for cognitive time measurement in the right hemispheric prefrontal cortex. Consideration of the patterns of activity in each dataset with respect to the others, and taking task characteristics into account, provides insight into the possible role of dorsolateral prefrontal cortex in working memory and of posterior parietal cortex and anterior cingulate in attentional processing during cognitive time measurement tasks.
Three experiments examined absolute (Experiment 1) and relative (Experiments 2a and 2b) duration effects on blocking. In Experiment 1, rats were pretrained with a short or long conditioned stimulus (CS1) followed by food, after which they were given reinforced short-short or long-long CS1-CS2 simultaneous compounds. Compared to overshadowing control groups, both pretrained groups displayed blocking, and there was no clear effect of absolute stimulus duration on the magnitude of blocking. In Experiments 2a and 2b, the rats received partially overlapping short-long CS1-CS2 compounds. In both experiments, a long CS1 blocked a short CS2, but not vice versa. This was the case when the long CS1 was nine times (Experiment 2a) or only 1.5 times (Experiment 2b) the duration of the short CS2. The pattern of results is most consistent with a real-time model of conditioning, such as the Sutton and Barto [Sutton, R.S., Barto, A.G., 1990. Time derivative models of Pavlovian reinforcement. In: Gabriel, M.R., Moore, J.W. (Eds.), Learning and Computational Neuroscience: Foundations of Adaptive Networks. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 497-537] temporal difference model.
Insectivorous big brown bats, Eptesicus fuscus, progressively increase the pulse repetition rate (PRR) throughout the course of hunting. While increasing PRR conceivably facilitates bats to extract information about the targets, it also inevitably affects sensitivity of their auditory neurons to pulse parameters. The present study examined the effect of increasing PRR on duration selectivity of this bat's inferior collicular (IC) neurons by comparing their impulse-duration functions determined at different PRRs. Impulse-duration functions plotted with the number of impulses in response to single pulses against pulse duration at different PRRs were described as short-pass, band-pass, long-pass, and all-pass. Short- or long-pass neurons discharged maximally to a range of short or long pulse durations. Band-pass neurons discharged maximally to one pulse duration. These three types of IC neurons were called duration tuned neurons. All-pass neurons were not duration tuned because they did not discharge maximally to any pulse duration. Increasing PRR improved duration selectivity of IC neurons by (1) increasing the number of duration tuned neurons; (2) decreasing the critical duration concomitant with increasing slope of the impulse-duration function; and (3) decreasing the 50% duration range of the impulse-duration function. This improved duration selectivity with PRR may potentially facilitate prey capture by bats.
Evidence from a number of drug-abuse populations suggests that an attentional bias for drug-related stimuli can be identified in chronic users. Such an effect has yet to be reliably demonstrated in cocaine users, despite mounting evidence of the salience and reinforcing properties of cocaine-related cues. The aim of the current study was to administer word (modeled on the versions shown to successfully identify attentional biases in alcohol abusers) and picture versions of the emotional Stroop tasks to gauge the reliability of cocaine-specific attentional biases across stimuli domains. A comparison of active cocaine users (n = 23), and their age and education matched controls revealed a significant bias for cocaine-related pictures and words in users. This attentional bias could not be attributed to confounding factors such as slowed response speed of cocaine users, cocaine-related material sharing category ownership, or that the cocaine-related material used in the current study was generally arousing for all participants. A comparison of the different classes of stimuli indicated that cocaine users had a very similar level of difficulty controlling their attention towards both cocaine-related material and incongruent-colour word stimuli, the latter being the traditional measure of attentional control from the Stroop task. These results provide corroborating evidence for cognitive biases being a hallmark of substance dependence.
5-HT receptors are predominantly located in the brain and are involved in pancreatic function and cell proliferation through sympathetic nervous system. The objective of this study was to investigate the role of hypothalamic 5-HT, 5-HT1A and 5-HT2C receptor binding and gene expression in rat model of pancreatic regeneration using 60% pancreatectomy. The pancreatic regeneration was evaluated by 5-HT content, 5-HT1A and 5-HT2C receptor gene expression in the hypothalamus of sham operated, 72 h and 7 days pancreatectomised rats. 5-HT content was quantified by HPLC. 5-HT1A receptor assay was done by using specific agonist [3H]8-OH DPAT. 5-HT2C receptor assay was done by using specific antagonist [3H]mesulergine. The expression of 5-HT1A and 5-HT2C receptor gene was analyzed by RT-PCR. 5-HT content was higher in the hypothalamus of 72 h pancreatectomised rats. 5-HT1A and 5-HT2C receptors were down-regulated in the hypothalamus. RT-PCR analysis revealed decreased 5-HT1A and 5-HT2C receptor mRNA expression. The 5-HT1A and 5-HT2C receptors gene expression in the 7 days pancreatectomised rats reversed to near sham level. This study is the first to identify 5-HT1A and 5-HT2C receptor gene expression in the hypothalamus during pancreatic regeneration in rats. Our results suggest the hypothalamic serotonergic receptor functional regulation during pancreatic regeneration.
The authors present four cases from two unrelated families with young-onset predominant cervical dystonia with a dramatic sustained response to levodopa. Onset age was 12 years (range 9 to 15). Additional symptoms included postural hand tremor and laryngeal dystonia. Genetic testing for GTP cyclohydrolase I, tyrosine hydroxylase, and sepiapterin reductase was negative. These cases may represent new forms of dopa-responsive dystonia. Levodopa is advisable in all patients with young-onset cervical dystonia.

Challenging conditions early in development can have enduring effects into adulthood. The effects of low temperatures were examined on subsequent sex-specific morphology (anogenital distance [AGD]), maternal care, and reproductive performance in adult female mice. Dams (F0) were maintained either in (1) standard laboratory room temperatures (21 +/- 2 degrees C) or (2) low temperatures (10 +/- 2 degrees C) throughout gestation. Their progeny (F1) either remained in the temperature condition in which they were conceived or were switched to the other temperature condition at 2 days of age until weaning. Reproductive performance and maternal behaviors were assessed in adulthood. F0 dams that were maintained in low temperatures bore larger litters as compared to F0 animals housed in standard temperatures throughout their pregnancy. In contrast, mean litter size was reduced for all groups of F1 females that experienced low temperatures. Infant mortality was elevated in litters of F1 females that were exposed to low temperatures both before and after birth. Prenatal exposure to low temperatures was associated with reduced responsiveness towards the nursing young and decreased maternal aggression in F1 animals. Prenatally treated F1 females had longer, male-like AGDs on Day 2 following birth compared to animals not subjected to experimental manipulations. Our results indicate that exposure to low temperatures during early development impairs reproductive function and is associated with important fitness costs as evidenced by reduced offspring survival. Our findings also suggest that chronic low temperatures experienced only after birth may have less deleterious effects than exposure to a combination of pre- and postnatal or prenatal treatments alone.
Human infants can discriminate visual and auditory stimuli solely on the basis of number, suggesting a developmental foundation for the nonverbal number representations of adult humans. Recent studies suggest that these language-independent number representations are multisensory in both adult humans and nonhuman animals. Surprisingly, however, previous studies have yielded mixed evidence concerning whether nonverbal numerical representations independent of sensory modality are present early in human development. In this article, we use a paradigm that avoids stimulus confounds present in previous studies of cross-modal numerical mapping in infants. We show that 7-month-old infants preferentially attend to visual displays of adult humans that numerically match the number of adult humans they hear speaking. These data provide evidence that by 7 months of age, infants connect numerical representations across different sensory modalities when presented with human faces and voices. Results support the possibility of a shared system between preverbal infants and nonverbal animals for representing number.
Psychostimulant-induced alteration of dendritic spines on dopaminoceptive neurons in nucleus accumbens (NAcc) has been hypothesized as an adaptive neuronal response that is linked to long-lasting addictive behaviors. NAcc is largely composed of two distinct subpopulations of medium-sized spiny neurons expressing high levels of either dopamine D1 or D2 receptors. In the present study, we analyzed dendritic spine density after chronic cocaine treatment in distinct D1 or D2 receptor-containing medium-sized spiny neurons in NAcc. These studies made use of transgenic mice that expressed EGFP under the control of either the D1 or D2 receptor promoter (Drd1-EGFP or Drd2-EGFP). After 28 days of cocaine treatment and 2 days of withdrawal, spine density increased in both Drd1-EGFP- and Drd2-EGFP-positive neurons. However, the increase in spine density was maintained only in Drd1-EGFP-positive neurons 30 days after drug withdrawal. Notably, increased DeltaFosB expression also was observed in Drd1-EGFP- and Drd2-EGFP-positive neurons after 2 days of drug withdrawal but only in Drd1-EGFP-positive neurons after 30 days of drug withdrawal. These results suggest that the increased spine density observed after chronic cocaine treatment is stable only in D1-receptor-containing neurons and that DeltaFosB expression is associated with the formation and/or the maintenance of dendritic spines in D1 as well as D2 receptor-containing neurons in NAcc.
The pathophysiology of Huntington's disease reflects actions of mutant Huntingtin (Htt) (mHtt) protein with polyglutamine repeats, whose N-terminal fragment translocates to the nucleus to elicit neurotoxicity. We establish that the nuclear translocation and associated cytotoxicity of mHtt reflect a ternary complex of mHtt with GAPDH and Siah1, a ubiquitin-E3-ligase. Overexpression of GAPDH or Siah1 enhances nuclear translocation of mHtt and cytotoxicity, whereas GAPDH mutants that cannot bind Siah1 prevent translocation. Depletion of GAPDH or Siah1 by RNA interference diminishes nuclear translocation of mHtt.
The cerebellum is known to be critical for accurate adaptive control and motor learning. We propose here a mechanism by which the cerebellum may replace reflex control with predictive control. This mechanism is embedded in a learning rule (the delayed eligibility trace rule) in which synapses onto a Purkinje cell or onto a cell in the deep cerebellar nuclei become eligible for plasticity only after a fixed delay from the onset of suprathreshold presynaptic activity. To investigate the proposal that the cerebellum is a general-purpose predictive controller guided by a delayed eligibility trace rule, a computer model based on the anatomy and dynamics of the cerebellum was constructed. It contained components simulating cerebellar cortex and deep cerebellar nuclei, and it received input from a middle temporal visual area and the inferior olive. The model was incorporated in a real-world brain-based device (BBD) built on a Segway robotic platform that learned to traverse curved paths. The BBD learned which visual motion cues predicted impending collisions and used this experience to avoid path boundaries. During learning, the BBD adapted its velocity and turning rate to successfully traverse various curved paths. By examining neuronal activity and synaptic changes during this behavior, we found that the cerebellar circuit selectively responded to motion cues in specific receptive fields of simulated middle temporal visual areas. The system described here prompts several hypotheses about the relationship between perception and motor control and may be useful in the development of general-purpose motor learning systems for machines.
Second-harmonic generation (SHG) has proven essential for the highest-resolution optical recording of membrane potential (Vm) in intact specimens. Here, we demonstrate single-trial SHG recordings of neuronal somatic action potentials and quantitative recordings of their decay with averaging at multiple sites during propagation along branched neurites at distances up to 350 mum from the soma. We realized these advances by quantifying, analyzing, and thereby minimizing the dynamics of photodamage (PD), a frequent limiting factor in the optical imaging of biological preparations. The optical signal and the PD during SHG imaging of stained cultured Aplysia neurons were examined with intracellular electrode recordings monitoring the resting Vm variations induced by laser-scanning illumination. We found that the PD increased linearly with the dye concentration but grew with the cube of illumination intensity, leading to unanticipated optimization procedures to minimize PD. The addition of appropriate antioxidants in conjunction with an observed Vm recovery after termination of laser scanning further refined the imaging criteria for minimization and control of PD during SHG recording of action potentials. With these advances, the potential of SHG as an effective optical tool for neuroscience investigations is being realized.
Schizophrenia is a heterogenous disorder that is phenomenologically characterised by a combination of negative, positive, and cognitive symptoms with variable expression in the course of illness. Here, we investigated differential gene expression in relation to age to address the heterogeneity of this disorder We used 6000 gene cDNA microarrays to generate gene expression profiles from peripheral blood lymphocytes from 14 individuals with schizophrenia and 14 non-psychiatric controls. Genes showing altered expression were identified and 18 genes with brain-related functions were altered, 4 of which, endothelial differentiation gene 2 (Edg-2), ezrin-radixin-moesin phosphoprotein 50 (EBP50), Myc-associated zinc finger protein (MAZ) and Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor 2 (TNFR2), were confirmed by relative real-time PCR. Dendrograms were constructed using genes that showed significantly different expression (p&lt;0.05) between groups based on median split of age dividing the matched pairs into distinct subclasses. Our findings suggest that distinct gene expression profiles in peripheral blood lymphocytes associated with schizophrenia phenotypes may provide a first step towards the biological classification of schizophrenia subtypes. The validity of this approach may lead to better methods of defining this enigmatic disease.
We examined semantic vs. associational influences on word priming in schizophrenia. Tested on three occasions, subjects made speeded lexical decisions to three kinds of prime-word relationships: semantic-only (e.g., Deer-Pony), associated-only (e.g., Bee-Honey), or semantic-and-associated (e.g., Doctor-Nurse). Controls showed greater priming of words related via two relationships (semantic-and-associated) than for words related only semantically.. However, patients showed greater priming for associated-only words than for words related only semantically. Schizophrenic patients may show an associational bias, restricting semantic integration and contributing to their disturbed thinking.
CD4+ (T helper) lymphocytes appear to play important roles in neuron survival and regeneration after injury, although their functions in regulating gene expression in injured neurons are unknown. Mice with targeted mutations in the STAT4 and STAT6 genes are deficient in T helper (Th)1 and Th2 responses, respectively, and have been used to determine the relative importance of T helper subsets in a variety of inflammatory processes. As pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating peptide mRNA is normally strongly induced in facial motor neurons after axotomy, we examined this induction in Th1 and Th2 lymphocyte-deficient and control Balb/C wild-type mice. As previously reported, pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating peptide gene expression was strongly induced in ipsilateral but not contralateral motor neurons in the facial motor nucleus of wild-type mice. The mean number of hybridizing motor neurons in STAT4-deficient mice did not differ from that in wild-type mice, whereas the number in STAT6 mice was reduced by more than 50%. The results indicate that STAT6 plays a key role in the upregulation of pituitary adenylyl cyclase-activating peptide gene expression in facial motor neurons after injury, possibly through its role in regulating T helper cell differentiation to the type 2 phenotype.
Abruptly stopping a planned movement before it has even begun can be crucial to retarding a premature action. In the monkey motor cortex, we report herein that rapid cancellation of a prepared motor act involved the brief activation of neurons representing a movement in the opposite direction (anti-directional activity). When an expected GO signal failed to occur, this opposing anti-directional discharge appeared. It coincided in time with the cessation of the motor cortical activity preparing the requested arm reach. We suggest that functional interactions between subpopulations of neurons eliciting movements in opposite directions could rapidly alter population dynamics, and therefore be used to abruptly cancel a planned movement.
Although the therapeutic use of microglia has received some attention for the treatment of brain diseases, few non-invasive techniques exist for monitoring the cells after administration. Here, we present a technique using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to track microglia injected intra-cardially. We labeled microglia expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein with superparamagnetic iron oxide (Resovist) using the hemagglutinating virus of Japan-envelope vector. We injected labeled microglia into the left ventricle of the heart of mice. After monitoring exogenously administered microglia in the mouse brain in vivo using T(2)*-weighted MRI at a magnetic field of 7T, we compared the MR images with histochemical localization of exogenous microglia in vitro. MRI revealed clear signal changes attributable to Resovist-containing microglia in the mouse brain. Histochemistry demonstrated the presence of exogenous microglia in the brain at the same locations shown by MRI. This study demonstrates the usefulness of MRI for non-invasive monitoring of exogenous microglia, and suggests a promising future for microglia/macrophages as therapeutic tools for brain disease.
Tob (transducer of ErbB-2) is a negative cell cycle regulator with anti-proliferative activity in peripheral tissues. Our previous study identified Tob as a protein involved in hippocampus-dependent memory consolidation (M.L. Jin, X.M. Wang, Y.Y. Tu, X.H. Zhang, X. Gao, N. Guo, Z.Q. Xie, G.P. Zhao, N.H. Jing, B.M. Li, Y.Yu, The negative cell cycle regulator, Tob (Transducer of ErbB-2), is a multifunctional protein involved in hippocampus-dependent learning and memory, Neuroscience 131 (2005) 647-659). Here, we provide evidence that Tob in the central nervous system is engaged in acquisition of motor skill. Tob has a relatively high expression in the cerebellum. Tob expression is up-regulated in the cerebellum after rats receive training on a rotarod-running task. Rats infused with Tob antisense oligonucleotides into the 4th ventricle exhibit a severe deficit in running on a rotating rod or walking across a horizontally elevated beam.
Pleiotrophin is an 18-kDa heparin-binding growth factor, which uses chondroitin sulfate (CS) proteoglycan, PTPzeta as a receptor. It has been suggested that the D-type structure (GlcA(2S)beta1-3GalNAc(6S)) in CS contributes to the high affinity binding between PTPzeta and pleiotrophin. Here, we analyzed the interaction of shark cartilage CS-D with pleiotrophin using a surface plasmon resonance biosensor to reveal the importance of D-type structure. CS-D was partially digested with chondroitinase ABC, and fractionated using a Superdex 75pg column. The &gt; or =18-mer CS fractions showed significant binding to pleiotrophin, and the longer fractions had stronger affinity for pleiotrophin than the shorter ones. The approximately 46-mer CS fraction bound to densely immobilized pleiotrophin with high affinity (K(D) = approximately 30 nM), and the binding reactions fitted the bivalent analyte model. However, when the density of the immobilized pleiotrophin was lowered, the strength of affinity remarkably decreased (K(D) = approximately 2.5 microM), and the reactions no longer fitted the model and were considered to be monovalent binding. The 20 approximately 24-mer fractions showed low affinity binding to densely immobilized pleiotrophin (K(D) = 3 approximately 20 microM), which seemed to be monovalent. When approximately 22-mer CS oligosaccharides were fractionated by strong anion exchange HPLC, each fraction differed in affinity for pleiotrophin (K(D) = 0.36 approximately &gt;10 microM), and the affinity correlated with the amounts of D- and E- (GlcAbeta1-3GalNAc(4S,6S)) type oversulfated structures. These results suggest that the binding of pleiotrophin to CS is regulated by multivalency with CS approximately 20 mer as a unit and by the amounts of oversulfated structures.
Homocysteine has been considered a major risk factor for cardiovascular diseases, and patients with hyperhomocystinemia exhibit neurological and psychological abnormalities. Elevated level of this molecule in the blood of Parkinson's disease patients receiving long-term l-DOPA therapy prompted us to investigate whether homocysteine is neurotoxic to the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system in Sprague-Dawley rats. Animals infused unilaterally with different doses of homocysteine (0.25-1 micromol in 1 microl) intranigrally exhibited significant and dose-dependent decrease in dopamine levels in the ipsilateral striatum as assayed employing an HPLC coupled with electrochemical detector, 19 days post-infusion. While 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid level in the striatum showed a dose-dependent decrease, homovanillic acid was found to be inhibited only for the highest dose. Amphetamine administration in these animals on the 14th day caused stereotypic turning behavior ipsilateral to the side of infusion. Apomorphine challenge on the 16th day elicited stereotypic contralateral circling behavior. Neurotransmitter levels in the serotonergic perikarya or terminals were unaltered 19 days following intraraphe infusion of homocysteine, which suggested the specificity of its action to dopaminergic neurons. These results indicate nigrostriatal lesions similar to that observed following intranigral infusion of the dopaminergic neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine and suggest its closeness to the parkinsonian animal model. Furthermore, these findings provide evidence for the neurotoxic nature of homocysteine to dopaminergic neurons and suggest that elevated level of this molecule in parkinsonian patients may be conducive to accelerate the progression of the disease.
Hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons undergo delayed neurodegeneration after transient forebrain ischemia, and the phenomenon is dependent upon hyperactivation of l-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) subtype of glutamate receptors, resulting in aberrant intracellular calcium influx. The GluR2 subunit of AMPA receptors is critical in limiting the influx of calcium. The CA1 pyramidal neurons are very sensitive to ischemic damage and attempts to achieve neuroprotection, mediated by drugs, have been unsuccessful. Moreover, receptor antagonism strategies in the past have failed to provide long-term protection against ischemic injury. Long-term protection against severe forebrain ischemia can be conferred by fimbria-fornix (FF) deafferentation, which interrupts the afferent input to CA1. Our study evaluated the long-term protective effect of FF deafferentation, 12 days prior to induction of ischemia, on vulnerable CA1 neurons. Our results indicate that at 7 and 28 days post-ischemia, prior FF deafferentation protected 60% of neurons against ischemic cell death. Furthermore, we sought to evaluate whether FF deafferentation also sustained GluR2 levels in these neurons. GluR2 protein and mRNA expression were sustained by deafferentation at 70% of control following ischemia. Correlation studies revealed a positive correlation between GluR2 protein and mRNA level. These results demonstrate that protection conferred by FF deafferentation was long-term and related to sustained GluR2 expression.
Unfamiliar line drawings were presented to subjects three times during BOLD fMRI scanning. A set of brain areas was detected in which the effect of stimulus repetition on the evoked fMRI response depended on whether or not the drawing could be conceived as a coherent three-dimensional structure. Differential repetition effects were found in the neural response to drawings of both structurally possible and impossible objects. This differential effect of repetition was related to the amount of reaction time priming on the concurrent task involving decisions about three-dimensional structure in the possible but not in the impossible objects. These results point to different neurophysiological processing mechanisms for structurally possible and impossible images and demonstrate neural plasticity that predicts behavioral priming for structurally possible images.
In mammals, the prion protein (PrP) is expressed in most tissues, but predominantly in neuronal tissues. Here, we investigated the temporal and spatial mRNA expression of PrP in the non-mammalian South African claw-toed frog Xenopus laevis. PrP transcripts were maternally expressed and detected throughout embryonic development, most strongly from neurulation onwards and including the tadpole stage. Microinjection of PrP mRNA into fertilized Xenopus eggs did not affect early embryonic development. In adult frogs, PrP mRNA expression was observed in all tissues examined, with high expression in brain, pituitary and testis. In Xenopus, the intermediate pituitary melanotrope cells are involved in background adaptation of the animal and produce high levels of the prohormone proopiomelanocortin (POMC) when the melanotrope cells are active (i.e. when the animal is black-adapted). Remarkably and in contrast to most secretory pathway components, PrP was not upregulated in the melanotropes of black-adapted animals, arguing against a direct role of this protein in POMC biosynthesis.
Lesion studies have indicated a presumably recollection-based involvement of the prefrontal cortex in the discrimination of true and false recognition. ERP studies of word list recognition, on the other hand, generally did not yield such effects in the time range associated with recollection processes which might relate to variables like study-test shifts of context. The present study aimed to further explore ERP correlates of true and false recognition, using an experimental procedure which emphasized recollection of item-specific information. Young healthy subjects performed a word recognition task, in which items previously presented (targets), semantically related distractors (lures), and unrelated new items (distractors) had to be classified as old or new followed by a remember/know judgment for old items. Items were presented visually during both study and test. Correct old responses to targets elicited significantly more pronounced positive waveforms in comparison to correct rejections of distractors (old/new effect) between 400 and 700 ms after stimulus onset at all left and central electrode positions. A significant old/new effect for false alarms to lures was observed only at the left parietal electrode. ERPs associated with hits and false alarms to lures were similar at parietal but differed at frontal electrode positions. This pattern of results suggests a differential processing of true and false recognition in frontal and posterior brain regions when item-specific recollection is facilitated. Our findings support the assumption of monitoring processes in parallel to the recollection of item-specific information in recognition memory, which might become affected by illusory sensory information generated by posterior areas.
Attention biases the way in which sound information is stored in auditory memory. Little is known, however, about the contribution of stimulus-driven processes in forming and storing coherent sound events. An electrophysiological index of cortical auditory change detection (mismatch negativity [MMN]) was used to assess whether sensory memory representations could be biased toward one organization over another (one or two auditory streams) without attentional control. Results revealed that sound representations held in sensory memory biased the organization of subsequent auditory input. The results demonstrate that context-dependent sound representations modulate stimulus-dependent neural encoding at early stages of auditory cortical processing.

Sensory neuroscience seeks to understand how the brain encodes natural environments. However, neural coding has largely been studied using simplified stimuli. In order to assess whether the brain's coding strategy depends on the stimulus ensemble, we apply a new information-theoretic method that allows unbiased calculation of neural filters (receptive fields) from responses to natural scenes or other complex signals with strong multipoint correlations. In the cat primary visual cortex we compare responses to natural inputs with those to noise inputs matched for luminance and contrast. We find that neural filters adaptively change with the input ensemble so as to increase the information carried by the neural response about the filtered stimulus. Adaptation affects the spatial frequency composition of the filter, enhancing sensitivity to under-represented frequencies in agreement with optimal encoding arguments. Adaptation occurs over 40 s to many minutes, longer than most previously reported forms of adaptation.
Central nervous system myelin is a specialized structure produced by oligodendrocytes that ensheaths axons, allowing rapid and efficient saltatory conduction of action potentials. Many disorders promote damage to and eventual loss of the myelin sheath, which often results in significant neurological morbidity. However, little is known about the fundamental mechanisms that initiate myelin damage, with the assumption being that its fate follows that of the parent oligodendrocyte. Here we show that NMDA (N-methyl-d-aspartate) glutamate receptors mediate Ca2+ accumulation in central myelin in response to chemical ischaemia in vitro. Using two-photon microscopy, we imaged fluorescence of the Ca2+ indicator X-rhod-1 loaded into oligodendrocytes and the cytoplasmic compartment of the myelin sheath in adult rat optic nerves. The AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid)/kainate receptor antagonist NBQX completely blocked the ischaemic Ca2+ increase in oligodendroglial cell bodies, but only modestly reduced the Ca2+ increase in myelin. In contrast, the Ca2+ increase in myelin was abolished by broad-spectrum NMDA receptor antagonists (MK-801, 7-chlorokynurenic acid, d-AP5), but not by more selective blockers of NR2A and NR2B subunit-containing receptors (NVP-AAM077 and ifenprodil). In vitro ischaemia causes ultrastructural damage to both axon cylinders and myelin. NMDA receptor antagonism greatly reduced the damage to myelin. NR1, NR2 and NR3 subunits were detected in myelin by immunohistochemistry and immunoprecipitation, indicating that all necessary subunits are present for the formation of functional NMDA receptors. Our data show that the mature myelin sheath can respond independently to injurious stimuli. Given that axons are known to release glutamate, our finding that the Ca2+ increase was mediated in large part by activation of myelinic NMDA receptors suggests a new mechanism of axo-myelinic signalling. Such a mechanism may represent a potentially important therapeutic target in disorders in which demyelination is a prominent feature, such as multiple sclerosis, neurotrauma, infections (for example, HIV encephalomyelopathy) and aspects of ischaemic brain injury.
The Nf2 tumor suppressor codes for merlin, a protein whose function is largely unknown. We have previously demonstrated a novel interaction between merlin and TRBP, which inhibits the oncogenic activity of TRBP. In spite of the significance of their functional interaction, its molecular mechanism still remains to be elucidated. In this report, we investigated how merlin inhibits the oncogenic activity of TRBP in association with cell growth conditions. In the human embryonic kidney 293 cell line, the level of endogenous merlin increased, whereas that of endogenous TRBP significantly decreased along with the increase in cell confluence. We demonstrated that the carboxyl-terminal region of TRBP was responsible for this phenomenon using stable cell lines expressing deletion mutants of TRBP. The overexpression of merlin decreased the protein level of TRBP, and the ubiquitin-like subdomain of merlin's FERM domain was important for this activity. We also demonstrated that TRBP is ubiquitinylated and the ubiquitinylated forms of TRBP are accumulated by ectopically expressed merlin or cell confluence in the presence of MG132, a proteasome inhibitor. Furthermore, we showed that the regulation of TRBP in response to cell confluence was abolished upon knockdown of merlin expression by specific small interfering RNA. Finally, we showed that ectopically expressed merlin restored cell-cell contact inhibition in cells stably expressing TRBP but not in TRBPDeltac. These results suggest that merlin is involved in the regulation of TRBP protein level by facilitating its ubiquitination in response to such cues as cell-cell contacts.
A recent proposal that structures of the medial temporal lobe support visual perception in addition to memory challenges the long-standing idea that the ability to acquire new memories is separable from other cognitive and perceptual functions. In four experiments, we have put this proposal to a rigorous test. Six memory-impaired patients with well characterized lesions of either the hippocampal region or the hippocampal region plus additional medial temporal lobe structures were assessed on difficult tests of visual perceptual discrimination. Across all four experiments, the patients performed as well as controls. The results show that visual perception is intact in memory-impaired patients with damage to the medial temporal lobe even when perception is assessed with challenging tasks. Furthermore, the results support the principle that the ability to acquire new memories is a distinct cerebral function, dissociable from other perceptual and cognitive functions.
Neocortical neurons in vivo exist in an environment of continuous synaptic bombardment, receiving a complex barrage of excitatory and inhibitory inputs. This background activity (by depolarizing neurons, increasing membrane conductance, and introducing fluctuations) strongly alters many aspects of neuronal responsiveness. In this study, we asked how it shapes neuromodulation of postsynaptic responses. Specifically, we examined muscarinic modulation of forelimb motor cortex, a brain area in which cholinergic stimulation is known to be necessary for modifications during motor skill learning. Using a dynamic clamp system to inject simulated conductances into pyramidal neurons in motor cortical slices, we mimicked in vivo-like activity by introducing a random background of excitatory and inhibitory inputs. When muscarinic receptors were stimulated with the agonist oxotremorine-M, several previously described currents were modified, and excitability was increased. However, the presence of the background conductances strongly attenuated most muscarinic agonist effects, with the notable exception that sustained firing responses to trains of inputs were well preserved. This may be important for promoting plasticity in vivo.
The matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are implicated in several activities within the nervous system. Although many functions of abnormally elevated MMPs are undesirable, the discrete expression of particular MMP members can have beneficial roles. We previously found that MMP-9 expressed locally around a demyelinating lesion of the spinal cord of adult mice facilitated remyelination. In the current study, we have addressed whether and how MMPs might be required for myelin formation in normal ontogeny. Using a probe for multiple MMPs and the developing mouse optic nerve, we found two members, MMP-9 and -12, to be upregulated during the period of myelin formation. These MMPs partake in myelinogenesis because myelination in the corpus callosum of MMP-9 and/or MMP-12 null mice was deficient from postnatal days 7 to 14 compared with that of wild-type mice. The deficient myelination was correlated with fewer mature oligodendrocytes, but similar precursor cell numbers, in MMP null animals compared with wild type. Because an important growth factor for oligodendrocyte maturation is insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), we addressed whether this was involved in the deficient myelination in MMP null mice. Indeed, the addition of IGF-1 normalized the lack of maturation of oligodendrocytes that occurred in cultures from MMP-12 null mice. Furthermore, we determined that IGF binding protein 6 (IGFBP-6), which sequesters IGF-1, was a substrate for MMP processing. Finally, we found IGFBP-6 levels to remain high in MMP-deficient mice. These results reveal a novel function for MMP-9 and -12 in developmental myelination likely through regulating IGF-1 bioavailability.
Synaptic vesicle recycling is essential for maintaining neurotransmission during rhythmic activity. To test whether the demands imposed by ambient activity influences synaptic vesicle trafficking, we compared the kinetics of synaptic depression in hippocampal versus neocortical cultures, which have high and low levels of intrinsic activity, respectively. In response to moderate 10 Hz stimulation, hippocampal synapses depressed less compared with neocortical synapses, although they reused vesicles more slowly. Therefore, during stimulation, hippocampal synapses used more vesicles from the reserve pool, whereas neocortical synapses relied on vesicle reuse. In hippocampal cultures, chronic block of network activity increased synaptic depression by decreasing the rate of vesicle mobilization, with little effect on the rate of vesicle reuse. In contrast, in neocortical cultures, an increase in the normally low network activity reduced synaptic depression by robustly increasing vesicle reuse with no effect on vesicle mobilization. These results suggest that synaptic vesicle trafficking and the resulting synaptic dynamics adapt to meet the changing demands on neurotransmitter release. Furthermore, during these functional modifications, synapses use alternate strategies to adjust to changes in activity.
Neurogenesis has been described in various regions of the CNS throughout life. We examined the extent of natural cell division and replacement from 7 weeks to 7 months after cervical spinal cord injury in four adult rhesus monkeys. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) injections revealed an increase of &gt;80-fold in the number of newly divided cells in the primate spinal cord after injury, with an average of 725,000 BrdU-labeled cells identified per monkey in the immediate injury zone. By 7 months after injury, 15% of these new cells expressed mature markers of oligodendrocytes and 12% expressed mature astrocytic markers. Newly born oligodendrocytes were present in zones of injury-induced demyelination and appeared to ensheath or remyelinate host axons. Thus, cell replacement is an extensive natural compensatory response to injury in the primate spinal cord that contributes to neural repair and is a potential target for therapeutic enhancement.

Humans are exquisitely sensitive to changes in relative position. A fundamental and long-standing question is how information for position acuity is integrated along the length of the target, and why visual performance deteriorates when the feature separation increases. To address this question, we used a target made of discrete samples, each subjected to binary positional noise, combined with reverse correlation to estimate the behavioral &quot;receptive field&quot; (template), and a novel 10-pass method to quantify the internal noise that limits position acuity. Our results show that human observers weigh individual parts of the stimulus differently and importantly, that the shape of the template changes markedly with feature separation. Compared to an ideal observer, human performance is limited by a template that becomes less efficient as feature separation increases and by an increase in random internal noise. Although systematic internal noise is thought to be one of the important components limiting detection thresholds, we found that systematic noise is negligible in our position task.
When the visual system is confronted with incompatible images in the same part of the visual field, the conscious percept switches back and forth between the rivaling stimuli. Such spontaneous flips provide important clues to the neuronal basis for visual awareness. The general idea is that two representations compete for dominance in a process of mutual inhibition, in which adaptation shifts the balance to and fro. The inherent nonlinear nature of the rivalrous flip-flop and its stochastic behavior, however, made it impossible to disentangle inhibition and adaptation. Here we report a general method to measure the time course, and asymmetries, of mechanisms involved in perceptual rivalry. Supported by model simulations, we show the dynamics of opponent interactions between mutual inhibition and adaptation. The findings not only provide new insight into the mechanism underlying rivalry but also offer new opportunities to study and compare a wide range of bistable processes in the brain and their relation to visual awareness.
Synapsins are abundant synaptic-vesicle phosphoproteins that are known to regulate neurotransmitter release but whose precise function has been difficult to pinpoint. Here, we use knockout mice to analyze the role of synapsins 1 and 2 in the calyx of Held synapse, allowing precise measurements of neurotransmitter release. We find that deletion of synapsins did not induce significant changes in spontaneous release or release evoked by isolated action potentials (APs) and did not alter the size of the readily releasable vesicle pool (RRP), the kinetics of RRP depletion, or the rate of recovery of the RRP after depletion. Deletion of synapsins, however, did increase use-dependent synaptic depression induced by a high-frequency stimulus train (&gt; or = 50 Hz). The increased depression was due to a decrease in the fraction of the RRP, whose release was evoked by APs late in the stimulus train. The effect of synapsin deletions was occluded by intracellular application of the Ca2+-chelator EGTA or of a calmodulin inhibitor. Our results show that synapsins boost the release probability during high-frequency stimulation and suggest that this effect involves Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation of synapsins.
IL-1beta was identified after a long search for the endogenous pyrogen. It acts by inducing synthesis of prostaglandin E2, which mediates the late phase of IL-1beta-induced fever. Here we show by radiotelemetry that the early phase of the fever response to IL-1beta is mediated by ceramide. Hypothalamic application of the cell-penetrating C2-ceramide mimics the rapid phase of the IL-1beta-induced fever. Inhibition of ceramide synthesis blocks the rapid phase of fever but does not affect the slower prostaglandin E2-dependent phase, which is blocked by indomethacin or by null mutation of the EP3 prostanoid receptor. Electrophysiological experiments on preoptic area/anterior hypothalamic neurons show that C2-ceramide, but not dihydroceramide, mimics the rapid hyperpolarizing effects of IL-1beta on the activity of warm-sensitive hypothalamic neurons. IL-1beta-mediated hyperpolarization is blocked by PP2, the selective inhibitor of the protein tyrosine kinase Src, which is known to be activated by ceramide. These in vivo and in vitro data suggest that ceramide fulfills the criteria for an endogenous pyrogen.
The ability to respond selectively to particular frequency components of sensory inputs is fundamental to signal processing in the ear. The frog (Rana pipiens) sacculus, which is used for social communication and escape behaviors, is an exquisitely sensitive detector of sounds and ground-borne vibrations in the 5- to 200-Hz range, with most afferent axons having best frequencies between 40 and 60 Hz. We monitored the synaptic output of saccular sensory receptors (hair cells) by measuring the increase in membrane capacitance (deltaC(m)) that occurs when synaptic vesicles fuse with the plasmalemma. Strong stepwise depolarization evoked an exocytic burst that lasted 10 ms and corresponded to the predicted capacitance of all docked vesicles at synapses, followed by a 20-ms delay before additional vesicle fusion. Experiments using weak stimuli, within the normal physiological range for these cells, revealed a sensitivity to the temporal pattern of membrane potential changes. Interrupting a weak depolarization with a properly timed hyperpolarization increased deltaC(m). Small sinusoidal voltage oscillations (+/-5 mV centered at -60 mV) evoked a deltaC(m) that corresponded to 95 vesicles per s at each synapse at 50 Hz but only 26 vesicles per s at 5 Hz and 27 vesicles per s at 200 Hz (perforated patch recordings). This frequency selectivity was absent for larger sinusoidal oscillations (+/-10 mV centered at -55 mV) and was largest for hair cells with the smallest sinusoidal-stimuli-evoked Ca2+ currents. We conclude that frog saccular hair cells possess an intrinsic synaptic frequency selectivity that is saturated by strong stimuli.
The mode of action of annexin A1 (ANXA1) is poorly understood. By using rapid subtraction hybridization we studied the effects of human recombinant ANXA1 and the N-terminal ANXA1 peptide on gene expression in a human larynx cell line. Three genes showed strong downregulation after treatment with ANXA1. In contrast, expression of CCR10, a seven transmembrane G-protein coupled receptor for chemokine CCL27 involved in mucosal immunity, was increased. Moreover the reduction in CCR10 expression induced by ANXA1 gene deletion was rescued by intravenous treatment with low doses of ANXA1. These findings provide new evidence that ANXA1 modulates gene expression.
The chick retinotectal system is a suitable model to investigate the mechanisms involved in the establishment of synaptic connections in whose refinement nitric oxide was implicated. The purpose of this work was to describe the developmental pattern of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-positive neurons as well as to determine if it is sensitive to changes in visual stimulation. The NADPH-diaphorase histochemical method was used to describe and quantify NOS neurons in normally stimulated and subnormally stimulated chickens. Nine types of NOS neurons were identified; seven of them express NOS until adulthood, while two of them show only a transient expression. The developmental pattern of NOS neurons follows the process of laminar segregation. It can be divided into three phases. The first includes the onset of NOS expression in periventricular neurons and the formation of a deep network of NOS fibers during early development. These neurons do not show any significant change in subnormally stimulated animals. The second phase includes the appearance of two transient NOS populations of bipolar neurons that occupy the intermediate layers during the optic fibers ingrowth. One of them significantly changes in subnormally stimulated chicks. The third phase occurs when the transitory expression of bipolar neurons decreases. It includes NOS expression in six neuronal populations that innervate the superficial retinorecipient layers. Most of these cells suffer plastic changes in subnormally stimulated chicks. The diversity of neuronal types with regard to their morphology, location, and sensitivity to visual stimulation strongly suggests that they serve different functions.
Kainic acid-induced neuron loss in the hippocampal dentate gyrus may cause epileptogenic hyperexcitability by triggering the formation of recurrent excitatory connections among normally unconnected granule cells. We tested this hypothesis by assessing granule cell excitability repeatedly within the same awake rats at different stages of the synaptic reorganization process initiated by kainate-induced status epilepticus (SE). Granule cells were maximally hyperexcitable to afferent stimulation immediately after SE and became gradually less excitable during the first month post-SE. The chronic epileptic state was characterized by granule cell hyper-inhibition, i.e., abnormally increased paired-pulse suppression and an abnormally high resistance to generating epileptiform discharges in response to afferent stimulation. Focal application of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide within the dentate gyrus abolished the abnormally increased paired-pulse suppression recorded in chronically hyper-inhibited rats. Combined Timm staining and parvalbumin immunocytochemistry revealed dense innervation of dentate inhibitory interneurons by newly formed, Timm-positive, mossy fiber terminals. Ultrastructural analysis by conventional and postembedding GABA immunocytochemical electron microscopy confirmed that abnormal mossy fiber terminals of the dentate inner molecular layer formed frequent asymmetrical synapses with inhibitory interneurons and with GABA-immunopositive dendrites as well as with GABA-immunonegative dendrites of presumed granule cells. These results in chronically epileptic rats demonstrate that dentate granule cells are maximally hyperexcitable immediately after SE, prior to mossy fiber sprouting, and that synaptic reorganization following kainate-induced injury is temporally associated with GABA(A) receptor-dependent granule cell hyper-inhibition rather than a hypothesized progressive hyperexcitability. The anatomical data provide evidence of a possible anatomical substrate for the chronically hyper-inhibited state.
Cholinergic afferents to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) contribute substantially to the regulation of motivated behaviors and the rewarding properties of nicotine. These actions are believed to involve connections with dopamine (DA) neurons projecting to the nucleus accumbens (NAc). However, this direct synaptic link has never been investigated, nor is it known whether cholinergic inputs innervate other populations of DA and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons, including those projecting to the prefrontal cortex (PFC). We addressed these questions by using electron microscopic analysis of retrograde tract-tracing and immunocytochemistry for the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) and for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and GABA. In tissue labeled for TH, VAChT(+) terminals frequently synapsed onto DA mesoaccumbens neurons but only seldom contacted DA mesoprefrontal cells. In tissue labeled for GABA, one-third of VAChT(+) terminals innervated GABA-labeled dendrites, including both mesoaccumbens and mesoprefrontal populations. VAChT(+) synapses onto DA and mesoaccumbens neurons were more commonly of the asymmetric (presumed excitatory) morphological type, whereas VAChT(+) synapses onto GABA cells were more frequently symmetric (presumed inhibitory or modulatory). These findings suggest that cholinergic inputs to the VTA mediate complex synaptic actions, with a major portion of this effect likely to involve an excitatory influence on DA mesoaccumbens neurons. As such, the results suggest that natural and drug rewards operating through cholinergic afferents to the VTA have a direct synaptic link to the mesoaccumbens DA neurons that modulate approach behaviors.
Biotinylated dextran amine and fluorescent carbocyanine dye (DiI) were used to examine connections of the lateral (Dl) and medial (Dm) divisions of the goldfish pallium. Besides numerous intrinsic telencephalic connections to Dl and Dm, major ascending projections to these pallial divisions arise in the preglomerular complex of the posterior tuberculum, rather than in the dorsal thalamus. The rostral subnucleus of the lateral preglomerular nucleus receives auditory input via the medial pretoral nucleus, lateral line input via the ventrolateral toral nucleus, and visual input via the optic tectum, and it projects to both Dl and Dm. The anterior preglomerular nucleus and caudal subnucleus of the lateral preglomerular nucleus receive auditory input via the central toral nucleus and project to Dm. This pallial division also receives chemosensory information via the medial preglomerular nucleus. The central posterior (CP) nucleus, which receives both auditory and visual inputs, also projects to Dm and is the only dorsal thalamic nucleus projecting to the pallium. Thus, both Dl and Dm clearly receive multisensory inputs. Major projections of CP and projections of all other dorsal thalamic nuclei are to the subpallium, however. Descending projections of Dl are primarily to the preoptic area and the caudal hypothalamus, whereas descending projections of Dm are more extensive and particularly heavy to the anterior tuber and nucleus diffusus of the hypothalamus. The topography and connections of Dl are remarkably similar to those of the hippocampus of tetrapods, whereas the topography and connections of Dm are similar to those of the amygdala.
In the present work, we had tried to evaluate the immunotropic and behavioural effects of Thymus broussonetii Boiss. So, we tested the neurostimulant effects of four extracts. This preliminary study allowed to identify both the immunostimulant and the neurotropic antistress effects of the studied extracts. Among the four extracts, only the aqueous and ethyl acetate ones showed an apparent effect on the tested biological activities, whereas the butanolic extract and the essential oil did not show any interesting effect (data not shown). These results showed that the aqueous and ethyl extracts of this endemic species are of interest for two reasons: stimulation of the immunizing system and protection against the stress by a neurotropic activity. Thyme extracts increased in vivo the number of leucocyte categories studied including polynuclears, total lymphocytes, TCD4+, TCD8+ and NK cells. These data suggest that the intraperitoneal administration of Thymus broussonetii extract has a potent direct effect on leucocytes in vivo. The elevation of leucocyte and thrombocyte counts produced by thyme in the peripheral blood was already reported in the literature. These results could be of practical importance in the field of phytotherapy in the treatment of some cases of human immunodeficiency such as cancer, leukaemia and AIDS.
Echium amoenum Fisch &amp; C.A. Mey. has been used in Iranian traditional medicine as demulcent and analgesic in common cold from long ago. In this investigation, the analgesic effect of the methanolic extract of the petals of this plant on male albino mice was evaluated by formalin and hot-plate test. The methanolic percolated extract with different doses 5, 10, 20 and 30 mg/kg were injected intraperitoneally to mice. The results showed that the dose of 10 mg/kg of extract had the highest analgesia in formalin (P&lt;0.05) and hot-plate test (P&lt;0.01) compared to the control group. The analgesic effect of extract was lower than morphine 2.5 mg/kg and ASA 300 mg/kg in the chronic phase of pain in formalin test (P&lt;0.05) and in hot-plate test too (P&lt;0.05). Pretreatment of animal with naloxone 4 mg/kg, s.c. 5 min before extract, decreased the analgesia induced by extract in hot-plate and acute phase of formalin tests; therefore, the opioid receptor may be involved at least partly in the analgesic effect of Echium amoenum extract. The results suggested that Echium amoenum extract has a suitable analgesic effect and further studies are required to evaluate these effects and the potential of the plant.
The number of autoimmune disorders that may involve the nervous system is increasing. The diagnosis of neurological involvement in the context of systemic diseases may be helped by the detection of autoantibodies reacting against neural autoantigens. If the autoantigen is not known but the target tissue is suspected, immunohistochemistry is one of the main techniques used to certify the presence of autoantibodies. Autoreactive antibodies are also present in the healthy population but in low quantity compared to patients with such diseases. Quantification of such autoantibodies could help to discriminate between disease and healthy states. We have developed a densitometric immunohistological method for the evaluation of human serum anti-neural reactivity. Using a densitometric analysis of rat brain sections incubated with the serum from 107 healthy subjects, we have defined the baseline of natural anti-neural autoreactivity, and the cut-off for subsequent quantification of anti-neural reactivity in patients with neurological involvement in the context of autoimmune diseases, including systemic lupus erythematosus, paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration, and stiff person syndrome. The test sensitivity was 81% with a positive predictive value of 52%, a specificity of 89% with a negative predictive value as high as 97%. In conclusion, this standardised semi-quantitative procedure makes immunohistochemistry a reliable diagnostic test for autoimmune neuropathologies and represents an excellent exclusion test for anti-neural autoimmunity.
Victims of minor traumatic brain injury (mTBI) can show long lasting cognitive, emotional and concentration difficulties, amnesia, depression, apathy and anxiety. The symptoms are generally known as a post-concussive syndrome without clear morphological brain defects. Endogenous opiates are released after impact to the brain, suggesting they may play a role in TBI pathophysiology. Furthermore, the administration of opiates to the brain of injured animals has been shown to affect the injury, induce cellular changes and also have protective qualities for neurological impairments. Here, we examined the protective properties of the opiate morphine on cognitive performances following minimal brain injury in mice. For this purpose, we have used our non-invasive closed-head weight drop model in mice, which closely mimics real life mTBI and examined mice performance in the Morris water maze. Our procedure did not cause visible structural or neurological damage to the mice. A single morphine injection administrated immediately after the induction of minimal TBI protected the injured mice from cognitive impairment, checked 30, 60 and 90 days post injury. However, mice injected with morphine that were examined 7 days after the injury did not show better performance than the saline injected mice. Our results indicate that morphine has long but not short-term effects on the cognitive ability of brain-injured mice. Although the exact nature of opioid neuroprotection is still unknown, its elucidation may lead to the much-needed treatment for traumatic brain injury.
D-Serine indirectly caused dose- and time-dependent inhibition of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) without affecting endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) in human glioblastoma cell line U87. Activity of D-amino acid oxidase (DAAO), catalyzing the oxidative deamination of d-amino acid, was enhanced by NO in a dose-dependent manner. Recently, we have reported that serine racemase (SR) is inhibited by NO and activated by D-serine through nitrosylation and denitrosylation, respectively [K. Shoji, S. Mariotto, A.R. Ciampa, H. Suzuki, Regulation of serine racemase activity by D-serine and nitric oxide in human glioblastoma cells, Neurosci. Lett., in press]. Thus, the metabolism of both d-serine and NO in U87 cells is functionally correlated in a complex manner. Suppression of NO production by d-serine in U87 cells contrasts its known action in enhancing nNOS in neurons.
The present study examined if nicotine enhances contextual fear conditioning when the training context is either a background stimulus or a foreground stimulus. In the background conditioning experiment, mice were trained using two auditory conditioned stimulus (CS; 30 s, 85 dB white noise)-footshock unconditioned stimulus (US; 2 s, 0.57 mA) pairings and tested 24 h later. In the foreground conditioning experiment, mice were trained with two presentations of a footshock US (2 s, 0.57 mA) and tested 24 h later. Mice received 0.09 mg/kg nicotine before training and testing. For both the foreground and background conditioning experiments, nicotine enhanced contextual conditioning. No enhancement of the auditory CS-US association was seen. These results demonstrate that nicotine enhances contextual fear conditioning regardless of whether the context is a background stimulus or a foreground stimulus during conditioning.

Partial bladder outlet obstruction of the pig is considered as a valuable preclinical model for evaluating the profile of compounds for the treatment of bladder overactivity. In this study, we characterized the pharmacological properties of isolated bladder smooth muscle from pigs following partial outlet obstruction and its sensitivity to potassium channel openers. Bladder strips from obstructed animals showed significantly lower maximal efficacy (E(max)) and sensitivity to stimulation by ATP and carbachol, but not to those evoked by serotonin, compared to age-matched controls. Tissue strips from obstructed animals also showed a 2.5-fold increase in the potency and significantly reduced maximum response following K+ depolarization. With respect to spontaneous activity, bladder strips from control strips demonstrated little spontaneous phasic activity at all preloads examined. In contrast, bladder strips from obstructed animals showed large preload-dependent increases in spontaneous phasic activity at preload values of 16-32 g. The potencies of K(ATP) channel openers to relax carbachol-evoked contractions showed a good 1:1 correlation (r(2)=0.90) between obstructed and control bladder strips. These studies demonstrate that obstructed pig bladders show enhanced spontaneous phasic activity especially at elevated preloads, which may underlie unstable myogenic bladder contractions reported in cystometrographic measurements in vivo. The impaired responses to electrical field stimulation could be attributed to reduced efficacies and/or lower sensitivities of muscarinic and purinergic signaling pathways. K(ATP) channel sensitivities remain essentially unimpaired in the obstructed bladder and could be effectively modulated by openers with potential for the treatment of overactive bladder secondary to outlet obstruction.
Neuromuscular synaptogenesis is initiated by the release of agrin from motor neurons and the activation of the receptor tyrosine kinase, MuSK, in the postsynaptic membrane. MuSK gene expression is regulated by nerve-derived agrin and muscle activity. Agrin stimulates synapse-specific MuSK gene expression by activating GABP(alphabeta) transcription factors in endplate-associated myonuclei. In contrast, the mechanism by which muscle activity regulates MuSK gene expression is not known. We report on a 60-bp MuSK enhancer that confers promoter regulation by muscle differentiation, changes in intracellular calcium, and muscle activity. Within this enhancer, we identified a single E-box that is essential for this regulation. This E-box binds myogenin, and we showed that myogenin is necessary for not only MuSK but also nAChR gene regulation by muscle activity. Surprisingly, the same E-box functions in vivo to mediate muscle-specific and differentiation-dependent gene induction in zebrafish, suggesting an evolutionary conserved mechanism of regulation of synaptic protein gene expression.


The central nervous system complications of diabetes mellitus (DM) include defects in hippocampal synaptic plasticity induction and difficulties in learning and memory. DM was induced by streptozotocin (STZ) injection in rats. After 12 weeks of DM duration, the rats were decapitated, and hippocampal slices were prepared for in vitro study. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSP) were recorded after repeated stimulations with 50 impulses given either in 10 or 20 Hz. The responses were significantly smaller in the diabetic animals than in the age-matched control rats. The summation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) responses was tested in both groups by stimulating the synapses with five consecutive stimuli given in 50-Hz frequency. Intracellular recording from the pyramidal hippocampal cells of the AMPA summation responses from diabetic and aged-matched control animals revealed a significant lower summation in the diabetic animals compared to the control. It is concluded that responses evoked by high-frequency stimulation (HFS) were significantly higher in the control animals. The defects in diabetic slices could be related to pre- as well as postsynaptic changes, and these defects play an important role in the synaptic plasticity changes seen in STZ-induced diabetic animals.
In both conscious and anesthetized rabbits, we determined whether microinjection of a 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) 1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylaminio) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) into the medullary raph/parapyramidal region inhibits thermoregulatory vasoconstriction and whether microinjection of a 5-HT1A receptor antagonist (N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl)-N-(2-pyridinyl) cyclohexanecarboxamide trihydrochloride) (WAY-100635) into the raph reverses the cutaneous vasomotor changes induced by intravenous administration of 8-OH-DPAT. In conscious rabbits with measuring ear pinna blood flow, after microinjection of 8-OH-DPAT (3-5 nmol in 300-500 nl) into the raph, transferring the animal from a warm cage (25-28 degrees C) to a cold cage (5-10 degrees C) did not reduce the ear pinna flow (from 57 +/- 7 cm/s to 59 +/- 3 cm/s, P &gt; 0.05, n = 5), unlike Ringer-treated animals. Microinjection of WAY-100635 (5 nmol in 500 nl) into the raph reversed ear pinna flow changes induced by intravenous administration of 8-OH-DPAT (0.1 mg/kg, i.v.). In anesthetized rabbits with measuring postganglionic ear pinna sympathetic nerve activity, microinjection of 8-OH-DPAT (1-2 nmol in 100-200 nl) into the raph reduced resting ear pinna sympathetic nerve activity to 14 +/- 4% of pre-injection level (P &lt; 0.01, n = 12) and attenuated increases in ear pinna sympathetic nerve activity normally elicited by cooling the animal's trunk. WAY-100635 (2 nmol into 200 nl) into the raph reversed inhibition of ear pinna sympathetic nerve activity elicited by 8-OH-DPAT (0.1 mg/kg, i.v.). The activation of 5-HT1A receptors expressed on the medullary raph neurons results in reversal of cold-elicited cutaneous vasoconstriction possibly through inhibition of sympathetic premotor neurons that innervate sympathetic preganglionic neurons controlling cutaneous vasomotion.
The present study investigated the hypothesis that social isolation increases aggression by increasing the number of V1a vasopressin receptors in the anterior hypothalamus (AH). Male hamsters were randomly assigned to a group that was allowed to interact with a small nonaggressive hamster three times each week for 3 weeks (socially experienced) or to a group that did not interact socially with other hamsters (social isolates). On the final day of the experiment, hamsters in both groups were placed in a neutral arena with a small, nonaggressive intruder, and agonistic behavior was scored for 10 min. In social isolates, the duration of aggression and the number of attacks were significantly greater than in socially experienced hamsters. There were no significant between-group differences in the latency to the onset of aggression, the number of flank marks or in the duration of defensive/submissive, social or nonsocial behavior. The amount of V1a receptor binding was significantly greater in the AH, the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and the lateral hypothalamus in the social isolates than in the socially experienced hamsters. The amount of V1a receptor binding was significantly greater in the central amygdala of socially experienced hamsters than in socially isolated hamsters. Serum concentrations of testosterone were significantly higher in the socially experienced hamsters than in social isolates. These data support the hypothesis that social isolation increases aggression by increasing the number of V1a vasopressin receptors in the AH.
From a behavioural point of view, the automaticity of semantic activation was denied because letter search eliminates semantic priming effects on RT. From a neuroscience point of view, two recent studies used the N400 to test this claim with antithetic results. Here, we replicate N400 priming effects in the letter search task. The negative results might be traced back to the use of an inappropriate reference electrode. Thus, the theory of semantic activation being an automatic process should not be abandoned prematurely.
The habenula complex modulates the activity of dopamine and serotonin systems in the brain. An important question remains whether there is a link between habenula dysfunction and monoamine-related disorders, such as schizophrenia. In this study, we describe an interaction between habenula lesions and stress that produces long-lasting effects on behavior. Mice received control lesions or bilateral electrolytic lesions of the habenula and were tested for fear-potentiated startle and freezing measures of conditioned fear. They were also tested for prepulse inhibition (PPI) and locomotor activity in the presence or absence of a dopaminergic agonist (apomorphine) or an atypical antipsychotic with mixed dopamine/serotonin antagonist properties (clozapine). There were no detectable effects of habenula lesions on fear conditioning and no effects on PPI in the absence of stress. However, following conditioned fear stress, habenula-lesioned animals showed decreased PPI which normalized with clozapine. Lesioned animals also showed diminished activity at baseline, with hyperlocomotion following apomorphine. These data support the hypothesis that the habenula may be normally involved in stress-dependent regulation of monoamine systems.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus contains the primary circadian pacemaker in both diurnal and nocturnal mammals. The lower subparaventricular zone (LSPV) immediately dorsal to the SCN may also play an important role in the regulation of circadian rhythms. The SCN contains a multitude of oscillator cells that generate circadian rhythms through transcriptional/translational feedback loops involving a set of clock genes including per1 and per2. Little is known about the temporal and spatial features of the proteins encoded by these genes in day-active mammals. The first objective of this study was to characterize the expression of PER1 and PER2 in the SCN of a diurnal rodent, the unstriped Nile grass rat (Arvicanthis niloticus). The second objective was to evaluate the hypothesis that a molecular clock could exist in the LSPV, where endogenous rhythms in Fos expression are seen in grass rats but not in laboratory rats. Animals were kept on a 12:12 light/dark cycle and perfused at 4-h intervals, and their brains were processed for immunohistochemical detection of PER1 and PER2. Both proteins were seen in the SCN where they peaked early in the dark phase, providing further evidence that the differences between diurnal and nocturnal patterns of behavior emerge from mechanisms lying downstream from the pacemaker within the SCN. Rhythmic expression of PER1 and PER2 was also seen in the LSPV providing support for the hypothesis that this region might participate in circadian time keeping in the diurnal grass rat. In addition, rhythms were seen lateral to the LSPV and the SCN. Results of this study are discussed in light of similarities and differences in the circadian time-keeping systems of day- and night-active animals.
WAY-161503 ((4aR)-8,9-dichloro-2,3,4,4a-tetrahydro-1H-pyrazino[1,2-a]quinoxalin-5(6H)-one), a 5-HT(2B/C) receptor agonist, was characterized in vitro using stable Chinese hamster ovary cell lines expressing each of the human 5-HT2 receptors and in vivo in animal models of obesity. WAY-161503 displaced both agonist ([125I]2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI)) and antagonist ([3H]mesulergine) radioligand binding to the human 5-HT2C receptor with derived Ki values of 3.3 +/- 0.9 and 32 +/- 6 nM, respectively. Relative to 5-HT2C receptor binding, WAY-161503 was approximately 6-fold less potent at human 5-HT2A receptors ([125I]DOI) with a derived Ki value of 18 nM and 20-fold less potent at human 5-HT2B receptors ([3H]5-HT) with a derived Ki value of 60 nM. In functional studies, WAY-161503 was a full agonist in stimulating 5-HT2C-receptor-coupled [3H]inositol phosphate (IP) formation and calcium mobilization with EC50 values of 8.5 nM and 0.8 nM, respectively. WAY-161503 was also a 5-HT2B agonist (EC50s of 6.9 and 1.8 nM for IP and calcium, respectively). In IP studies, WAY-161503 was a weak 5-HT(2A) partial agonist (EC50, 802 nM) yet potently stimulated calcium mobilization (EC50, 7 nM) in 5-HT2A receptor-expressing cells. Functionally, WAY-161503 also stimulated the phospholipase A2-coupled arachidonic acid release in 5-HT2C receptor expressing cells albeit with lower potency (EC50, 38 nM) and efficacy (Emax, 77%) compared with activation of the PLC pathway. In vivo, WAY-161503 produced dose-dependent decreases in 2-h food intake in 24 h fasted normal Sprague-Dawley rats, diet-induced obese mice, and obese Zuker rats with ED50 values of 1.9 mg/kg, 6.8 mg/kg, and 0.73 mg/kg, respectively. The reduction in food intake in normal Sprague-Dawley rats was reversed by administration of the 5-HT2C receptor antagonist SB-242084. Following chronic administration (10 days) in growing Sprague-Dawley rats, WAY-161503 decreased food intake and attenuated body weight gain. Finally, following chronic administration (15 days) of WAY-161503 to obese Zuker rats, the rats maintained a 30% decrease in food intake over the 15-day period combined with a 25 g decrease in body weight relative to vehicle-treated controls demonstrating a lack of tolerance to its anorectic effects.
Pharmacological studies have documented that altered drug responses, particularly to benzodiazepines, are common in elderly populations. While numerous factors may contribute to changes in drug response, age-related alterations in the molecular composition of GABA(A) receptors may be a key factor in regulating these responses. We employed quantitative densitometry to examine the cytological features and density of highly prevalent hippocampal GABA(A) receptor subunits (alpha1 and beta2/3) in young and aged rhesus monkeys. alpha1 and beta2/3 subunit immunostaining was differentially distributed throughout the hippocampus. In addition, beta2/3 immunolabeling in aged monkeys was characterized by marked intersubject variability in labeling intensity, with dramatic reductions present in 3 of 5 samples. alpha1 immunolabeling in aged monkeys was significantly reduced in the CA2 and CA3 subregions, and in hilus/polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that not only are GABA(A) receptor subunits differentially distributed throughout the hippocampus, but they are also differentially altered with increased age--changes that may have an important impact on the binding properties of GABA(A) receptor pharmacological agents.
Fyn-tyrosine-kinase-deficient mice exhibit increased fearfulness and display enhanced excitability in the amygdala. To gain insight into the molecular changes associated with the increased excitability of the amygdala, we used a newly developed cDNA array system comprising mouse KIAA cDNA clones to identify novel genes differentially expressed in the amygdala of fyn(-/-) and fyn(+/-) mice following administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). Laser capture microdissection in combination with PCR-based cDNA amplification allowed us to analyze gene expression in each amygdalar subdivision. The statistical significance of the differential expressions was tested by one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) by the false discovery rate controlling approach. Among the 805 mKIAA cDNA clones tested, only the expression level of mKIAA1577 (Zinc finger SWIM domain containing protein 6; gene name, Zswim6) showed statistically significant change in regard to the genotype and amygdalar subdivision. Namely, only the lowered expression of mKIAA1577 in the central nucleus of fyn(-/-) mice 1 h after NMDA administration (2.1-fold lower relative to fyn(+/-) mice) was statistically significant. In situ hybridization analysis confirmed the downregulation of the mRNA in the central nucleus of the fyn(-/-) mice 1 h after NMDA administration (3.2-fold lower relative to fyn(+/-) mice). The NMDA-induced change in gene expression was partially blocked by the NMDA antagonist D-AP-5. These results suggest that Fyn deficiency was responsible for the NMDA-induced downregulation of a specific gene in the amygdalar central nucleus.
The ability to remember emotional events is crucial for adapting to biologically and socially significant situations. Little is known, however, about the nature of the neural interactions supporting the integration of mnemonic and emotional information. Using fMRI and dynamic models of effective connectivity, we examined regional neural activity and specific interactions between brain regions during a contextual memory retrieval task. We independently manipulated emotional context and relevance of retrieved emotional information to task demands. We show that retrieval of emotionally valenced contextual information is associated with enhanced connectivity from hippocampus to amygdala, structures crucially involved with encoding of emotional events. When retrieval of emotional information is relevant to current behavior, amygdala-hippocampal connectivity increases bidirectionally, under modulatory influences from orbitofrontal cortex, a region implicated in representation of affective value and behavioral guidance. Our findings demonstrate that both memory content and behavioral context impact upon large scale neuronal dynamics underlying emotional retrieval.
Sequence disambiguation, the process by which overlapping sequences are kept separate, has been proposed to underlie a wide range of memory capacities supported by the hippocampus, including episodic memory and spatial navigation. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to explore the dynamic pattern of hippocampal activation during the encoding of sequences of faces. Activation in right posterior hippocampus, only during the encoding of overlapping sequences but not nonoverlapping sequences, was found to correlate robustly with a subject-specific behavioral index of sequence learning. Moreover, our data indicate that hippocampal activation in response to elements common to both sequences in the overlapping sequence pair, may be particularly important for accurate sequence encoding and retrieval. Together, these findings support the conclusion that the human hippocampus is involved in the earliest stage of sequence disambiguation, when memory representations are in the process of being created, and provide empirical support for contemporary computational models of hippocampal function.
The formation and plasticity of synaptic connections rely on regulatory interactions between pre- and postsynaptic cells. We show that the Drosophila heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs) Syndecan (Sdc) and Dallylike (Dlp) are synaptic proteins necessary to control distinct aspects of synaptic biology. Sdc promotes the growth of presynaptic terminals, whereas Dlp regulates active zone form and function. Both Sdc and Dlp bind at high affinity to the protein tyrosine phosphatase LAR, a conserved receptor that controls both NMJ growth and active zone morphogenesis. These data and double mutant assays showing a requirement of LAR for actions of both HSPGs lead to a model in which presynaptic LAR is under complex control, with Sdc promoting and Dlp inhibiting LAR in order to control synapse morphogenesis and function.
The dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia is based on evidence that the major antipsychotic drugs act by blocking dopamine D2 receptors and that dopamine-releasing drugs worsen symptoms. In this issue of Neuron, Kellendonk et al. report an elegant conditional transgenic mouse overexpressing dopamine D2 receptors selectively in the striatum. Strikingly, these animals display selective cognitive impairment typically associated with frontal cortical defects and abnormal dopamine markers in the prefrontal cortex, suggesting that striatal dopamine receptors can influence cortical dopamine function.
Dimeric 14-3-3 proteins exert diverse functions in eukaryotes by binding to specific phosphorylated sites on diverse target proteins. Critical to the physiological function of 14-3-3 proteins is the wide range of binding affinity to different ligands. The existing information of binding affinity is mainly derived from nonhomogeneous-based methods such as surface plasmon resonance and quantitative affinity precipitation. We have developed a fluorescence anisotropy peptide probe using a genetically isolated 14-3-3-binding SWTY motif. The synthetic 5-(and-6)-carboxyfluorescein(FAM)-RGRSWpTY-COOH peptide, when bound to 14-3-3 proteins, exhibits a seven-fold increase in fluorescence anisotropy. Different from the existing assays for 14-3-3 binding, this homogeneous assay tests the interaction directly in solution. Hence it permits more accurate determination of the dissociation constants of 14-3-3 binding molecules. Protocols for a simple mix-and-read format have been developed to evaluate 14-3-3 protein interactions using either purified recombinant 14-3-3 fusion proteins or native 14-3-3s in crude cell lysate. Optimal assay conditions for high-throughput screening for modulators of 14-3-3 binding have been determined.
Behavioural habituation to a novel environment is a simple form of learning in rodents. We studied the habituation and locomotor activity (LMA) of Wistar rats subjected to unilateral, transient (30min) extradural compression (EC) of the right sensorimotor cortex. One group of rats was tested every 24h during the first 5 days (D1-D5) post-EC. Two other groups were tested for the first time in the LMA boxes on D3 and D6 post-EC and their performance was compared with the group tested on D1 (activity in a novel environment). Total and center locomotion, vertical activity and time spent in the center of the LMA box were reduced on D1 post-EC and normalized by D2. The EC-induced motor paresis was undetectable on the rotarod by D2 and on the beam-walking by D3. Total locomotion, vertical activity and time spent in the center of EC-rats significantly increased from D1 to D3. EC caused neurodegeneration in the cortex, caudate putamen and thalamus as detected by Fluoro-Jade staining. The size of the cortical damage decreased from D2 to D5 in the medial and caudal regions of the compressed hemisphere, in accordance with recovery of motor function. LMA provided additional information in the follow-up of recovery from brain injury and habituation to the environment. Thus, long-term, inter-session habituation was impaired from D1 to D3 but dissociated from increased LMA intra-session on D3, when the motor deficits provoked by EC were already undetectable in the rotarod and beam-walking tests.
In order to study spatial cognition as well as operant/instrumental conditioning or attention processes in the same experimental context in mice, we have designed and constructed an operant chamber that contains a large number of nose poke holes distributed over its inner walls. The nose poke holes were placed three in a horizontal row on one left wall, five in a form of an X on the front wall, and three in a vertical column on one right wall in a hexagonal shaped chamber. This organization of nose poke holes was intended to provide mice with spatially structured environmental cues. Here, we report on an experiment in which providing additional structuring to the standard condition, favoring either further spatial grouping or perceptual/visual clustering of subsets of holes, tremendously facilitated nose poke discrimination learning in normal C57BL/6 mice. More interestingly, mice were able to use their (spatial or mental) representation of holes organization elaborated under spatially or visually structured environment, to improve their learning of a new discrimination under the standard less-structured environment. These findings support the idea that mice are sensitive to subtle visual background information, in addition to spatial information, to organize nose poke items, process similar to both pattern separation and chunking process, in order to minimize interference and to increase items discriminability and their capacity for (long-term) memory.
Hibernation is a unique and highly regulated physiological state characterized by profound, albeit periodically reversible, depression in body temperature, metabolism, and consciousness. Hippocampal synapses undergo pronounced remodeling in concert with torpor and arousal. During hibernation, the number of postsynaptic densities, apical dendritic branches, and spine densities decreases substantially in the hippocampus. Upon arousal these parameters increase beyond pre-hibernation levels and peak within 2-3h. By 24h after arousal, dendritic parameters remain elevated but have started to subside, consistent with pruning and differentiation. The present study examined the functional consequences of these natural changes in synaptic structure. Wild-caught Arctic ground squirrels (AGS) were trained in a hippocampal-dependent contextual fear conditioning task at 3h, 24h, or 4 weeks after arousal (warm-adapted euthermic control group). All groups acquired the fear conditioned response similarly on the training day. During a subsequent retention test session, AGS in the 24h group exhibited enhanced expression of contextual fear compared to the other two groups. These data suggest that the morphological and biochemical changes occurring at 24h after arousal from hibernation affect hippocampal-dependent learning and memory. The natural change in synaptic structure during hibernation may provide a unique opportunity to assess the neural substrates underlying cognitive enhancement.
Studies examining the effects of hippocampal lesions on object recognition memory in rats have produced conflicting results. The present study investigated how methodological differences and lesion size may have contributed to these discrepancies. In Experiment 1 we compared rats with complete, partial (septal) and sham hippocampal lesions on a spontaneous object recognition task, using a protocol previously reported to result in deficits following large hippocampal lesions . Rats with complete and partial hippocampal lesions were unimpaired, suggesting the hippocampus is not required for object recognition memory. However, rats with partial lesions showed relatively poor performance raising the possibility that floor effects masked a deficit on this group. In Experiment 2, we used a second spontaneous object recognition protocol similar to that used by the two other studies that have reported deficits following hippocampal lesions . Rats with complete hippocampal lesions were significantly impaired, whereas rats with partial lesions were unimpaired. However, the complete lesion group showed less object exploration during the sample phase. Thus, the apparent recognition memory deficit in Experiment 2 may be attributable to differential encoding. Together, these findings suggest that the hippocampus is not required for intact spontaneous object recognition memory. These findings suggest that levels of object exploration during the sample phase may be a critical issue, and raise the possibility that previous reports of object recognition deficits may be due to differences in object exploration rather than deficits in object recognition per se.
The present study investigated whether proliferation of hippocampal progenitors is subject to circadian modulation. Mice were perfused using 3h intervals throughout the light-dark cycle and brains were stained for Ki-67. Since Ki-67 is not expressed during the G0 phase of the cell cycle, we expected a decline in Ki-67 expression at the moment cells synchronously exit the cell cycle. However, despite the fact that various hippocampal factors fluctuate across the day, the number of dividing cells remained constant. In a second experiment, we studied whether disturbance of normal sleep affected the stable rate in cell proliferation. Our data show that 12h of sleep deprivation during the light phase did not influence proliferating cell number. A third experiment investigated whether physical activity, a condition known to enhance hippocampal cell proliferation, caused an elevation of the steady baseline number of proliferating progenitors, or a peak directly following the active phase of the animals. Mice were housed with a running wheel for 9 days. On the last day, animals were sacrificed either directly before or directly after the active phase. Exercise significantly promoted cell proliferation and this effect appeared to be strongest directly after the active period and to disappear during the resting phase. Our data suggest that hippocampal cell proliferation is not synchronized under basal conditions and is unchanged by sleep deprivation. However, running affected cell proliferation differentially at two times of day. These data demonstrate that the steady rate in cell proliferation is not indispensable, but can be changed by behavioral activity.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) in the CNS plays an important regulatory role in anxiety-related responses as exogenous administration of NPY exerts an anxiolytic-like effect in rodents. This effect is believed to be mediated by the Y(1) receptor system as pharmacological modulation of this Y(1) receptor system results in an increase in anxiety. Here we present a comprehensive phenotyping strategy for characterizing Y(1) receptor knockout animals at different times of the circadian rhythm using several motor activity-, exploration-, and anxiety-related behavioural tasks including open field, elevated plus maze, light-dark, and hole board test. We show that Y(1) deficiency has an important effect on motor activity and explorative-like behaviours and that it results in marked alterations in anxiety-related behaviours. Importantly, the behavioural phenotype of the Y(1) receptor knockout mice is circadian rhythm-dependent and also influenced by stimuli such as restraint stress. In addition, we found evidence for increases in working memory. Taken together, these findings suggest an important role of Y(1) receptors in the regulation of motor activity, exploration, and anxiety-related behaviours. This role is also influenced by several factors such as circadian rhythm and stress exposure confirming the importance of a comprehensive strategy and of using genetic animal models in behavioural neuroscience.
Sensitization of dopaminergic neural reward circuits has been hypothesized to be involved in the development of drug addiction. Highly palatable foods activate these same brain areas, specifically the nucleus accumbens. In this study, the effects of a highly palatable food (sucrose) on these circuits were investigated using the dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor agonist quinpirole. Male Long-Evans rats received 30 min daily access to 0.3 M sucrose solution or water over nine consecutive days, followed by nine daily injections of quinpirole (0.5 mg/kg, s.c.) or saline. Locomotor activity was assessed using an automated open-field system. Locomotor sensitization developed, as quinpirole-treated rats traveled significantly more, and exhibited a greater number of movements than saline controls. A characteristic pattern of an initial suppression of locomotor activity, followed by excitation of activity was observed in quinpirole-treated rats. Pre-exposure to sucrose attenuated the initial suppression of activity, and facilitated excitation of activity. Rats that were pre-exposed to sucrose exhibited a reduced suppression of activity as compared to rats pre-exposed to water. Rats receiving sucrose and quinpirole also displayed a significantly greater enhancement of locomotor activity as compared to rats receiving water and quinpirole. These results support the hypothesis that highly palatable foods can alter the same neural reward circuits as drugs of abuse, and may facilitate sensitization-related addiction. This may aid in further understanding the neural basis of eating disorders.




A series of 8-azabicyclo[3.2.1]octane amine hNK1 antagonists has been investigated and structure-activity relationships of the benzylamine and 6-exo substituents described. Acidic substituents at C6 give a series of high affinity compounds for hNK1 with selectivity over the hERG channel.
(3-tert-Butyl-7-(5-methylisoxazol-3-yl)-2-(1-methyl-1H-1,2,4-triazol-5-ylmethoxy)pyrazolo[1,5-d][1,2,4]triazine (1) was recently identified as a functionally selective, inverse agonist at the benzodiazepine site of GABA(A) alpha5 receptors and enhances performance in animal models of cognition. The routes of metabolism of this compound in vivo in rat have been well characterised, the identities of the major metabolites are confirmed by synthesis and their biological profiles were evaluated. An unusual oxidation of the pyrazolo[1,5-d][1,2,4]triazine core to the corresponding pyrazolo[1,5-d][1,2,4]triazin-4(5H)-one scaffold by aldehyde oxidase has been observed.
The effect of dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) electrical stimulation on response properties of layers IV and V barrel cortical neurons was studied. To assess the receptive field characteristics of cortical neurons, responses of neurons were recorded following the displacement of principal and adjacent whiskers individually or in a condition test paradigm. Then neuronal responses to the displacement of whiskers were analyzed following DRN stimulation at 0, 50, 100, 200 and 400 ms inter-stimulation intervals. Considering On responses, DRN stimulation suppressed the response magnitude of layer V neurons to principal whisker deflection, while it slightly increased that of layer IV neurons (not statistically significant). The response latency of layer IV neurons increased when DRN was stimulated 200 or 400 ms before principal whisker deflection, while the response latency of layer V was not changed. DRN stimulation had no effect on either magnitude or latency of neuronal response to the adjacent whisker deflections. We observed a decrease in the inhibitory effect of the adjacent whisker deflection on the magnitude of neuronal response to the principal whisker deflection in layer IV when DRN was stimulated 200 ms before the principal whisker deflection. Off responses did not show any significant effect of DRN stimulation. Our results suggest a modulating role for DRN in processing of the incoming information into barrel cortex. This effect might be location dependent.
Although critical for transducing seasonal information, melatonin has also been implicated in several physiological systems, as well as the regulation of behavioral and cognitive processes. Therefore, we investigated the neurobehavioral effects of mice missing the type 1 melatonin receptor (MT1). Male and female MT1 knockout (MT1-/-) and wild-type (WT) mice were tested in the acoustic startle/prepulse inhibition (PPI), open field and Porsolt forced swim tests. Male and female MT1-/- mice displayed dramatically impaired prepulse inhibition in the acoustic startle response. Female WT mice were more active in the open field than WT males. However, male and female MT1-/- mice did not differ in total locomotor activity. WT animals spent significantly more time in the center of the arena (a behavioral outcome associated with reduced anxiety-like behavior) than MT1-/- mice. Also, the sex difference between male and female WT mice in the amount of time spent in the center versus periphery was not observed among MT1-/- mice. Both male and female MT1-/- mice significantly increased the time spent immobile in the forced swim test, an indication of depressed-like behavior. The lifetime lack of MT1 signaling contributes to behavioral abnormalities including impairments in sensorimotor gating and increases in depressive-like behaviors. Taken together, MT1 receptor signaling may be important for normal brain and behavioral function.
Recent incidences of direct passage of highly pathogenic avian influenza A virus strains of the H5N1 and H7N7 subtypes from birds to man have become a major public concern. Although presence of virus in the human brain has not yet been reported in deceased patients, these avian influenza subtypes have the propensity to invade the brain along cranial nerves to target brainstem and diencephalic nuclei following intranasal instillation in mice and ferrets. The associations between influenza and psychiatric disturbances in past epidemics are here commented upon, and the potentials of influenza to cause nervous system dysfunction in experimental infections with a mouse-neuroadapted WSN/33 strain of the virus are reviewed. This virus strain is closely related to the Spanish flu virus, which is characterized as a uniquely high-virulence strain of the H1N1 subtype. The Spanish flu virus has recently been reconstructed in the laboratory and it passed once, most likely, directly from birds to humans to cause the severe 1918-1919 pandemic.

Cell patterning in the vertebrate CNS reflects the combination of localized cell induction, migration and differentiation. A striking example of patterning is the myelination of visual system. In many species, retinal ganglion cell axons are myelinated in the optic nerve but are unmyelinated in the retina. Here, we confirm that rat and mouse retina lack oligodendrocytes and their precursors and identify multiple mechanisms that might contribute to their absence. Soluble cues from embryonic retina inhibit the induction of oligodendrocytes from neural stem cells and their differentiation from optic nerve precursors. This inhibition is mediated by retinal-derived BMPs. During development BMPs are expressed in the retina and addition of the BMP antagonist Noggin reversed retinal inhibition of oligodendrocyte development. The lack of retinal oligodendrocytes does not simply reflect expression of BMPs, since no oligodendrocytes or their precursors developed when embryonic retinal cells were grown in the presence of Noggin and/or inductive cues such as Shh and IGF-1. Similarly, injection of Noggin into the postnatal rat eye failed to induce oligodendrocyte differentiation. These data combined with the proposed inhibition of OPC migration by molecules selectively expressed at the nerve retina junction suggest that multiple mechanisms combine to suppress retinal myelination during development.
The Drosophila heart is a highly ordered structure with only a limited number of cell types, which are arranged in a stereotyped metameric pattern. Ras signaling has previously been implicated in contributing to heart formation, but how positional information is integrated with this pathway to specify, distinguish and precisely position individual cardiac progenitors within the presumptive heart-forming region are not known. Here, we present evidence that the striped pattern of the secreted factor Hedgehog (Hh), in combination with the RAS pathway, specifies and positions neighboring groups of cardiac progenitors within each segment: the anterior ladybird (lbe)- and the posterior even skipped (eve)-expressing cardiac progenitors. Loss of hh function (while maintaining wg activity) results in the absence of the Eve cells, whereas the Lbe cells are expanded within the cardiac mesoderm. Overexpressing the repressor form of Cubitus interruptus (Ci), a Hh pathway antagonist, also results in expansion of Lbe at the expense of Eve, as does lowering Ras signaling. Conversely, overexpression of Hh or increasing Ras signaling eliminates Lbe expression while expanding Eve within the cardiogenic mesoderm. Increasing Ras signaling in the absence of Hh suggests that the Ras pathway is in part epistatic to Hh. Hh controls dorsal mesodermal Ras signaling by transcriptional regulation of the EGF receptor ligand protease, encoded by rhomboid (rho). Conversely, Hh overexpression can fully inhibit Lbe even when Ras signaling is much reduced, suggesting that Hh also acts in parallel to Ras. We propose that the Eve precursors next to the Hh stripe are distinguished from more distant Lbe precursors by locally augmenting Ras signaling via elevating rho transcripts. Thus, the spatial precision of cell type specification within an organ depends on multiple phases of inductive interaction between the ectoderm and the mesoderm.
We used muscarinic M2 and M4 receptor knockout (KO) mice to further explore the role of the cholinergic system in anxiety. Using the shock-probe burying model we were able to both assess anxiety and cognition. In this paradigm, an anxiolytic response is reflected by decreased burying behavior. In addition, retention latency depicts long-term memory performance. Whereas muscarinic M2 receptor KO mice did not differ behaviorally from wild-type mice, muscarinic M4 receptor KO mice showed increased anxiolysis, but normal long-term memory compared to wild-type mice. Therefore, muscarinic M4 receptors are of particular significance in anxiety modulation that seems dissociated from changes in long-term memory.
The effects of bradykinin on nicotine-induced responses were investigated in neurons dissociated from rat paratracheal ganglia using the nystatin-perforated patch-clamp recording technique. When bradykinin (10(-9) to 10(-8) M) was pretreated and then simultaneously applied with 10(-5) M nicotine, bradykinin potentiated the nicotine-induced currents. The potentiation was mimicked by [Hyp3]-bradykinin and inhibited by HOE-140, pertussis toxin, neomycin and U-73122, but not U-73433. These results suggest that bradykinin potentiates nicotinic currents via bradykinin B2 receptor, pertussis toxin-sensitive G-protein and phospholipase C. Since bradykinin inhibits the M-current via bradykinin B2 receptor and pertussis toxin-insensitive G-protein [Mochidome, T., Ishibashi, H., Takahama, K., 2001. Bradykinin activates airway parasympathetic ganglion neurons by inhibiting M-currents. Neuroscience 105, 785-791.], it seemed that bradykinin B2 receptor activated two distinct signal transduction pathways in the paratracheal ganglia neurons. This effect of bradykinin might cause enhanced synaptic transmission in paratracheal ganglia neurons and contribute to the aggravation of pathological conditions of the lower airway via enhanced acetylcholine release from the postganglionic nerve terminals.
Previous studies have demonstrated that Fos-like immunoreactivity is increased in spinal dorsal horn neurons in several pain models, and have suggested that Fos-like immunoreactivity could be used as a marker of neurons activated by painful stimulation. In the present study, we evaluated nociceptive behaviors and spinal Fos-like immunoreactivity in a rat skin incision model of post-operative pain. In this model, evoked and non-evoked pain behaviors were observed at least for 2 days after paw surgery, an increased number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons was observed in the spinal dorsal horn at lumbar levels 4-5 two-hour post-surgery. The number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons was significantly greater in animals with skin-muscle incision compared to animals with skin-alone incision. Interestingly, spinal Fos-like immunoreactivity was quickly normalized in rats with paw surgery at later time points (8 and 24 h post-surgery), whereas nociceptive behaviors were still observed. Furthermore, at 24 h post-surgery, spinal Fos-like immunoreactivity induced by thermal stimulation (42, 44, 46, 48, 52 degrees C for 15 s) was not significantly different between sham animals and animals with surgery. In both groups, an increase in spinal Fos-like immunoreactive neurons was observed with increasing temperatures, with similar laminar distribution. Finally, systemic morphine reduced post-operative pain and Fos-like immunoreactivity in a naloxone reversible manner, with greater potency and efficacy on behavioral endpoints than on Fos-like immunoreactivity. These results demonstrate a different profile of nociceptive behaviors and spinal Fos-like immunoreactivity in the rat skin incision model, suggesting a limited potential of spinal Fos-like immunoreactivity to study post-surgical pain and its pharmacology.
Paraquat, a herbicide that generates reactive oxygen species, has been used to probe the oxidative defense systems of lung. In this study, we investigated the effects of paraquat in the retina. There was no significant decline in electroretinogram (ERG) a- or b-wave amplitudes after intravitreous injection of 1 mul of 0.5 mM paraquat in C57BL/6 mice, but loss of ERG function occurred after injection of 0.75 or 1 mM paraquat. Histology in paraquat-injected eyes showed condensation of chromatin and thinning of the inner and outer nuclear layers indicating cell death, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated duTP-biotinide end labeling demonstrated that one mechanism of cell death was apoptosis. Fluorescence in the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium after intraocular injection of paraquat followed by perfusion with hydroethidine indicated high levels of superoxide radicals, and oxidative damage was demonstrated by staining for acrolein and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for carbonyl adducts. Paraquat-induced damage to the outer nuclear layer was greater in BALB/c mice than in C57BL/6 mice, suggesting strain differences in the oxidative defense system of photoreceptors and/or other modifier genes. Intravitreous injection of paraquat provides a new model of oxidative damage-induced retinal degeneration that is likely to be useful for testing new antioxidant treatments.
Cellular competence is an essential but poorly understood aspect of development. Is competence a general property that affects multiple signaling pathways (e.g., chromatin state), or is competence specific for each signaling pathway (e.g., availability of cofactors)? Here we find that Drosophila neuroblast 7-1 (NB7-1) has a single early window of competence to respond to four different temporal identity genes (Hunchback, Krppel, Pdm, and Castor); that each of these factors specifies distinct motor neuron identities within this competence window but not outside it; and that progressive restriction to respond to Hunchback and Krppel occurs within this window. Our work raises the possibility that multiple competence windows may allow the same factors to generate different cell types within the same lineage.
Huntingtin (htt), the protein encoded by the Huntington's disease (HD) gene, contains a polymorphic stretch of glutamines (polyQ) near its N-terminus. When the polyQ stretch is expanded beyond 37Q, HD results. However, the role of the normal polyQ stretch in the function of htt is still unknown. To determine the contribution of the polyQ stretch to normal htt function, we have generated mice with a precise deletion of the short CAG triplet repeat encoding 7Q in the mouse HD gene (Hdh(DeltaQ)). Hdh(DeltaQ/DeltaQ) mice are born with normal Mendelian frequency and exhibit no gross phenotypic differences in comparison to control littermates, suggesting that the polyQ stretch is not essential for htt's functions during embryonic development. Adult mice, however, commit more errors initially in the Barnes circular maze learning and memory test and perform slightly better than wild-type controls in the accelerating rotarod test for motor coordination. To determine whether these phenotypes may reflect an altered cellular physiology in the Hdh(DeltaQ) mice, we characterized the growth and energy status of primary embryonic and adult Hdh(DeltaQ/DeltaQ) fibroblasts in culture. The Hdh(DeltaQ) fibroblasts exhibited elevated levels of ATP, but senesced prematurely in comparison with wild-type fibroblasts. Taken altogether, these results suggest that htt's polyQ stretch is required for modulating longevity in culture and support the hypothesis that the polyQ stretch may also modulate a htt function involved in regulating energy homeostasis.
Wallerian degeneration of injured neuronal axons and synapses is blocked in Wld(S) mutant mice by expression of an nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyl transferase 1 (Nmnat-1)/truncated-Ube4b chimeric gene. The protein product of the Wld(S) gene localizes to neuronal nuclei. Here we show that Wld(S) protein expression selectively alters mRNA levels of other genes in Wld(S) mouse cerebellum in vivo and following transfection of human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells in vitro. The largest changes, identified by microarray analysis and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction of cerebellar mRNA, were an approximate 10-fold down-regulation of pituitary tumour-transforming gene-1 (pttg1) and an approximate 5-fold up-regulation of a structural homologue of erythroid differentiation regulator-1 (edr1l-EST). Transfection of HEK293 cells with a Wld(S)-eGFP construct produced similar changes in mRNA levels for these and seven other genes, suggesting that regulation of gene expression by Wld(S) is conserved across different species, including humans. Similar modifications in mRNA levels were mimicked for some of the genes (including pttg1) by 1 mm nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD). However, expression levels of most other genes (including edr1l-EST) were insensitive to NAD. Pttg1(-/-) mutant mice showed no neuroprotective phenotype. Transfection of HEK293 cells with constructs comprising either full-length Nmnat-1 or the truncated Ube4b fragment (N70-Ube4b) demonstrated selective effects of Nmnat-1 (down-regulated pttg1) and N70-Ube4b (up-regulated edr1l-EST) on mRNA levels. Similar changes in pttg1 and edr1l-EST were observed in the mouse NSC34 motor neuron-like cell line following stable transfection with Wld(S). Together, the data suggest that the Wld(S) protein co-regulates expression of a consistent subset of genes in both mouse neurons and human cells. Targeting Wld(S)-induced gene expression may lead to novel therapies for neurodegeneration induced by trauma or by disease in humans.
The vertebrate hypothalamus and surrounding region contain a large population of cells expressing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate limiting enzyme for synthesis of dopamine and other catecholamines. Some of these populations are sexually dimorphic in rats. We here examined sex differences in TH-immunoreactive populations in the forebrain of gonadally intact and gonadectomized prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster), a species that sometimes shows unusual sexual differentiation of brain and behavior. A sex difference was found in the anteroventral periventricular preoptic area (AVPV; likely analogous to the rat rostral A14) only in gonadectomized subjects, which was due to a 50% reduction in the number of TH-immunoreactive cells after castration in males. There was no significant sex difference or effects of gonadectomy on the number of TH-immunoreactive cells in the anteroventral preoptic area (AVP), periventricular anterior hypothalamus (caudal A14), arcuate nucleus (A12), zona incerta (A13), or posterodorsal hypothalamus (A11). In a second experiment, testosterone propionate (TP; 500 microg), diethylstilbestrol (DES; 1 microg), or estradiol benzoate (EB; 30 microg) injected daily during the first week after birth each significantly reduced later TH expression in the AVPV of females by approximately 40-65% compared to oil-treated controls. Unlike rats, therefore, a sex difference in TH expression in the prairie vole AVPV is found only after removal of circulating gonadal hormones in males. Furthermore, unlike our previous findings on the generation of sex differences in extra-hypothalamic arginine-vasopressin expression in prairie voles, TH expression in the AVPV of female prairie voles can be highly masculinized by neonatal exposure to either aromatizable androgens or estrogens.
Depending on the behavioral state, hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons receive very distinct patterns of synaptic input and likewise produce very different output patterns. We have used simultaneous dendritic and somatic recordings and multisite glutamate uncaging to investigate the relationship between synaptic input pattern, the form of dendritic integration, and action potential output in CA1 neurons. We found that when synaptic input arrives asynchronously or highly distributed in space, the dendritic arbor performs a linear integration that allows the action potential rate and timing to vary as a function of the quantity of the input. In contrast, when synaptic input arrives synchronously and spatially clustered, the dendritic compartment receiving the clustered input produces a highly nonlinear integration that leads to an action potential output that is extraordinarily precise and invariant. We also present evidence that both of these forms of information processing may be independently engaged during the two distinct behavioral states of the hippocampus such that individual CA1 pyramidal neurons could perform two different state-dependent computations: input strength encoding during theta states and feature detection during sharp waves.
For Cys-loop ligand-gated ion channels (LGIC), the protein movements that couple neurotransmitter binding to channel gating are not well known. The pre-M1 region, which links the extracellular agonist-binding domain to the channel-containing transmembrane domain, is in an ideal position to transduce binding site movements to gating movements. A cluster of cationic residues in this region is observed in all LGIC subunits, and in particular, an arginine residue is absolutely conserved. We mutated charged pre-M1 residues in the GABAA receptor alpha1 (K219, R220, K221) and beta2 (K213, K215, R216) subunits to cysteine and expressed the mutant subunits with wild-type beta2 or alpha1 in Xenopus oocytes. Cysteine substitution of beta2R216 abolished channel gating by GABA without altering the binding of the GABA agonist [3H]muscimol, indicating that this residue plays a key role in coupling GABA binding to gating. Tethering thiol-reactive methanethiosulfonate (MTS) reagents onto alpha1K219C, beta2K213C, and beta2K215C increased maximal GABA-activated currents, suggesting that structural perturbations of the pre-M1 regions affect channel gating. GABA altered the rates of sulfhydryl modification of alpha1K219C, beta2K213C, and beta2K215C, indicating that the pre-M1 regions move in response to channel activation. A positively charged MTS reagent modified beta2K213C and beta2K215C significantly faster than a negatively charged reagent, and GABA activation eliminated modification of beta2K215C by the negatively charged reagent. Overall, the data indicate that the pre-M1 region is part of the structural machinery coupling GABA binding to gating and that the transduction of binding site movements to channel movements is mediated, in part, by electrostatic interactions.
Dual-process theories of recognition memory hypothesize separate underlying familiarity and recollection processes, but the necessity of multiple processes is debated. Previous research has suggested that scalp-recorded event-related brain potentials (ERPs) may index the activity of separate familiarity and recollection processes. Other research indicates that the amnestic drug midazolam impairs recollection more than familiarity. Here, we used a convergent pharmacological and electrophysiological approach to manipulate and monitor human brain activity and provide evidence for separate processes. Midazolam selectively influenced the putative ERP-correlate of recollection but not the putative ERP-correlate of familiarity. Under control conditions (saline), subjects' accuracy correlated with the recollection-related but not the familiarity-related ERP component, suggesting that recollection was dominant in driving memory. The opposite pattern was observed under midazolam administration, suggesting that when recollection fails, subjects may leverage familiarity to compensate. Thus, in contrast to perspectives holding that familiarity represents the default process, these results suggest that recollection was dominant until its impairment unveiled the influence of familiarity.
Most unmyelinated nociceptive neurons that mediate pain and temperature sensation from the skin bind isolectin B4 (IB4)-lectin and express Ret, the common signaling component of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family. One of these factors, neurturin, is expressed in the epidermis, whereas its GDNF family receptor alpha2 (GFRalpha2) is expressed in the majority of unmyelinated Ret-positive sensory neurons. However, the physiological roles of endogenous neurturin signaling in primary sensory neurons are poorly understood. Here, we show that the vast majority (approximately 85%) of IB4 binding and P2X3 purinoreceptor-positive neurons, but virtually none of the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) or vanilloid receptor transient receptor potential vanilloid 1-positive neurons in mouse dorsal root ganglion (DRG) express GFRalpha2. In GFRalpha2 knock-out (KO) mice, the IB4-binding and P2X3-positive DRG neurons were present but reduced in size, consistent with normal number but reduced caliber of unmyelinated axons in a cutaneous nerve. Strikingly, nonpeptidergic (CGRP-negative) free nerve endings in footpad epidermis were &gt;70% fewer in GFRalpha2-KO mice than in their wild-type littermates. In contrast, the density of CGRP-positive epidermal innervation remained unaffected. In the formalin test, the KO mice showed a normal acute response but a markedly attenuated persistent phase, indicating a deficit in inflammatory pain response. Behavioral responses of GFRalpha2-KO mice to innocuous warm and noxious heat were not blunted; the mice were actually markedly hypersensitive to noxious cold in tail immersion test. Overall, our results indicate a critical role for endogenous GFRalpha2 signaling in maintaining the size and terminal innervation of the nonpeptidergic class of cutaneous nociceptors in vivo.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is an established technique for non-invasive stimulation of human cortex. Although studies have shown an influence of rTMS on single cortical regions and on simple behavioral response patterns, its influences on the dynamics of task-related activity in cortical networks have not been characterized. We provide such a characterization by showing that 5 Hz rTMS over primary somatosensory cortex (SI) induces a reconfiguration of activity patterns in a sensorimotor network, comprising the stimulated region and ipsilateral primary motor cortex (MI). These plastic changes endure for up to 120 min and are correlated with behavioral improvement in discrimination. Dynamic causal modeling showed that this reconfiguration could be explained by an rTMS-induced increase in SI excitability (self-connection) and an increase in the effective connectivity from SI to MI. Thus, our data demonstrate that rTMS can temporarily induce behaviorally relevant reorganization within a complex cortical network underlying human somatosensory experience.
Neuronal excitability is likely to be regulated by the site of action potential initiation, the location on a neuron that crosses threshold first. Although initiation is axonal in many neurons, in Purkinje cells, somatic conductances can generate spontaneous action potentials, suggesting that the perisomatic region (soma and/or initial segment) contributes to spike initiation and may regulate firing. To identify directly the cellular regions at which Na channel modulation significantly influences firing, we measured spontaneous and evoked action potentials in Purkinje cells in cerebellar slices from postnatal day 14-28 mice while applying drugs locally to either the soma/initial segment or the first node of Ranvier. Na currents were decreased by tetrodotoxin (TTX) or increased by beta-pompilidotoxin (beta-PMTX). Dual somatic and axonal recordings indicated that spike thresholds and input-output curves were sensitive to TTX or beta-PMTX at the perisomatic region but were unchanged by either drug at the first node. When perisomatic Na channel availability was reduced with subsaturating TTX, however, the input-output curve became shallower during additional TTX block of nodal channels, revealing a latent role for nodal Na channels in facilitating firing. In perisomatic TTX, axons failed to generate spontaneous or evoked spike trains. In contrast, choline block of the initial segment alone altered normal input-output curves. The data suggest that, although the first node reliably follows action potentials, spike initiation in Purkinje neurons occurs in the initial segment. Moreover, Purkinje cell output depends on the density, availability, and kinetics of perisomatic Na channels, a characteristic that may distinguish spontaneously firing from quiescent neurons.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are extracellular proteases that have well recognized roles in cell signaling and remodeling in many tissues. In the brain, their activation and function are customarily associated with injury or pathology. Here, we demonstrate a novel role for MMP-9 in hippocampal synaptic physiology, plasticity, and memory. MMP-9 protein levels and proteolytic activity are rapidly increased by stimuli that induce late-phase long-term potentiation (L-LTP) in area CA1. Such regulation requires NMDA receptors and protein synthesis. Blockade of MMP-9 pharmacologically prevents induction of L-LTP selectively; MMP-9 plays no role in, nor is regulated during, other forms of short-term synaptic potentiation or long-lasting synaptic depression. Similarly, in slices from MMP-9 null-mutant mice, hippocampal LTP, but not long-term depression, is impaired in magnitude and duration; adding recombinant active MMP-9 to null-mutant slices restores the magnitude and duration of LTP to wild-type levels. Activated MMP-9 localizes in part to synapses and modulates hippocampal synaptic physiology through integrin receptors, because integrin function-blocking reagents prevent an MMP-9-mediated potentiation of synaptic signal strength. The fundamental importance of MMP-9 function in modulating hippocampal synaptic physiology and plasticity is underscored by behavioral impairments in hippocampal-dependent memory displayed by MMP-9 null-mutant mice. Together, these data reveal new functions for MMPs in synaptic and behavioral plasticity.
Successful CNS myelination is dependent on the correct localization of oligodendrocytes and their interactions with adjacent axons. In the spinal cord, oligodendrocyte precursors originate at the ventral midline and subsequently migrate to the white matter where they mature. In vitro studies suggest this dispersal is mediated by the guidance molecule netrin-1. Here, we show that in the spinal cord of netrin-1 mutant mice, oligodendrocyte precursors failed to disperse from the ventral midline as a consequence of a lack of polarization and directional migration. The lack of netrin-1 also resulted in an overall reduction of oligodendrocyte lineage cells that was independent of the failure of initial dispersal. Oligodendrocyte precursors injected into presumptive white matter underwent extensive radial migration and expansion in wild-type but not netrin-1 mutant hosts. These data indicate that netrin-1 is crucial for both the initial dispersal of spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursors and their subsequent development in the presumptive white matter.
Consumption of alcoholic beverages produces alterations in motor coordination and equilibrium that are responsible for millions of accidental deaths. Studies indicate that ethanol produces these alterations by affecting the cerebellum, a brain region involved in the control of motor systems. Purkinje neurons of the cerebellar cortex have been shown to be particularly important targets of ethanol. However, its mechanism of action at these neurons is poorly understood. We hypothesized that ethanol could modulate Purkinje neuron function by altering the excitatory input provided by the climbing fiber from the inferior olive, which evokes a powerful all-or-none response denoted as the complex spike. To test this hypothesis, we performed whole-cell patch-clamp electrophysiological and Ca2+ imaging experiments in acute slices from rat cerebella. We found that ethanol potently inhibits the late phase of the complex spike and that this effect is the result of inhibition of type-1 metabotropic glutamate receptor-dependent responses at the postsynaptic level. Moreover, ethanol inhibited climbing fiber long-term depression, a form of synaptic plasticity that also depends on activation of these metabotropic receptors. Our findings identify the climbing fiber--&gt;Purkinje neuron synapse as an important target of ethanol in the cerebellar cortex and indicate that ethanol significantly affects cerebellar circuits even at concentrations as low as 10 mm (legal blood alcohol level in the United States is below 0.08 g/dl = 17 mm).


Chronic stress is a risk factor for psychiatric illnesses, such as anxiety and depression disorders. To understand the underlying mechanism regarding how chronic stress triggers such psychiatric dysfunctions, restraint-based chronic stress models have been attempted in the past. However, total durations of repeated restraint stress and the evaluation time points used after the last restraint application vary from experiment to experiment. One reason for these methodological heterogeneities is related to considerable ambiguity concerning the definition of chronic stress, particularly in animal models. In the present study, we used behavioral traits, anxiety and depression, as stress-assessment parameters that meet operationally useful requirements for the definition of the chronic stress state. We demonstrate that restraint treatment for 2 or 8 hr daily for 14 days is enough to produce anxiety- and depression-like behaviors, whereas a 2 hr-10 days restraint was marginally effective. cDNA microarray analysis identified 34 genes in the hippocampus and 72 genes in the amygdala with expression levels that were up- or down-regulated by &gt;2.0-fold. Among the wide range of genes identified in this analysis, genes required for energy metabolism, signal transduction, transcription, synaptic plasticity, and remodeling of the brain architecture were notable. Our results suggest that the psychiatric criteria of anxiety and depression can be used as chronic stress-assessment parameters and that a restraint stress paradigm consisting of restraint treatment for 2 or 8 hr daily for 14 days could be used as a prototype paradigm for chronic stress studies.
The mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase families of ERK and JNK participate in numerous intracellular signaling pathways and are abundantly expressed in the CNS. Activation of ERK and JNK during reperfusion of ischemic tissue is implicated in promoting cell death, insofar as inhibition of either pathway reduces neuronal cell death. However, ERK or JNK activation provides protection in other neuronal injury models. In this study, we monitored the concurrent modulation of ERK and JNK activity in the hippocampus, neocortex, and striatum during ischemia and immediately upon reperfusion in a rat model of transient global ischemia. All three regions incur a similar reduction in blood flow during occlusion but show different extents and temporal patterns of injury following reperfusion. ERK and JNK were active in the normal rat forebrain, and phosphorylation was reduced by ischemia. Upon reperfusion, ERK was rapidly activated in the hippocampus, neocortex, and striatum, whereas JNK phosphorylation increased in the hippocampus and striatum but not in the neocortex. The response of JNK vs. ERK more closely reflects the susceptibility of these regions. JNK1 was the predominant phosphorylated isoform. A minor pool of phosphorylated JNK3 increased above the control level after reperfusion in hippocampal but not in neocortical particulate fractions. In addition, a novel 32-35-kDa c-Jun kinase activity was detected in the hippocampus, neocortex, and striatum. The results show that ERK and JNK activities are rapidly, but not identically, modulated by ischemia and reperfusion and indicate that the MAP kinase pathways contribute to regulating the response to acute CNS injury.
We previously described a decrease in withdrawal behaviors in opiate-dependent rats that were chronically treated with very low doses of naltrexone in their drinking water. Attenuated expression of withdrawal behaviors correlated with decreased c-Fos expression and intracellular signal transduction elements [protein kinase A regulatory subunit II (PKA) and phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein (pCREB)] in brainstem noradrenergic nuclei. In this study, to determine whether similar cellular changes occurred in forebrain nuclei associated with drug reward, expressions of PKA and pCREB were analyzed in the ventral tegmental area, frontal cortex, striatum, and amygdala of opiate-treated rats that received low doses of naltrexone in their drinking water. No significant difference in PKA or pCREB was detected in these regions following drug treatment. To examine further the cellular mechanisms in noradrenergic nuclei that could underlie attenuated withdrawal behaviors following low dose naltrexone administration, the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and locus coeruleus (LC) were examined for opioid receptor (OR) protein expression. Results showed a significant increase in muOR expression in the NTS of morphine-dependent rats that received low doses of naltrexone in their drinking water, and increases in muOR expression were also found to be dose dependent. Protein expression of muOR in the LC and deltaOR in either brain region remained unchanged. In conclusion, our previously reported decreases in c-Fos and PKA expression in the NTS following pretreatment with low doses of naltrexone may be partially explained by a greater inhibition of NTS neurons resulting from increased muOR expression in this region.
In models of global brain injury, such as stroke or epilepsy, a large increase in neurogenesis occurs in the dentate gyrus (DG) days after the damage is induced. In contrast, more focal damage in the DG produces an increase in neurogenesis within 24 hr. To determine how cell proliferation and differentiation differs in the DG after acute injury in the DG, focal electrolytic lesions were made and mitotic activity was assessed at early (1 day) and late (5 day) time points. At the early time point, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells were diffusely spread throughout the extent of the hippocampus that was ipsilateral to the lesion. No significant increase in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the DG was observed. When BrdU was administered at the later time point, the number of BrdU+ cells in the SGZ of the DG was significantly increased. This fourfold increase in BrdU+ cells also resulted in a significant increase in neurogenesis, as measured 6 weeks following BrdU administration. This increase in neurogenesis was not observed when BrdU was administered at the early time point. These results indicate that focal injury in the DG activates two temporally specific proliferation events and that enhanced neurogenesis is observed only following a latent period after the lesion is made.

Intracellular recordings were made from the circular layer of the intact muscular wall of the guinea-pig gastric antrum in preparations where much of the corpus remained attached. When two electrodes were positioned parallel to and near to the greater curvature, slow waves were first detected at the oral site and subsequently at the anal site: the oro-anal conduction velocity was found to be 2.5 mm s(-1). When one electrode was positioned near the greater curvature and the other at a circumferential location, slow waves were first detected near the greater curvature and subsequently at the circumferential site: the circumferential conduction velocity was 13.9 mm s(-1). When recordings were made from preparations in which the circular muscle layer had been removed, the oro-anal and the circumferential conduction velocities were both about 3.5 mm s(-1). When slow waves were recorded from preparations in which much of the myenteric network of antral interstitial cells (ICC(MY)) had been dissected away, slow waves were first detected near the region of intact ICC(MY) and subsequently at a circumferential location: the circumferential conduction velocity of slow waves in regions devoid of ICC(MY) was 14.7 mm s(-1). When the electrical properties of isolated single bundles of circular muscle were determined, their length constants were about 3 mm and their time constant about 230 ms, giving an asymptotic electrotonic propagation velocity of 25 mm s(-1). Oro-anal electrical coupling between adjacent bundles of circular muscle was found to vary widely: some bundles were well connected to neighbouring bundles whereas others were not. Together the observations suggest that the slow oro-anal progression of slow waves results from a slow conduction velocity of pacemaker potentials in the myenteric network of interstitial cells. The rapid circumferential conduction of slow waves results from the electrical properties of the circular muscle layer which allow intramuscular ICC (ICC(IM)) to support the radial spread of slow waves: regions of high resistance between bundles prevent the anally directed spread of slow waves within the circular layer.
This paper provides an electrical description of the propagation of slow waves and pacemaker potentials in the guinea-pig gastric antrum in anal and circumferential directions. As electrical conduction between laterally adjacent circular muscle bundles is regularly interrupted, anal conduction of pacemaker potentials was assumed to occur via an electrically interconnected chain of myenteric interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC(MY)). ICC(MY) were also connected resistively to serially connected compartments of longitudinal muscle. Circumferential conduction occurred in a circular smooth muscle bundle that was represented as a chain of electrically connected isopotential compartments: each compartment contained a proportion of intramuscular interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC(IM)) that are responsible for the regenerative component of the slow wave. The circular muscle layer, which contains ICC(IM), and the ICC(MY) network incorporated a mechanism, modelled as a two-stage chemical reaction, which produces an intracellular messenger. The first stage of the reaction is proposed to be activated in a voltage-dependent manner as described by Hodgkin and Huxley; the messenger altered the mean rate of discharge of depolarizing unitary potentials as a function of the concentration of messenger according to a conventional dose-effect relationship. A separate membrane conductance, scaled by the product of an independent voltage-sensitive reaction, was included in the ICC(MY) compartments; this was used to describe the primary component of pacemaker potentials and simulated a delay before the activation of this membrane current. The model generates pacemaker potentials and slow waves with propagation velocities similar to those determined in the physiological experiments described in the accompanying paper.
The vibrissal movements known as whisking are generated in a pulsatile, or non-continuous, fashion and comprise sequences of brief regularly spaced movements. These rhythmic timing sequences imply the existence of periodically issued motor commands. As inferior olivary (IO) neurones generate periodic synchronous discharges that could provide the underlying timing signal, this possibility was tested by determining whether the olivocerebellar system modulates motor cortex (MCtx)-triggered whisker movements in rats. Trains of current pulses were applied to MCtx, and the resulting whisker movements were recorded using a high speed video camera. The evoked movement patterns demonstrated properties consistent with the existence of an oscillatory motor driving rhythm. In particular, movement amplitude showed a bell-shaped dependence on stimulus frequency, with a peak at 11.5+/-2.3 Hz. Moreover, movement trajectories showed harmonic and subharmonic entrainment patterns within specific stimulus frequency ranges. By contrast, movements evoked by facial nerve stimulation showed no such frequency-dependent properties. To test whether the IO was the oscillator in question, IO neuronal properties were modified in vivo by intra-IO picrotoxin injection, which enhances synchronous oscillatory IO activity and reduces its natural frequency. The ensuing changes in the evoked whisker patterns were consistent with these pharmacological effects. Furthermore, in cerebellectomized rats, oscillatory modulation of MCtx-evoked movements was greatly reduced, and intra-IO picrotoxin injections did not affect the evoked movement patterns. Additionally, multielectrode recording of Purkinje cell complex spikes showed a temporal correlation of olivocerebellar activity during MCtx stimulus trains to evoked movement patterns. In sum, the results indicate that MCtx's ability to generate movements is modulated by an oscillatory signal arising in the olivocerebellar system.
Successful passive avoidance learning is thought to require the use of learned stimulus-reinforcement associations to guide decision making [Baxter, M.G., Murray, E.A., 2002. The amygdala and reward. Nature Reviews. Neuroscience 3, 563-573]. The current experiment investigated the neural correlates of successful passive avoidance learning in 19 healthy adults. Behaviorally, subjects showed a distinct pattern of performance: early indiscriminate responding to stimuli (pre-criterion performance), followed by relatively rapid learning before a plateau of successful performance (post-criterion performance). Neural responses to post-criterion correct responses were compared with neural responses to both incorrect responses and pre-criterion correct responses. Post-criterion correct responding was associated with increased activation in regions including rostral anterior cingulate, insula, caudate, hippocampal regions, and the amygdala.
Growth associated protein 43 (GAP-43), found only in the nervous system, regulates the response of neurons to axon guidance signals. It is also critical for establishing normal somatotopy. Mice lacking GAP-43 (KO) show aberrant pathfinding by thalamocortical afferents, and do not form cortical whisker/barrels. GAP-43 heterozygous (HZ) mice show more subtle deficits--delayed barrel segregation and enlarged barrels at postnatal day 7. Here, we used cortical intrinsic signal imaging to characterize adult somatotopy in wildtype (WT), GAP-43 KO, and HZ mice. We found clear foci of activation in GAP-43 KO cortex in response to single-whisker stimulation. However, the KO spatial activation patterns showed severe anomalies, indicating a loss of functional somatotopy. In some cases, multiple foci were activated by single whiskers, while in other cases, the same cortical zone was activated by several whiskers. The results are consistent with our previous findings of aberrant pathfinding and clustering by thalamocortical afferent axons, and absence of barrel patterning. Our findings indicate that cortex acts to cluster afferents from a given whisker, even in the absence of normal topography. By contrast, single-whisker stimulation revealed normal adult topographic organization in WT and HZ mice. However, we found that functional representations of adult HZ barrels are larger than those found in WT mice. Since histological HZ barrels recover normal dimensions by postnatal day 26, the altered circuit function in GAP-43 HZ cortex could be a secondary consequence of the rescue of barrel dimensions.
Whenever we plan, imagine, or observe an action, the motor systems that would be involved in preparing and executing that action are similarly engaged. The way in which such common motor activation is formed, however, is likely to differ depending on whether it arises from our own intentional selection of action or from the observation of another's action. In this study, we use time-resolved event-related functional MRI to tease apart neural processes specifically related to the processing of observed actions, the selection of our own intended actions, the preparation for movement, and motor response execution. Participants observed a finger gesture movement or a cue indicating they should select their own finger gesture to perform, followed by a 5-s delay period; participants then performed the observed or self-selected action. During the preparation and readiness for action, prior to initiation, we found activation in a common network of higher motor areas, including dorsal and ventral premotor areas and the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA); the more caudal SMA showed greater activation during movement execution. Importantly, the route to this common motor activation differed depending on whether participants freely selected the actions to perform or whether they observed the actions performed by another person. Observation of action specifically involved activation of inferior and superior parietal regions, reflecting involvement of the dorsal visual pathway in visuomotor processing required for planning the action. In contrast, the selection of action specifically involved the dorsal lateral prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortex, reflecting the role of these prefrontal areas in attentional selection and guiding the selection of responses.
Many studies have shown that schizophrenia is associated with a wide range of cognitive impairments. Empirical findings suggest that patients with schizophrenia suffer from a &quot;dysexecutive syndrome&quot;. However, the extent to which a general decline in neuropsychological function accounts for symptoms of executive dysfunction in schizophrenia is not clear. In this study, we examined further the nature and pattern of executive function in a sample of medication-nave patients experiencing a first-episode of schizophrenia with a set of tests capturing the specific components of executive function. We also compared the performance of this clinical group with healthy controls. A total of 78 medication-nave patients with first episode schizophrenia were recruited from the Early Assessment Service for Young People with Psychosis (EASY). Another 60 healthy controls were recruited for comparison. All subjects participated in a comprehensive set of executive function tests assessing initiation, sustained attention, online updating, switching, attention allocation, inhibition, and non-executive function. The executive function of patients with first-episode schizophrenia was found to be compromised relative to healthy controls. However, unlike patients with established schizophrenia, first episode patients exhibited only a limited deficit in sustained attention. Moreover, the majority of executive function deficits did not correlate with intellectual functioning and memory impairment in a sub-group of first episode patients without intellectual impairment. These findings suggest that first-episode patients exhibit a specific pattern of executive dysfunction compared to healthy controls and patients with an established illness. This differential breakdown of executive function components is unlikely to be an artefact of general intellectual decline or memory impairment in schizophrenia.
Patients with schizophrenia show impairments in motion processing, along with deficits in lower level processing primarily involving the magnocellular visual pathway. The present study investigates potential magnocellular contributions to impaired motion processing in schizophrenia using a combined neurophysiological and behavioral approach. As compared to prior motion studies in schizophrenia, thresholds were determined for both incoherent and coherent visual motion. In this study, velocity discrimination thresholds were measured for schizophrenia patients (n=14) and age-matched normal control subjects (n=16) using a staircase procedure. Early visual processing was evaluated using steady-state visual evoked potentials (ssVEP), with stimuli biased toward activation of either the magnocellular or parvocellular visual pathways through luminance contrast manipulation. Patients with schizophrenia showed poor velocity discrimination for both incoherent and coherent motion, with no significant group x task interaction. Further, when coherent motion performance was measured at individually determined incoherent motion thresholds, accuracy levels for patients were similar to controls, also indicating similarity of deficit for incoherent vs. coherent motion discrimination. Impairments in velocity discrimination correlated significantly with reduced amplitude of ssVEP elicited by magnocellular -- but not parvocellular -- selective stimuli. This study demonstrates that deficits in motion processing in schizophrenia are significantly related to reduced activation of the magnocellular visual system. Further, this study supports and extends prior reports of impaired motion processing in schizophrenia, and indicates significant bottom-up contributions to higher-order cognitive impairments.
In this study we have functionally characterized aripiprazole (OPC-14597; 7-(4-[4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)-1-piperazinyl]butyloxy-3,4-dihydro-2-(1H)-quinolinone), the prototype of a new generation antipsychotic drug termed dopamine-serotonin-system stabilizer, in cells expressing 5-hydroxytryptamine2 (5-HT2) receptor subtypes in comparison with olanzapine. In Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells stably expressing 5-HT2 receptors, aripiprazole displayed a dual agonist/antagonist profile for 5-HT2C receptor (VNI isoform) mediated calcium signaling (EC50 1070 nM, IC50 281 nM). It exhibited no appreciable 5-HT2A or 5-HT2B agonism, whereas it antagonized 5-HT-stimulated calcium increase at either 5-HT2A or 5-HT2B receptor expressed in CHO cells (IC50s of 369 and 0.46 nM, respectively). In comparison, olanzapine was devoid of agonism but was an antagonist at all three subtypes, with a potency rank order of 5-HT2A (IC50, 2.5 nM)&gt;5-HT2B (47 nM)&gt;5-HT2C (69 nM). In human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells transiently expressing 5-HT2C receptor isoforms, aripiprazole exhibited full agonism at the unedited INI, but partial agonism at the partially edited VNI and fully edited VSV isoforms (EC50s of 571, 1086 and 2099 nM, respectively). A partial antagonism was also observed for aripiprazole at the two edited isoforms (IC50s of 1138 and 1000 nM, respectively). In contrast, while lacking agonist activity at the VNI and VSV, olanzapine showed inverse agonism at the INI isoform (IC50 594 nM), reaching a maximal attenuation of 20%. In addition, olanzapine was a full antagonist at all three isoforms, with a rank order of potency of VNI (IC50, 79 nM)&gt;VSV (101 nM)&gt;INI (3856 nM). The modest 5-HT2A antagonism and 5-HT2C partial agonism, along with reported D2 and 5-HT1A partial agonism, may allow aripiprazole to stabilize the disturbed dopamine-serotonin interplay in schizophrenia with a moderate yet adequate pharmacological intervention. 5-HT2C agonism may also underlie the minimal weight gain seen with aripiprazole.
The authors performed a correlative radiologic study on the micro-bleeds and volume of intracerebral hemorrhage in the supratentorial ICH patients. In the patients with lobar or putaminal hemorrhage, the hemorrhage volumes increased more than twofold or threefold in the patients with micro-bleeds. Moreover, the presence of microbleeds was an independent risk factor for large-sized hemorrhage. These data show that microbleeds may be associated with a larger ICH volume.
The pathophysiology of dystonia is unclear. The authors recorded local field potentials (LFPs) from deep brain stimulation electrodes implanted in the pallidum of 13 dystonic patients. LFP power correlated with the level of dystonic EMG in the sternocleidomastoid, with maximal positive correlations at the lower contacts of pallidal electrodes. The data suggest that the neuronal synchronization indexed by LFP oscillations in the globus pallidus may be mechanistically linked to dystonic EMG activity.
An association between mutations in the glucocerebrosidase (GBA) gene and Parkinson disease (PD) was recently reported in Ashkenazi Jews. The authors screened a series of 311 Norwegian patients with PD and 474 controls for 2 common functional mutations of the GBA protein, N370S and L444P. Seven patients (2.3%) and 8 controls (1.7%) carried a mutant GBA allele (p = 0.58). This study does not indicate increased susceptibility to PD in GBA mutations carriers in Norway.


Successful reproduction requires maintenance of the reproductive axis within fine operating limits through negative feedback actions of sex steroids. Despite the importance of this homeostatic process, our understanding of the neural loci, pathways, and neurochemicals responsible remain incomplete. Here, we reveal a neuropeptidergic pathway that directly links gonadal steroid actions to regulation of the reproductive system. An RFamide (Arg-Phe-NH2) peptide that inhibits gonadotropin release from quail pituitary was recently identified and named gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH). Birds are known to have specialized adaptations associated with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) regulation to optimize reproduction (e.g., encephalic photoreceptors), and the existence of a hypothalamic peptide inhibiting gonadotropins may or may not be another such specialization. To determine whether GnIH serves as a signaling pathway for sex steroid regulation of the reproductive axis, we used immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization to characterize the distribution and functional role of this peptide in hamsters, rats, and mice. GnIH-immunoreactive (GnIH-ir) cell bodies are clustered in the mediobasal hypothalamus with pronounced projections and terminals throughout the CNS. In vivo GnIH administration rapidly inhibits luteinizing hormone secretion. Additionally, GnIH-ir neurons form close appositions with GnRH cells, suggesting a direct means of GnRH modulation. Finally, GnIH-ir cells express estrogen receptor-alpha and exhibit robust immediate early gene expression after gonadal hormone stimulation. Taken together, the distribution of GnIH efferents to neural sites regulating reproductive behavior and neuroendocrine secretions, expression of steroid receptors in GnIH-ir nuclei, and GnIH inhibition of luteinizing hormone secretion indicate the discovery of a system regulating the mammalian reproductive axis.
This study used positron-emission tomography to establish the patterns of brain activity involved in the isolated and concurrent experiences of thirst and pain. Ten subjects were scanned while experiencing pain evoked with noxious pressure, while experiencing thirst after the infusion of hypertonic saline, and while experiencing pain when thirsty. After the onset of thirst, noxious pressure evoked more intense sensations of pain. Noxious pressure did not change subjective ratings of thirst. Thirst caused activation in the anterior cingulate (Brodmann area 32) and the insula. Enhanced pain responses were associated with increased activity in cortical regions that are known to correlate with pain intensity, and also with unique activity in the pregenual anterior cingulate and ventral orbitofrontal cortex. These findings suggest a role for limbic and prefrontal cortices in the modulation of pain during the experience of thirst.
Comparisons between monogamous and promiscuous vole species have proven useful in examining neurobiological mechanisms underlying social attachment. Reward processing is important for social attachment, and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) exerts a direct influence on reward pathways. Dopamine (DA), oxytocin (OT), and arginine vasopressin (AVP) all have been implicated in the regulation of social attachment in monogamous voles. Therefore, we used radiolabeled ligands to examine dopamine D(1)- and D(2)-like, OT, and AVP V(1a) receptor binding densities in the mPFC of monogamous and promiscuous voles. Species differences were found; monogamous voles had higher densities of D(2)-like and OT receptor binding and lower densities of D(1)-like and V(1a) receptor binding than did promiscuous voles. Sex differences also were found; females had higher densities of OT receptor binding but lower densities of V(1a) receptor binding than did males in both species. Further, the laminar distribution of receptor binding indicates the possibility of an interaction between DA and OT systems in the mPFC in the regulation of social attachment. Differences in D(1)- and D(2)-like receptor binding between species are discussed in terms of how they might modulate cortical activity and subsequent DA release in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc).
Nogo-A mRNA and protein are present in the perikarya of neurons in both the intact and injured CNS. The present study focused primarily on Nogo-A protein expression in the primary somatosensory cortex of the adult rat. Coronal brain sections were probed with double-immunofluorescent labeling against Nogo-A together with NeuN, RBPC, or MAP-2 for confocal imaging. The sizes of the cell somata in pyramidal neurons and the thicknesses of neurites were measured on the captured confocal images. Nogo-A was expressed in larger pyramidal neurons and thicker neurites in layer V, but not in smaller pyramidal neurons and thinner neurites. Considering the morphological properties and the cell soma size reported in previous studies together with the present data, Nogo-A-positive neurons of layer V appear to be intrinsically bursting neurons that project axons to the subcortical regions. This suggests that intraneuronal Nogo-A may play roles in neurite growth and axonal regeneration of the corticofugal neurons, but not of columnar intrinsic neurons, in layer V of the S1 barrel cortex. Additionally, this study demonstrates a novel result, which is that layer V pyramidal neurons of the S1 barrel cortex exhibit a pattern of cell size-dependent intraneuronal Nogo-A expression.
Our previous studies have demonstrated that activating ATP-sensitive potassium channel (K(ATP) channel), not only improved Parkinsonian behavior and neurochemical symptoms, but also reduced iNOS activity and mRNA levels in striatum and nigra of rotenone rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study, it was first shown that the subunits of K(ATP) channels are expressed in BV-2 cells, and then it was investigated whether K(ATP) channel was involved in regulating inflammatory factor production from BV-2 cells activated by rotenone. It was found that K(ATP) channel was expressed in BV-2 cell and formed by the combination of Kir 6.1 and SUR 2A/2B. K(ATP) channel openers (KCOs) including pinacidil, diazoxide and iptakalim (Ipt) exerted beneficial effects on rotenone-induced morphological alterations of BV-2 cells, decreased tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) production and the expression and activity of inducible isoform of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS). Either glibenclamide or 5-hydroxydecanoate acid (a selective mitochondrial K(ATP) channel blocker) could abolish the effects of KCOs, suggesting that K(ATP) channels, especially mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels (mitoK(ATP) channels), played a crucial role in preventing the activation of BV-2 cells, and subsequently the production of a variety of proinflammatory factors. Therefore, activation of K(ATP) channel might be a new therapeutic strategy for treating neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative disorders.


Recent evidence indicates that continuous wakefulness (sleep deprivation, SD) causes impairments in behavioral performance and hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) in animals. However, the mechanisms by which SD impairs long-term synaptic plasticity and cognitive function are not clear. Here, we report that 24-h SD in mice results in impaired hippocampus-dependent contextual memory and LTP and, unexpectedly, in reductions of the surface expression of NMDA receptor (NMDAR) subunit NR1 and NMDAR-mediated excitatory post-synaptic currents at hippocampal perforant path-dentate granule cell synapses. The results suggest that the reduction of functional NMDAR in hippocampal neurons may underlie the SD-induced deficits in hippocampus-dependent contextual memory and long-term synaptic plasticity.
Alcohols and volatile anesthetics enhance the function of inhibitory glycine receptors (GlyRs). This is hypothesized to occur by their binding to a pocket formed between the transmembrane domains of individual alpha1 GlyR subunits. Because GlyRs are pentameric, it follows that each GlyR contains up to five alcohol/anesthetic binding sites, with one in each subunit. We asked how many subunits per pentamer need be bound by drug in order to enhance receptor-mediated currents. A cysteine mutation was introduced at amino acid serine 267 (S267C) in the transmembrane 2 domain as a tool to block GlyR potentiation by some anesthetic drugs and to provide a means for covalent binding by the small, anesthetic-like thiol reagent propyl methanethiosulfonate. Xenopus laevis oocytes were co-injected with various ratios of wild-type (wt) to S267C alpha1 GlyR cDNAs in order to express heteromeric receptors with a range of wt:mutant subunit stoichiometries. The enhancement of GlyR currents by 200 mm ethanol and 1.5 mm chloroform was positively correlated with the number of wt subunits found in heteromeric receptors. Furthermore, currents from oocytes injected with high ratios of wt to S267C cDNAs (up to 200:1) were significantly and irreversibly enhanced following propyl methanethiosulfonate labeling and washout, demonstrating that drug binding to a single subunit in the receptor pentamer is sufficient to induce enhancement of GlyR currents.
In our previous studies we showed that apoE treatment of neurons activated ERK 1/2 signaling, and activation was blocked by treatment with inhibitors of the low density lipoprotein receptor family, the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK 801, and calcium channel blockers. We hypothesized an interaction between the low density lipoprotein receptor family members and the NMDA receptor. In the present study, we confirmed through co-immunoprecipitation experiments an interaction between the apoE receptor, ApoEr2, and NMDAR1 through their extracellular domains. We also found that the PDZ1 domain of PSD95, a postsynaptic scaffolding protein, interacted with the C terminus of ApoEr2 via an alternatively spliced, intracellular exon. This interaction between ApoEr2 and PSD95 in neurons was modulated by NMDA receptor activation and an ApoEr2 ligand. We also found that the PDZ2 domain of PSD95 interacted with the NR2A and NR2B subunits of NMDA receptors. Full-length PSD95 increased cell surface levels of ApoEr2 and its cleavage, resulting in increases in secreted ApoEr2 and C-terminal fragments of ApoEr2. These studies suggest that ApoEr2 can form a multiprotein complex with NMDA receptor subunits and PSD95.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a widespread neuropeptide with multiple central and peripheral targets. In an analysis on the expression of this peptide throughout the rat brain during postnatal development, we observed a discrepancy between results obtained by immunohistochemistry and by in situ hybridization. In the superior colliculus (SC), only the immunohistochemical signal could be detected (Terrado et al. [1997] Neuroscience 80:951-970). Here we focus our attention on this structure because the temporal pattern of CGRP immunoreactivity observed in the SC suggested the participation of this peptide in the postnatal maturation of the SC. In the present study, we describe in detail the postnatal development of collicular CGRP-immunoreactive structures and their spatiotemporal relationship with cholinergic modules and definitively demonstrate the local expression of CGRP in the SC. CGRP-immunopositive axons and neurons were distributed within the most ventral part of superficial strata and in the intermediate strata of the SC, showing a peak in staining intensity and density at the end of the first postnatal week. At P14, CGRPergic terminal fibers are arranged in small, clearly defined patches in a complementary manner with respect to the cholinergic modules, which start forming at this stage. By using Western blot and RT-PCR analyses, and by means of injections of antisense oligonucleotides, both the presence of CGRP peptide in the SC and the local expression of alpha-CGRP transcripts in collicular neurons were demonstrated. A possible role of CGRP is discussed in the context of postnatal modular compartmentalization of collicular afferents.
Mice experiencing repeated aggression develop a long-lasting aversion to social contact, which can be normalized by chronic, but not acute, administration of antidepressant. Using viral-mediated, mesolimbic dopamine pathway-specific knockdown of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), we showed that BDNF is required for the development of this experience-dependent social aversion. Gene profiling in the nucleus accumbens indicates that local knockdown of BDNF obliterates most of the effects of repeated aggression on gene expression within this circuit, with similar effects being produced by chronic treatment with antidepressant. These results establish an essential role for BDNF in mediating long-term neural and behavioral plasticity in response to aversive social experiences.

A dual adaptation paradigm was used in order to study the adaptation to two conditions of conflicting visual and kinesthetic and vestibular information. Adaptation was induced in humans by modifying visual information during whole-body rotations with the help of a virtual reality set-up. Real rotations' amplitudes were factored by a gain of 0.5 or 1.5. The two conditions were associated to a visual context cue. The aim of the experiment was to provide support for either the feedback or the feedforward model of adaptive states switch. Results show that subjects could adapt to the two conditions of conflict during whole-body rotations. However, the two conflict situations have been found to differ both in their motor dynamics and in their susceptibility to adaptation, as it seems that the adaptation is more complete in the condition of gain 1.5, i.e., faster and more precise. Subjects could be divided into two groups according to their ability to use contextual information to switch between adaptive gains. The visual cues were sufficient for some subjects to switch adaptive state, which corresponds to a context-dependent dual adaptation, or feedforward model of switching. Other subjects showed a switch cost maintained across the experiment, corresponding with a stimulus-dependent adaptation, or feedback model of switching. We are suggesting that the process enabling switching between adaptive states depends on subjects' abilities to use contextual cues of certain types, and thus on their &quot;perceptive styles&quot;. This could explain the variability of results obtained in the literature.
During transparent motion, attention to changes in the direction of one illusory surface will impede recognition of a similar event affecting the other surface if both are close together in time. This is a form of object-based attentional blink (AB). Here, we show that this AB is related to a smaller N200 response to the change in direction and that the response is even smaller for trials on which the subject makes mistakes compared to those with correct responses consistent with signal detection theory models. The variation of N200 associated with the AB can be modeled by an attenuation of current sources estimated in visual extrastriate cortex. These results suggest that the AB in the transparent motion paradigm is due to the suppression of sensory signals in early visual areas.
It has been demonstrated that spinal microglial activation is involved in formalin-induced pain and that minocycline, an inhibitor of microglial activation, attenuate behavioral hypersensitivity in neuropathic pain models. We investigated whether minocycline could have any anti-nociceptive effect on inflammatory pain, after intraperitonial administration of minocycline, 1 h before formalin (5%, 50 microl) injection into the plantar surface of rat hindpaw. Minocycline (15, 30, and 45 mg/kg) significantly decreased formalin-induced nociceptive behavior during phase II, but not during phase I. The enhancement in the number of c-Fos-positive cells in the L4-5 spinal dorsal horn (DH) and the magnitude of paw edema induced by formalin injection during phase II were significantly reduced by minocycline. Minocycline inhibited synaptic currents of substantia gelatinosa (SG) neurons in the spinal DH, whereas membrane electrical properties of dorsal root ganglion neurons were not affected by minocycline. Analysis with OX-42 antibody revealed the inhibitory effect of minocycline on microglial activation 3 days after formalin injection. These results demonstrate the anti-nociceptive effect of minocycline on formalin-induced inflammatory pain. In addition to the well-known inhibitory action of minocycline on microglial activation, the anti-edematous action in peripheral tissue, as well as the inhibition of synaptic transmission in SG neurons, is likely to be associated with the anti-nociceptive effect of minocycline.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) acts through CRF 1 and CRF 2 receptors (CRF1, CRF2). To test the hypothesis that CRF controls the expression of these receptors in a brain site- and receptor-type specific manner, we studied CRF1 mRNA and CRF2 mRNA expressions in mice with central CRF over-expression (CRF-OE) and using in situ hybridization. CRF1 and CRF2 mRNAs appear to be differentially distributed across the brain. The brain structures expressing the receptors are the same in wild-type (WT) and in CRF-OE mice. We therefore conclude that chronically elevated CRF does not induce or inhibit expression of these receptors in structures that normally do not or do, respectively, show these receptors. However, from counting cell body profiles positive for CRF1 and CRF2 mRNAs, clear differences appear in receptor expression between CRF-OE and WT mice, in a brain-structure-specific fashion. Whereas some structures do not differ, CRF-OE mice exhibit remarkably lower numbers of CRF1 mRNA-positive profiles in the subthalamic nucleus (-38.6%), globus pallidus (-31.5%), dorsal part of the lateral septum (-23.5%), substantia nigra (-22,8%), primary somatosensory cortex (-18.9%) and principal sensory nucleus V (-18.4%). Furthermore, a higher number of CRF2 mRNA-positive profiles are observed in the dorsal raphe nucleus (+32.2%). These data strongly indicate that central CRF over-expression in the mouse brain is associated with down-regulation of CRF1 mRNA and up-regulation of CRF2 mRNA in a brain-structure-specific way. On the basis of these results and the fact that CRF-OE mice reveal a number of physiological and autonomic symptoms that may be related to chronic stress, we suggest that CRF1 in the basal nuclei may be involved in disturbed information processing and that CRF2 in the dorsal raphe nucleus may play a role in mediating stress-induced release of serotonin by CRF.
Neuroanatomical tracing when considered as an isolated method produces relatively straightforward answers. Although single-, double- or even triple-tracing paradigms produce valuable data on the organization of brain circuits, the final outcome often is too simplistic since it is not possible to elucidate the activity of these circuits. In this regard, emerging technologies contribute with additional information about the status of neuronal circuits. The laser-guided capture microdissection microscope (LCM) allows the accurate dissection of small brain areas under the microscope that could be further analyzed for gene expression or proteomics. In order to elucidate the gene expression of a given circuit of interest, we have developed a combination of methods comprising (i) fluorescent non-radioactive in situ hybridization for the detection of vGLUT2 mRNA expression combined with retrograde tracing with Fluoro-Gold (FG; analysis performed under the confocal microscope) and (ii) laser-guided capture microdissection of brain areas containing neurons retrogradely labeled with FG followed by the measurement of changes in mRNA levels encoding for vGLUT2 by real-time PCR. Our goal was to detect changes in gene expression of the thalamostriatal pathway in unilaterally 6-OHDA lesioned rats. Taking advantage of this procedure, we found a three-fold increase in vGLUT2 mRNA expression within thalamic neurons projecting to the dopamine-depleted striatum when compared with the activity of the thalamic neurons innervating the control striatum.
Single unit activity of presumed serotonergic neurons in the medulla [n. raphe obscurus (NRO) and pallidus (NRP)] or the mesencephalon [n. raphe dorsalis (DRN)] was recorded in adult male cats during prolonged treadmill locomotion. Treadmill speed was set at a moderate level (0.4 m/s) in order to induce long-duration locomotion. The typical time to &quot;fatigue&quot; (failure to keep pace, falling behind and reluctance to continue) was approximately 40 min in both groups, at which point cats typically displayed marked panting and vocalization. The activity of DRN neurons was unchanged from baseline during the locomotion trial and during the recovery phase. By contrast, the activity of NRO/NRP neurons decreased steadily across the locomotion trial, reaching a mean decrease of approximately 50% (during the first min after the treadmill was turned off). Full recovery of single unit activity to a level approximating the baseline discharge rate required 30-45 min. Possible mechanisms underlying these changes are discussed as is the role of serotonin and fatigue in human pathology.
Novel magnetic resonance imaging sequences have and still continue to play an increasing role in neuroimaging and neuroscience. Among these techniques, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) has revolutionized the diagnosis and management of diseases such as stroke, neoplastic disease and inflammation. However, the effects of aging on diffusion are yet to be determined. To establish reference values for future experimental mouse studies we tested the hypothesis that absolute apparent diffusion coefficients (ADC) of the normal brain change with age. A total of 41 healthy mice were examined by T2-weighted imaging and DWI. For each animal ADC frequency histograms (i) of the whole brain were calculated on a voxel-by-voxel basis and region-of-interest (ROI) measurements (ii) performed and related to the animals' age. The mean entire brain ADC of mice &lt;3 months was 0.715(+/-0.016) x 10(-3) mm2/s, no significant difference to mice aged 4 to 5 months (0.736(+/-0.040) x 10(-3) mm2/s) or animals older than 9 months 0.736(+/-0.020) x 10(-3) mm2/s. Mean whole brain ADCs showed a trend towards lower values with aging but both methods (i + ii) did not reveal a significant correlation with age. ROI measurements in predefined areas: 0.723(+/-0.057) x 10(-3) mm2/s in the parietal lobe, 0.659(+/-0.037) x 10(-3) mm2/s in the striatum and 0.679(+/-0.056) x 10(-3) mm2/s in the temporal lobe. With advancing age, we observed minimal diffusion changes in the whole mouse brain as well as in three ROIs by determination of ADCs. According to our data ADCs remain nearly constant during the aging process of the brain with a small but statistically non-significant trend towards a decreased diffusion in older animals.
Microglia are the major inflammatory cells in the brain, in which microglial inflammatory responses are modulated by interactions with other brain cells. Here, we show that astrocytes, the most abundant cells in the brain, can secrete one or more factors capable of modulating microglial activation by regulating the microglial levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Treatment of microglia with astrocyte culture-conditioned media (ACM) increased the expression level and activity of hemeoxygenase-1 (HO-1). ACM also induced nuclear translocation of the nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 transcription factor, increased the binding activity of the antioxidant response element (ARE), and enhanced HO-1 promoter activity in an ARE-dependent manner. Furthermore, treatment with ACM suppressed interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-induced ROS production, leading to reduced inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression and nitric oxide (NO) release. In agreement with these results, mimickers of HO-1 products, such as bilirubin, ferrous iron, and a carbon monoxide-releasing molecule, reduced IFN-gamma-induced iNOS expression and/or NO release. Finally, we found that the active component(s) in ACM was heat labile and smaller than 3 kDa. Together, these results suggest that astrocytes could cooperate with microglia to prevent excessive inflammatory responses in the brain by regulating microglial expression of HO-1 and production of ROS.
The prevalence of smoking in human alcoholics is substantially higher than in the general population, and results from twin studies suggest that a shared genetic vulnerability underlies alcohol and nicotine addiction. Here, we directly tested this hypothesis by examining nicotine-taking behavior in alcohol-naive offspring of alcohol-preferring (P) rats and alcohol-nonpreferring (NP) rats that had been selectively bred for high and low alcohol intake. The self-administration of intravenous nicotine (0.015-0.060 mg/kg per infusion) in P rats was more than twice than that of NP rats. Nicotine seeking induced by reexposure to nicotine cues in extinction tests was also substantially greater in P rats than in NP rats. In a subsequent relapse test, priming nicotine injections reinstated drug seeking in P rats but not NP rats. P rats also self-administered higher amounts of oral sucrose (1-20%) than NP rats, a finding consistent with previous reports. In contrast, self-administration of intravenous cocaine (0.1875-1.125 mg/kg per infusion) was remarkably similar in the P and NP rats; however, P-NP differences in cocaine seeking emerged in subsequent extinction and cocaine priming-induced reinstatement tests. In both cases, lever responding was higher in P rats than in NP rats. Thus, alcohol-naive offspring of rats genetically selected for high alcohol intake are highly susceptible to nicotine self-administration and relapse, and this susceptibility is not likely caused by general reward deficits in NP rats. The present findings provide experimental evidence for the hypothesis that a shared genetic determinant accounts for the co-abuse of nicotine and alcohol.
The serotonin-1A (5-HT1A) receptor is the primary somatodendritic autoreceptor that inhibits the activity of serotonergic raphe neurons and is also expressed in nonserotonergic cortical and limbic neurons. Alterations in 5-HT1A receptor levels are implicated in mood disorders, and a functional C(-1019)G 5-HT1A promoter polymorphism has been associated with depression, suicide, and panic disorder. We examined the cell-specific activity of identified transcription factors, human nuclear deformed epidermal autoregulatory factor-1 (DEAF-1)-related (NUDR)/Deaf-1 and Hes5, at the 5-HT1A C(-1019) site. In serotonergic raphe RN46A cells, Deaf-1 and Hes5 repressed the 5-HT1A receptor gene at the C(-1019)-allele but not the G(-1019)-allele. However, in nonserotonergic cells that express 5-HT1A receptors (septal SN48, neuroblastoma SKN-SH, and neuroblastoma/glioma NG108-15 cells), Deaf-1 enhanced 5-HT1A promoter activity at the C(-1019)-allele but not the G-allele, whereas Hes5 repressed in all cell types. The enhancer activity of Deaf-1 was orientation independent and competed out Hes5 repression. To test whether Deaf-1 activity is intrinsic, the activity of a Gal4DBD (DNA binding domain)-Deaf-1 fusion protein at a heterologous Gal4 DNA element was examined. Gal4DBD-Deaf-1 repressed transcription in RN46A cells but enhanced transcription in SN48 cells, indicating that these opposite activities are intrinsic to Deaf-1. Repressor or enhancer activities of Deaf-1 or Gal4DBD-Deaf-1 were blocked by histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A. Thus, the intrinsic activity of Deaf-1 at the 5-HT1A promoter is opposite in presynaptic versus postsynaptic neuronal cells and requires deacetylation. Cell-specific regulation by Deaf-1 could underlie region-specific alterations in 5-HT1A receptor expression in different mood disorders.
Fundamental to an understanding of how neurons integrate synaptic input is the knowledge of where within a neuron this information is converted into an output signal, the action potential. Although it has been known for some time that action potential initiation occurs within the axon of neurons, the precise location has remained elusive. Here, we provide direct evidence using voltage-sensitive dyes that the site of action potential initiation in cortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons is approximately 35 microm from the axon hillock. This was the case during action potential generation under a variety of conditions, after axonal inhibition, and at different stages of development. Once initiated action potentials propagated down the axon in a saltatory manner. Experiments using local application of low-sodium solution and TTX, as well as an investigation of the influence of axonal length on action potential properties, provided evidence that the initial 40 microm of the axon is essential for action potential generation. To morphologically identify the relationship between the site of action potential initiation and axonal myelination, we labeled oligodendrocytes supplying processes to the proximal region of the axon. These experiments indicated that the axon initial segment was approximately 40 mcirom in length, and the first node of Ranvier was approximately 90 microm from the axon hillock. Experiments targeting the first node of Ranvier suggested it was not involved in action potential initiation. In conclusion, these results indicate that, in layer 5 pyramidal neurons, action potentials are generated in the distal region of the axon initial segment.
Apamin-sensitive, small-conductance, Ca2+-activated K+ channels (SK channels) modulate neuronal excitability in CA1 neurons. Blocking all SK channel subtypes with apamin facilitates the induction of hippocampal synaptic plasticity and enhances hippocampal learning. In CA1 dendrites, SK channels are activated by Ca2+ through NMDA receptors and restrict glutamate-mediated EPSPs. Studies of SK channel knock-out mice reveal that of the three apamin-sensitive SK channel subunits (SK1-SK3), only SK2 subunits are necessary for the apamin-sensitive currents in CA1 hippocampal neurons. To determine the specific influence of SK2 channels on hippocampal synaptic plasticity, learning, and memory, we used gene targeting through homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells to generate transgenic mice that overexpress SK2 subunits by 10-fold (SK2+/T). In these mice, the apamin-sensitive current in CA1 neurons was increased by approximately fourfold, relative to wild-type (WT) littermates. In addition, the amplitude of synaptically evoked EPSPs recorded from SK2+/T CA1 neurons increased twice as much in response to SK channel blockade relative to EPSPs recorded from WT CA1 neurons. Consistent with this, SK2 overexpression reduced long-term potentiation after high-frequency stimulation compared with WT littermates and severely impaired learning in both hippocampus- and amygdala-dependent tasks. We conclude that SK2 channels regulate hippocampal synaptic plasticity and play a critical role in modulating mechanisms of learning and memory.
Leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) receptor beta (LIFRbeta) is a receptor for a variety of neurotrophic cytokines, including LIF, ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), and cardiotrophin-1 (CT-1). These cytokines play an essential role for the survival and maintenance of developing and postnatal somatic motoneurons. CNTF may also serve the maintenance of autonomic, preganglionic sympathetic neurons (PSNs) in the spinal cord, as suggested by its capacity to prevent their death after destruction of one of their major targets, the adrenal medulla. Although somatic motoneurons and PSNs share a common embryonic origin, they are distinct in several respects, including responses to lesions. We have studied PSNs in mice with targeted deletions of the LIFRbeta or CT-1 genes, respectively. We show that LIF, CNTF, and CT-1 are synthesized in embryonic adrenal gland and spinal cord and that PSNs express LIFRbeta. In embryonic day 18.5 LIFRbeta (-/-) and CT-1 (-/-) mice, PSNs were reduced by approximately 20%. PSNs projecting to the adrenal medulla were more severely affected (-55%). Although LIFRbeta (-/-) mice revealed normal numbers of adrenal chromaffin cells and axons terminating on chromaffin cells, levels of adrenaline and numbers of adrenaline-synthesizing cells were significantly reduced. We conclude that activation of LIFRbeta is required for normal development of PSNs and one of their prominent targets, the adrenal medulla. Thus, both somatic motoneurons and PSNs in the spinal cord depend on LIFRbeta signaling for their development and maintenance, although PSNs seem to be overall less affected than somatic motoneurons by LIFRbeta deprivation.
Myelin-forming glial cells transplanted into the demyelinated spinal cord can form compact myelin and improve conduction properties. However, little is known of the expression and organization of voltage-gated ion channels in the remyelinated central axons or whether the exogenous cells provide appropriate signaling for the maturation of nodes of Ranvier. Here, we transplanted olfactory ensheathing cells from green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing donor rats [GFP-olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs)] into a region of spinal cord demyelination and found extensive remyelination, which included the development of mature nodal, paranodal, and juxtaparanodal domains, as assessed by ultrastructural, immunocytochemical, and electrophysiological analyses. In remyelinated axons, Nav1.6 was clustered at nodes, whereas Kv1.2 was aggregated in juxtaparanodal regions, recapitulating the distribution of these channels within mature nodes of uninjured axons. Moreover, the recruitment of Nav and Kv channels to specific membrane domains at remyelinated nodes persisted for at least 8 weeks after GFP-OEC transplantation. In vivo electrophysiological recordings demonstrated enhanced conduction along the GFP-OEC-remyelinated axons. These findings indicate that, in addition to forming myelin, engrafted GFP-OECs provide an environment that supports the development and maturation of nodes of Ranvier and the restoration of impulse conduction in central demyelinated axons.
Reelin and Disabled 1 (Dab1) are essential for positioning migrating neurons in the developing neocortex. Cell-autonomous RNA interference-mediated suppression of Dab1 in migrating neurons destined for layer 2/3 shifted the median position of these cells to deeper positions within the cortex. At the time of migration arrest [embryonic day 20 (E20) to E21], Dab1-suppressed cells were underrepresented in the upper approximately 40 microm of the cortex compared with controls, suggesting that Dab1 is essential for somal translocation through the cell-dense cortical plate. Closer examination of the morphology of Dab1-suppressed neurons at E20 revealed simplified leading processes that are less likely to contact the marginal zone (MZ), in which high levels of Reelin are expressed. Examination of Dab1-suppressed cells 3 d later (postnatal day 2) revealed simplified dendrites that are also less likely to contact the MZ. These data reveal a cell-autonomous role of Dab1 in dendritogenesis in the neocortex and suggest that remodeling of the leading process of a migrating neuron into a nascent dendrite by Reelin/Dab1 signaling plays an important role in cell positioning.
Inferior olivary (IO) neurons are electrotonically coupled by gap junctions. This coupling is thought to underlie synchronous complex spike (CS) activity generated by the olivocerebellar system in Purkinje cells, and also has been hypothesized to be necessary for IO neurons to generate spontaneous oscillatory activity. These characteristics of olivocerebellar activity have been proposed to be central to the role of this system in motor coordination. However, the relationship of gap junction coupling between IO neurons to synchronous and rhythmic CS activity has never been directly tested. Thus, to address this issue, multiple electrode recordings were obtained from crus 2a Purkinje cells, and carbenoxolone, a gap junction blocker, was injected into the IO. Carbenoxolone reduced CS synchrony by 50% overall, but in some experiments, &gt;80% reductions were achieved. Carbenoxolone also reduced the average firing rate by 50%, suggesting that electrical coupling is a significant source of excitation for IO neurons. Moreover, carbenoxolone caused a reduction in the approximately 10 Hz rhythmicity of CS activity, and this reduction was correlated with the extent to which the injection reduced CS synchrony. Lastly, carbenoxolone was found to reverse or prevent changes in synchrony that are normally induced by injection of GABAA and glutamate receptor antagonists into the IO, suggesting that the effects of these drugs on CS synchrony patterns require electrical coupling of IO neurons. In sum, our results provide direct evidence that electrical coupling of IO neurons underlies synchronous CS activity, and suggest important roles for this coupling in shaping other aspects of IO spiking patterns.
Microglia exist under physiological conditions in a resting state but become activated after neuronal injury. Recent studies have highlighted the reciprocal role of neurons in controlling both the number and activity of microglia. In this study, microglia derived from newborn rat cortices were cultured and activated by interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) treatment, then exposed to recombinant Sema3A or conditioned medium derived from stressed embryonic cortical neurons. We found that activation of microglia by IFNgamma induced differential upregulation of the semaphorin receptors Plexin-A1 and Neuropilin-1. This result was confirmed by Northern blotting, reverse transcription-PCR, and Western blotting. Furthermore, recombinant Sema3A induced apoptosis of microglia when added to the in vitro culture, and a similar result was obtained on activated microglia when Sema3A was produced by stressed neurons. Using an in vivo model of microglia activation by striatal injection of lipopolysaccharide demonstrated a corresponding upregulation of Plexin-A1 and Neuropilin-1 in activated microglia and enhanced production of Sema3A by stressed adult neurons. These results suggest a novel semaphorin-mediated mechanism of neuroprotection whereby stressed neurons can protect themselves from further damage by activated microglia.
Adaptive behaviors require sensorimotor computations that convert information represented initially in sensory coordinates to commands for action in motor coordinates. Fundamental to these computations is the relationship between the region of the environment sensed by the animal (gaze) and the animal's locomotor plan. Studies of visually guided animals have revealed an anticipatory relationship between gaze direction and the locomotor plan during target-directed locomotion. Here, we study an acoustically guided animal, an echolocating bat, and relate acoustic gaze (direction of the sonar beam) to flight planning as the bat searches for and intercepts insect prey. We show differences in the relationship between gaze and locomotion as the bat progresses through different phases of insect pursuit. We define acoustic gaze angle, theta(gaze), to be the angle between the sonar beam axis and the bat's flight path. We show that there is a strong linear linkage between acoustic gaze angle at time t [theta(gaze)(t)] and flight turn rate at time t + tau into the future [theta(flight) (t + tau)], which can be expressed by the formula theta(flight) (t + tau) = ktheta(gaze)(t). The gain, k, of this linkage depends on the bat's behavioral state, which is indexed by its sonar pulse rate. For high pulse rates, associated with insect attacking behavior, k is twice as high compared with low pulse rates, associated with searching behavior. We suggest that this adjustable linkage between acoustic gaze and motor output in a flying echolocating bat simplifies the transformation of auditory information to flight motor commands.
The medial preoptic area (MPOA) is a critical regulatory site for the control of male sexual behavior. We first measured glutamate in 2 min microdialysate samples from the MPOA before, during, and after copulation by male rats. There was a slight [approximately 140% of baseline (BL)] rise in extracellular glutamate when the female was presented, a significant increase (approximately 170% of BL) during periods of mounting and intromitting, and a very large increase in samples collected during ejaculation (approximately 300% of BL). A precipitous fall in levels occurred in the first postejaculatory sample; the magnitude of this fall was highly correlated with the length of the postejaculatory interval of quiescence. In experiment 2, we reverse-dialyzed a mixture of glutamate uptake inhibitors into the MPOA before and during mating; control animals received artificial CSF. The mixture increased extracellular glutamate (approximately 280% of BL), increased the number of ejaculations in the 40 min test, decreased ejaculation latency, and decreased the postejaculatory latency to resume copulation. These data, together with other findings that glutamate in the MPOA can elicit genital reflexes in anesthetized rats and that glutamate receptor antagonists in the MPOA impair copulation, strongly suggest that MPOA glutamate is a major facilitator of copulation and that the postejaculatory fall in glutamate regulates the postejaculatory interval.
Enhanced oxidative stress has been implicated in the excitotoxicity of the CNS, and 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-guanine (8-oxoG), a major type of oxidative damage in nucleic acids, was reported to be accumulated in the rat hippocampus after kainate administration. We herein showed that the 8-oxoG levels in mitochondrial DNA and cellular RNA increased significantly in the CA3 subregion of the mouse hippocampus 6-12 h after kainate administration but returned to basal levels within a few days. Laser-scanning confocal microscopy revealed the 8-oxoG accumulation in mitochondrial DNA to be remarkable in CA3 microglia, whereas that in nuclear DNA or cellular RNA was also detected in the CA3 pyramidal cells and astrocytes. 8-oxoG accumulation in cellular DNA or RNA should be suppressed by MutT homolog 1 (MTH1) with 8-oxo-dGTPase (8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine triphosphatase) activity and 8-oxoG-DNA glycosylase 1 (OGG1) with 8-oxoG DNA glycosylase activity. We thus examined the expression level of MTH1 and OGG1 in the mouse hippocampus after kainate administration. The Mth1 mRNA level decreased soon after kainate administration and then quickly recovered beyond the basal level, and a continuously increased MTH1 protein level was observed, whereas the Ogg1 mRNA level remained constant. MTH1-null and wild-type mice exhibited a similar degree of CA3 neuron loss after kainate administration; however, the 8-oxoG levels that accumulated in mitochondrial DNA and cellular RNA in the CA3 microglia significantly increased in the MTH1-null mice in comparison with wild-type mice, thus demonstrating that MTH1 efficiently suppresses the accumulation of 8-oxoG in both cellular DNA and RNA in the hippocampus, especially in microglia, caused by excitotoxicity.
The hyperpolarization-activated cation current (Ih) plays an important role in regulating neuronal excitability, yet its native single-channel properties in the brain are essentially unknown. Here we use variance-mean analysis to study the properties of single Ih channels in the apical dendrites of cortical layer 5 pyramidal neurons in vitro. In these neurons, we find that Ih channels have an average unitary conductance of 680 +/- 30 fS (n = 18). Spectral analysis of simulated and native Ih channels showed that there is little or no channel flicker below 5 kHz. In contrast to the uniformly distributed single-channel conductance, Ih channel number increases exponentially with distance, reaching densities as high as approximately 550 channels/microm2 at distal dendritic sites. These high channel densities generate significant membrane voltage noise. By incorporating a stochastic model of Ih single-channel gating into a morphologically realistic model of a layer 5 neuron, we show that this channel noise is higher in distal dendritic compartments and increased threefold with a 10-fold increased single-channel conductance (6.8 pS) but constant Ih current density. In addition, we demonstrate that voltage fluctuations attributable to stochastic Ih channel gating impact on action potential output, with greater spike-timing precision in models with the experimentally determined single-channel conductance. These data suggest that, in the face of high current densities, the small single-channel conductance of Ih is critical for maintaining the fidelity of action potential output.


The functional analysis of neuronal circuitry would be facilitated if researchers were able to control, over extended periods of time, the activity of genetically defined populations of neurons in vivo. New work using light-gated cation channels from green algae offers hope that this might soon be possible.

Lewy bodies (LB) in the substantia nigra are a cardinal pathological feature of Parkinson's disease, but they occur in a number of neurodegenerative diseases and can be widespread in the nervous system. The characteristics, locations, and composition of LB are reviewed, with particular attention to alpha-synuclein (alpha-SYN), which appears to be the major component of LB. The propensity for alpha-SYN, a presynaptic protein widely expressed in the brain, to aggregate is because of an amyloidogenic central region. The factors that favor the aggregation of alpha-SYN and mechanisms of toxicity are examined, and a mechanism through which aggregates of alpha-SYN could induce mitochondrial dysfunction and/or release of proapoptotic molecules is proposed.
Presenilin (PS1/PS2) is a major component of gamma-secretase, the activity that mediates proteolysis of beta-amyloid precursor protein to generate beta-amyloid (Abeta). Here we demonstrate that PS1, through its loop region, binds to phospholipase D1 (PLD1), thereby recruiting it to the Golgi/trans-Golgi network. Overexpression of wild-type PLD1 reduces Abeta generation. Conversely, down-regulation of endogenous PLD1 by small hairpin RNA elevates Abeta production. The Abeta-lowering effect of PLD1 is independent of its ability to promote vesicular budding of beta-amyloid precursor protein. The data indicate that overexpression of PLD1 decreases, and down-regulation of PLD1 increases, the catalytic activity, and the association of the subunits, of gamma-secretase.
Presenilins (PS1/PS2) regulate proteolysis of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) and affect its intracellular trafficking. Here, we demonstrate that a PS1-interacting protein, phospholipase D1 (PLD1), affects intracellular trafficking of betaAPP. Overexpression of PLD1 in PS1wt cells promotes generation of betaAPP-containing vesicles from the trans-Golgi network. Conversely, inhibition of PLD1 activity by 1-butanol decreases betaAPP trafficking in both wt and PS1-deficient cells. The subcellular localization of PLD1 is altered, and PLD enzymatic activity is reduced in cells expressing familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) PS1 mutations compared with PS1wt cells. Overexpression of wt, but not catalytically inactive, PLD1 increases budding of betaAPP-containing vesicles from the trans-Golgi network in FAD mutant cells. Surface delivery of betaAPP is also increased by PLD1 in these cells. The impaired neurite outgrowth capacity in FAD mutant neurons was corrected by introducing PLD1 into these cells. The results indicate that PLD1 may represent a therapeutic target for rescuing compromised neuronal function in AD.
A glomerulus in the mammalian olfactory bulb receives axonal inputs from olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) that express the same odorant receptor (OR). Glomeruli are generally thought to represent functional units of olfactory coding, but there are no data on the electrophysiological properties of OSNs that express the same endogenous OR. Here, using patch clamp recordings in an intact epithelial preparation, we directly measured the transduction currents and receptor potentials from the dendritic knobs of mouse OSNs that express the odorant receptor MOR23 along with the green fluorescent protein. All of the 53 cells examined responded to lyral, a known ligand for MOR23. There were profound differences in response kinetics, particularly in the deactivation phase. The cells were very sensitive to lyral, with some cells responding to as little as 10 nM. The dynamic range was unexpectedly broad, with threshold and saturation in individual cells often covering three log units of lyral concentration. The potential causes and biological significance of this cellular heterogeneity are discussed. Patch clamp recording from OSNs that express a defined OR provides a powerful approach to investigate the sensory inputs to individual glomeruli.
The cochlea contains two types of sensory cells, the inner and outer hair cells. Sound-evoked deflection of outer hair cell stereocilia leads to fast force production that will enhance auditory sensitivity up to 1,000-fold. In contrast, inner hair cells are thought to have a purely receptive function. Deflection of their stereocilia produces receptor potentials, transmitter release, and action potentials in the auditory nerve. Here, we describe a method for rapid confocal imaging. The method was used to image stereocilia during simultaneous sound stimulation in an in vitro preparation of the guinea pig cochlea. We show that inner hair cell stereocilia move because they interact with the fluid surrounding the hair bundles, but stereocilia deflection occurs at a different phase of the stimulus than is generally expected. In outer hair cells, stereocilia deflections were approximately 1/3 of the reticular lamina displacement. Smaller deflections were found in inner hair cells. The ratio between stereocilia deflection and reticular lamina displacement is important for auditory function, because it determines the stimulus applied to transduction channels. The low ratio measured here suggests that amplification of hair-bundle movements may be necessary in vivo to preserve transduction fidelity at low stimulus levels. In the case of the inner hair cells, this finding would represent a departure from traditional views on their function.
Coordinated regulation of neuronal progenitor differentiation in the subventricular zone (SVZ) is a fundamental feature of adult neurogenesis. However, the molecular control of this process remains mostly undeciphered. Here, we investigate the role of neuregulins (NRGs) in this process and show that a NRG receptor, ErbB4, is primarily expressed by polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule immature neuroblasts but is also detected in a subset of GFAP+ astroglial cells, ependymal cells, and Dlx2+ precursors in the SVZ. Of the NRG ligands, both NRG1 and -2 are expressed by immature polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule neuroblasts in the SVZ. NRG2 is also expressed by some of the GFAP+ putative stem cells lining the ventricles. Infusion of exogenous NRG1 leads to rapid aggregation of Dlx2+ cells in the SVZ and affects the initiation and maintenance of organized neuroblast migration from the SVZ toward the olfactory bulb. In contrast, the infusion of NRG2 increased the number of Sox2 and GFAP+ precursors in the SVZ. An outcome of this NRG2 effect is an increase in the number of newly generated migrating neuroblasts in the rostral migratory stream and GABAergic interneurons in the olfactory bulb. The analysis of conditional null mice that lack NRG receptor, ErbB4, in the nervous system revealed that the observed activities of NRG2 require ErbB4 activation. These results indicate that different NRG ligands affect distinct populations of differentiating neural precursors in the neurogenic regions of the mature forebrain. Furthermore, these studies identify NRG2 as a factor capable of promoting SVZ proliferation, leading to the formation of new neurons in vivo.
Functional dyspepsia (FD) is a highly prevalent but heterogeneous disorder in which multiple pathogenetic mechanisms are involved. Although there are many studies that have investigated various pathophysiologic mechanisms, the underlying casual pathways associated with FD remain obscure. The currently proposed pathophysiologic mechanisms associated with FD include genetic susceptibility, delayed as well as accelerated gastric emptying, visceral hypersensitivity to acid or mechanical distention, impaired gastric accommodation, abnormal fundic phasic contractions, abnormal antro-duodenal motility, acute and chronic infections, and psychosocial comorbidity. A greater understanding of the abnormalities underlying FD may lead to improved management. The aim of this editorial is to provide a critical overview of current pathophysiologic concepts in functional dyspepsia.
UV-induced matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) cause connective tissue damage and the skin to become wrinkled and aged. Here, we investigated the effect of 2',4',7-trihydroxyisoflavone (THF) on UV-induced MMP-1 expression in human skin fibroblasts (HSFs). We found that UV irradiation increases MMP-1 expression and that this is mediated by ERK and JNK activation, but not by p38 activation. Pretreatment of HSFs with 2',4',7-THF inhibited UV-induced MMP-1 expression in a dose-dependent manner, and also inhibited the UV-induced activations of ERK and JNK by inhibiting MEK1 and SEK1 activation, respectively. Moreover, inhibitions of ERK and JNK by 2',4',7-THF resulted in the decrease of c-Fos expression and c-Jun phosphorylation/expression induced by UV, respectively, which led to the inhibition of UV-induced AP-1 DNA binding activity. This inhibitory effect of 2',4',7-THF on MMP-1 was not mediated by an antioxidant effect. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that 2',4',7-THF can inhibit UV-induced MMP-1 expression by inhibiting the MEK1/ERK/c-Fos and SEK1/JNK/c-Jun pathways. Therefore, 2',4',7-THF is a potential agent for the prevention and treatment of skin aging.
This study sought to explore whether the so-called 'paradoxical' task-related increases in the alpha bandwidth of the human electroencephalogram result from increases in evoked (phase locked), as opposed to induced (non-phase locked), activity. The electroencephalograms of 18 participants were recorded while they engaged in both auditory sensory-intake tasks (listening to randomly generated 'tunes') and internally directed attention tasks (imagining the same randomly generated tunes) matched for auditory input. Measures of evoked (phase locked) and induced (non-phase locked) activity were compared between tasks. Increases in induced alpha power were found during internal attention. No experimental effects were observed for evoked activity. These results are not entirely consistent with proposals that 'paradoxical' alpha indexes the evoked inhibition of task irrelevant processing.
Capsaicin has been used as a topical analgesic to treat diverse pain conditions. We investigated the molecular mechanisms that mediate the inhibition of high-voltage-activated calcium channel currents (ICa) using trigeminal ganglion neurons and a heterologous expression system. Capsaicin inhibited ICa in capsaicin-sensitive trigeminal ganglion neurons, but not in capsaicin-insensitive neurons. Single-cell reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction revealed the expression of TRPV1 only in capsaicin-sensitive neurons. Capsaicin inhibited ICa in transient receptor potential vanilloid-1-expressing C2D7 cells stably expressing human N-type calcium channels, whereas capsaicin failed to inhibit ICa in nave C2D7 cells with no endogenous transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 expression. Calcium influx via transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 is not likely to play a critical role in capsaicin-induced ICa inhibition in trigeminal ganglion neurons. ICa inhibition might be one of the mechanisms for the analgesic effect of capsaicin.
The wasp Ampulex compressa injects a cocktail of neurotoxins into the brain of its cockroach prey to induce an enduring change in the execution of locomotory behaviors. Our hypothesis is that the venom injected into the brain indirectly alters the activity of monoaminergic neurons, thus changing the levels of monoamines that tune the central synapses of locomotory circuits. The purpose of the present investigation was to establish whether the venom alters the descending control, from the brain, of octopaminergic neurons in the thorax. This question was approached by recording the activity of specific identified octopaminergic neurons after removing the input from the brain or after a wasp sting into the brain. We show that the activity of these neurons is altered in stung and &quot;brainless&quot; animals. The spontaneous firing rate of these neurons in stung and brainless animals is approximately 20% that in control animals. Furthermore, we show that an identified octopamine neuron responds more weakly both to sensory stimuli and to direct injection of current in all treated groups. The alteration in the activity of octopamine neurons is likely to be part of the mechanism by which the wasp induces a change in the behavioral state of its prey and also affects its metabolism by reducing the potent glycolytic activator fructose 2,6-bisphosphate in leg muscle. To our knowledge, this is the first direct evidence of a change in electrical activity of specific monoaminergic neurons that can be so closely associated with a venom-induced change in behavioral state of a prey animal.

This study examined the long-term effects of an acute colitis on central corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) expression. An increase in CRF mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) and the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) was observed during active colitis, and the effect in the PVN was maintained following recovery. In summary, hypothalamic gene expression of CRF persists in the PVN despite resolution of an acute colitis.
Histidine decarboxylase deficient (Hdc(-/-)) and wild-type male mice on the C57Bl6/J background were used to determine the role of histamine in brain function. 3-5 (Y) and 12-14 (MA) month-old Hdc(-/-) mice showed hypoactivity and increased measures of anxiety in the open field, light-dark, elevated plus-maze, and elevated zero maze tests. Y Hdc(-/-) mice showed superior performance in the hidden sessions of the water maze and passive avoidance memory retention. In contrast, Y Hdc(-/-) mice were impaired in novel location recognition, spent less time searching in the target quadrant and more time searching in the outer zone of the water maze during the probe trials. These behaviors are likely due to increased measures of anxiety and are not found in MA Hdc(-/-) mice. These data support a role for histamine in anxiety and cognition and underline the importance of considering age and potential effects on measures of anxiety in the interpretation of the role of histaminergic neurotransmission in cognitive function.
The biogenic amine octopamine is known to be present in the abdominal ganglia of some insects, but the expression of functional octopamine receptors in these neuronal structures has not yet been characterized. In the present study, we describe the presence in the female gypsy moth terminal abdominal ganglion (TAG), a key structure in the control of the insect reproductive behavior, of an octopamine receptor coupled to stimulation of adenylyl cyclase through the GTP-binding protein G(s). The rank order of potency of different antagonists, which discriminate between the different classes of octopamine receptors, indicated the involvement of the neuronal type 3 receptor. The octopamine-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity was inhibited by Ca(2+) in the low micromolar range and by activation of either protein kinase A or protein kinase C. In the isolated TAG, bath application of octopamine caused an increase of the spontaneous bursting activity of the emerging nerve of the 5th pair (V), whereas the antagonist mianserin reduced the nerve spiking activity and blocked the stimulatory effect of octopamine. These data demonstrate that the gypsy moth TAG expresses functional octopamine receptors, which may participate in the neuronal control of the insect reproductive behavior.
To gain greater insight on the molecular mechanisms that underlie ischemic stroke, we compared gene expression profiles in transient (tMCAO) and permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO) stroke models using Expression Analysis Systematic Explorer (EASE) pathway analysis software. Many transcripts were induced in both stroke models, including genes associated with transcriptional pathways, cell death, stress responses and metabolism. However, EASE analysis of the regulated genes indicated molecular functions and biological processes unique to each model. Pathways associated with tMCAO included inflammation, apoptosis and cell cycle, while pMCAO was associated with the induction of genes encoding neurotransmitter receptors, ion channels, growth factors and signaling molecules. An intriguing finding was the involvement of tyrosine kinases and phosphatases following pMCAO. These results provide evidence that neuronal death following tMCAO and pMCAO involves distinct mechanisms. These findings may give new insight to the molecular mechanisms involved in stroke and may lead to novel neuroprotective strategies.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are emerging as fundamental players in the regulation of neural plasticity and in pathological conditions. Here we showed that lead (Pb2+), a well known neurotoxic metal ion, reversibly and concentration-dependently inhibited ASIC currents in the acutely dissociated spinal dorsal horn and hippocampal CA1 neurons of rats. In vitro expression of ASIC subunits in combination demonstrated that both ASIC1 and -3 subunits were sensitive to Pb2+. Mechanistically, Pb2+ reduced the pH sensitivity of ASICs independent of membrane voltage change. Moreover, Pb2+ inhibited the ASIC-mediated membrane depolarization and the elevation of intracellular Ca2+ concentration. In addition, we compared the effect of Pb2+ with that of Ca2+ or amiloride to explore the possible interactions of Pb2+ and Ca2+ in regulating ASICs, and we found that Pb2+ inhibited ASIC currents independent of the amiloride/Ca2+ blockade. Because ASIC1b and -3 subunits are mainly expressed in peripheral neurons, our data identified ASIC1a-containing Ca2+-permeable ASIC as a novel central target of Pb2+ action, which may contribute to Pb2+ neurotoxicity.
Activation of seven-transmembrane region receptors typically causes their phosphorylation with consequent arrestin binding and desensitization. Arrestins also act as scaffolds, mediating signaling to Raf and ERK and, for some receptors, inhibiting nuclear translocation of ERK. GnRH receptors (GnRHRs) act via Gq/11 to stimulate the phospholipase C/Ca2+/protein kinase C (PKC) cascade and the Raf/MEK/ERK cassette. Uniquely, type I mammalian GnRHRs lack the C-tails that are found in other seven-transmembrane region receptors (including nonmammalian GnRHRs) and are implicated in arrestin binding. Here we have compared ERK signaling by human GnRHRs (hGnRHRs) and Xenopus GnRHRs (XGnRHRs). In HeLa cells, XGnRHRs underwent rapid and arrestin-dependent internalization and caused arrestin/green fluorescent protein (GFP) translocation to the membrane and endosomes, whereas hGnRHRs did not. Internalized XGnRHRs were co-localized with arrestin-GFP, whereas hGnRHRs were not. Both receptors mediated transient ERK phosphorylation and nuclear translocation (revealed by immunohistochemistry or by imaging of co-transfected ERK2-GFP), and for both, ERK phosphorylation was reduced by PKC inhibition but not by inhibiting epidermal growth factor receptor autophosphorylation. In the presence of PKC inhibitor, Deltaarrestin-(319-418) blocked XGnRHR-mediated, but not hGnRHR-mediated, ERK phosphorylation. When receptor number was varied, hGnRHRs activated phospholipase C and ERK more efficiently than XGnRHRs but were less efficient at causing ERK2-GFP translocation. At high receptor number, XGnRHRs and hGnRHRs both caused ERK2-GFP translocation to the nucleus, but at low receptor number, XGnRHRs caused ERK2-GFP translocation, whereas hGnRHRs did not. Thus, experiments with XGnRHRs have revealed the first direct evidence of arrestin-mediated (probably G protein-independent) GnRHR signaling, whereas those with hGnRHRs imply that scaffolds other than arrestins can determine GnRHR effects on ERK compartmentalization.



How a cell chooses to proliferate or to differentiate is an important issue in stem cell and cancer biology. Drosophila neuroblasts undergo self-renewal with every cell division, producing another neuroblast and a differentiating daughter cell, but the mechanisms controlling the self-renewal/differentiation decision are poorly understood. Here we tested whether cell polarity genes, known to regulate embryonic neuroblast asymmetric cell division, also regulate neuroblast self-renewal. Clonal analysis in larval brains showed that pins mutant neuroblasts rapidly fail to self-renew, whereas lethal giant larvae (lgl) mutant neuroblasts generate multiple neuroblasts. Notably, lgl pins double mutant neuroblasts all divide symmetrically to self-renew, filling the brain with neuroblasts at the expense of neurons. The lgl pins neuroblasts show ectopic cortical localization of atypical protein kinase C (aPKC), and a decrease in aPKC expression reduces neuroblast numbers, suggesting that aPKC promotes neuroblast self-renewal. In support of this hypothesis, neuroblast-specific overexpression of membrane-targeted aPKC, but not a kinase-dead version, induces ectopic neuroblast self-renewal. We conclude that cortical aPKC kinase activity is a potent inducer of neuroblast self-renewal.
Adult neurogenesis, the birth and integration of new neurons from adult neural stem cells, is a striking form of structural plasticity and highlights the regenerative capacity of the adult mammalian brain. Accumulating evidence suggests that neuronal activity regulates adult neurogenesis and that new neurons contribute to specific brain functions. The mechanism that regulates the integration of newly generated neurons into the pre-existing functional circuitry in the adult brain is unknown. Here we show that newborn granule cells in the dentate gyrus of the adult hippocampus are tonically activated by ambient GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid) before being sequentially innervated by GABA- and glutamate-mediated synaptic inputs. GABA, the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the adult brain, initially exerts an excitatory action on newborn neurons owing to their high cytoplasmic chloride ion content. Conversion of GABA-induced depolarization (excitation) into hyperpolarization (inhibition) in newborn neurons leads to marked defects in their synapse formation and dendritic development in vivo. Our study identifies an essential role for GABA in the synaptic integration of newly generated neurons in the adult brain, and suggests an unexpected mechanism for activity-dependent regulation of adult neurogenesis, in which newborn neurons may sense neuronal network activity through tonic and phasic GABA activation.
Olfactory information is first encoded in a combinatorial fashion by olfactory bulb glomeruli, which individually represent distinct chemical features of odors. This information is then transmitted to piriform (olfactory) cortex, via axons of olfactory bulb mitral and tufted (M/T) cells, where it is presumed to form the odor percept. However, mechanisms governing the integration of sensory information in mammalian olfactory cortex are unclear. Here we show that single M/T cells can make powerful connections with cortical pyramidal cells, and coincident input from few M/T cells is sufficient to elicit spike output. These findings suggest that odor coding is broad and distributed in olfactory cortex.
mRNA localization and regulated translation provide a means of spatially restricting gene expression within neurons during axon guidance and long-term synaptic plasticity. Here we show that synapse formation specifically alters the localization of the mRNA encoding sensorin, a peptide neurotransmitter with neurotrophin-like properties. In isolated Aplysia sensory neurons, which do not form chemical synapses, sensorin mRNA is diffusely distributed throughout distal neurites. Upon contact with a target motor neuron, sensorin mRNA rapidly concentrates at synapses. This redistribution only occurs in the presence of a target motor neuron and parallels the distribution of sensorin protein. Reduction of sensorin mRNA, but not protein, with dsRNA inhibits synapse formation. Our results indicate that synapse formation can alter mRNA localization within individual neurons. They further suggest that translation of a specific localized mRNA, encoding the neuropeptide sensorin, is required for synapse formation between sensory and motor neurons.
A subset of melanopsin-expressing retinal ganglion cells has been identified to be directly photosensitive (pRGCs), modulating a range of behavioral and physiological responses to light. Recent expression studies of melanopsin have provided compelling evidence that melanopsin is the photopigment of the pRGCs. However, the mechanism by which melanopsin transduces light information remains an open question. This review discusses the signaling pathways that may underlie melanopsin-dependent phototransduction in native pRGCs, as well as the many exciting challenges ahead.
Somatosensory stimuli are encoded by molecularly and anatomically diverse classes of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. In this issue of Neuron, three papers demonstrate that the Runx transcription factors, Runx1 and Runx3, respectively regulate the molecular identities and spinal terminations of TrkA+ nociceptive neurons and TrkC+ proprioceptive neurons. These findings emphasize the importance of intrinsic genetic programs in generating the diversity of DRG neurons and specifying the circuits into which they incorporate.
Children with neurofibromatosis (NF1) typically develop central nervous system (CNS) abnormalities, including aberrant proliferation of astrocytes and formation of benign astrocytomas. The NF1 gene encodes neurofibromin, a Ras-GAP, highly expressed in developing neural cells; the mechanism of regulation of neurofibromin as a Ras-GAP, remains however unknown. We now show that, in response to EGF, neurofibromin is in vivo phosphorylated on serine residues by PKC-alpha, in human, rat, and avian CNS cells and cell lines. EGF-induced PKC phosphorylation was prominent in the cysteine/serine-rich domain (CSRD) of neurofibromin, which lies in the N-terminus and upstream of the Ras-GAP domain (GRD), and this modification significantly increased the association of neurofibromin with actin in co-immunoprecipitations. In addition, we show that Ras activation in response to EGF was significantly lowered when C62B cells overexpressed a construct encoding both CSRD + GRD. Moreover, when PKC-alpha was downregulated, the Ras-GAP activity of CSRD + GRD was significantly diminished, whereas overexpressed GRD alone acted as a weaker GAP and in a PKC-independent manner. Most importantly, functional Ras inhibition and EGF signaling shifts were established at the single cell level in C6-derived cell lines stably overexpressing CSRD + GRD, when transient co-overexpression of Ras and PKC-depletion prior to stimulation with EGF-induced mitosis. Taken together, these data provide the first evidence of a functional, allosteric regulation of GRD by CSRD, which requires neurofibromin phosphorylation by PKC and association with the actin cytoskeleton. Our data may suggest a novel mechanism for regulating biological responses to EGF and provide a new aspect for the understanding of the aberrant proliferation seen in the CNS of children with NF1.

Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a neurodegenerative tauopathy characterized by Parkinsonism, vertical gaze palsy, and early falls. The neuropathology is characterized by neurofibrillary tangles, tufted astrocytes, and coiled bodies, but some brains show other pathologic processes. To investigate the frequency of alpha-synuclein pathology in PSP with immunohistochemistry and to report the clinical and pathological features of a case of PSP with concomitant Multiple system atrophy (MSA) (PSP/MSA), 290 cases of PSP were screened for alpha-synuclein pathology with immunohistochemistry. Double-labeling immunohistochemistry was performed on a case of PSP/MSA. Among the PSP cases screened for alpha-synuclein pathology, a single case of PSP/MSA was detected. The patient was an 86-year-old woman with clinical features consistent with PSP. She had no documented dysautonomia or cerebellar signs, and imaging studies were not diagnostic of MSA. Pathological examination showed tau-immunoreactive neuronal and glial lesions consistent with PSP as well as alpha-synuclein immunoreactive glial cytoplasmic inclusions diagnostic of MSA. Double-immunolabeling studies showed no co-localization of alpha-synuclein and tau in most neuronal and glial lesions. Based upon the findings in this case, the neuropathologic changes of PSP and MSA are distinct and independent processes, but they can occasionally coexist.
Pairs of homotopic and heterotopic visual bilateral stimuli and pairs of unilateral visual stimuli were presented to 12 normal right-handed university students requiring a key press if they were of the same form. As predicted from the known histology of the corpus callosum (massive preponderance of homotopic fibers), homotopic presentations yielded significantly faster reaction times than heterotopic stimulations. Bilateral pairs of stimuli were also advantaged in comparison with unilateral trials, replicating Sereno and Kosslyn [Sereno, A. B., &amp; Kosslyn, S. M. (1991). Discrimination within and between hemifields: a new constraint on theories of attention. Neuropsychologia, 29, 659-675]. Moreover, certain attentional processes have never been investigated in the Dimond paradigm and this study provides evidence to the effect that discriminative reaction times to stimulus pairs are strongly influenced by their proximity to the fixation point. In similar previous experiments, the homotopy/heterotopy observation and the bilateral field advantage may have been distorted by that particular confound, as well as several others.
The existence of a possible common mechanism for duration and numerosity processing was tested with a Stroop task. Participants had to compare either the duration or the numerosity of sequences of flashing dots for which the duration and numerosity were independently manipulated to create congruent, incongruent or neutral pairs. Results show that the numerical cues interfered with duration processing, whereas the temporal cues did not interfere with numerosity processing. These findings extend the idea of an automatic access to magnitude to non-symbolic sequentially presented material, and reflect a probable difference in the mandatory processing of numerosity and duration.
Cocaine dependence and posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) frequently co-occur. Little is known, however, about patients' perceptions of symptom connectedness and preferences for treatment. This pilot study preliminarily investigated perceptions of symptom interplay and preferences regarding concurrent or sequential models of psychotherapy, therapy format, and treatment modalities. Participants were 23 individuals with current cocaine dependence and PTSD. The majority (95.5%) reported a functional relationship between cocaine use and PTSD symptoms (p&lt;0.001). Improvement in PTSD symptoms was typically (63.6%) associated with a decrease in cocaine use (p&lt;0.01). Similarly, a worsening of PTSD symptoms was typically (86.4%) associated with an increase in cocaine use (p&lt;0.001). In contrast, improvement/deterioration in cocaine use was not significantly related to subsequent improvement/deterioration in PTSD symptoms. This finding suggests that changes in PTSD may be an important risk factor to consider among individuals with cocaine dependence and PTSD. Approximately 41% preferred a concurrent model of therapy in which the cocaine use and PTSD are treated simultaneously in therapy. The findings highlight the functional relationship between these two disorders and have direct implications for treatment interventions.
The beneficial effects of polyphenol compounds in fruits and vegetables are mainly extrapolated from in vitro studies or short-term dietary supplementation studies. Due to cost and duration, relatively little is known about whether dietary polyphenols are beneficial in whole animals, particularly with respect to aging. To address this question, we examined the effects of blueberry polyphenols on lifespan and aging of the nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans, a useful organism for such a study. We report that a complex mixture of blueberry polyphenols increased lifespan and slowed aging-related declines in C. elegans. We also found that these benefits did not just reflect antioxidant activity in these compounds. For instance, blueberry treatment increased survival during acute heat stress, but was not protective against acute oxidative stress. The blueberry extract consists of three major fractions that all contain antioxidant activity. However, only one fraction, enriched in proanthocyanidin compounds, increased C. elegans lifespan and thermotolerance. To further determine how polyphenols prolonged C. elegans lifespan, we analyzed the genetic requirements for these effects. Prolonged lifespan from this treatment required the presence of a CaMKII pathway that mediates osmotic stress resistance, though not other pathways that affect stress resistance and longevity. In conclusion, polyphenolic compounds in blueberries had robust and reproducible benefits during aging that were separable from antioxidant effects.
Much excitement has arisen from the observation that decrements in insulin-like signaling can dramatically extend lifespan in the nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans, and fruitfly, Drosophila melanogaster. In addition, there are tantalizing hints that the IGF-I pathway in mice may have similar effects. In addition to dramatic effects on lifespan, invertebrate insulin-like signaling also promotes changes in stress resistance, metabolism and development. Which, if any, of the various phenotypes of insulin pathway mutants are relevant to longevity? What are the genes that function in collaboration with insulin to prolong lifespan? These questions are at the heart of current research in C. elegans longevity. Two main theories exist as to the mechanism behind insulin's effects on invertebrate longevity. One theory is that insulin programs metabolic parameters that prolong or reduce lifespan. The other theory is that insulin determines the cell's ability to endure oxidative stress from respiration, thereby determining the rate of aging. However, these mechanisms are not mutually exclusive and several studies seem to support a role for both. Here, we review recently published reports investigating the mechanisms behind insulin's dramatic effect on longevity. We also spotlight several C. elegans genes that are now known to interact with insulin signaling to determine lifespan. These insights into pathways affecting invertebrate lifespan may provide a basis for developing strategies for pharmacological manipulation of human lifespan.
Many current drugs increase the average lifespan by preventing fatal diseases or by slowing down the progressive degenerative diseases that increase mortality. The existing strategies and guidelines for the development and regulatory approval of new drugs are designed for such compounds. Rapid advances in understanding molecular mechanisms of aging make it possible to envisage future drugs that extend the lifespan by regulating aging mechanism outside of disease pathways. Strategies for development and regulatory approval of such drugs remain to be defined. Since the drug candidates will be given to healthy, elderly subjects, safety requirements will be extremely high. Clinical studies of many years' duration will be necessary to prove changes in longevity. These time intervals may exceed those of patent protection and thus minimize commercial incentives. Despite these challenges, two broadly defined pathways are feasible. First, it may be possible to obtain public funding for studies with voluntary participation of humans consuming existing drugs or natural compounds in the 'expected to be safe' category. Second, the development of novel drugs may proceed on the basis of well-defined biomarkers of aging that can serve as surrogate end points in clinical studies. The emerging approaches will prompt the regulatory agencies into taking the first steps towards regulatory guidance.

The purpose of the current study was to evaluate a clinical program that used multisystemic therapy (MST) to improve regimen adherence and health outcomes among children with perinatally acquired HIV who exhibited high viral loads in the absence of viral resistance. MST is an intensive, home-based family therapy previously used for the treatment of serious antisocial behavior. Goals of the study were to assess the feasibility of the MST program and its effectiveness for improving health outcomes among children who were treated. The study was conducted by retrospective chart review. Ninety percent of children and families referred to the program accepted the referral and 95% received a full dose of treatment, suggesting high program feasibility. Nineteen children participated in the program. General HIV knowledge on the part of caregivers improved significantly over the course of treatment. Although caregiver-reported adherence did not change, viral loads were found to significantly decrease from referral to the end of MST treatment, with the mean change reflecting a greater than 1 log10 decrease. The majority of children maintained these improvements during the 3 months after treatment termination. Results suggest that MST holds promise as an intervention for improving health outcomes among pediatric patients with HIV.

We have recently shown that the alcohol self-administration context can reinstate extinguished responding for alcohol when that extinction occurs in a different context [Burattini, C., Gill, T. M., Aicardi, G., &amp; Janak, P. H. (2006)]. The ethanol self-administration context as a reinstatement cue: acute effects of naltrexone. Neuroscience, in press; Zironi, I., Burattini, C., Aicardi, G., &amp; Janak, P. H. (2006). Context is a trigger for relapse to alcohol. Behav Brain Res 167, 150-155). Here, we test whether the C57BL/6 mice will also show context-induced reinstatement for alcohol, and whether presentation of an alcohol-associated cue will alter the observed responding. Male C57BL/6 mice were trained to lever press on a fixed ratio-3 schedule for a 10% ethanol solution in a context made distinctive using visual, tactile, and olfactory stimuli. Each ethanol delivery was paired with a compound tone-light stimulus. After training, extinction sessions were given in a distinct context, comprised of different visual, tactile, and olfactory stimuli; the compound cue and the alcohol were not available during these sessions. In Experiment 1, after response extinction, subjects were tested by placement into both the alcohol self-administration context and, on a subsequent test, by response-contingent presentation of the cue following placement into the alcohol self-administration context. In Experiment 2, after response extinction, subjects were tested in both of these conditions, with the addition of a test of the effects of response-contingent presentation of the cue in the extinction context. The results indicate that the alcohol self-administration context produces a mild increase in responding at the alcohol lever, and that presentation of the alcohol-associated cue in the alcohol context, but not the extinction context, strongly increases responding on the alcohol lever. These findings suggest that the power of an alcohol-associated cue can be modulated by the context. The observed effects of alcohol contexts and cues on alcohol-seeking behavior in the C57BL/6 mouse suggest that this reinstatement model may be useful for understanding the neurobiological and genetic mechanisms of relapse triggered by conditioned environmental stimuli.
This article summarizes the proceedings of a symposium presented at the 2005 annual meeting of the Research Society on Alcoholism in Santa Barbara, California, USA. The organizer and chair was L. Judson Chandler. The presentations were (1) Chronic Ethanol Exposure, N-Methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA) Receptor Dynamics, and Withdrawal Hyperexcitability, by Adam Hendricson, Regina Maldve, and Richard Morrisett; (2) Ethanol-Induced Synaptic Targeting of NMDA Receptors Is Associated With Enhanced Postsynaptic Density-95 Clustering and Spine Size, by Judson Chandler and Ezekiel Carpenter-Hyland; (3) Presynaptic and Postsynaptic Alterations in the Nucleus Accumbens Following Chronic Alcohol Exposure, by Feng Zhou, Youssef Sari, and Richard Bell; and (4) An Active Role for Accumbens Homer2 Expression in Alcohol-Induced Neural Plasticity, by Karen Szumlinski.
This article summarizes the proceedings of a symposium at the 2005 Research Society on Alcoholism Meeting in Santa Barbara, California, organized and cochaired by John J. Woodward and Dorit Ron. The purpose of the symposium was to discuss recent findings that extend our understanding of the importance of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor as a target for ethanol action in the brain. These receptors are ligand-gated ion channels that are activated by the neurotransmitter glutamate and are critically involved in many forms of synaptic plasticity including those associated with learning and memory. In the first presentation, Dorit Ron presented data showing how activation of Fyn or Src tyrosine kinases differentially regulated the cell surface expression and activity of NR2A and NR2B containing NMDA receptors. Danny Winder discussed the effects of ethanol on NMDA receptor-dependent long-term potentiation in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), a brain region associated with the interaction between stress and drug/alcohol use. In the third presentation, Marisa Roberto described adaptations in the expression and function of NMDA receptors in the central nucleus of the amygdala following chronic exposure to ethanol. Finally, John Woodward described the effects of ethanol on the activity of neurons in deep layers of the prefrontal cortex using a novel slice coculture preparation.
This article presents the proceedings of a symposium entitled &quot;The Tipsy Terminal: Presynaptic Effects of Ethanol&quot; (held at the annual meeting of the Research Society on Alcoholism, in Santa Barbara, CA, June 27, 2005). The objective of this symposium was to focus on a cellular site of ethanol action underrepresented in the alcohol literature, but quickly becoming a &quot;hot&quot; topic. The chairs of the session were Marisa Roberto and George Robert Siggins. Our speakers were chosen on the basis of the diverse electrophysiological and other methods used to discern the effects of acute and chronic ethanol on presynaptic terminals and on the basis of significant insights that their data provide for understanding ethanol actions on neurons in general, as mechanisms underlying problematic behavioral effects of alcohol. The 5 presenters drew from their recent studies examining the effects of acute and chronic ethanol using a range of sophisticated methods from electrophysiological analysis of paired-pulse facilitation and spontaneous and miniature synaptic currents (Drs. Weiner, Valenzuela, Zhu, and Morrisett), to direct recording of ion channel activity and peptide release from acutely isolated synaptic terminals (Dr. Treistman), to direct microscopic observation of vesicular release (Dr. Morrisett). They showed that ethanol administration could both increase and decrease the probability of release of different transmitters from synaptic terminals. The effects of ethanol on synaptic terminals could often be correlated with important behavioral or developmental actions of alcohol. These and other novel findings suggest that future analyses of synaptic effects of ethanol should attempt to ascertain, in multiple brain regions, the role of presynaptic terminals, relevant presynaptic receptors and signal transduction linkages, exocytotic mechanisms, and their involvement in alcohol's behavioral actions. Such studies could lead to new treatment strategies for alcohol intoxication, alcohol abuse, and alcoholism.


Costello syndrome (CS) was initially described by Costello in 1971; it is caused by a germline mutation in HRAS proto-oncogene. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the respiratory activity during sleep in a group of subjects with CS. We studied 10 consecutive patients, 4 males and 6 females, aged 3-29 years, affected by CS. All patients underwent clinical, neurological, otholaryngologic and radiologic evaluation, and a full-night polysomnography in the sleep laboratory. Polysomnography showed that seven patients presented a relevant number of respiratory events of obstructive type during sleep. The apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) ranged from 0 to 19.2 events per hour (mean index = 7.5 +/- 6.9 events/hr). In one patient AHI was not evaluable because of tracheostomy. Apnea induced mild or moderate hemoglobin desaturations (mean of lowest SpO2 values = 85.4 +/- 5.5%). Only sporadic respiratory pauses of central type were observed (mean number of central apnea per study: 7.2 +/- 6.8 events/hr). Sleep structure was fragmented, with a high number of awakenings (mean number of awakenings was 13.2 +/- 8.1; of these, 4.8 +/- 2.5 lasted longer than 2 min). In all patients, otolaryngologic and radiologic observations revealed one or more sites of narrowing in the upper airways. Our results suggest that Costello patients have a high prevalence of obstructive sleep-related respiratory disorders, which need to be assessed by means of polysomnography.
Venous thromboembolism (deep venous thrombosis with or without its major complication, pulmonary embolism) commonly occurs in patients undergoing rehabilitative therapy for various surgical or traumatic conditions and in patients with incapacitating medical illnesses. Thromboprophylaxis utilizes medications that interfere with the coagulation process and mechanical measures such as graded elastic stockings and intermittent pneumatic compression. To obtain a range of expert opinion on the optimal use of the numerous antithrombotic modalities now available, a consortium comprising clinical directors at a number of rehabilitative centers in south Florida met to review the literature on thromboprophylaxis in rehabilitation patients and to discuss the strategies followed at their respective facilities. The consortium then assembled a set of recommendations based on available evidence-based literature and established consensus on acceptable forms of thromboprophylaxis in each clinical condition in rehabilitation associated with an increased risk of venous thromboembolism.
We have previously reported that intraceliac infusion of leptin induces a reduction of meal size that depends on intact vagal afferents. This effect of leptin is enhanced in the presence of cholecystokinin (CCK). The mechanisms by which leptin and CCK activate vagal afferent neurons are not known. In the present study, we have begun to address this question by using patch-clamp electrophysiological techniques to examine the mechanisms by which leptin and CCK activate cultured vagal afferents from adult rat nodose ganglia. We found that leptin depolarized 41 (60%) of 68 neurons. The magnitude of membrane depolarization was dependent on leptin concentration and occurred in both capsaicin-sensitive and capsaicin-insensitive neurons. We also found that a majority (16 of 22; 73%) of nodose neurons activated by leptin were also sensitive to CCK. CCK-induced depolarization was primarily associated with the increase of an inward current (11 of 12), whereas leptin induced multiple changes in background conductances through a decrease in an outward current (7 of 13), an increase in an inward current (3 of 13), or both (3 of 13). However, further isolation of background currents by recording in solutions that contained only sodium or only potassium revealed that both leptin and CCK were capable of increasing a sodium-dependent conductance or inhibiting a potassium-dependent conductance. Our results support the hypothesis that vagal afferents are a point of convergence and integration of leptin and CCK signaling for control of food intake and suggest multiple ionic mechanisms by which leptin and CCK activate vagal afferent neurons.
Leptin, a hormone produced by adipocytes, has been shown to affect a number of central functions, such as regulation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, feeding, and body weight regulation. Because hypothalamic monoamines are intricately involved in the regulation of these functions, we hypothesized that leptin may produce its effects by altering the activity of these neurotransmitters. To test this hypothesis, male rats received peripheral (0, 100, or 500 microg ip), or central (0 or 5 microg icv) injections of leptin. The animals were killed 5 h later, and their brains were removed, frozen, and sectioned. Serum was collected to measure leptin and corticosterone by RIA. The paraventricular nucleus (PVN), arcuate nucleus (AN), ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), dorsomedial dorsal nucleus (DMD), median eminence (ME), and medial preoptic area (MPA) were obtained using Palkovits' microdissection technique, and monoamine concentrations in these areas were determined using HPLC-EC. Intraperitoneal administration of leptin increased serum leptin concentrations in a dose-dependent manner (P &lt; 0.05). Both intraperitoneal and intracerebroventricular administration of leptin decreased serum corticosterone significantly (P &lt; 0.05). Norepinephrine (NE) concentration decreased significantly in the PVN, AN, and VMH after both intraperitoneal and intracerebroventricular administration of leptin (P &lt; 0.05). NE concentrations decreased significantly in the DMN after intracerebroventricular administration of leptin (P &lt; 0.05). Leptin treatment (both ip and icv) decreased dopamine concentrations significantly in the PVN. Serotonin (5-HT) concentration decreased significantly in the PVN after both intraperitoneal and intracerebroventricular injections of leptin and decreased in the VMH only with intracerebroventricular treatment of leptin. Leptin did not affect any of the monoamines in the ME and MPA. These results indicate that both central and systemic administration of leptin can affect hypothalamic monoamines in a region-specific manner, which, in turn, could mediate many of leptin's central and neuroendocrine effects.
The mdx mouse is an animal model for Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Mdx mice fed a 12% NaCl diet from birth up to 20 days of age (mdx-Na mice) had an approximately 50% reduction in serum creatine kinase (CK) activity compared with mdx mice fed a standard diet. Most notably, necrotic fibers in tibialis anterior (TA) muscle of mdx-Na mice were reduced by 99% and were similar in control mice. These mdx mice displayed significantly elevated blood Ca2+ and Na+ levels, while the total calcium content of their TA muscle was reduced to the level of control mice. In addition, mdx-Na mice had elevated zinc and magnesium contents in their TA muscle. These results suggest that elevated serum Na+ leads to Ca2+ extrusion from muscle via the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger causing a decrease in intracellular Ca2+ levels and an increase in blood Ca2+ levels. Extracellular Ca2+ and, in addition, Zn2+ and Mg2+ might also contribute to the stabilization of the cell membrane. Other possibilities explaining the surprisingly efficacious beneficial effect of dietary sodium exist and are discussed.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of tramadol on the Bispectral Index (BIS) during total intravenous propofol-remifentanil anaesthesia. Forty-four adult ASA Physical status I-II patients, scheduled for elective general surgical procedures were included in a prospective observational randomized study. Doses for anaesthetics and opioids were adjusted to keep the BIS value at 50 +/- 5. After 20 minutes of stable anaesthesia, the subjects were randomly allocated to receive intravenous saline (control group) or tramadol 1.5 mg/kg (tramadol group). BIS values, mean arterial pressure, and heart rate were recorded every five minutes for 20 minutes. Mean BIS values after tramadol administration were not significantly different from those following saline, throughout the observation period (P &gt; 0.05). There were no patients in whom BIS values were more than 60 or who presented explicit recall of events under anaesthesia. There were no significant changes in mean arterial pressure, SpO2, or heart rate (P &gt; 0.05). The results indicate that the administration of tramadol during stable total intravenous anaesthesia with propofol-remifentanil does not affect BIS values. The clinical relevance is that tramadol can be safely administered pre- and intraoperatively as pre-emptive or preventive analgesia without modification of the depth of anaesthesia.
Naked mole-rats are fossorial rodents native to eastern Africa that spend their lives in extensive subterranean burrows where visual cues are poor. Not surprisingly, they have a degenerated eye and optic nerve, suggesting they have poor visual abilities. However, little is known about their central visual system. To investigate the organization of their central visual system, we injected a neuronal tracer into the eyes of naked mole-rats and mice to compare the neural structures mediating vision. We found that the superior colliculus and lateral geniculate nucleus were severely atrophied in the naked mole-rat. The olivary pretectal nucleus was reduced but still retained its characteristic morphology, possibly indicating a role in light detection. In addition, the suprachiasmatic nucleus is well innervated and resembles the same structure in other rodents. The naked mole-rat appears to have selectively lost structures that mediate form vision while retaining structures needed for minimal entrainment of circadian rhythms. Similar results have been reported for other mole-rat species. Taken together, these data suggest that light detection may still play an important role in the lives of these &quot;blind&quot; animals: most likely for circadian entrainment or setting seasonal rhythms.
A complex set of axonal guidance mechanisms are utilized by axons to locate and innervate their targets. In the developing mouse forebrain, we previously described several midline glial populations as well as various guidance molecules that regulate the formation of the corpus callosum. Since agenesis of the corpus callosum is associated with over 50 different human congenital syndromes, we wanted to investigate whether these same mechanisms also operate during human callosal development. Here we analyze midline glial and commissural development in human fetal brains ranging from 13 to 20 weeks of gestation using both diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging and immunohistochemistry. Through our combined radiological and histological studies, we demonstrate the morphological development of multiple forebrain commissures/decussations, including the corpus callosum, anterior commissure, hippocampal commissure, and the optic chiasm. Histological analyses demonstrated that all the midline glial populations previously described in mouse, as well as structures analogous to the subcallosal sling and cingulate pioneering axons, that mediate callosal axon guidance in mouse, are also present during human brain development. Finally, by Northern blot analysis, we have identified that molecules involved in mouse callosal development, including Slit, Robo, Netrin1, DCC, Nfia, Emx1, and GAP-43, are all expressed in human fetal brain. These data suggest that similar mechanisms and molecules required for midline commissure formation operate during both mouse and human brain development. Thus, the mouse is an excellent model system for studying normal and pathological commissural formation in human brain development.
Intradiploic inclusion cyst of the skull presenting as a calvarial defect is fairly uncommon in the neuroscience practice. They are benign in nature, slow to grow, and clinically difficult to differentiate from other causes of calvarial defects. We present a case of a healthy 55-year-old woman who presented clinically for an asymptomatic lump over the right parieto-occipital region of the scalp of 4-month duration. The radiological features were suggestive of presence of a large intradiploic solitary cyst and additional multiple lytic defects with sclerotic borders, destroying the underlying bone. The gross and histomorphological features of the right parieto-occipital craniectomy specimen received were pathognomic of an intradiploic primary epithelial inclusion cyst of the skull bone. The importance of its benign nature, embryogenic origin, and differentiation from other cystic lesions with similar histology is stressed. We report this case for its unique histomorphology and first of its kind in the Indian literature.

Hyponatremia is frequently associated with neurological disease, neurosurgical procedures, and use of psychoactive drugs. Arginine vasopressin (AVP), or antidiuretic hormone, is the principal physiological regulator of water and electrolyte balance, and disruption of the normal AVP response to osmotic stimuli is a common cause of dilutional hyponatremia in neurological disorders. The hyponatremia-induced shift in water from the extracellular to the intracellular compartment can lead to cerebral edema and serious neurological complications, especially if the decrease in serum sodium concentration ([Na+]) is large or rapid. Overly rapid correction of the serum [Na+] may lead to osmotic demyelination and irreversible brain injury. Fluid restriction is considered first-line treatment and pharmacological agents currently used in the treatment of hyponatremia are limited by inconsistent response and adverse side effects. AVP receptor antagonists represent a new approach to the treatment of hyponatremia by blocking tubular reabsorption of water by binding to V2 receptors in the renal collecting ducts, resulting in aquaresis. Initial clinical experience with AVP receptor antagonists for hyponatremia has shown that these agents augment free water clearance, decrease urine osmolality, and correct serum [Na+] and serum osmolality. Controlled clinical trials now underway will help elucidate the role of AVP receptor antagonism in the treatment of hyponatremia.




F11 cells are derived from a fusion between mouse embryonic neuroblastoma and rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. These cells have been shown to retain many features of native DRG neurons, including synthesis of neurotransmitters, expression of neuropeptide receptors, and voltage-gated calcium channels. In this study, we describe the presence of KCNQ2/3 channels in F11 cells as determined by both reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and functional assessment. Electrophysiological recordings in whole-cell configuration performed in F11 cells revealed the functional expression of a KCNQ/M-current with characteristic slow deactivation kinetics, similar to the KCNQ/M-current recorded from dissociated DRG neurons. Deactivation tail currents elicited by conventional M-current protocols were enhanced by a specific KCNQ/M-channel opener, WAY-1, and inhibited by the specific blocker XE991 [10,10-bis(4-pyridinylmethyl)-9(10H)- anthracenone]. Using a non-radioactive atomic absorption Rb+ efflux assay, we further validated that Rb+ efflux can be induced in differentiated F11 cells by activation of KCNQ/M-channels. These findings have led us to conclude that F11 cells can be used as a DRG cell model to evaluate effects of KCNQ/M-channel modulators.
Level 1 evidence for management of patients with stroke in a dedicated Stroke Care Unit (SCU) demonstrates improved outcomes by about 20%. It has been estimated that 21% of Australian hospitals provide an SCU and that these SCUs are mainly located in either metropolitan sites and/or in hospitals with more than 300 beds. To address equity issues related to access to SCUs, the National Stroke Foundation and the Australian Government undertook the National Stroke Units Program. One program outcome was the development of a conceptual model of acute stroke service delivery. The development process and initial evaluation of the model are described. Use of the model to increase capacity within the health care system to treat stroke is discussed.


In the relatively short period of time since the discovery of cannabinoid receptors and their endogenous ligands, the endocannabinoids, an intensive research effort has resulted in the identification of agents that affect all aspects of the endocannabinoid system. The cannabinoid(1) receptor antagonist rimonabant is in phase III clinical trials for the treatment of obesity and as an aid to smoking cessation, and cannabinoid(2) receptor agonists are promising in animal models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain. In the present MiniReview, the endocannabinoid system is described from a pharmacological perspective. The main topics covered are: the mechanism of action of cannabinoid(2) receptor agonists; identification of the endocannabinoid(s) involved in retrograde signalling; the elusive mechanism(s) of endocannabinoid uptake; therapeutic possibilities for fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitors; and the cyclooxygenase-2 and lipoxygenase-derived biologically active metabolites of the endocannabinoids.
Brain evolution is a complex weave of species similarities and differences, bound by diverse rules and principles. This book is a detailed examination of these principles, using data from a wide array of vertebrates but minimizing technical details and terminology. It is written for advanced undergraduates, graduate students, and more senior scientists who already know something about &quot;the brain,&quot; but want a deeper understanding of how diverse brains evolved. The book's central theme is that evolutionary changes in absolute brain size tend to correlate with many other aspects of brain structure and function, including the proportional size of individual brain regions, their complexity, and their neuronal connections. To explain these correlations, the book delves into rules of brain development and asks how changes in brain structure impact function and behavior. Two chapters focus specifically on how mammal brains diverged from other brains and how Homo sapiens evolved a very large and &quot;special&quot; brain.

One of the most consistent findings in the neuroscience of autism is hypoactivation of the fusiform gyrus (FG) during face processing. In this study the authors examined whether successful facial affect recognition training is associated with an increased activation of the FG in autism. The effect of a computer-based program to teach facial affect identification was examined in 10 individuals with high-functioning autism. Blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) changes in the FG and other regions of interest, as well as behavioral facial affect recognition measures, were assessed pre- and posttraining. No significant activation changes in the FG were observed. Trained participants showed behavioral improvements, which were accompanied by higher BOLD fMRI signals in the superior parietal lobule and maintained activation in the right medial occipital gyrus.
The effects of perinatal and postweaning photoperiods on subsequent affective behaviors were examined in adult Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus). Hamsters exposed perinatally to short days (8 hr light/day) exhibited mixed results for adult anxiety-like behaviors and increased some depressive-like behaviors compared with hamsters exposed to long days (16 hr light/day). Postweaning exposure to short days increased depressive- and anxiety-like behaviors compared with long days. Sex differences in affective behaviors were observed. These results suggest that anxiety-like behaviors are organized early in life and endure throughout adulthood, and anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors are modified by postweaning photoperiod. The persistence of photoperiod-induced affective behaviors in rodents supports the hypothesis that symptoms of human affective disorders may reflect ancestral adaptations to seasonal environments.
In hamsters, adolescent anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) exposure facilitates offensive aggression, in part by altering the development and activity of anterior hypothalamic arginine vasopressin (AH-AVP). This study assessed whether these effects were lasting by examining aggression and AH-AVP during AAS withdrawal. Adolescent hamsters administered AAS were tested as adults for aggression at 1, 4, 11, 18, or 25 days of withdrawal, sacrificed the following day, and examined for AH-AVP afferent innervation using immunohistochemistry. Through Day 12 of withdrawal, aggression and AVP were significantly higher in AAS-treated hamsters than in controls. These differences were no longer observable by Day 19 of withdrawal, at which point the behavior and neurobiology of AAS-treated hamsters reverted to that observed in controls. These data indicate that adolescent AAS exposure has short-term, reversible effects on both aggression and AH-AVP, correlating AH-AVP with the aggressive/nonaggressive behavioral phenotype during AAS withdrawal.
In a series of 3 experiments on rats, 2 hypotheses were tested: (a) that damage to the orbital frontal cortex (OFC) would alter the socially relevant context for executing defensive responses but not their performance and (b) that damage done to the OFC in early infancy would produce more deficits in social behavior than similar damage occurring in adulthood. Bilateral or unilateral OFC damage in adult males did not impair their ability to defend themselves during play fighting and when protecting their food but did impair their ability to modify the pattern of defense in response to different partners. Rats that sustained bilateral damage at 3 days of age not only had deficits in partner-related modulation of defense but also exhibited hyperactivity in their play. The findings thus supported the proposed hypotheses.
Characterization of anxiolytic drugs often employs conflict paradigms in which the drug effects on punished and unpunished responding can be compared. In this study, a fixed interval schedule generating a range of baseline response rates allowed comparison of the effects of anxiolytic drugs with those of psychotomimetic drugs on equivalent and differing rates of punished and unpunished responding. The first response made by the rat after a 40-s fixed interval elapsed resulted in food pellet delivery. In punished intervals, signalled by the illumination of stimulus lamps above each lever, a 0.6-mA shock was delivered after every 20th response, resulting in a lower rate of responding than that in the unpunished intervals. Three psychotomimetic agents, D-amphetamine, MK801 and DOI were compared with the anxiolytics chlordiazepoxide, NS2710 and pregabalin. The three psychotomimetics preferentially increased rates of unpunished responding compared with those of punished responding. Chlordiazepoxide, NS2710 and, to a lesser extent, pregabalin increased rates of both unpunished and punished responding. In comparison studies, yohimbine also increased rates of both unpunished and punished responding whereas the antidepressant citalopram had no effect. In conclusion, stable baseline performance over many months allowed the direct comparison of several different drugs in the same subjects with no need to adjust shock levels or equate baseline response rates. The drugs had systematic and replicable effects in this procedure, which, in the case of amphetamine and chlordiazepoxide, were similar to those in other species, and psychotomimetic drugs could clearly be distinguished from anxiolytic drugs. The procedure, however, has limited value for characterizing novel anxiolytic agents as the examples used here increased punished and unpunished responding to the same extent, and were indistinguishable in that regard from the clinically anxiogenic agent, yohimbine.
Forward genetic screens have identified numerous proteins with critical roles in neurotransmission. One particularly fruitful screening target in Drosophila has been TS (temperature-sensitive) paralytic mutants, which have revealed proteins acutely required in neuronal signalling. In the present paper, we review recent insights and current questions from one recently cloned TS paralytic mutant, rbo (rolling blackout). The rbo mutant identifies a putative integral lipase of the pre-synaptic plasma membrane that is required for the SV (synaptic vesicle) cycle. Identification of this mutant adds to a growing body of evidence that lipid-modifying enzymes locally control specialized lipid microenvironments and lipid signalling pathways with key functions regulating neurotransmission strength. The RBO protein is absolutely required for phospholipase C signalling in phototransduction. We posit that RBO might be required to regulate the availability of fusogenic lipids such as phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate and diacylglycerol that may directly modify membrane properties and/or activate lipid-binding fusogenic proteins mediating SV exocytosis.
Prion diseases are characteristically accompanied by marked astrocytic activation, which is initiated relatively early in the disease process. Using the intracerebrally injected ME7 strain of prion agent to model disease, we identified an expected increase in GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein) but additionally noted an accumulation of GFAP cleavage fragments in hippocampal homogenates. A time-dependent increase in hippocampal mu-calpain immunoreactivity within astrocytes suggests that its proteolytic activity may account for the cleavage of GFAP that is observed in the ME7 model. It may therefore contribute to the reactive gliosis that is characteristic of prion diseases.
The focused meeting entitled 'Molecular Determinants of Synaptic Function: Molecules and Models' brought together several molecules and experimental models that are furthering our understanding of the biochemical basis of integrative brain function. Invited speakers and short communications from more junior scientists highlighted how individual molecules or protein networks underlie defined subcellular functions (e.g. transmitter release, receptor activation and transmitter uptake) can be used to unravel integrative function at cellular, systems and behavioural levels.
Removal of the mRNA 5' cap is an important step in the regulation of mRNA stability. mRNAs are degraded by at least two distinct exonucleolytic decay pathways, one from the 5' end, and the second from the 3' end. Two major cellular decapping enzymes have been identified, and each primarily functions in one of the two decay pathways. The Dcp2 decapping enzyme utilizes capped mRNA as substrate and hydrolyses the cap to release m(7)GDP (N7-methyl GDP), while a scavenger decapping enzyme, DcpS, utilizes cap dinucleotides or capped oligonucleotides as substrate and releases m(7)GMP (N7-methyl GMP). In this review, we will highlight the function of different decapping enzymes and their role in mRNA turnover.
Doxorubicin (DOX) is a highly effective treatment for several forms of cancer. However, clinical experience shows that DOX induces a cumulative and dose-dependent cardiomyopathy that has been ascribed to redox-cycling of the drug on the mitochondrial respiratory chain generating free radicals and oxidative stress in the process. Mitochondrial dysfunction including induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) and inhibition of mitochondrial respiration have been implicated as major determinants in the pathogenesis of DOX cardiotoxicity. The present work was aimed at investigating whether the inhibition of mitochondrial respiration occurs secondarily to MPT induction in heart mitochondria isolated from DOX-treated rats and whether one or both consequences of DOX treatment are related with oxidation of protein thiol residues. DOX-induced oxidative stress was associated with the accumulation of products of lipid peroxidation and the depletion of alpha-tocopherol in cardiac mitochondrial membranes. No changes in mitochondrial coenzyme Q9 and Q10 concentrations were detected in hearts of DOX-treated rats. Cardiac mitochondria from DOX-treated rats were more susceptible to diamide-dependent induction of the MPT. Although DOX treatment did not affect state 4 respiration, state 3 respiration was decreased in heart mitochondria isolated from DOX-treated rats, which was reversed in part by adding either cyclosporin A or dithiothreitol, but not Trolox. The results suggest that in DOX-treated rats, (i) induction of the MPT is at least in part responsible for decreased mitochondrial respiration, (ii) heart mitochondria are more susceptible to diamide induced-MPT, (iii) thiol-dependent alteration of mitochondrial respiration is partially reversible ex vivo with dithiothreitol. Collectively, these data are consistent with the thesis that thiol-dependent alteration of MPT and respiration is an important factor in DOX-induced mitochondrial dysfunction.
Cone snails (genus Conus) are predatory marine gastropods that use venom peptides for interacting with prey, predators and competitors. A majority of these peptides, generally known as conotoxins demonstrate striking selectivity in targeting specific subtypes of ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors. So they are not only useful tools in neuroscience to characterize receptors and receptor subtypes, but offer great potential in new drug research and development as well. Here, a cDNA library from the venom ducts of a fish-hunting cone snail species, Conus striatus is described for the generation of expressed sequence tags (ESTs). A total of 429 ESTs were grouped into 137 clusters or singletons. Among these sequences, 221 were toxin sequences, accounting for 52.1% (corresponding to 19 clusters) of all transcripts. A-superfamily (132 ESTs) and O-superfamily conotoxins (80 ESTs) constitute the predominant toxin components. Some non-disulfide-rich Conus peptides were also found. The expression profile of conotoxins also explained to some extent the pharmacological and physiological reactions elicited by this typical piscivorous species. For the first time, a nonstop transcript of conotoxin was identified, which is suggestive that alternative polyadenylation may be a means of post-transcriptional regulation of conotoxin production. A comparison analysis of these conotoxins reveals the different variation and divergence patterns in these two superfamilies. Our investigations indicate that focal hyper-mutation, block substitution and exon shuffling are three main mechanisms leading to the conotoxin diversity in a species. The comprehensive set of Conus gene sequences allowed the identification of the representative classes of conotoxins and related components, which may lay the foundation for further research and development of conotoxins.
Neuroimaging, psychosurgery, deep-brain stimulation, and psychopharmacology hold considerable promise for more accurate prediction and diagnosis and more effective treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders. Some forms of psychopharmacology may even be able to enhance normal cognitive and affective capacities. But the brain remains the most complex and least understood of all the organs in the human body. Mapping the neural correlates of the mind through brain scans, and altering these correlates through surgery, stimulation, or pharmacological interventions can affect us in both positive and negative ways. We need to carefully weigh the potential benefit against the potential harm of such techniques. This paper examines some of these techniques and explores the emerging ethical issues in clinical neuroscience.
Antagonists of the B1 bradykinin receptor (B1R), encoded by the BDKRB1 gene, offer the promise of novel therapeutic agents for inflammatory and neuropathic pain. However, the in vivo characterization of the pharmacodynamics of B1R antagonists is hindered by the low level of B1R expression in healthy tissue and the profound species selectivity exhibited by many compounds for the B1R. To circumvent these issues we generated two genetically engineered rodent models. The first is a transgenic rat over-expressing the human B1R under the control of the neuronal-specific enolase promoter; we previously reported the utility of this model in assessing human B1R receptor occupancy in the central nervous system of the rat. The second model, reported here, utilized gene-targeting by homologous recombination to replace the genomic coding sequence for the endogenous mouse B1R with that of the human B1R. The mRNA expression profile of the humanized Bdkrb1 (hBkdrb1) allele is similar to that of the mouse Bdkrb1 (mBkdrb1) in the wild-type animal. Furthermore, in vitro assays indicate that tissues isolated from the humanized mouse possess pharmacological properties characteristic of the human B1R. Therefore, we have generated a humanized B1R mouse model that is suitable for testing the efficacy of human B1R-selective compounds.
Most excitatory synaptic transmissions in the central nervous system are mediated by the neurotransmitter glutamate. Binding of glutamate released from the presynaptic membrane causes glutamate receptors in the postsynaptic membrane to open, which results in a transient depolarization of the postsynaptic membrane. The AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid) subtype of glutamate receptors is responsible for the majority of excitatory postsynaptic currents and is thought to play a central role in synaptic plasticity. Because modulation of glutamate receptors is believed to be involved in the basic mechanism underlying information storage in the brain, the molecular architecture of native AMPA receptors (AMPA-Rs) is of great interest. Previously, we have shown that AMPA-Rs purified from the brain are tightly associated with members of the stargazin/TARP (transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory protein) family of membrane proteins [Nakagawa et al., Nature 433 (2005), pp. 545-549]. Here, we present a three-dimensional (3D) density map of the hetero-tetrameric AMPA-R without associated stargazin/TARP proteins as determined by cryo-negative stain single-particle electron microscopy. In the absence of stargazin/TARP proteins, the density representing the transmembrane region of the AMPA-R particles is substantially smaller, corroborating our previous analysis that was based solely on projection images.
The cerebral cortex utilizes spatiotemporal continuity in the world to help build invariant representations. In vision, these might be representations of objects. The temporal continuity typical of objects has been used in an associative learning rule with a short-term memory trace to help build invariant object representations. In this paper, we show that spatial continuity can also provide a basis for helping a system to self-organize invariant representations. We introduce a new learning paradigm &quot;continuous transformation learning&quot; which operates by mapping spatially similar input patterns to the same postsynaptic neurons in a competitive learning system. As the inputs move through the space of possible continuous transforms (e.g. translation, rotation, etc.), the active synapses are modified onto the set of postsynaptic neurons. Because other transforms of the same stimulus overlap with previously learned exemplars, a common set of postsynaptic neurons is activated by the new transforms, and learning of the new active inputs onto the same postsynaptic neurons is facilitated. We demonstrate that a hierarchical model of cortical processing in the ventral visual system can be trained with continuous transform learning, and highlight differences in the learning of invariant representations to those achieved by trace learning.

Cyclosporine (CyA) is an immunosuppressive agent used after solid organ transplantation, but its clinical use is limited by side effects, the most important of which is nephrotoxicity. In a previous work we demonstrated that L-propionylcarnitine (L-PC), a propionyl ester of L-carnitine, is able to prevent CyA-induced acute nephrotoxicity reducing lipid peroxidation in the isolated and perfused rat kidney. CyA administration was associated with a dose dependent increase in renovascular resistance prevented by a pretreatment with L-PC. The aim of the present study was to confirm L-PC protective effect, previously described in vitro, in an in vivo rat model. Chronic nephrotoxicity study was carried out for 28 days. L-PC was administered (i.p. 25 mg/kg b.w.) since the first day, while CyA treatment was performed for the last 21 days (by oral administration 25 mg/kg b.w.). We demonstrate that L-PC was able to significantly lower blood pressure in CyA treated animals and to prevent CyA induced decrease in creatinine clearance. Moreover renal tissue analysis revealed that L-PC was able to reduce lipid hydroperoxide content and morphological abnormalities associated to chronic CyA administration. In conclusion our study demonstrated for the first time in vivo that L-PC protects against functional and tissue damage associated to chronic CyA administration.

Analysis of slow waves in arterial blood pressure (ABP) and intracranial pressure (ICP) has been used as an index to describe cerebrovascular pressure-reactivity. It has been previously demonstrated that the pressure-reactivity index (PRx) can be used to reflect global cerebrovascular reactivity with changes in ABP. A positive PRx signifies a positive association between ABP and ICP, indicating a non-reactive vascular bed, while a negative PRx is reflective of intact cerebral autoregulation, where ABP waves provoke inversely correlated waves in ICP. To date, there has been no characterization of pressure-reactivity following decompressive craniectomy. In this prospective observational study, 33 patients who underwent surgery for acute brain injury with mass lesions for which the bone flap was left out were studied. The PRx was calculated as a moving correlation coefficient between 30 consecutive samples of values of ICP and ABP averaged for a period of 10 s. The time profiles of mean PRx values at 6-hourly intervals were analysed and compared with that in seven patients treated by medical therapy alone. The initial mean PRx 6 h after surgery was positive, indicative of disturbed pressure-reactivity. With time, PRx trended towards a more negative value, suggestive of an improving cerebrovascular autoregulatory reserve. The mean PRx 24 h after surgery was 0.28 (+/-0.26), while the mean PRx 72 h after surgery was 0.15 (+/-0.25) (p = 0.012). In contrast, the mean PRx in patients that were not decompressed did not change significantly with time (p = 0.357). Surgery in acute brain injury for which the bone flap is left out in anticipation of raised intracranial pressure in the postoperative period leads to an improved PRx as compared with controls. Craniectomy in this situation may have a contribution to the restoration of disturbed cerebrovascular pressure-reactivity.
The physiology and pharmacology of the lower urinary tract has advanced based, in part, due to the in vitro assays that have facilitated this exploration. Such assays have led to the development of novel and selective molecules that have been used to characterize different receptor and enzyme systems in the larger context of in vivo pharmacology. These assays can be classified by sites of action of drugs into the following categories: receptors, effector enzymes and enzymes that terminate the responses. In this review, representative assays are presented based on our experience in male erectile dysfunction.
1. In the present study, we examined the pharmacological activity of the putative kappa3-opioid receptor agonist naloxone benzoylhydrazone (NalBzoH) at recombinant human opioid receptors individually expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells and native opioid receptors present in rat striatum. 2. At the mu-opioid receptor (MOR), NalBzoH stimulated guanosine-5'-O-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) binding (pEC50=8.59) and inhibited cyclic AMP accumulation (pEC50=8.74) with maximal effects (Emax) corresponding to 55 and 65% of those obtained with the MOR agonist DAMGO, respectively. The MOR antagonist CTAP blocked the stimulatory effects of NalBzoH and DAMGO with similar potencies. 3. At the kappa-opioid receptor (KOR), NalBzoH stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding (pEC50=9.70) and inhibited cyclic AMP formation (pEC50=9.45) as effectively as the selective KOR agonist (-)-U-50,488. The NalBzoH effect was blocked by the KOR antagonist nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI) (pKi=10.30). 4. In CHO cells expressing the delta-opioid receptor (DOR), NalBzoH increased [35S]GTPgammaS binding (pEC50=8.49) and inhibited cyclic AMP formation (pEC50=8.61) almost as effectively as the DOR agonist DPDPE. Naltrindole (NTI), a selective DOR antagonist, completely blocked the response to NalBzoH (pKi of 10.40). 5. In CHO cells expressing the nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) receptor (NOP), NalBzoH failed to exert agonist effects and antagonized the agonist-induced receptor activation. 6. When compared to other opioid receptor ligands, NalBzoH showed an efficacy that was lower than that of morphine at MOR, but higher at KOR and DOR. 7. In rat striatum, NalBzoH enhanced [35S]GTPgammaS binding and inhibited adenylyl cyclase activity. These effects were antagonized by either CTAP, nor-BNI or NTI, each antagonist blocking a fraction of the NalBzoH response. 8. These data demonstrate that NalBzoH displays agonist activity at MOR, DOR and KOR expressed either in a heterologous cell system or in a native environment.
Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy type I (HSAN I) is the most frequent type of hereditary neuropathy that primarily affects sensory neurons. The genetic locus for HSAN I has been mapped to chromosome 9q22.1-22.3 and recently the gene was identified as SPTLC1, encoding serine palmitoyltransferase, long chain base subunit-1. Sequencing in HSAN I families have previously identified mutations in exons 5, 6 and 13 of this gene. We analysed the SPTLC1 gene for mutations in 8 families with HSAN I, 60 individuals with sporadic sensory neuropathy, 6 HSAN II families, 20 Charcot-Marie-Tooth type I families and 20 families with Charcot-Marie-Tooth type II. Six HSAN I families and a single sporadic neuropathy case had an identical SPTLC1 mutation. No mutations were found in the other groups. Genetic haplotyping across the HSAN I critical region in 5 families and the sporadic case suggested a common founder. Several characteristics, previously not widely recognized were identified, including lack of penetrance of the SPTLC1 mutation in some individuals, variability in age of onset along with an earlier age of onset in younger generations, in some patients surprisingly early and often severe motor involvement and an earlier onset characterized by motor involvement with demyelinating features in males compared to females in 4 families. The sensory findings were often disassociated with prominent pain and temperature loss. Neurophysiology mainly showed a sensory axonal neuropathy but in many individuals there was electrical evidence of demyelination. Sural nerve biopsies from six affected individuals and the post-mortem findings in 1 case showed mainly axonal loss. This in depth study on the phenotype of HSAN I in 6 families and a single sporadic case with a common founder identifies a number of poorly recognized features in this disorder and highlights the clinical heterogeneity both within and between families suggesting the influence of other genetic and acquired factors.
The neural basis of variation in human intelligence is not well delineated. Numerous studies relating measures of brain size such as brain weight, head circumference, CT or MRI brain volume to different intelligence test measures, with variously defined samples of subjects have yielded inconsistent findings with correlations from approximately 0 to 0.6, with most correlations approximately 0.3 or 0.4. The study of intelligence in relation to postmortem cerebral volume is not available to date. We report the results of such a study on 100 cases (58 women and 42 men) having prospectively obtained Full Scale Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale scores. Ability correlated with cerebral volume, but the relationship depended on the realm of intelligence studied, as well as the sex and hemispheric functional lateralization of the subject. General verbal ability was positively correlated with cerebral volume and each hemisphere's volume in women and in right-handed men accounting for 36% of the variation in verbal intelligence. There was no evidence of such a relationship in non-right-handed men, indicating that at least for verbal intelligence, functional asymmetry may be a relevant factor in structure-function relationships in men, but not in women. In women, general visuospatial ability was also positively correlated with cerebral volume, but less strongly, accounting for approximately 10% of the variance. In men, there was a non-significant trend of a negative correlation between visuospatial ability and cerebral volume, suggesting that the neural substrate of visuospatial ability may differ between the sexes. Analyses of additional research subjects used as test cases provided support for our regression models. In men, visuospatial ability and cerebral volume were strongly linked via the factor of chronological age, suggesting that the well-documented decline in visuospatial intelligence with age is related, at least in right-handed men, to the decrease in cerebral volume with age. We found that cerebral volume decreased only minimally with age in women. This leaves unknown the neural substrate underlying the visuospatial decline with age in women. Body height was found to account for 1-4% of the variation in cerebral volume within each sex, leaving the basis of the well-documented sex difference in cerebral volume unaccounted for. With finer testing instruments of specific cognitive abilities and measures of their associated brain regions, it is likely that stronger structure-function relationships will be observed. Our results point to the need for responsibility in the consideration of the possible use of brain images as intelligence tests.
In humans, neurotrauma is suspected to cause brain atrophy and accelerate slowly progressive neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease or schizophrenia. However, a direct link between brain injury and subsequent delayed global neurodegeneration has remained elusive. Here we show that juvenile (4-week-old) mice that are given a discrete unilateral lesion of the parietal cortex, develop to adulthood without obvious clinical symptoms. However, when monitored 3 and 9 months after lesioning, using high-resolution three-dimensional MRI and behavioural testing, the same mice display global neurodegenerative changes. Surprisingly, erythropoietin, a haematopoietic growth factor with potent neuroprotective activity, prevents behavioural abnormalities, cognitive dysfunction and brain atrophy when given for 2 weeks after acute brain injury. This demonstrates that a localized brain lesion is a primary cause of delayed global neurodegeneration that can be efficiently counteracted by neuroprotection.
The therapeutic effects of individual neurotrophic factors (NTF) have proved disappointing in clinical trials for neuronal repair and axon regeneration. Here, we demonstrate NTF synergistic neuronal responses after a combination of basic fibroblast growth factor, neurotrophin-3 and brain derived growth factor delivered to the somata of retinal ganglion cells promoted greater survival and axon growth than did the sum of the effects of each NTF alone. Triple and not single NTF treatments potentiated regulated intramembraneous proteolysis of p75(NTR), and ectodomain shedding of Nogo receptor, correlated with a 30% decrease in activation of Rho-A, a key signalling molecule in the axon growth inhibitory cascade. Thus, combinatorial NTF administration synergistically enhanced neuronal survival, disinhibited axon growth and promoted axon regeneration through the hostile CNS environment without the intervention of scar tissue at the lesion site.
Selective verb and noun deficits have been observed in a number of neurological conditions and their occurrence has been interpreted as evidence for different neural networks underlying the processing of specific word categories. We describe the first case of a familial occurrence of a selective deficit of verb processing. Father (Individual I) and son (Individual II) developed a movement disorder resembling progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and associated with dementia. A second child of Individual II remained symptom-free on consecutive examinations. The dissociation between the processing of nouns and verbs in Individuals I and II was confirmed with different methods, including a longitudinal assessment of naming, comprehension, picture and word association, as well as a lexical decision task. The difference remained stable on follow-up testing despite overall deterioration. It was associated with left-sided frontal hypometabolism on FDG-PET imaging (Individual II) and with ubiquitin-positive inclusions on post-mortem examination (Individual I). The association of a selective verb deficit with a familial movement disorder raises the question whether related genetic factors might influence both movements and their abstract conceptual representations in the form of action verbs. By demonstrating a link between pathology, genetics, imaging and abstract cognitive impairments this study advances our understanding of degenerative brain disease with implications for both neuroscience and clinical practice.
Growing evidence suggests that astrocytes are the active partners of neurons in many brain functions. Astrocytic mitochondria are highly motile organelles which regulate the temporal and spatial patterns of Ca( 2+ ) dynamics, in addition to being a major source of ATP and reactive oxygen species. Previous studies have shown that mitochondria translocate to endoplasmic reticulum during Ca( 2+ ) release from internal stores, but whether a similar spatial interaction between mitochondria and plasma membrane occurs is not known. Using total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy we show that a fraction of mitochondria became trapped near the plasma membrane of cultured hippocampal astrocytes during exposure to the transmitters glutamate or ATP, resulting in net translocation of the mitochondria to the plasma membrane. This translocation was dependent on the intracellular Ca( 2+ ) rise because it was blocked by pre-incubation with BAPTA AM and mimicked by application of the Ca( 2+ ) ionophore ionomycin. Transmembrane Ca( 2+ ) influx induced by raising external Ca( 2+ ) also caused mitochondrial trapping, which occurred more rapidly than that produced by glutamate or ATP. In astrocytes treated with the microtubule-disrupting agent nocodazole, intracellular Ca( 2+ ) rises failed to induce trapping of mitochondria near plasma membrane, suggesting a role for microtubules in this phenomenon. Our data reveal the Ca( 2+ )-dependent trapping of mitochondria near the plasma membrane as a novel form of mitochondrial regulation, which is likely to control the perimembrane Ca( 2+ ) dynamics and regulate signaling by mitochondria-derived reactive oxygen species.
Electrical transmission in the mammalian brain is now well established. A new study by Thomson and colleagues elegantly demonstrates coupling between CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cells, which is far more common than previously supposed. Although the history of coupling is extensive, doubt, predjudice, and technical issues long kept it from wide acceptance. Here &quot;spikelets&quot; or &quot;fast prepotentials&quot; are found when two cells are coupled and in this situation result from electrical transmission of impulses from one coupled cell to the other. Interesting questions remain as to whether connexin or pannexin gap junctions serve as the molecular substrate of transmission, and the role of electrical transmission in hippocampal physiology is uncertain. Increased coupling could well contribute to the known tendency of the hippocampus to exhibit seizure activity.
Previous work has shown that illiterate subjects are better at naming two-dimensional representations of real objects when presented as colored photos as compared to black and white drawings. This raises the question if color or textural details selectively improve object recognition and naming in illiterate compared to literate subjects. In this study, we investigated whether the surface texture and/or color of objects is used to access stored object knowledge in illiterate subjects. A group of illiterate subjects and a matched literate control group were compared on an immediate object naming task with four conditions: color and black and white (i.e., grey-scaled) photos, as well as color and black and white (i.e., grey-scaled) drawings of common everyday objects. The results show that illiterate subjects perform significantly better when the stimuli are colored and this effect is independent of the photographic detail. In addition, there were significant differences between the literacy groups in the black and white condition for both drawings and photos. These results suggest that color object information contributes to object recognition. This effect was particularly prominent in the illiterate group.
Drai and Grodzinsky have statistically analyzed a large corpus of data on the comprehension of passives by patients with Broca's aphasia. The data come, according to Drai and Grodzinsky, from binary choice tasks. Among the languages that are analyzed are Dutch and German. Drai and Grodzinsky argue that Dutch and German speaking Broca patients should be relatively good (that is, perform above chance) on comprehension of passive sentences, since in Dutch and German passives the relative order of the object and lexical verb is the underlying order and hence no movement takes place. We will demonstrate that both their linguistic arguments and their selection of Dutch data are invalid.


The magnitude of the problems faced by an aging Canadian society has been clearly identified. Perhaps the single most important problem is the increasing incidence of dementia. Alzheimer's disease (AD) accounts for 50-60% of the dementias in later life within a spectrum of other contributing dementias. Regulatory approval has been given to Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors for the symptomatic treatment of mild to moderate AD, and conditional approval to memantine for the symptoms of moderate to severe AD. There has been no regulatory approval for the treatment of the degenerative dementias beyond AD. The very rapid progress in the past decade in biotechnology and in the molecular biology of the dementias is supporting a new generation of innovative treatment strategies that will more directly target the underlying disease pathogenic mechanisms. Such treatments will foreseeably include immunotherapies, anti-aggregants that may prevent misfolding and deposition of proteins, and neuroregenerative interventions. These Guidelines follow the 2nd Canadian Conference on the Development of Antidementia Therapies, held in 2004, which covered a range of design, methodological and ethical issues facing clinical researchers and regulatory authorities. They are intended to provide a common point of reference and guidance in Canada for therapeutic development of the dementias.

Overexpression of antiapoptotic Bcl-2 family members is thought to contribute to chemotherapeutic resistance of neural crest tumors. Paradoxical potentiation by Bcl-2 of apoptosis induced by the antineoplastic prodrug, neocarzinostatin (NCS), has been observed in PC12 pheochromocytoma cells. Prior studies have indicated that the cleavage of Bcl-2 to its proapoptotic counterpart mediated by caspase-3 is responsible for this potentiation of apoptosis. This has led to the hypothesis that induction of caspase-3 expression in bcl-2-transfected, caspase-3-deficient MCF-7 cells, will result in Bcl-2 cleavage and Bcl-2-dependent potentiation of NCS-induced apoptosis. These studies have further led to the hypothesis that both cleavable Bcl-2 and sulfhydryl groups are required for the activity of caspase-3 in this regard. As hypothesized, co-transfection of bcl-2-transfected MCF-7 cells with a caspase-3 expression construct results in cleavage of Bcl-2 and potentiation of dose-dependent, NCS-mediated cell death. Furthermore, PC12 cells transfected with an expression construct for cleavage-resistant Bcl-2 demonstrated attenuated potentiation of apoptosis relative to their counterparts transfected with wild-type bcl-2. Finally, irreversible oxidative titration of sulfhydryl groups resulted in concentration-dependent attenuation of apoptosis in PC12 cells, along with prevention of caspase-3 activation and Bcl-2 cleavage. These results definitively demonstrate the requirement for caspase-3, cleavable Bcl-2, and available sulfhydryl groups (separate from those required for NCS activation) in potentiation of NCS-induced apoptosis by Bcl-2.
Chromosomal instability as manifested by increases in aneuploidy and structural chromosome aberrations is believed to play a critical role in the intermediate to late stages in the development of cervical malignancies. The current study was designed to determine the role of tetraploidy in the formation of aneuploidy and ascertain the occurrence of these alterations during the earlier stages of cervical carcinogenesis. Cervical cell samples, with diagnoses ranging from Normal to high-grade lesions, (HSIL) were obtained from 143 women and were evaluated for chromosomal alterations using dual-probe fluorescence in situ hybridization. Cervical cells from a subset of the group were also evaluated for chromosomal instability in the form of micronuclei. The frequencies of cells exhibiting either tetrasomy or aneusomy for Chromosomes 3 and 17 increased significantly with disease progression and displayed distinctive patterns where aneusomy was rarely present in the absence of tetrasomy. The frequencies of micronuclei that formed through either chromosomal loss or breakage increased significantly in both the low-grade and high-grade diagnostic categories and were highly correlated with both the number of tetrasomic and aneusomic cervical cells. In addition, a unique chromosomal alteration involving a significant non-random loss of Chromosome 17 specific to near-tetraploid aneusomic cells (trisomy 17 and tetrasomy 3) was observed. We conclude that tetraploidy and chromosomal instability are related events occurring during the early stages of cervical carcinogenesis that predispose cervical cells to the formation of aneuploidy frequently involving the loss of Chromosome 17.
Over the years the paradigm of treating early during the migraine attack has become well established in clinical practice. It is also recommended that the 5-HT(1B/1D) agonists be administered early during the migraine attack for efficacy. This is because it has been proposed that most migraineurs are less responsive to delayed treatment, owing to the development of central sensitization of the pain transmission. The main objective of this prospective, cross-over study at a specialist clinic was to evaluate if these recommendations should also apply to the subcutaneous formulation of sumatriptan. Results are based on 20 adult International Headache Society migraineurs. Two attacks (n=40) were treated with 6 mg subcutaneous sumatriptan as early as possible after the onset of migraine headache and two attacks (n=40) as late as the patients could bear. The median intra-individual difference between the two strategies in time from first occurrence of pain to injection was 5.7 h and the median intra-individual difference in pain intensity at the time of injection was 29 visual analogue units. No significant differences were found in time to freedom from pain, pain severity at 1 and 2 h, area under the curves from injection to pain free or in headache recurrence after injection. At the end of the study, most of the patients claimed that their medication was as effective when given early as when given late in the course of the attack. The discrepancy between our present findings and retrospective analyses of trials on oral triptans probably has more to do with the less disturbed pharmacokinetics early during the migraine attack than with central sensitization. Consequently, we recommend nonoral formulations of triptans, which do not necessarily have to be administered early during the migraine attack to provide efficacy. In conclusion, it is reassuring for migraineurs that it is worthwhile taking their medication in an appropriate formulation even if they have not been able to do so early in the course of the attack.
In the corpus callosum, astrocytic calcium waves propagate via a mechanism involving ATP-release but not gap junctional coupling. In the present study, we report for the neocortex that calcium wave propagation depends on functional astrocytic gap junctions but is still accompanied by ATP-release. In acute slices obtained from the neocortex of mice deficient for astrocytic expression of connexin43, the calcium wave did not propagate. In contrast, in the corpus callosum and hippocampus of these mice, the wave propagated as in control animals. In addition to calcium wave propagation in astrocytes, ATP-release was recorded as a calcium signal from 'sniffer cells', a cell line expressing high-affinity purinergic receptors placed on the surface of the slice. The astrocyte calcium wave in the neocortex was accompanied by calcium signals in the 'sniffer cell' population. In the connexin43-deficient mice we recorded calcium signals from sniffer cells also in the absence of an astrocytic calcium wave. Our findings indicate that astrocytes propagate calcium signals by two separate mechanisms depending on the brain region and that ATP release can propagate within the neocortex independent from calcium waves.
This study examined the expression of a neuron-specific cell adhesion molecule, OBCAM (opioid-binding cell adhesion molecule), at both the mRNA and protein levels in the cat primary visual cortex at various postnatal ages, using cDNA array analysis and immunocytochemistry. Results obtained using both methods showed that the expression level of OBCAM was high in young and low in older and adult visual cortex. OBCAM-immunoreactivities were associated predominantly with perikarya and dendrites of pyramidal neurons, and OBCAM-immunopositive neurons were present in all cortical layers. Immunostaining of OBCAM in adult visual cortex showed a reduced number of immunopositive neurons and neurites and relatively lower staining intensities as compared with younger animals. In addition, the number of OBCAM-immunopositive neurons was significantly higher in the visual cortex of 4-month-old animals dark-reared from birth than those in age-matched normally reared animals. These results suggest that OBCAM may play an important role in visual cortex development and plasticity.
Lesions to ventral occipital cortex can produce severe deficits in color vision, a syndrome known as cerebral achromatopsia. Because most studies examine relatively few cases, however, uncertainty remains about precisely which cortical loci, when damaged, produce the syndrome. In addition, the extents of the associated perceptual deficits remain unclear. To address these issues, we performed a meta-analysis of 92 case reports from the literature. The severity of color vision deficits of the cases varied greatly, although nearly all showed some deficit in color discrimination. Almost all cases tested also showed some loss of spatial vision. Lesion overlap analyses revealed a relatively small region of high overlap in ventral occipital cortex. The region of high overlap was located near areas identified by neuroimaging studies as important for color perception. For comparison, we performed a similar analysis of prosopagnosia, a disorder of face perception, and found several regions of high lesion overlap adjacent to the region associated with achromatopsia. Because the behavioral deficits in achromatopsia are often incomplete and never restricted to color vision, the region of high lesion overlap may be one critical stage within a stream of many visual areas that participate nonexclusively in color perception.
Recent neuroimaging studies have shown the importance of the prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices in deception. However, little is known about the role of each of these regions during deception. Using positron emission tomography (PET), we measured brain activation while participants told truths or lies about two types of real-world events: experienced and unexperienced. The imaging data revealed that activity of the dorsolateral, ventrolateral and medial prefrontal cortices was commonly associated with both types of deception (pretending to know and pretending not to know), whereas activity of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) was only associated with pretending not to know. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) increase in the ACC was positively correlated with that in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex only during pretending not to know. These results suggest that the lateral and medial prefrontal cortices have general roles in deception, whereas the ACC contributes specifically to pretending not to know.
The widely used antiepileptic drug valproic acid (VPA), which is also used in migraine prophylaxis and the treatment of bipolar disorders, is also under trial as an anticancer agent. Despite its wide range of therapeutic applications, VPA also has two severe side effects: acute liver toxicity and teratogenicity. The mechanism of action for all these properties is unknown to date, but recently, it was shown that VPA is able to inhibit the enzyme class of histone deacetylases (HDACs), proteins with a fundamental impact on gene expression and therefore possible molecular targets of VPA-induced signaling cascades. The purpose of this study was to determine if teratogenic side effects of VPA could be linked to its HDAC inhibition ability by studying a large set of structurally diverse derivatives based on the VPA core structure. We demonstrate that only VPA derivatives with a teratogenic potential in mice are able to induce a hyperacetylation in core histone H4 in teratocarcinoma F9 cells. We also demonstrate that this marker of functional HDAC inhibition occurs almost immediately (15 min) after exposure of F9 cells to VPA, whereas no influence on the HDAC protein levels (HDAC 2 and HDAC 3) could be detected even after 24 h of treatment. Further measurement of the IC50(HDAC) values of VPA derivatives in a human HDAC enzyme test system revealed an activity range from 10 to 10 000 microM; in some derivatives, HDAC inhibition ability was 40 times that of VPA. We also show a quantitative correlation between the IC50(HDAC) and the teratogenic potential of VPA derivatives, which clearly points toward HDACs as the formerly described teratogenic receptors of VPA-induced neural tube defects (NTDs).
In this review we report data from freely breathing animals in an attempt to show how respiratory dynamics can influence bulbar and cortical activity. Relying on in vivo data as well as in vitro observations, we try to emphasize the multiple mechanisms that underlie this modulation, its multiple origins, and its possible functional role.
In this review, we use data obtained primarily from humans to argue that sniffs are not merely a stimulus carrier but are rather a central component of the olfactory percept. We argue that sniffs 1) are necessary for the olfactory percept, 2) affect odorant intensity perception and identity perception, 3) drive activity in olfactory cortex, 4) are rapidly modulated in an odorant-dependent fashion by a dedicated olfactomotor system, and 5) are sufficient to generate an olfactory percept of some sort even in the absence of odor.
Odorant sampling behaviors such as sniffing bring odorant molecules into contact with olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) to initiate the sensory mechanisms of olfaction. In rodents, inspiratory airflow through the nose is structured and laminar; consequently, the spatial distribution of adsorbed odorant molecules during inspiration is predictable. Physicochemical properties such as water solubility and volatility, collectively called sorptiveness, interact with behaviorally regulable variables such as inspiratory flow rate to determine the pattern of odorant deposition along the inspiratory path. Populations of ORNs expressing the same odorant receptor are distributed in strictly delimited regions along this inspiratory path, enabling different deposition patterns of the same odorant to evoke different patterns of neuronal activation across the olfactory epithelium and in the olfactory bulb. We propose that both odorant sorptive properties and the regulation of sniffing behavior may contribute to rodents' olfactory capacities by this mechanism. In particular, we suggest that the motor regulation of sniffing behavior is substantially utilized for purposes of &quot;zonation&quot; or the direction of odorant molecules to defined intranasal regions and hence toward distinct populations of receptor neurons, pursuant to animals' sensory goals.

This study comprises assessment of autonomic function in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) patients, focusing on meal-related changes. In 18 IBS patients (4 males, mean age 45+/-3.0 [SEM] years) and 19 healthy volunteers (6 males, mean age 41+/-3.5 years) blood pressure, heart rate, heart rate variability and muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) were assessed before, during and after consumption of a standardized meal. In pre- and postprandial phase Valsalva maneuver, cold pressor test (CPT) and deep breathing test were carried out and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) scores for nausea, bloating and pain were obtained. In the IBS group, the meal induced significantly higher VAS scores for pain (P=0.002) and bloating (P=0.02). During food intake, the increase in blood pressure, heart rate and MSNA was equal in patients and controls, but the increase of LF/HF ratio of heart rate variability was significantly higher in the IBS group (median [quartiles] 2.29 [1.14-3.00] versus 0.77 [0.25-1.81]; P=0.03). IBS patients scored lower on pre- and postprandial RRmax/RRmin ratio during deep breathing (DB ratio, P=0.03). The increase in MSNA (burst frequency) in response to CPT tended to be higher in the IBS patients (P=0.07). We conclude that reactivity to food intake, measured as muscle sympathetic nerve activity, is normal in IBS patients. The lower DB ratio and higher LF/HF ratio during food intake in IBS patients is an indication of a reduced parasympathetic reactivity. These results suggest that reduced baseline activity as well as responsiveness of the parasympathetic system could play a role in the pathogenesis of IBS.




Defense mechanisms are automatic psychological processes that protect the individual against anxiety and from the awareness of internal or external dangers or stressors. The influence of defense mechanisms in patients on chronic hemodialysis treatment was studied. There were 53 uremic subjects (37 males and 16 females), aged between 22 and 88 years (mean age 60.11, SD 15.03), on chronic dialysis and 50 healthy subjects as controls have been enrolled in the study. According to the duration of dialysis, uremic patients were divided in two subgroups: 21 patients with less than 5 years and 19 patients with more than 10 years of dialytic treatment. Assessment was conducted using the Defense Mechanisms Inventory DMI. The inventory identifies five defensive styles: turning against the object (TAO), projection (PRO), principalization (PRN), turning against the self (TAS) and reversal (REV). Results showed DMI scores within the normal range both for uremics and controls with significant differences in TAO (t = -3.053, p = 0.003) and REV (t = 5.067, p &lt; 0.0001) between groups. No significant differences in the use of defensive styles related to the duration of dialytic treatment were observed. Besides other psychological features, the assessment of defense mechanisms in patients with chronic and invalidating diseases may contribute to ameliorate the knowledge of the adjustment processes and of the psychological well-being of the patients.
We report the case of a patient suffering from migraine without aura since childhood who, at the age of 58 years, developed cluster headache (CH) attacks. This second type of headache was related to an aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery (ACoA) whose bursting caused subarachnoid haemorrhage. The aneurysm's clipping made the cluster headache subside and there was no recurrence for almost four years. However, nine months after haemorrhage, the patient experienced new migraine without aura attacks. As a pathogenetic interpretation of this secondary cluster headache, we discuss the possible role of pericarotid sympathetic nerves in cluster headache attacks. We suggest that the surgical dissection of the pericarotid sympathetic fibres could prevent the onset of the cluster headache attacks by cutting part of the circuit underlying it.


The neurotransmitter dopamine is important in reward processing, however its precise modulatory role is still being investigated. Carbon-fiber microelectrodes can be used to monitor dopamine on a subsecond time scale in the striatum and nucleus accumbens of rats during behavior, and this approach is providing new insights into the mechanisms that control its extracellular concentration as well as the conditions under which it is released. Three main processes govern the amount of dopamine measured extrasynaptically: exocytotic release, neuronal uptake, and diffusion away from the release site. By monitoring local extracellular dopamine concentrations in the striatum following electrical stimulation of dopamine-containing neurons, release, uptake and diffusion can be individually examined and quantified. Dopaminergic neurons have been shown to fire in two firing modes, tonic and bursts at higher frequency. Electrical stimulation can be designed to mimic either mode to examine their effects on dopamine release. Burst firing causes a transient increase in extracellular dopamine while tonic firing causes a new steady-state level. In behaving primates, dopaminergic neurons display short-latency, phasic firing to primary reward and conditioned cues associated with reward. These bursts code differences between actual and predicted rewards. In rats, transient dopamine release in terminal regions that mimics that seen during burst firing has been demonstrated during reward-related cues. Taken together, these studies indicate that phasic dopamine release is a critical mediator of reward-related processes.
Dopaminergic neurotransmission is mediated by the vesicular release of dopamine (DA), i.e. DA exocytosis. DA exocytosis and its modulation are generally believed to affect neuronal communication, development, maintenance and survival, and contribute to extracellular DA levels in the brain. As a result, DA exocytosis likely plays an important role in several neurological and psychiatric disorders, like Parkinson's disease (PD) and schizophrenia. As exocytosis is part of a sophisticated ensemble of processes, it can be modulated at different levels, including DA synthesis, uptake and vesicular transport as well as Ca(2+)-homeostasis and exocytotic proteins. Nonetheless, to be effective, modulation of exocytosis should result in functional changes, which are reflected by changes in release frequency, vesicle contents, and the time course of the exocytotic event. As will be shown in this review, functional changes in DA exocytosis can be produced by e.g. pharmacological/drug treatment, feedback mechanisms and up/down-regulation of exocytosis-related proteins. Moreover, the mode of DA exocytosis, i.e. classical full fusion or kiss-and-run exocytosis, could also serve as a potential target for functional modulation of dopaminergic neurotransmission. Since the onset and progression of neurological and psychiatric disorders often show a strong correlation with changes in brain DA levels, DA synthesis, transport or uptake, the findings described in this review highlight the importance of the modulation of (the mode of) DA exocytosis for normal progression of dopaminergic neurotransmission and the potential of exocytotic processes as drug targets.
The classification of dopamine receptors proposed more than two decades ago remains valid today. Based on biochemical and pharmaceutical properties two main classes of dopamine receptors can be distinguished: D(1)-like (D(1), D(5)) and D(2)-like (D(2), D(3), and D(4)) dopamine receptors. Dopamine receptors belong to the class of G protein-coupled receptors and signal to a wide range of membrane bound and intracellular effectors such as ion channels, secondary messenger systems and enzymes. Although the pharmacological properties of ligands for D(1)-like and D(2)-like dopamine receptors are quite different, the number of selective ligands for each of the five receptors subtypes is rather small. Many drugs used to treat neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders like Parkinson's disease, restless leg syndrome and schizophrenia have affinities for dopamine receptors. Such medications are not without limitations so the development of novel (selective or aselective) dopamine receptor ligands is of the utmost importance for improved therapeutic approaches for these diseases. In that respect it is also important to understand how dopamine receptor ligands affect receptor signalling processes such as desensitization, receptor heterodimerization and agonist-receptor trafficking, issues which will be discussed in the present review. Furthermore, attention is paid to interactions of dopamine receptors with serotonin receptors since many drugs used to treat above mentioned disorders of the brain also possess affinities for serotonin receptors. Because of the enormity of this area we have tried to focus more specifically on interactions within the prefrontal cortex where it appears that the serotonergic modulation of dopaminergic function might be very relevant to schizophrenia.
Children and their parents who are exposed to medical life-threat due to illness or injury are at risk for developing symptoms of posttraumatic stress. However, the prevention, detection, and treatment needed are often not available in the acute care settings of the hospital. The National Child Traumatic Stress Network and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration have created a set of materials for use by hospital health providers and families that is available for download free from the National Child Traumatic Stress Network website, www.nctsn.org.
We present a case of psychotherapy where a process of forgiveness occurs. Then we review the relevant cognitive-affective neuroscience and clinical implications. Resentment and forgiveness emerge within particular kinds of social interactions and can now increasingly also be conceptualized as embodied in particular neurocircuitry. There may be an association between increased psychopathology and decreased fogiveness, and the implications of this for assessment and treatment deserve further study. There may be gender differences in forgiveness;a highly speculative hypothesis suggests that these would reflect sexual divergence in the evolutionary origins of reconciliatory behavior.
A growing body of research in neuroscience points to the impact of variations in maternal nurturing on child development and provides a rationale for interventions that target stress adaptation conditioning through natural family nurturing. This pilot study was collected within the course of private practice to assess the progress of children with severe behavioral disorders who were treated effectively with a multiple family therapy prototype, Prolonged Parent-Child Embrace (PPCE) Therapy. Subjects were a consecutive series of 102 patient children aged 4-18 years and their families. Children and their family members were guided for 16h over two consecutive days through intense PPCE Therapy. Families were instructed to continue PPCE Therapy at home for at least 1 year. Scores were compared statistically using t-tests and analysis of variance. For 96 children scores declined on two written measures by approximately 50% between baseline and follow-up (P&lt;0.001). Results showed that PPCE Therapy resulted in significant and prolonged improvements in symptomatic behavior in a majority of children.
The traditional size congruity paradigm is a Stroop-like situation where participants are asked to compare the values of two digits and ignore the irrelevant physical sizes of the digits (e.g., 3 5). Here a color congruity paradigm was employed and the irrelevant physical sizes were replaced by irrelevant colors. MM, a digit-color synesthete, yielded the classical congruity effect. Namely, she was slower to identify numerically larger numbers when they deviated from her synesthetic experience than when they matched it. In addition, the effect of color on her comparative judgments was modulated by numerical distance. In contrast, performance of non-synesthetes was not affected by the colors. On the basis of neurophysiological studies of magnitude comparison and interference between numerical and physical information, it is proposed that the interaction between colors and digits in MM occurs at the conceptual level. Moreover, by using the current paradigm it is possible to determine the stage at which color-digit binding in synesthesia occurs.
One of the hallmarks of grapheme-colour synaesthesia is that colours induced by letters, digits and words tend to interfere with the identification of coloured targets when the two colours are different, i.e., when they are incongruent. In a previous investigation (Mattingley et al., 2001) we found that this synaesthetic congruency effect occurs when an achromatic-letter prime precedes a coloured target, but that the effect disappears when the letter is pattern masked to prevent conscious recognition of its identity. Here we investigated whether selective attention modulates the synaesthetic congruency effect in a letter-priming task. Fourteen grapheme-colour synaesthetes and 14 matched, non-synaesthetic controls participated. The amount of selective attention available to process the letter-prime was limited by having participants perform a secondary visual task that involved discriminating pairs of gaps in adjacent limbs of a diamond surrounding the prime. In separate blocks of trials the attentional load of the secondary task was systematically varied to yield 'low load' and 'high load' conditions. We found a significant congruency effect for synaesthetes, but not for controls, when they performed a secondary attention-demanding task during presentation of the letter prime. Crucially, however, the magnitude of this priming was significantly reduced under conditions of high-load relative to low-load, indicating that attention plays an important role in modulating synaesthesia. Our findings help to explain the observation that synaesthetic colour experiences are often weak or absent during attention-demanding tasks.
Research on synaesthesia is undergoing something of a renaissance, having initially been a hot topic in psychology and philosophy in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. One hundred years ago investigators failed to define an objective framework within which to characterise the phenomenon, and so interest in the topic waned. With the cognitive revolution and the rapid rise of new experimental techniques in human neuroscience, interest in synaesthesia as a legitimate topic for scientific investigation has been rekindled. Since the 1980s there has been rapid growth in scientific and media interest in synaesthesia, and there is now a sense that real progress is being made. This Special Issue of Cortex brings together the largest collection of empirical papers on the topic of synaesthesia to date. The 21 papers collected herein showcase the many significant advances that have been made in understanding the behavioural and neural bases of synaesthesia. The contributions reflect the work of more than 60 investigators from nine different countries. We are confident that the papers presented in this Special Issue will set the agenda for synaesthesia research for many years to come.

The amyloid hypothesis has dominated the thinking in our attempts to understand, diagnose and develop drugs for Alzheimer's disease (AD). This article presents a new hypothesis that takes into account the numerous familial AD (FAD) mutations in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and its processing pathways, but suggests a new perspective beyond toxicity of forms of the amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta). Clearly, amyloid deposits are an invariable feature of AD. Moreover, although APP is normally processed to secreted and membrane-bound fragments, sAPPbeta and CTFbeta, by BACE, and the latter is subsequently processed by gamma-secretase to Abeta and CTFgamma, this pathway mostly yields Abeta of 40 residues, and increases in the levels of the amyloidogenic 42-residue Abeta (Abeta42) are seen in the majority of the mutations linked to the disease. The resulting theory is that the disease is caused by amyloid toxicity, which impairs memory and triggers deposition of the microtubule associated protein, Tau, as neurofibrillary tangles. Nevertheless, a few exceptional FAD mutations and the presence of large amounts of amyloid deposits in a group of cognitively normal elderly patients suggest that the disease process is more complex. Indeed, it has been hard to demonstrate the toxicity of Abeta42 and the actual target has been shifted to small oligomers of the peptide, named Abeta derived diffusible ligands (ADDLs). Our hypothesis is that the disease is more complex and caused by a failure of APP metabolism or clearance, which simultaneously affects several other membrane proteins. Thus, a traffic jam is created by failure of important pathways such as gamma-secretase processing of residual intramembrane domains released from the metabolism of multiple membrane proteins, which ultimately leads to a multiple system failure. In this theory, toxicity of Abeta42 will only contribute partially, if at all, to neurodegeneration in AD. More significantly, this theory would predict that focussing on specific reagents such as gamma-secretase inhibitors that hamper metabolism of APP, may initially show some beneficial effects on cognitive performance by elimination of acutely toxic ADDLs, but over the longer term may exacerbate the disease process by reducing membrane protein turnover.
Herein, we present data to support a preclinical proof of concept for the therapeutic potential of allopregnanolone to promote neurogenesis. Our recent work has demonstrated that the neuroactive progesterone metabolite, allopregnanolone (3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one), (APalpha) induced, in a dose dependent manner, a significant increase in proliferation of neuroprogenitor cells (NPCs) derived from the rat hippocampus and human neural stem cells (hNSM) derived from the cerebral cortex [1]. Proliferative efficacy was determined by incorporation of BrdU and (3)H-thymidine, FACS analysis of MuLV-GFP-labeled mitotic NPCs and quantification of total cell number. Allopregnanolone-induced proliferation was isomer and steroid specific, in that the stereoisomer 3beta-hydroxy-5beta-pregnan-20-one and related steroids did not increase (3)H-thymidine uptake. Immunofluorescent analyses for the NPC markers, nestin and Tuj1, indicated that newly formed cells were of neuronal lineage. Furthermore, microarray analysis of cell cycle genes and real time RT-PCR and western blot validation revealed that allopregnanolone increased the expression of genes which promote mitosis and inhibited the expression of genes that repress cell proliferation. Allopregnanolone-induced proliferation was antagonized by the voltage gated L-type calcium channel blocker nifedipine consistent with the finding that allopregnanolone induces a rapid increase in intracellular calcium in hippocampal neurons via a GABA type A receptor activated L-type calcium channel. Preliminary in vivo data indicate that APalpha for 24 hrs significantly increased neurogenesis in dentate gyrus, as determined by unbiased stereological analysis of BrdU positive cells, of 3-month-old male triple transgenic Alzheimer's disease mice. The in vitro and in vivo neurogenic properties of APalpha coupled with a low molecular weight, easy penetration of the blood brain barrier and lack of toxicity, are key elements required for developing APalpha as a neurogenic / regenerative therapeutic for restoration of neurons in victims of Alzheimer's disease.


The expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) tracts observed in autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorders have the tendency to form intracellular aggregates, thus enhancing apoptotic cell death and the formation of autophagic vesicles. PolyQ accumulation inhibits the ER-associated degradation system (ERAD) resulting in reduced retrotranslocation from the ER and increased accumulation of misfolded proteins in the lumen of ER. Autophagy is an early cellular defense mechanism associated with ER stress, but prolonged ER stress may induce autophagic cell death, with destruction of cellular components and apoptotic cell death. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress may be the key signal for both of these events.
Long-term disabilities are the main outcome of cerebral strokes, though some of the deficits show receding signs in the weeks and months following the &quot;brain attack&quot;. Studies show that neurogenesis is induced in the hippocampus and subventricular zone (SVZ) in animal models of ischemia, and that new neurons are generated at the sites of degeneration, where they replace some of the lost nerve cells. The enhanced neurogenesis suggests the involvement of the hippocampus and SVZ in the physiopathology of cerebral strokes, and the generation of new neuronal cells at the sites of degeneration suggests that the central nervous system (CNS) may attempt to repair itself. In this manuscript, we will review the studies on adult neurogenesis in cerebral strokes, discuss the contribution of adult neurogenesis to the physiopathology of strokes, and its underlying mechanisms.
With the identification of the molecular determinants of neuronal connectivity, our understanding of the extracellular information that controls axon guidance and synapse formation has evolved from single factors towards the complexity that neurons face in a living organism. As we move in this direction - ready to see the forest for the trees - attention is returning to one of the most ancient regulators of cell-cell interaction: the extracellular matrix. Among many matrix components that influence neuronal connectivity, recent studies of the heparan sulfate proteoglycans suggest that these ancient molecules function as versatile extracellular scaffolds that both sculpt the landscape of extracellular cues and modulate the way that neurons perceive the world around them.
Topographic maps, in which the spatial order of neurons maps smoothly onto their axonal target, are a central feature of neural wiring. Ephrins and Eph receptors are well accepted as graded labels for map development, enabling current studies into molecular principles of mapping. Ephrins regulate axon growth either positively or negatively, leading to models in which axons terminate at a neutral or optimum point in the gradient. Axonal competition ensures the target is filled. Ephrins and Ephs are typically expressed in complex overlapping patterns, with implications for signaling mechanisms, scale of internal map features, and coordinated interconnection of multiple mapping modules. Recent studies of Wnt3 and En-2 show that topographic axon guidance cues may be as diverse as molecules previously regarded as morphogens and transcription factors.
The intricate connections of the nervous system are established, in part, by elongating axonal fibers that are directed by complex guidance systems to home in on their specific targets. The growth cone, the major motile apparatus at the tip of axons, explores its surroundings and steers the axon along a defined path to its appropriate target. Significant progress has been made in identifying the guidance molecules and receptors that regulate growth cone pathfinding, the signaling cascades underlying distinct growth cone behaviors, and the cytoskeletal components that give rise to the directional motility of the growth cone. Recent studies have also shed light on the sophisticated mechanisms and new players utilized by the growth cone during pathfinding. It is clear that axon pathfinding requires a growth cone to sample and integrate various signals both in space and in time, and subsequently to coordinate the dynamics of its membrane, cytoskeleton and adhesion to generate specific responses.
The olfactory system discriminates a large number of odorants using precisely wired neural circuits. It offers an excellent opportunity to study mechanisms of neuronal wiring specificity at the single synapse level. Each olfactory receptor neuron typically expresses only one olfactory receptor from many receptor genes (1000 in mice). In mice, this striking singularity appears to be ensured by a negative feedback mechanism. Olfactory receptor neurons expressing the same receptor converge their axons to stereotypical positions with high precision, a feature that is conserved from insects to mammals. Several molecules have recently been identified that control this process, including olfactory receptors themselves in mice. The second order neurons, mitral cells in mammals and projection neurons in insects, have a similar degree of wiring specificity: studies in Drosophila suggest that projection neuron-intrinsic mechanisms regulate their precise dendritic targeting. Finally, recent studies have revealed interactions of different cell types during circuit assembly, including axon-axon interactions among olfactory receptor neurons and dendro-dendritic interactions of projection neurons, that are essential in establishing wiring specificity of the olfactory circuit.
Excitatory synapses are formed on dendritic spines, postsynaptic structures that change during development and in response to synaptic activity. Once mature, however, spines can remain stable for many months. The molecular mechanisms that control the formation and elimination, motility and stability, and size and shape of dendritic spines are being revealed. Multiple signaling pathways, particularly those involving Rho and Ras family small GTPases, converge on the actin cytoskeleton to regulate spine morphology and dynamics bidirectionally. Numerous cell surface receptors, scaffold proteins and actin binding proteins are concentrated in spines and engaged in spine morphogenesis.
The generation of dorsal interneurons in the spinal cord is dependent upon specific signaling pathways and the subsequent establishment of progenitor domains mediated by cross-repressive interactions of different groups of transcription factors. These events lead to the implementation of specific differentiation programs that direct the development of distinct dorsal interneuron subtypes. Recent studies have taken advantage of complementary gain and loss-of-function studies in the chick and mouse to clarify the in vivo roles of transforming growth factor beta signaling, basic helix-loop-helix and homeodomain transcription factors in dorsal interneuron development. The challenge now lies in identifying the precise molecular mechanisms involved and applying these insights to understanding how more ventrally located dorsal interneurons are specified.

Glutamate- and GABA-releasing neurons form the basis for neurotransmission in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS). The co-ordination of these excitatory and inhibitory systems, together with intrinsic voltage-gated ion channels and G-protein-coupled receptor modulation, provides the diverse neuronal firing patterns, network activity and synaptic plasticity that are required for the complexity of CNS function. Virtually all of the known molecular components of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate neurotransmitter systems have been considered as potential therapeutic targets. Positive allosteric modulators of GABAA receptors, such as the benzodiazepines, have found wide clinical use, and the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists ketamine and memantine have therapeutic utility. In these fundamental neurotransmitter systems, drugs that provide allosteric modulation of ligand-gated ion channels or G-protein-coupled receptors, or seek to selectively target receptor subtypes, appear to hold the greatest promise for the desired balance of efficacy and tolerability. This might also be achieved through targeting transporter subtypes. A large number of compounds based on these strategies are currently in clinical trials for diseases that span a wide range of CNS disorders.
Over the past decade, there have been major advances in our understanding of the role of glutamate and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in several disorders of the central nervous system, including stroke, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and chronic/neuropathic pain. In particular, NR2B subunit-containing NMDA receptors have been the focus of intense study from both a physiological and a pharmacological perspective, with several pharmaceutical companies developing NR2B subtype-selective antagonists for several glutamate-mediated diseases. Recent studies have shown the importance of NR2B subunits for NMDA receptor localization and endocytosis, and have suggested a role for NR2B-containing NMDA receptors in the underlying pathophysiology of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Huntington's diseases. Anatomical, biochemical and pharmacological studies over the past five years have greatly added to our understanding of the role of NR2B subunit-containing NMDA receptors in chronic and neuropathic pain states, and have shown that NR2B-mediated analgesic effects might be supra- rather than intra-spinally mediated, and that phosphorylation of the NR2B subunit could be responsible for the initiation and maintenance of the central sensitization seen in neuropathic pain states. These data will hopefully provide the impetus for development of novel compounds that use multiple approaches to modulate the activity of NR2B subunit-containing NMDA receptors, thus bringing to fruition the promise of therapeutic efficacy utilizing this approach.
Although the ionotropic and metabotropic receptors for synaptically released glutamate have been extensively mined in the pursuit of novel therapeutic agents for a diverse array of central nervous system disorders, pursuit of the transport proteins--or excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs)--toward a similar end has been a road much less travelled. Recent progress has seen the use of cloned EAAT subtypes to develop transporter inhibitors with improved subtype selectivity, providing important tools for elucidating the precise contribution of each transporter subtype to the regulation of extracellular glutamate homeostasis. In addition, momentum has been gained with the discovery of compounds capable of upregulating the activity of the predominant forebrain glutamate transporter, EAAT2.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been proposed as novel targets for the treatment of a variety of disorders. Recently, highly selective allosteric modulators of the mGluRs have been developed by several groups. These allosteric compounds provide an unprecedented degree of selectivity for individual mGluRs, allowing for more detailed functional studies on the roles of these receptors. Furthermore, the allosteric approach avoids many of the hurdles associated with the development of direct agonists as drugs, and provides a clear path forward for clinical proof-of-concept studies. Currently, both positive allosteric modulators of mGluR2 and negative allosteric modulators of mGluR5 hold promise as novel anxiolytics, and positive allosteric modulators of mGluR4 appear to be an exciting new target for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Memantine is a clinically useful drug in many neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease. The principal mechanism of action of memantine is believed to be the blockade of current flow through channels of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors--a glutamate receptor subfamily broadly involved in brain function. Surprisingly, other drugs that block NMDA receptor channels, such as ketamine, exhibit serious deleterious effects. The unusual therapeutic utility of memantine probably results from inhibitory mechanisms shared with ketamine, combined with actions specific to memantine. These potentially important differences between memantine and ketamine include effects on gating of blocked channels and binding of memantine to two sites on NMDA receptors. Because modulation of NMDA receptor activity can increase or decrease excitability of neuronal circuits, subtle differences in the mechanisms of action of NMDA receptor antagonists can strongly impact on their clinical effects.
Drugs that enhance synaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurotransmission are widely utilized in the clinical setting. Barbiturates and benzodiazepine receptor agonists, for example, both potentiate an inhibitory chloride conductance through GABA-gated channels, and thereby achieve their sedative-hypnotic effects. The primary locus of action of these agents, and indeed most neuroactive drugs, is the postsynaptic junction. By contrast, gaboxadol, a selective extrasynaptic GABA receptor agonist and late-stage investigational treatment for insomnia, acts on a unique delta-containing GABAA receptor subtype found exclusively outside of the synapse. Although the mechanistic details of extrasynaptic neurotransmission remain to be fully established, it is now clear that these receptors demonstrate unique pharmacological, biophysical and electrophysiological properties. Importantly, the delta-containing GABAA receptor subtype activated by gaboxadol is highly expressed in the thalamus, where it might behave as a 'gain control' (independently controlling the strength of signals) in the corticothalamic pathways that govern sleep-relevant neuronal oscillations. This unique mechanism has contributed to our increased understanding of sleep mechanisms, and targeting of this system offers potential advantages over existing insomnia treatments.
Benzodiazepine (BZ) anxiolytics mediate their clinical effects by enhancing the effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) at the GABA-A receptor. Classical BZ full agonists such as diazepam, which maximally enhance the function of GABA-A receptors, are effective anxiolytics but carry unwanted side effects including sedation, dependence and abuse liability, limiting their utility. Although a second generation of 'partial agonist' BZs have been pursued, promising preclinical data, in terms of anxiolytic efficacy and decreased unwanted effects, have so far failed to translate to the clinic. Following the insights into GABA-A receptor subtypes mediating the effects of BZs, a third generation of 'receptor subtype-selective' BZ site ligands have been developed. However, it remains to be determined whether promising preclinical data are recapitulated in the clinic.
The majority of clinical trials of N-methyl d-aspartate antagonists have been conducted in the fields of stroke, traumatic brain injury (TBI) and dementia. Stroke and TBI trials have involved more than 9000 patients, but have yielded no therapeutically useful agents, with the possible exception of magnesium for treatment of subarachnoid haemorrhage. Several of the synthetic N-methyl D-aspartate antagonist development programmes have been abandoned owing to concerns about drug toxicity, particularly in stroke. Systematic reviews in stroke and TBI have shown that definitive conclusions cannot be drawn for most agents owing to early termination of trials. In dementia, memantine has shown some benefit in moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's disease, with no clear benefit to date for milder stages of Alzheimer's disease or for vascular dementia. Other therapeutic areas of promise remain inadequately explored at present.
Neurotrophins induce neural cell survival and differentiation during retinal development and regeneration through the high-affinity tyrosine kinase (Trk) receptors. On the other hand, nerve growth factor (NGF) binding to the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor p75 (p75(NTR)) might induce programmed cell death (PCD) in the early phase of retinal development. In the present study, we examined the retinal cell types that experience p75(NTR)-induced PCD and identify them to be postmitotic retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). However, retinal morphology, RGC number, and BrdU-positive cell number in p75(NTR) knockout (KO) mouse were normal after embryonic day 15 (E15). In chick retina, migratory RGCs express p75(NTR), whereas layered RGCs express the high-affinity NGF receptor TrkA, which may switch the pro-apoptotic signaling of p75(NTR) into a neurotrophic one. In contrast to the chick model, migratory RGCs express TrkA, while stratified RGCs express p75(NTR) in mouse retina. However, RGC number in TrkA KO mouse was also normal at birth. We next examined the expression of transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) receptor, which modulates chick RGC number in combination with p75(NTR), but was absent in mouse RGCs. p75(NTR) and TrkA seem to be involved in the regulation of mouse RGC number in the early phase of retinal development, but the number may be later adjusted by other molecules. These results suggest the different mechanism of RGC number control between mouse and chick retina.
Olig gene expression is proposed to mark the common progenitors of motoneurons and oligodendrocytes. In an attempt to further dissect the in vivo lineage relationships between motoneurons and oligodendrocytes, we used a conditional cell-ablation approach to kill Olig-expressing cells. Although differentiated motoneurons and oligodendrocytes were eliminated, our ablation study revealed a continuous generation and subsequent death of their precursors. Most remarkably, a normal number of oligodendrocyte precursors are formed at day 12 of mouse development, after all motoneuron precursors have been killed. The data presented herein supports a sequential model in which motoneuron and oligodendrocyte precursors are sequentially generated in vivo from neuroepithelial stem cells, but do not share a common lineage-restricted progenitor.
Neurogenin 2 (Ngn2) is a proneural gene involved in neuronal differentiation and subtype specification in various regions of the nervous system. In the ventral midbrain, Ngn2 is expressed in a spatiotemporal pattern that correlates with the generation of mesencephalic dopaminergic (mesDA) neurons. We show here that lack of Ngn2 impairs the development of mesDA neurons, such that less than half of the normal mesDA neuron number remain in Ngn2 mutant mice at postnatal stages. Analysis of Ngn2 mutant mice during mesDA neurogenesis show that medially located precursors are formed but are arrested in their differentiation at a stage when they have not yet acquired the characteristics of mesDA neuron precursors. Loss of Ngn2 function appears to specifically affect the generation of DA neurons, as the development of other types of neurons within the ventral midbrain is unaltered. Ngn2 is the first example of a gene expressed in progenitors in the ventricular zone of the mesDA neuron domain that is essential for proper mesDA neuron differentiation, and whose loss of function causes impaired mesDA neurogenesis without other major abnormalities in the ventral midbrain.
Cell polarity must be integrated with tissue polarity for proper development. The Drosophila embryonic central nervous system (CNS) is a highly polarized tissue; neuroblasts occupy the most apical layer of cells within the CNS, and lie just basal to the neural epithelium. Neuroblasts are the CNS progenitor cells and undergo multiple rounds of asymmetric cell division, ;budding off' smaller daughter cells (GMCs) from the side opposite the epithelium, thereby positioning neuronal/glial progeny towards the embryo interior. It is unknown whether this highly stereotypical orientation of neuroblast divisions is controlled by an intrinsic cue (e.g. cortical mark) or an extrinsic cue (e.g. cell-cell signal). Using live imaging and in vitro culture, we find that neuroblasts in contact with epithelial cells always ;bud off' GMCs in the same direction, opposite from the epithelia-neuroblast contact site, identical to what is observed in vivo. By contrast, isolated neuroblasts 'bud off' GMCs at random positions. Imaging of centrosome/spindle dynamics and cortical polarity shows that in neuroblasts contacting epithelial cells, centrosomes remained anchored and cortical polarity proteins localize at the same epithelia-neuroblast contact site over subsequent cell cycles. In isolated neuroblasts, centrosomes drifted between cell cycles and cortical polarity proteins showed a delay in polarization and random positioning. We conclude that embryonic neuroblasts require an extrinsic signal from the overlying epithelium to anchor the centrosome/centrosome pair at the site of epithelial-neuroblast contact and for proper temporal and spatial localization of cortical Par proteins. This ensures the proper coordination between neuroblast cell polarity and CNS tissue polarity.
To test the hypothesis that glucokinase is a critical regulator of neuronal glucosensing, glucokinase activity was increased, using a glucokinase activator drug, or decreased, using RNA interference combined with calcium imaging in freshly dissociated ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (VMN) neurons or primary ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH; VMN plus arcuate nucleus) cultures. To assess the validity of our approach, we first showed that glucose-induced (0.5-2.5 mmol/l) changes in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) oscillations, using fura-2 and changes in membrane potential (using a membrane potential-sensitive dye), were highly correlated in both glucose-excited and -inhibited neurons. Also, glucose-excited neurons increased (half-maximal effective concentration [EC(50)] = 0.54 mmol/l) and glucose-inhibited neurons decreased (half-maximal inhibitory concentration [IC(50)] = 1.12 mmol/l) [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations to incremental changes in glucose from 0.3 to 5 mmol/l. In untreated primary VMH neuronal cultures, the expression of glucokinase mRNA and the number of demonstrable glucosensing neurons fell spontaneously by half over 12-96 h without loss of viable neurons. Transfection of neurons with small interfering glucokinase RNA did not affect survival but did reduce glucokinase mRNA by 90% in association with loss of all demonstrable glucose-excited neurons and a 99% reduction in glucose-inhibited neurons. A pharmacological glucokinase activator produced a dose-related increase in [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations in glucose-excited neurons (EC(50) = 0.98 mmol/l) and a decrease in glucose-inhibited neurons (IC(50) = 0.025 micromol/l) held at 0.5 mmol/l glucose. Together, these data support a critical role for glucokinase in neuronal glucosensing.

Sociality may determine the subjective experience and physiological response to emotional stimuli. Film segments induced socially and nonsocially generated emotions. Comedy (social positive), bereavement (social negative), pizza scenes (nonsocial positive), and wounded bodies (nonsocial negative) elicited four distinct emotional patterns. Per subjective report, joy, sadness, appetite, and disgust were elicited by the targeted stimulus condition. The social/nonsocial dimension influenced which emotional valence(s) elicited a skin conductance response, a finding that could not be explained by differences in subjective arousal. Heart rate deceleration was more responsive to nonsocially generated emotions. Taken together, these findings suggest that sociality affects the physiological profile of responses to emotional valence.
This study investigated in 2 experiments whether reflexive cuing of attention that occurs after perception of a gaze cue is greater for fearful than for happy faces in normal participants, as hypothesized from a social neuroscience perspective. To increase neuroecological validity, dynamic stimulus presentation was used to display faces that simultaneously morphed from a neutral expression into a happy or fearful one and shifted eye gaze from the center to the periphery. Shifts of attention resulting from a natural fearful gaze were expected to be related to participants' anxiety traits, in agreement with the often found increased selective attention to threat in anxious participants. Both hypotheses were confirmed: Fearful faces induced stronger gaze cuing than happy faces, and the strength of this cuing effect was correlated to participants' anxiety levels. These results suggest a neural network, which integrates the processing of gaze, expression, and emotional states to adaptively prime vigilance under threatening circumstances.
Central biogenic amine systems have long been studied for their effects on feeding behavior, energy balance, and maintenance of body weight. Those monoaminergic systems that use dopamine (DA), norepinephrine (NE), and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) as neurotransmitters have been the main targets of study. A number of antiobesity medications that affect monoaminergic activity have appeared on the market and/or in clinical trials. Early examples of such agents are the so-called CNS stimulants, e.g., the amphetamines, phentermine, ephedrine, etc. These agents release monoamines from neuronal stores, and their antiobesity activity seems to be tied most closely to their ability to release NE. Inhibitors of neuronal reuptake of NE or 5-HT have been shown to reduce feeding and weight gain both preclinically and clinically. However, the magnitude and sustainability of such effects in clinical trials has generally not been great enough to register or label these agents for the treatment of obesity. Sibutramine, however, is an exception. This compound is metabolized in vivo to produce metabolites that have varying degrees of inhibition of NE, 5-HT, and/or DA uptake. Sibutramine is the only drug affecting monoaminergic systems currently approved for the long-term control of obesity. Research continues on serotonergic and histaminergic systems to determine if targets such as the 5-HT2C and H3 receptors may be suitable for developing antiobesity agents. Because the clinical antiobesity effects of monoaminergic drugs have been modest, future directions include looking at combinations of different monoaminergic mechanisms and/or combinations of monoaminergic drugs with non-monoaminergic mechanisms.
Central release of vasopressin (VP) by the magnocellular neuroendocrine cells (MNCs) responsible for systemic VP release is believed to be important in modulating the activity of these neurons during dehydration. Central VP release from MNC somata and dendrites is stimulated by both dehydration and pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP). Although PACAP is expressed in MNCs, its potential role in the magnocellular response to dehydration is unexplored. The current study demonstrates that prolonged dehydration increases immunoreactivity for PACAP-27, PACAP-38, and the type I PACAP receptor in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) of the rat. In addition, PACAP stimulates local VP release in the euhydrated rat SON in vitro, and this effect is reduced by the PACAP receptor antagonist PAC(6-27) (100 nm), suggesting the participation of PACAP receptors. Concomitant with its effects on local VP release, PACAP also reduces basal glutamate and aspartate release in the euhydrated rat SON. Furthermore, somatodendritic VP release elicited by acute dehydration is blocked by PAC(6-27), suggesting that endogenous PACAP participates in this response. Consistent with this, RIA revealed that local PACAP-38 release within the SON is significantly elevated during acute dehydration. These results suggest that prolonged activation of hypothalamic MNCs is accompanied by up-regulation of PACAP and the type I PACAP receptor in these cells and that somatodendritic VP release in response to acute dehydration is mediated by activation of PACAP receptors by endogenous PACAP released within the SON. A potential role for PACAP in promoting efficient, but not exhaustive, systemic release of VP from MNCs during physiological challenge is discussed.
The neuronal growth-associated protein (GAP)-43 has been localized in both long fibers and punctate clusters by immunocytochemistry within the rat anterior pituitary (AP). After adrenalectomy (ADX), GAP-43 immunoreactivity (GAP-43-ir) is greatly increased and is associated with corticotrophs at the light microscopic level. We have undertaken an electron microscopic study to determine the cellular localization of GAP-43 in the post-ADX AP. Using preembedding immunocytochemistry, we found GAP-43-ir localized exclusively to the cytoplasmic surface of the plasmalemma within a subset of endocrine cells with ultrastructure typical of degranulated corticotrophs at 4 d after ADX. We combined preembedding immunoelectron microscopy for GAP-43 with immunogold labeling for ACTH and found that GAP-43-ir was invariably present only in cells containing ACTH-positive granules. The density of GAP-43-ir was highest within extensive processes emanating from the soma, suggesting that these processes are the basis for the punctate clusters of GAP-43 staining seen surrounding corticotrophs in the light microscope. We also observed rare synaptic-like contacts between GAP-43-ir processes and distant cell bodies. GAP-43 mRNA was detected in extracts of the AP 4 d after ADX using RT-PCR, and quantitative PCR confirmed that GAP-43 mRNA was significantly up-regulated in the AP in response to ADX. We postulate that increased expression of GAP-43 may stimulate process outgrowth and intercellular communication by activated corticotrophs.




The concept of a neuromatrix as a determinant of behavior proposes that complex neuroelectromagnetic patterns supported by specific spatial configurations of neurons underlie the generation of behaviors. When the pattern of neuronal connectivity is changed, as occurs during limbic epilepsy, neuroelectromagnetic patterns change in parallel to sustain behavioral output. Thus, a testable prediction of the neuromatrix concept is that the &quot;normal&quot; behaviors of animals with markedly reorganized neuroelectromagnetic patterns are vulnerable to specific stimuli that are ineffective when applied to a normal population. Because rats treated with ketamine after being induced to seize with pilocarpine exhibit behaviors indistinguishable from those of control populations despite marked changes in brain structure, they represent an ideal population in which to examine this hypothesis. Ketamine-treated pilocarpine-seized rats and normal rats were exposed continuously either to a complex sequence magnetic field or to control conditions during the acquisition of a radial arm maze task for 8 consecutive days. After 14 days of subsequent exposure to a frequency-modulated field (7-500 nT), during which time there was no training, the rats that had been induced to seize and had been exposed continuously to this magnetic configuration exhibited conspicuously slower response durations per arm than rats that had been induced to seize and exposed to control conditions or normal rats that had been exposed to either magnetic fields or control conditions. Thus, the behaviors of rats who have sustained multiple, discrete injuries throughout the brain may be seriously disrupted by the appropriate pattern of exogenous weak magnetic fields. Our results represent the first empirical support for the concept of the neuromatrix.
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) for epilepsy has been available in the United States for 8 years. Pivotal randomized, blinded clinical trials leading to FDA approval in patients age 12 and older with refractory partial seizures have not been performed for other age groups or epilepsy syndromes. This practical review takes stock of the current information about VNS use and efficacy in various types of epilepsy. We review the evidence for commonly used stimulation parameters, end of battery life, predictors of response including duration of epilepsy, seizure type/epilepsy syndrome, bihemispheric seizures, age at implant, and prior cranial surgery. We review adverse events and VNS effects on respiratory patterns, cardiac function, and mood and behavior. With the recent U.S. approval of VNS for treatment-resistant depression, we anticipate that lessons learned from treating patients with epilepsy will be useful to physicians using VNS to treat patients with depression and possibly other conditions.

Hashimoto's encephalopathy (HE) is a severe but treatable condition that rarely complicates Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Clinically it is characterized by progressive or relapsing symptoms, including tremor, myoclonus, stroke-like episodes, seizures, impairment of consciousness, and dementia. We describe a patient presenting with recurrent generalized convulsive status epilepticus (GCSE), despite antiepileptic medications, who was successfully treated with methylprednisolone. Our observation confirms that the clinical spectrum of HE at presentation is heterogeneous and diagnosis is often difficult. This case highlights the crucial importance of antithyroid antibody measurement in patients presenting with otherwise unexplained episodes of GCSE with or without adjunctive signs of encephalopathy or thyroiditis.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with mixed cognitive and behavioural clinical manifestations. The possession of apolipoprotein-E (ApoE) epsilon4 allelic variant is one of the most important risk factors for developing late-onset AD (LOAD). In this study we analysed the relationship between the entire range of behavioural symptoms, cognitive deficit, and sociodemographic characteristics and ApoE epsilon4 allele possession with multivariate logistic regression models in LOAD patients. Patients included (n = 171) were consecutively admitted in a memory clinic for the first diagnostic visit. Levels of behaviour and cognition within the last month were assessed by the Neuropsychiatric Inventory and Mini Mental State Examination. Presence of clinically significant psychosis, delusions and hallucinations at the early stage of the illness, from the onset to the first visit, was measured with diagnostic criteria. ApoE epsilon4 allele possession was associated with increased levels of delusions within the last month from the first visit (OR 1.23; 95% CI 1.01-1.50; P &lt; 0.05) and with the presence of categorical delusions at the early stage until the first visit (OR 3.11; 95% CI 1.21-8.01; P &lt; 0.02). In this study, which considers the entire range of behavioural expressions in LOAD patients at the early stage of the illness, the relationship between behaviour and ApoE epsilon4 allele is confirmed for delusions only.
In recent years, a number of potential new therapeutic indications of botulinum toxin injections have emerged, amongst which sialorrhea has attracted considerable attention. Based on open-label and controlled studies, botulinum toxin can be used to improve sialorrhea in patients with Parkinson's disease, parkinsonian syndromes, motor neuron disease and cerebral palsy. The toxin can be injected blindly based on anatomic landmarks of the salivary glands, or localization can be facilitated by use of ultrasound guidance. There are few reported adverse effects. However, many more carefully designed, controlled studies are still required to address the specific questions related to selection of patients, the optimal injection technique, the appropriate dose of botulinum toxin and its long-term effects.
Voluntary locomotor training as induced by enriched housing of rats stimulates recovery of locomotion after spinal cord injury (SCI). Generally it is thought that spinal neural networks of motor- and interneurons located in the ventral and intermediate laminae within the lumbar intumescence of the spinal cord, also referred to as central pattern generators (CPGs), are the 'producers of locomotion' and play a pivotal role in the amelioration of locomotor deficits after SCI. It has been suggested that locomotor training provides locomotor-specific sensory feedback into the CPGs, which stimulates remodeling of central nervous system pathways, including motor systems. Several molecules have been proposed to potentiate this process but the underlying mechanisms are not yet known. To understand these mechanisms, we studied the role of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) I in functional recovery from SCI under normal and enriched environment (EE) housing conditions. In a first experiment, we discovered that subcutaneous administration of IGF-I resulted in better locomotor recovery following SCI. In a second experiment, detailed analysis of the observed functional recovery induced by EE revealed full recovery of hindlimb coordination and stability of gait. This EE-dependent functional recovery was attenuated by alterations in the pre-synaptic bouton density within the ventral gray matter of the lumbar intumescence or CPG area. Neutralization of circulating IGF-I significantly blocked the effectiveness of EE housing on functional recovery and diminished the EE-induced alterations in pre-synaptic bouton density within the CPG area. These results support the use of IGF-I as a possible therapeutic aid in early rehabilitation after SCI.
Transient anoxia/hypoglycaemia in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures, a model of transient brain ischaemia, ultimately results in delayed cell death. Although the mechanisms underlying this delayed death remain unknown, an increase in excitatory drive has been postulated. We report here that transient anoxia/hypoglycaemia in rat hippocampal slice cultures resulted in a 70-80% enhancement of evoked, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolpropionic acid (AMPA) receptor-mediated, excitatory responses lasting over 60 min. This effect was prevented by blockade of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, did not involve changes of paired-pulse facilitation ratio, but was associated with a 50% increase in amplitude, but not frequency, of spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs). Consistent with this, paired recordings revealed the appearance of AMPA receptor-mediated EPSCs at previously silent synapses and occlusion by prior induction of long-term potentiation (LTP). Transient anoxia/hypoglycaemia further resulted in a 63% potentiation of evoked NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic responses, accounting for the 20% increase in ratio of AMPA to NMDA responses. No change in rectification properties of AMPA receptor-mediated currents could be detected within the first hour following anoxia/hypoglycaemia-induced potentiation. Western blot analyses of slice cultures exposed to either control conditions or a short anoxia/hypoglycaemia revealed a marked, 50-70% increase of GluR1, GluR2/3 and NR1 subunits 1 h, but not 15 min, after the anoxic/hypoglycaemic episode. This increase was blocked by an inhibitor of protein synthesis. Together these results indicate that a transient anoxia/hypoglycaemia is associated with a marked enhancement of excitatory transmission sharing similarities with the mechanisms underlying LTP, and is correlated with an increased synthesis of excitatory receptor subunits.
Dentate gyrus (DG) neurogenesis is transiently increased during the first weeks after status epilepticus (SE). Survival of the new neurons is initially compromised by an acute inflammatory response, but the long-term fate of the remaining ones in the post-SE environment is unknown. Here adult rats were subjected to 2 h electrically evoked self-sustained SE and perfused after 5 weeks or 6 months. Rats exhibited partial or generalized SE followed by spontaneous behavioural seizures and abnormal electroencephalographic activity during 6 months. Numbers of activated microglia in the dentate subgranular zone (SGZ)-granule cell layer (GCL) and in the hilus declined after 5 weeks, but were still elevated at 6 months after SE, with no differences between the milder partial and the more severe generalized SE. At 6 months, partial and generalized SE rats showed a seven-fold increase in the number of mature SGZ-GCL neurons formed during the first 2 weeks along with aberrant neurons in the hilus. Total numbers of mature neurons in SGZ-GCL were unaltered, indicating that SE-generated neurons replaced dead granule cells. Neuroblast formation had returned to normal levels in SGZ-GCL but generation of aberrant neurons in the hilus was still ongoing at 6 months. Our data indicate that long-term impairment of neurogenesis, as reported previously after kainic acid-induced SE, is not a general feature of chronic epilepsy. We have found that a substantial proportion of the mature granule cells at 6 months are generated during the first 2 weeks after SE and survive despite chronic inflammation, and that SE triggers continuous production of aberrant hilar neurons.
The oligodendrocyte precursor cell (OPC) has until recently been regarded as a lineage-restricted precursor cell. Considerable interest has been generated by reports suggesting that OPCs may possess a wider differentiation potential than previously assumed and thus be considered a multipotential stem cell. This study examined the neuronal differentiation potential of rat, postnatal cortical OPCs in response to extracellular cues in vitro and in vivo. OPCs did not exhibit intrinsic neuronal potential and were restricted to oligodendrocyte lineage potential following treatment with the neural precursor mitogen fibroblast growth factor 2. In contrast, a postnatal hippocampal astrocyte-derived signal(s) is sufficient to induce functional neuronal differentiation of cortical OPCs in vitro in population and single cell studies. Co-treatment with Noggin, a bone morphogenetic protein antagonist, did not attenuate neuronal differentiation. Following transplantation to the adult rat hippocampus, cortical OPCs expressed doublecortin, a neuroblast-associated marker. The present findings show that hippocampal, astrocyte-derived signals can induce the neuronal differentiation of OPCs through a Noggin-independent mechanism.
Fetal ethanol exposure persistently affects hippocampal circuits leading to learning and memory disabilities. Although the mechanisms responsible for these effects are not fully understood, several studies implicate neurosteroids as mediators of the actions of ethanol. A neurosteroid that appears to be critical for the fetal actions of ethanol is pregnenolone sulfate (PREGS). We found that chronic prenatal ethanol exposure increases PREGS levels in the fetal brain and that an endogenous PREGS-like neurosteroid strengthens excitatory transmission in the neonatal hippocampus. Therefore, we hypothesized that ethanol could affect synaptic transmission in the developing hippocampus in a PREGS-dependent manner. We used patch-clamp electrophysiological techniques and found that 50 mm ethanol strengthens AMPA receptor-mediated transmission in the CA1 region by reducing the failure rate of low-efficacy synapses. This effect was age-dependent and was occluded by application of exogenous PREGS. An anti-PREGS antibody scavenger and blockade of PREGS synthesis prevented the effect of ethanol. These data indicate that the deleterious effects of ethanol on hippocampal development are mediated in part by alterations in neurosteroid production, which results in premature stabilization of excitatory synapses.
Several experimental protocols induce lasting changes in the excitability of motor cortex. Some involve direct cortical stimulation, others activate the somatosensory system and some combine motor and sensory stimulation. The effects usually are measured as changes in amplitude of the motor-evoked-potential (MEP) or short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) elicited by a single or paired pulses of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Recent work has also tested sensorimotor organization within the motor cortex by recording MEPs and SICI during short periods of vibration applied to single intrinsic hand muscles. Here sensorimotor organization is focal: MEPs increase and SICI decreases in the vibrated muscle, whilst the opposite occurs in neighbouring muscles. In six volunteers we compared the after effects of three protocols that lead to lasting changes in cortical excitability: (i) paired associative stimulation (PAS) between a TMS pulse and an electrical stimulus to the median nerve; (ii) motor practice of rapid thumb abduction; and (iii) sensory input produced by semicontinuous muscle vibration, on MEPs and SICI at rest and on the sensorimotor organization. PAS increased MEP amplitudes, whereas vibration changed sensorimotor organization. Motor practice had a dual effect and increased MEPs as well as affecting sensorimotor organization. The implication is that different protocols target different sets of cortical circuits. We speculate that protocols that involve repeated activation of motor cortical output lead to lasting changes in efficacy of synaptic connections in output circuits, whereas protocols that emphasize sensory inputs affect the strength of sensory inputs to motor circuits.
The aim of the present work was to relate age-related individual differences in cognitive function with behavioural strategies employed in social and non-social challenges. To this purpose, the behaviour of adult (5-month-old) and middle-aged (13-month-old) CD-1 mice was scored in the social interaction, plus-maze, Morris water maze (MWM) and open-field tests. In addition, brain levels of nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were analysed and correlated with the behaviours scored. Compared to adults, middle-aged mice showed greater anxiety in both non-social and social situations, spending less time in the open arms of the plus-maze and performing more freezing behaviour in response to aggression. Based upon their behaviour in the social interaction test, adult and middle-aged subjects were classified as dominant or subordinate and their behaviour in the open field, plus-maze and MWM tests subjected to factor analysis, taking into account age and social status. Results highlighted meaningful differences in exploratory strategies as a function of social status only in middle-aged subjects. In particular, middle-aged dominants were, overall, more explorative than same-aged subordinates, spending less time in peripheral areas and approaching more readily a novel object. Interestingly, in middle-aged mice, superior performance in the MWM task was associated with exploratory strategies exploited by dominants. At adulthood, BDNF hippocampal levels, but not specific behaviours, were positively correlated with the ability to learn a spatial task. Overall, data indicate that, in middle-aged subjects individual differences in exploratory strategies, rather than neurotrophin levels, are able to predict the degree of impairment in a spatial learning task.
Neuronal growth-associated proteins, including superior cervical ganglia clone 10 (SCG10) family molecules, play roles in neurite outgrowth and network formation as well as structural and functional plasticity. The present ontogenetic study revealed that the expression of neuronal growth-associated proteins in the visual cortex (VC) exhibited a sharp peak in the early postnatal period when growing lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) axon terminals segregate into the ocular dominance columns depending on retinal activity. We then hypothesized that SCG10 family molecules, known for catastrophic factors of microtubules, play important roles in the formation of ocular dominance columns. To test this hypothesis, we studied whether: (i) monocular blockade of retinal activity changed the SCG10 expression in LGN and VC and (ii) brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) cortical infusion modified the expression of SCG10 family molecules and the number of excitatory/inhibitory cortical synapses. Using northern blot and in situ hybridization, we revealed that: (i) silencing retinal activity with tetrodotoxin eye injections dynamically reduced the expression of SCG10 mRNA and (ii) it was enhanced by BDNF in VC and LGN of kittens but not adult cats. These findings suggest that cortical infusion of BDNF and retinal activity up-regulate the expression of SCG10 in the LGN and VC and that up-regulated SCG10 in turn initiates marked reorganization of the microtuble network, eventually resulting in increase in synapse formation in the VC.
Galanin is a 29-amino-acid peptide expressed in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones and spinal dorsal horn neurones. It affects pain threshold and has developmental and trophic effects. Galanin acts at three G-protein-coupled receptors, galanin receptors (GalR1-3), each expressed in the DRGs as suggested by in situ hybridization and/or reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. The GalR2 knockout (-/-) mice permit studies on the contributions of this receptor subtype to the role of galanin at the spinal level. At 1 week after sciatic nerve transection (axotomy), there were 16-20% fewer neurones in intact and contralateral DRGs of -/- mice as compared with wild-type (WT) mice. In addition, a significant neurone loss (26% reduction) was found in the ipsilateral DRGs of WT mice, whereas no further neurone loss was seen in -/- mice. Expression of several peptides has been examined after axotomy, including galanin, neuropeptide Y and two of its receptors as well as substance P, and no significant differences were found between -/- and WT mice in either ipsi- or contralateral DRGs, respectively. After thermal injury and spinal nerve ligation, onset and duration of hyperalgesia in the injured paw were similar in GalR2-/- and WT animals. Recovery from spinal nerve ligation-caused allodynia had the same kinetics in -/- and WT animals. These data are in line with earlier observations from the peripheral and central nervous system, suggesting that galanin actions mediated by GalR2 subtype are of importance in neurodevelopment and neuroprotection.
