The gating of ryanodine receptor calcium release channels (RyRs) depends on myoplasmic Ca2+ and Mg2+ concentrations. RyRs from skeletal and cardiac muscle are activated by microm Ca2+ and inhibited by mm Ca2+ and Mg2+. 45Ca2+ release from skeletal SR vesicles suggests two mechanisms for Mg2+-inhibition (Meissner, Darling &amp; Eveleth, 1986, Biochemistry 25:236-244). The present study investigates the nature of these mechanisms using measurements of single-channel activity from cardiac- and skeletal RyRs incorporated into planar lipid bilayers. Our measurements of Mg2+- and Ca2+-dependent gating kinetics confirm that there are two mechanisms for Mg2+ inhibition (Type I and II inhibition) in skeletal and cardiac RyRs. The mechanisms operate concurrently, are independent and are associated with different parts of the channel protein. Mg2+ reduces Po by competing with Ca2+ for the activation site (Type-I) or binding to more than one, and probably two low affinity inhibition sites which do not discriminate between Ca2+ and Mg2+ (Type-II). The relative contributions of the two inhibition mechanisms to the total Mg2+ effect depend on cytoplasmic [Ca2+] in such a way that Mg2+ inhibition has the properties of Types-I and II inhibition at low and high [Ca2+] respectively. Both mechanisms are equally important when [Ca2+] = 10 microm in cardiac RyRs or 1 microm in skeletal RyRs. We show that Type-I inhibition is not the sole mechanism responsible for Mg2+ inhibition, as is often assumed, and we discuss the physiological implications of this finding.
While the anterior commissure has been shown to be an important route of information transfer in the forebrain, relatively little is known about its anatomical development. Glial substrates and extracellular spaces have been associated with the maturation of other large-fiber tracts, such as the corpus callosum and retinofugal pathway. The present study examined early stages in the maturation of the commissure in the gray short-tailed opossum, Monodelphis domestica. Monodelphis offspring are born after a short 14-day gestation, and, unlike in rats and mice, the anterior commissure develops entirely during the postnatal period. A number of techniques were employed: the carbocyanine dye Dil was used to label early axons in the region, semithin plastic sections were used to examine the extracellular environment of the developing commissure, and immunocytochemistry for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was used to characterize glial components. Results suggest that the first commissural fibers that cross the midline pass through a region of large extracellular spaces and may use GFAP-immunoreactive cells and processes as guides during their midline decussation.
The human neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-BE expresses delta-opioid receptors negatively coupled to adenylyl cyclase. Prolonged treatment (2 h) of the cells with 100 nM etorphine leads to an almost complete desensitization (8.2 +/- 5.9 vs. 45.8 +/- 8.7% for the control). Other receptors negatively coupled to adenylyl cyclase, namely, D2-dopaminergic, alpha 2-adrenergic, and m2/m4-muscarinic, were identified by screening of these cells, and it was shown that prolonged treatment (2 h) with 1 microM 2-bromo-alpha-ergocryptine or 1 microM arterenol resulted in a marked desensitization of D2-dopaminergic and alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, respectively. Cross-desensitization experiments revealed that pretreatment with etorphine desensitized with the same efficiency the delta-opioid receptor and the D2-dopaminergic receptor, and pretreatment with 2-brorno-alpha-ergocryptine also desensitized both receptors. In contrast, pretreatment with etorphine desensitized only partly the alpha 2-adrenergic receptor response, whereas pretreatment with 1 microM arterenol partly desensitized the delta-opioid receptor response. It is concluded that the delta-opioid receptor-mediated inhibitory response of adenylyl cyclase undergoes heterolgous desensitization, and it is suggested that delta-opioid and D2-dopaminergic receptors are coupled to adenylyl cyclase via a G12 protein, whereas alpha 2-adrenergic receptor could be coupled to the enzyme via two G proteins, G12 and another member of the G1/G0 family.
A proportion of the neuronal microtubule-associated protein (MAP) tau is highly phosphorylated in foetal and adult brain, whereas the majority of tau in the neurofibrillary tangles of Alzheimer's patients is hyperphosphorylated; many of the phosphorylation sites are serines or threonines followed by prolines. Several kinases phosphorylate tau at such sites in vitro. We have now shown that purified recombinant stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase, a proline-directed kinase of the MAP kinase extended family, phosphorylates recombinant tau in vitro on threonine and serine residues. Western blots using antibodies to phosphorylation-dependent tau epitopes demonstrated that phosphorylation occurs in both of the main phosphorylated regions of tau protein. Unlike glycogen synthase kinase-3, the c-Jun N-terminal kinase readily phosphorylates Thr205 and Ser422, which are more highly phosphorylated in Alzheimer tau than in foetal or adult tau. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 may preferentially phosphorylate the sites found physiologically, in foetal and to a smaller extent in adult tau, whereas stress-activated/c-Jun N-terminal kinase and/or other members of the extended MAP kinase family may be responsible for pathological proline-directed phosphorylations. Inflammatory processes in Alzheimer brain might therefore contribute directly to the pathological formation of the hyperphosphorylated tau found in neurofibrillary tangles.
Oxidative stress and free radical damage have been implicated in the neurodegenerative changes characteristic of several neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease. There is experimental evidence that the neurotoxicity of beta-amyloid is mediated via free radicals, and as the deposition of beta-amyloid apparently precedes the formation of paired helical filaments (PHF) in Alzheimer's disease, we have investigated whether subjecting primary neuronal cultures to oxidative stress induces changes in the phosphorylation state of the principal PHF protein tau that resemble those found in PHF-tau. Contrary to causing an increase in tau phosphorylation, treatment of neurones with hydrogen peroxide caused a dephosphorylation of tau and so we conclude that oxidative stress is not the direct cause of tau hyperphosphorylation and hence of PHF formation.
Tryptophan hydroxylase, the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter serotonin, is inactivated by the nitric oxide generators sodium nitroprusside, diethylamine/nitric oxide complex, and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine. Physiological concentrations of tetrahydrobiopterin, the natural and endogenous cofactor for the hydroxylase, significantly enhance the inactivation of the enzyme caused by each of these nitric oxide generators. The substrate tryptophan does not have this effect. The chemically reduced (tetrahydro-) form of the pterin is required for the enhancement, because neither biopterin nor dihydrobiopterin is effective. The 6S-isomer of tetrahydrobiopterin, which has little cofactor efficacy for tryptophan hydroxylase, does not enhance enzyme inactivation as does the natural 6R-isomer. A number of synthetic, reduced pterins share with tetrahydrobiopterin the ability to enhance nitric oxide-induced inactivation of tryptophan hydroxylase. The tetrahydrobiopterin effect is not prevented by agents known to scavenge hydrogen peroxide, superoxide radicals, peroxynitrite anions, hydroxyl radicals, or singlet oxygen. On the other hand, cysteine partially protects the enzyme from both the nitric oxide-induced inactivation and the combined pterin/nitric oxide-induced inactivation. These results suggest that the tetrahydrobiopterin cofactor enhances the nitric oxide-induced inactivation of tryptophan hydroxylase via a mechanism that involves attack on free protein sulfhydryls. Potential in vivo correlates of a tetrahydrobiopterin participation in the inactivation of tryptophan hydroxylase can be drawn to the neurotoxic amphetamines.
Previous results have indicated that GluR1 subunits of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors are targets of calpain. In the present study, we determined the effects of calpain treatment of synaptic membranes on GluR1 subunits using western blots with antibodies directed against the C-terminal (C-Ab) and the N-terminal (N-Ab) domains of the proteins, and compared them with the effects of calcium treatment of frozen-thawed brain sections. Calpain treatment of synaptic membranes resulted in a large decrease in the GluR1 band (105 kDa) labeled with C-Ab and in the formation of a doublet band labeled with N-Ab due to the appearance of a new species of GluR1 (98 kDa). These effects were blocked almost completely by calpain inhibitors. Calpain-induced changes in GluR1 immunological properties were not associated with modifications of [3H]AMPA or 6-cyano-7-[3H]nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione ([3H]CNOX) binding. Treatment of frozen-thawed brain sections with concentrations of calcium as low as 0.2 mM resulted in a large decrease in the 105-kDa GluR1 band and in the concurrent appearance of the 98-kDa band. This treatment was associated with increased [3H]-AMPA and [3H]CNOX binding. These results suggest that there exist several types/states of GluR1 subunits exhibiting different sensitivities to calpain. Our data also indicate the existence of additional calcium-dependent processes regulating the characteristics of receptors in intact tissues.
The ability of muscarinic cholinergic receptors to activate phosphoinositide turnover following agonist-induced internalization has been investigated. Incubation of SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells with oxotremorine-M resulted in a time-dependent endocytosis of both muscarinic receptors and alpha subunits of G0 and G11, but not of isoforms of phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C, into a subfraction of smooth endoplasmic reticulum (V1). Agonist-induced increases in diacylglycerol mass and in 32P-phosphatidate labeling, much of which was of the tetraenoic species, were also observed in the V1 fraction, but these increases persisted when the agonist-induced translocation of receptors into the V1 fraction was blocked. All enzymes of the phosphoinositide cycle were detectable in the V1 fraction. However, with the exception of phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase, none was enriched when compared with cell lysates. Both 32P-labeling studies and enzyme assays point to a very limited capacity of this fraction to synthesize phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate, whereas the synthesis of phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate is robust. These results indicate that endocytosed receptors do not appear to retain their ability to activate phosphoinositide turnover. The availability of the substrate for phospholipase C, phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate, may be one factor that limits the activity of muscarinic receptors in this subcellular compartment.
The paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic nucleus (SON) demonstrate a striking stability with respect to cell numbers during aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Vasopressin (AVP) neurons even become activated during aging as judged from several parameters for neuronal activity, such as increased AVP plasma levels, enlarged nucleolar as well as cell size and an increased size of the Golgi apparatus in AVP-neurons. The activation possibly occurs as compensation for an age-related loss of AVP-receptors in the kidney. As a specific marker for AVP synthesis, we used quantitative in situ hybridization and estimated total amounts of AVP-mRNA in the entire SON and PVN of 14 control subjects and 14 AD patients that were matched for age, fixation time, postmortem delay and storage time of the tissue in paraffin. Following quantification, no differences were observed in total amounts of AVP-mRNA in the SON or PVN between young and old controls or between young and old AD patients, nor between the entire group of controls and AD patients. A significant negative correlation was found between the volume of the AVP-mRNA signal in the AD SON and age while the total amount of mRNA remained the same. This suggests a redistribution of cells or cell compartments in aging. A significant positive relation in both SON and PVN of AD patients was found between storage time of the paraffin-embedded tissue and the total amount of AVP-mRNA. A significant positive relation was present in the PVN, but not SON between pH of the cerebrospinal fluid, which is a marker for agonal state and the total amount of AVP mRNA. The present unchanged AVP-mRNA levels in SON and PVN confirm earlier observations on the stability of cell numbers in these nuclei in aging and AD. Although on the basis of other parameters, AVP-mRNA upregulation was expected, gradual, chronic stimulation over prolonged periods of time may, possibly, induce alternative mechanisms of regulation such as changes in translatability or in mRNA stability.
To investigate immune mechanisms in the etiology of idiopathic sensory neuronopathy (ISN), we studied neurite outgrowth inhibition and antibody binding to neuronal tissue of serum from 4 patients with ISN. Rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells were cultured in the presence of serum from ISN patients and controls. After 48 h of incubation, neurite outgrowth was quantified with a neurofilament ELISA. Serum from ISN patients significantly inhibited DRG neurite outgrowth compared to controls. ISN serum also strongly immunostained fixed cultured and cryostat rat DRG neurons (at dilutions up to 1:10,240), whereas serum from controls did not. Western blots showed unique binding patterns to DRG proteins in 3 ISN patients compared with controls, but a single band corresponding in all ISN patients was not found. The inhibitory effect of ISN serum on neurite outgrowth and the presence of circulating anti-DRG antibodies in the acute phase of the disease supports an immune-mediated pathogenesis of ISN.

A high affinity folate receptor is expressed in some human cancers, including choroid plexus tumors and ependymomas, and has been suggested as a target for therapeutics. In this report, the expression of folate receptors in an SV40 large T antigen transgenic mouse (SV11) was investigated. SV11 mice develop choroid plexus tumors, a property that may be related to the observation that SV40 has been isolated from human choroid plexus tumors and ependymomas. We report that SV11 choroid plexus tumors contain a high affinity folate receptor (KD of 1 nM), detectable by 125I-folate autoradiography and immunohistochemistry. Western blot analysis indicated an apparent molecular weight of 38 kDa. RT-PCR revealed the presence of transcripts for both alpha and beta isoforms of the folate receptor. Brain parenchyma has undetectable folate receptor, but normal choroid plexus has substantial levels (as does human choroid plexus). The folate receptors of the tumor are accessible from the bloodstream whereas those of the normal choroid plexus are not. Thus SV11 transgenic mice should be useful for evaluating therapeutic targeting of high affinity folate receptors, both for efficacy of specific agents and possible side effects.
Between 1990 to 1994, 6 TSP/HAM patients, 3 women and 3 men with an average age of 57.1 years (39 to 76 years old), who died in the Salvador Hospital were submitted to postmortem examination. The mean time of paraparesis was 7 years (3 to 17 years), and 2 patients had pseudobulbar signs. Three cases had macroscopic atrophy of the spinal cord. Histologically, all cases had lesions in the pyramidal tracts and 4 cases showed somatotopic lesions of the Goll's tracts which followed a &quot;dying back&quot; ascendant and descendant distribution, respectively. In 2 cases, both of which had intellectual impairment, demyelination of the subcortical and parathalamic areas was observed without U fiber involvement. Abnormal vessels with gross thickening of the adventitia, many of them with lymphocytic cuffs, were seen everywhere, especially in the spinal cord, brain stem, midbrain and meninges, but no relation between these findings and the parenchymal lesions was observed. Also, in the cases with posterior column involvement, neuronal changes and proliferation of satellite cells in the dorsal ganglia were found. All cases showed histological sialoadenitis and none had inflammatory muscle changes. We conclude that the lesions affected the neuraxis in a systemic axial fashion as in degenerative diseases, and did not seem to be secondary to vascular or inflammatory abnormalities.
Recent studies have suggested that neuronal populations that contain glutamate receptors are vulnerable to damage mediated by the human immunodeficiency virus 1 (HIV-1). Somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons contain, among other elements, glutamate receptors, and might therefore be susceptible to HIV-mediated damage. In order to test this hypothesis, we compared patterns of somatostatin immunoreactivity in the cortex and subcortex of autopsied AIDS cases with and without HIV encephalitis (HIVE). Somatostatin immunoreactivity in the frontal cortex interneurons, hippocampal pyramidal and nonpyramidal cells, and globus pallidus was significantly reduced in HIVE. Radioimmunoassay demonstrated a comparable decrease in somatostatin levels in the neocortex of HIVE cases. The decrease in somatostatin immunoreactivity in the neocortex was inversely correlated with the severity of HIVE and global cognitive performance, but not with the extent of the astroglial reaction. These findings indicate that somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons in the cortex are susceptible to damage mediated by HIV and that deficient functioning of this neuronal population might contribute to the cognitive dysfunction observed in AIDS patients.
We tested the hypothesis that neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) in adult cats can rescue the central synapses made by muscle afferents from the effects of peripheral axotomy. The medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle nerve in cats was axotomized and capped or axotomized and the distal end provided with either saline or NT-3 by mini-osmotic pump. Four to five weeks later monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) elicited by electrical stimulation of the axotomized MG nerve were recorded in intact lateral gastrocnemius/soleus (LGS) motoneurons. The axotomized MG afferents without NT-3 treatment generated EPSPs averaging one-half of the amplitude of those generated by normal intact MG afferents. Axotomized MG afferents treated with NT-3 elicited EPSPs averaging 2.5 times normal amplitude and 5 times the amplitude of those from afferents axotomized but not treated. The very large EPSPs generated by NT-3-treated afferents remained as susceptible to depression during high-frequency stimulation (32 shocks at 167 Hz) as those elicited by untreated axotomized afferents. The arrival of the afferent volley of the cord dorsum potential and the onset of EPSPs were both delayed by axotomy of the group Ia afferents and were both restored by exposure to NT-3. This result suggests that the conduction velocity and thus the caliber of group Ia afferents are also controlled by NT-3. We conclude that the neurotrophin NT-3 has a continuing role in the maintenance of physiological function of muscle afferents in adult mammals.
Area V4 occupies a central position among the areas of the primate cerebral cortex involved with object recognition and analysis. Consistent with this role, neurons in V4 are selective for many visual attributes including color, orientation, and binocular disparity. However, it is uncertain whether cells within V4 are organized with respect to these properties. In this study we used in vivo optical imaging and electrophysiology in macaque visual cortex to show that cells that share certain physiological properties are indeed grouped together in V4. Our results revealed regions containing cells with common orientation selectivity. These regions were similar in size to those seen in V2 and much larger than those seen in V1 and were confirmed by appropriately targeted single-unit recording. Surprisingly, orientation organization visible through imaging was limited to the portion of V4 representing the central visual fields. Optical imaging also revealed a functional organization related to stimulus size. Size-sensitive regions (S regions) contained cells that were strongly suppressed by large stimuli. In contrast to V2, S regions in V4 contain orientation domains. These results suggest that V4 contains modular assemblies of cells related to particular aspects of form analysis. Such organization may contribute to the construction of object-based representations.
To evaluate the role of low-voltage-activated (LVA) calcium channels in the lamprey spinal locomotor network, a previous computer simulation model has been extended to include LVA calcium channels. It is also of interest to explore the consequences of a LVA conductance for the electrical behavior of the single neuron. The LVA calcium channel was modeled with voltage-dependent activation and inactivation using the m3h form, following a Hodgkin-Huxley paradigm. Experimental data from lamprey neurons was used to provide parameter values of the single cell model. The presence of a LVA calcium conductance in the model could account for the occurrence of a rebound depolarization in the simulation model. The influence of holding potential on the occurrence of a rebound as well the latency at which it is elicited was investigated and compared with previous experiments. The probability of a rebound increased at a more depolarized holding potential and the latency was also reduced under these conditions. Furthermore, the effect of changing the holding potential and the reversal potential of the calcium dependent potassium conductance were tested to determine under which conditions several rebound spikes could be elicited after a single inhibitory pulse in the simulation model. A reduction of the slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) after the action potential reduced the tendency for a train of rebound spikes. The experimental effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid-B (GABA(B)) receptor activation were simulated by reducing the maximal LVA calcium conductance. A reduced tendency for rebound firing and a slower rising phase with sinusoidal current stimulation was observed, in accordance with earlier experiments. The effect of reducing the slow afterhyperpolarization and reducing the LVA calcium current was tested experimentally in the lamprey spinal cord, during N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced fictive locomotion. The reduction of burst frequency was more pronounced with GABA(B) agonists than with apamin (inhibitor of K(Ca) current) when using high NMDA concentration (high burst frequency). The burst frequency increased after the addition of a LVA calcium current to the simulated segmental network, due to a faster recovery during the inhibitory phase as the activity switches between the sides. This result is consistent with earlier experimental findings because GABA(B) receptor agonists reduce the locomotor frequency. These results taken together suggest that the LVA calcium channels contribute to a larger degree with respect to the burst frequency regulation than the sAHP mechanism at higher burst frequencies. The range in which a regular burst pattern can be simulated is extended in the lower range by the addition of LVA calcium channels, which leads to more stable activity at low locomotor frequencies. We conclude that the present model can account for rebound firing and trains of rebound spikes in lamprey neurons. The effects of GABA(B) receptor activation on the network level is consistent with a reduction of the calcium current through LVA calcium channels even though GABA(B) receptor activation will affect the sAHP indirectly and also presynaptic inhibition.
The authors examined the reports of MRI brain studies of 69 patients with DSM-III-R-diagnosed psychotic disorders (30 early-onset and 24 late-onset schizophrenia patients and 15 with other psychoses) and 41 normal comparison subjects. Participants' ages ranged from 45 to 87 years. A qualitative rating scheme determined type and severity of clinically detectable abnormalities, including volume loss, infarcts, lacunae, and white matter hyperintensities. In this clinically well-characterized sample, the vast majority of the MRIs were within normal limits. There were no significant differences between psychosis patients and normal comparison subjects or between early-onset and late-onset schizophrenia patients in frequency, type, or severity of gross structural abnormalities. The results indicate that late-onset schizophrenia and related disorders can exist without clinically significant gross structural abnormalities in the brain.
Reports that nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibition prevents the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) have been controversial. Recent evidence suggests that NO may help to regulate the threshold for LTP induction. We have tested this hypothesis by examining the effects of stimulus frequency and train duration on synaptic plasticity in the presence of either NO donors or NOS inhibitors. Two different NO donors facilitated LTP induction by stimuli that normally produced only short-term potentiation, whereas NOS inhibitors blocked LTP to stimuli that normally produce small LTP. NO donors facilitated LTP induction even when NMDA receptors were blocked, indicating that NO need not act via NMDA receptors. NO donors and NOS inhibitors were without effect on long-term depression (LTD), suggesting that they act on a distinct potentiating mechanism. Thus, NO could contribute to the establishment of plasticity under physiologically relevant conditions by selectively increasing the probability of LTP induction.
The activation of mu-opioid receptors in the nucleus accumbens (Acb) produces changes in locomotor and rewarding responses that are believed to involve neurons, including local gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons. We combined immunogold-silver detection of an antipeptide antiserum against the cloned mu-opioid receptor (MOR) and immunoperoxidase labeling of an antibody against GABA to determine the cellular basis for the proposed opioid modulation of GABAergic neurons in the rat Acb. MOR-like immunoreactivity (MOR-LI) was localized prominently to plasma membranes of neurons having morphological features of both spiny and aspiny cells, many of which contained GABA. Of 351 examples of profiles that contained MOR-LI and GABA labeling, 65% were dendrites. In these dendrites, MOR-LI was seen mainly along extrasynaptic portions of the plasma membrane apposed to unlabeled terminals and/or glial processes. Dually labeled dendrites often received convergent input from GABAergic terminals and/or from unlabeled terminals forming asymmetric excitatory-type synapses. Of all profiles that contained both MOR and GABA immunoreactivity, 28% were axon terminals. MOR-containing GABAergic terminals and terminals separately labeled for MOR or GABA formed synapses with unlabeled dendrites and also with dendrites containing MOR or GABA. Our results indicate that MOR agonists could modulate the activity of GABA neurons in the Acb via receptors located mainly at extrasynaptic sites on dendritic plasma membranes. MOR ligands also could alter the release of GABA onto target dendrites that contain GABA and/or respond to opiate stimulation.
The mechanism of afterdischarge termination in the various hippocampal regions was examined in the rat. Stimulation of the perforant path or the commissural system was used to elicit afterdischarges. Combination of multiple site recordings with silicon probes, current source density analysis, and unit recordings in the awake animal allowed for a high spatial resolution of the field events. Interpretation of the field observations was aided by intracellular recordings from anesthetized rats. Irrespective of the evoking conditions, afterdischarges always terminated first in the CA1 region. Termination of the afterdischarge was heralded by a large DC shift initiated in dendritic layers associated with a low amplitude &quot;afterdischarge termination oscillation&quot; (ATO) at 40 to 80 Hz in the cell body layer. ATOs were also observed in the CA3 region and the dentate gyrus. The DC shift spread at the same velocity (0. 1-0.2 mm/sec) in all directions and could cross the hippocampal fissure. All but 1 of the 25 putative interneurons in the CA1 and dentate regions ceased to fire before the onset of ATO. Intracellularly, ATO and the emerging DC potential were associated with fast depolarizing potentials and firing of pyramidal cells and depolarization block of spike initiation, respectively. Both field ATO and the intracellular depolarization shift were replicated by focal microinjection of potassium. We hypothesize that [K+]o lost by the intensely discharging neurons during the afterdischarge triggers propagating waves of depolarization in the astrocytic network. In turn, astrocytes release potassium, which induces a depolarization block of spike generation in neurons, resulting in &quot;postictal depression&quot; of the EEG.
Previous work has shown that the angular position of hippocampal place cell firing fields is accurately controlled by the position of a single white cue card attached to the wall of a recording cylinder: when the card is rotated, fields rotate equally. In this study, we asked whether similar control could be exerted by three-dimensional objects placed directly in the recording arena. In each of several conditions, the locations of the objects relative to each other and their distances from the cylinder wall were fixed. In Experiment 1, the objects were all near the center of the cylinder. In this condition, the angular position of firing fields could, in general, not be predicted from the angular position of the object set. When a white wall card was added to the object arrangement, the stimulus ensemble exerted nearly ideal control over angular firing position. Nevertheless, when the card was withdrawn, the objects still did not control field position. In Experiment 2, place cells were recorded in the presence of two new arrangements of the same objects used in Experiment 1. In the &quot;clustered objects&quot; condition, the objects were placed next to each other, 10 cm from the wall. In the &quot;objects-at-periphery&quot; condition, the objects were put against the cylinder wall by equally increasing the distances among the objects. In both conditions, we found virtually ideal control by the objects over angular field position. These results indicate that the failure of stimulus control in Experiment 1 must be attributable to the arrangement of the objects and not to the nature of the objects themselves. Overall, the results are in line with behavioral studies that show that it is very difficult to teach rats to locate food relative to landmarks inside the behavioral arena.
Two different 19-mer antisense oligodeoxynucleotides complementary to the initial coding regions of dopamine D2 or D3 receptor mRNA were infused unilaterally into the substantia nigra of rats for 3-6 d to suppress synthesis of D2 and/or D3 receptors on substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons, thereby producing specific reductions of D2 and/or D3 receptors. Autoradiographic receptor binding revealed that D2 and D3 antisense oligodeoxynucleotides specifically and significantly reduced D2 or D3 binding in the ipsilateral substantia nigra, respectively, without affecting dopamine receptor binding in the neostriatum. Either D2 or D3 antisense oligodeoxynucleotides greatly attenuated the ability of apomorphine to inhibit dopaminergic neurons in vivo, an effect that was potentiated by simultaneous administration of D2 and D3 antisenses. Despite these effects, neither the rate nor the pattern of spontaneous activity of antisense-treated nigrostriatal neurons differed from those in the control groups. The proportion of antidromic responses consisting of full spikes from antisense-treated rats was significantly greater, and the mean antidromic threshold was significantly lower than in controls, indicating that autoreceptor knockdown increased both somatodendritic and terminal excitability. These data demonstrate that selective reduction of specific dopamine receptor subtypes by antisense infusion can be effected in vivo, and that nigrostriatal neurons express both D2 and D3 autoreceptors at their somatodendritic and axon terminal regions. Although the somatodendritic and terminal autoreceptors modulate dendritic and terminal excitability, respectively, the interaction of endogenously released dopamine with somatodendritic autoreceptors does not appear to exert a significant effect on spontaneous activity in anesthetized rats.
The levels of several GABAA receptor subunit mRNAs increase as cerebellar granule neurons migrate to their adult positions and receive excitatory mossy fiber input. Despite the temporal similarity of these increases in transcript expression in vivo, studies in cultured granule neurons demonstrated that the subunit mRNAs are differentially regulated. To address the possibility that neuronal activity regulates transcript expression, GABAA receptor subunit mRNA levels were assessed in cultured granule neurons grown in chemically defined, serum-free medium containing either nondepolarizing (5 mM) or depolarizing (25 mM) KCl concentrations. Whereas the delta subunit mRNA was almost undetectable in cultures maintained in nondepolarizing medium, an eightfold increase occurred between days 2 and 4 in cultures grown in depolarizing medium. Furthermore, delta subunit transcript expression was reduced by 76 +/- 6% when neurons in depolarizing medium were switched into nondepolarizing medium. The importance of depolarization in the initiation and maintenance of subunit transcript expression in granule neurons was selective for the GABAA receptor delta subunit. These changes in transcript expression involved calcium entry through L-type calcium channels. Nifedipine treatment (1 microM) both reduced intracellular calcium and decreased delta subunit mRNA expression by 79 +/- 4%. Furthermore, inhibition of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CaM kinases) by KN-62 (1 microM) also reduced delta subunit transcript expression. These studies demonstrate that KCl-induced depolarization, a condition that mimics the effects of neuronal activity, selectively modulates GABAA receptor delta subunit mRNA expression through a pathway involving calcium entry and activation of a CaM kinase.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating neurological disorder characterized by loss of cognitive skills and progressive dementia. The pathological hallmark of AD is the presence of numerous senile plaques throughout the hippocampus and cerebral cortex associated with degenerating axons, neurofibrillary tangles, and gliosis. The core of the senile plaque primarily is composed of the 39-43 amino acid beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta), which forms fibrils of beta-pleated sheets. Although considerable genetic evidence implicates Abeta in the pathogenesis of AD, a direct causal link remains to be established. Senile plaques are foci of local inflammatory processes, as evidenced by the presence of numerous activated microglia and acute phase proteins. Abeta has been shown to elicit inflammatory responses in microglia; however, the intracellular events mediating these effects are largely unknown. We report that exposure of microglia and THP1 monocytes to fibrillar Abeta led to time- and dose-dependent increases in protein tyrosine phosphorylation of a population of proteins similar to that elicited by classical immune stimuli such as immune complexes. The tyrosine kinases Lyn, Syk, and FAK were activated on exposure of microglia and THP1 monocytes to Abeta, resulting in the tyrosine kinase-dependent generation of superoxide radicals. The present data support a role for oxidative damage in the pathogenesis of AD, provide an important mechanistic link between Abeta and the generation of reactive oxygen intermediates, and identify molecular targets for therapeutic intervention in AD.
Members of a neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit gene cluster ordered beta4, alpha3, alpha5 in the vertebrate genome are expressed in highly restricted patterns in the PNS and CNS. Nothing is known, however, about the regulatory elements that control transcription of these genes in selected neuronal cell populations. We report here a novel enhancer, designated beta43', that is positioned in the beta4 3'-untranslated exon. It is composed of two nearly identical 37 bp direct repeats that are separated by 6 bp. Multimerization of the enhancer upstream of the alpha3 minimal promoter results in synergistic activation. Analysis in different cell types, including three neural lines and primary keratinocytes, shows that beta43' is preferentially active in the neural line PC12, which expresses all members of the cluster. Mobility shift assays reveal a cell-type-specific complex, which forms with the first repeat of the enhancer and PC12 extracts. Complexes co-migrating with the PC12 cell complex are not detected with extracts from other lines, which suggests that PC12 cells contain a differentially expressed factor that may be important for the restricted activity of beta43'. The cell-type-specific activity of the beta43' enhancer suggests that it is important for regulating restricted expression patterns of one or more clustered neuronal acetylcholine receptor genes. Its location within the beta4 gene may be a selective pressure for maintaining tight linkage of clustered neuronal nAchR genes.
Rhythmically active neural networks can control the modulatory input that they receive via their synaptic effects onto modulatory neurons. This synaptic control of network modulation can occur presynaptically, at the axon terminals of the modulatory neuron. For example, in the crab stomatogastric ganglion (STG), a gastric mill network neuron presynaptically inhibits transmitter release from a modulatory projection neuron called modulatory commissural neuron 1. We showed previously that the gastric mill rhythm-timed presynaptic inhibition of the STG terminals of MCN1 is pivotal for enabling MCN1 to activate this rhythm. We also showed that MCN1 excites the pyloric rhythm within the STG. Here we show that, because MCN1 stimulation conjointly excites the gastric mill and pyloric rhythms, the gastric mill rhythm-timed presynaptic inhibition of MCN1 causes a rhythmic interruption in the MCN1-mediated excitation of the pyloric rhythm. Consequently, during each protraction phase of the gastric mill rhythm, presynaptic inhibition suppresses MCN1 excitation of the pyloric rhythm, thereby weakening the pyloric rhythm. During the retraction phase, presynaptic inhibition is absent and MCN1 elicits a faster, stronger, and modified pyloric rhythm. Thus, in addition to its role in enabling a neural circuit to regulate the modulatory transmission that it receives, presynaptic inhibition is also used effectively to rhythmically control the activity level of a distinct, but behaviorally related, neural circuit.
Hysteria/conversion disorder has been described since antiquity. One French neurologist dubbed it &quot;neurological nonsense&quot; because its presentation was so complex and confusing. For nosological purposes for inclusion into the Diagnostic Statistical Manual, multiple revisions of conversion disorder terminology were made for each edition published from 1952-1994. Until recently, conversion disorder was thought to be solely psychological in origin: new studies raise the possibility that what is called conversion disorder is actually early disruption in the functioning of the nervous system in predisposed individuals. Because of its uncanny resemblance to neurological disease, the differential diagnosis is critical and should be exhaustive in its efforts to rule out neurological disease. The neuroscience nurse needs to be aware of this perplexing syndrome called conversion disorder and the never theories that suggest organic causation and interventions to enhance recovery.
The nomenclature most commonly applied to the motor-related nuclei of the human thalamus differs substantially from that applied to the thalamus of other primates, from which most knowledge of input-output connections is derived. Knowledge of these connections in the human is a prerequisite for stereotactic neurosurgical approaches designed to alleviate movement disorders by the placement of lesions in specific nuclei. Transfer to humans of connectional information derived from experimental studies in nonhuman primates requires agreement about the equivalence of nuclei in the different species, and dialogue between experimentalists and neurosurgeons would be facilitated by the use of a common nomenclature. In this review, the authors compare the different nomenclatures and review the cyto- and chemoarchitecture of the nuclei in the anterolateral aspect of the ventral nuclear mass in humans and monkeys, suggest which nuclei are equivalent, and propose a common terminology. On this basis, it is possible to identify the nuclei of the human motor thalamus that transfer information from the substantia nigra, globus pallidus, cerebellum, and proprioceptive components of the medial lemniscus to prefrontal, premotor, motor, and somatosensory areas of the cerebral cortex. It also becomes possible to suggest the principal functional systems involved in stereotactically guided thalamotomies and the functional basis of the symptoms observed following ischemic lesions in different parts of the human thalamus.
Herpes simplex virus (HSV) has been a focus of research in many laboratories during the last 30-35 years, with the majority centered on the virus' replication, molecular biology and pathogenesis. Recently, HSV has begun to receive considerable attention in the field of neuroscience, where scientists have begun to use the virus as a tool or model for several areas of investigation. These areas include the construction and development of HSV-based vectors for gene therapy and the use of HSV as a neuronal tracer, as a model for demyelinating disease and to study interactions between the nervous, immune and endocrine systems. The goal of this paper is to review these different roles for HSV in the broad field of neuroscience.
The ability of the selective dopamine D1 receptor agonist (5aR,11bS)-4,5,5a,6,7,11b-hexahydro-2-propyl-3-thia-5-aza cyclopent-1-ena[c]-phenanthrene-9,10-diol (A-86929) to induce contralateral rotation after repeated administration was determined in rodent and primate models of Parkinson's disease. Testing was conducted in rats previously given unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine injections and in macaques previously given unilateral, intracarotid infusions of the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Both treatments have been shown to reduce forebrain dopamine levels on the side of the infusion. Such animals rotate contralaterally after injections of direct-acting dopamine receptor agonists. Rats were administered A-86929 (0.11 or 0.22 micromol/kg s.c.) three times daily for 10 days, with injections spaced 3 h apart, and rotation was measured across a 9-h period on various treatment days. Initially, monkeys were given various doses of A-86929 (0.03, 0.10 or 0.30 micromol/kg i.m.), and rotation was monitored for 3 h after each dose. Significant, dose-dependent levels of contralateral rotation were achieved. Monkeys were next treated three times daily at 3-h intervals with A-86929 (0.3 micromol/kg). Analysis of total, daily rotation scores indicated that the magnitude of the behavioral response did not change significantly across the 10-day treatment period in monkeys, although it increased in rats (0.22 micromol/kg). The first daily injection tended to elicit greater and longer-lived responses than the subsequent daily injections in both species. In monkeys, this was particularly true on the first test day and was not seen by the last test. This study suggests that a selective D1 receptor agonist, such as A-86929, with full intrinsic activity relative to dopamine, may be useful for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
1. At the rat neuromuscular junction, the postsynaptic folds and the voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) within them are thought to amplify the effects of postsynaptic currents. In this study, the contribution of this effect to the safety factor for neuromuscular transmission, the ratio of the normal quantal content to the number of quanta required to reach threshold, has been estimated. 2. Normal quantal content was determined in isolated nerve-muscle preparations of rat soleus and extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles in which muscle action potentials were blocked by mu-conotoxin. The quantal content estimated from voltage recordings was 61.8 and 79.4 in soleus and EDL, respectively, and from charge measurements derived from current recordings was 46.3 (soleus) and 65.1 (EDL). 3. The threshold for action potential generation in response to nerve stimulation was determined from endplate potentials (EPPs) and endplate currents (EPCs) in preparations partially blocked with d-tubocurarine. The number of quanta required to reach threshold was estimated from voltage recordings to be 19.7 (soleus) and 23.2 (EDL) and from charge measurements derived from current recordings to be 13.3 (soleus) and 13.0 (EDL). 4. When intracellular electrodes were used to inject current into the muscle fibre, the total charge required to reach threshold was approximately twice that of the nerve-evoked threshold EPC. 5. The safety factor for nerve-evoked responses at the junction was 3.5 (soleus) and 5.0 (EDL). In the extrajunctional region the safety factor estimated from injected currents was 1.7 (soleus) and 2.5 (EDL). 6. It is concluded that the effect of the postsynaptic folds and the VGSCs within them is to double the safety factor. At normal frequencies of nerve impulse activity in vivo, this effect is likely to be crucial for ensuring effective neuromuscular transmission.

Brain aromatase (ARO) activity in the quail is markedly enhanced by testosterone (T). This effect only becomes detectable after several hours and reaches its maximum within a few days, which suggests enzymatic induction at the genomic level. This idea is reinforced by the fact that T also increases the ARO protein, as observed by immunocytochemistry (ICC) and the ARO mRNA, as measured by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). These changes can be mimicked by the administration of estrogens and therefore presumably require T aromatization. In our first test, injection of the non-steroidal ARO inhibitor, R76713 (racemic vorozole), unexpectedly revealed an increase in ARO immunoreactivity in the preoptic area (POA) of treated birds. This property of R76713 was shared by another non-steroidal inhibitor, fadrozole, but not by two steroidal inhibitors, androstatrienedione (ATD) and 4-hydroxy-androstenedione (OHA). These last two compounds markedly decreased the concentration of brain ARO as estimated by ICC. In parallel, ATD and OHA decreased ARO mRNA concentration measured by RT-PCR but vorozole and fadrozole had no effect on these concentrations in the POA, and only caused them to decrease slightly in the posterior hypothalamus. Together, these data indicate that the removal of estrogens caused by steroidal inhibitors decreases the synthesis of ARO, presumably at the transcriptional level. Additional regulatory mechanisms apparently take place after the injection of non-steroidal inhibitors and probably include increased half-life of the protein. The induction of ARO activity by steroids appears to be greater in males than in females, but this difference has been difficult to localize and confirm by assay methods. We therefore analysed by ICC the tridimensional distribution of ARO-ir neurons in the POA of males and females that were sexually mature or gonadectomized and treated with T-filled or control empty implants. Localized sex differences and effects of T were detected in this way. In particular, males had more ARO-ir cells than females in the lateral POA but a difference in the opposite direction was evident in the medial part of this area. These sex differences are largely activational (i.e. caused by the higher T levels in males) but they may also reflect organizational effects of neonatal steroids. Castration decreased ARO-ir cell numbers in the lateral POA, but increased it in the periventricular region. This anatomically specialized control by T may be mediated by three potential mechanisms that are discussed and comparatively evaluated: a migration of ARO neurons towards the ventricle after castration; a differential colocalization of ARO with estrogen receptors or a differential modulation of ARO neurons by catecholaminergic inputs.
Aromatase, the enzyme responsible for the conversion of testosterone to estradiol, is found in the rat brain and is present in regions of the preoptic area, hypothalamus, and limbic system. Gonadal steroid hormones regulate aromatase activity levels in many brain regions, but not all. Using in situ hybridization, we examined the distribution of aromatase mRNA in the adult male forebrain, as well as the levels of aromatase mRNA in the brains of males and females, and the regulation by gonadal steroid hormones. In the adult male, many heavily labelled cells were found in the encapsulated bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN), the ventromedial nucleus (VMN), the medial amygdala (mAMY) and the cortical amygdala (CoAMY). The regional distribution of aromatase mRNA was similar in males and females, but males tended to have a greater number of aromatase mRNA-expressing cells in each region compared to females. Aromatase mRNA levels in the BNST, MPN, VMN and mAMY tended to be lower in castrated males than in intact males, whereas aromatase mRNA levels were unaltered by castration in the CoAMY. Further analysis of individual cells expressing aromatase mRNA suggests that aromatase mRNA may be regulated by steroid hormones differentially in specific populations of cells in regions where enzyme activity levels are steroid-hormone-dependent.
To evaluate the regulation of lipolysis by the sympathetic nervous system, eight spinal cord-injured (SCI) subjects with a lesion above T5 resulting in a decentralization of the lower-body sympathetic nervous system and adrenal medulla (age, 36 +/- 2 years; weight, 82 +/- 5 kg; body fat mass, 26.8 +/- 3.0 kg; all mean +/- SE) and nine control subjects (age, 33 +/- 2; weight, 80 +/- 3; NS; body fat mass, 16.1 +/- 1.5 kg; P &lt; .01) were investigated after fasting overnight. Each subject was studied with subcutaneous microdialysis and 133Xe-clearance adipose tissue blood flow (ATBF) in the umbilical and clavicular regions during postabsorptive rest and after sympathoexcitatory stimulation by means of mental stress and isometric handgrip exercise. SCI subjects had an increased body fat mass, hyperinsulinemia, and an elevated lipolytic rate at rest compared with control subjects. ATBF and lipolysis were activated to a normal extent following mental stress and isometric handgrip exercise in the umbilical region in control subjects. ATBF was increased in tissue above but not below the lesion level in SCI subjects following mental stress. Glycerol release was not different between groups in either tissue region despite significantly lower noradrenaline and adrenaline levels in SCI subjects. This finding argues against a significant adrenergic control of the lipolytic rate at rest. Furthermore, the small differences in stimulated glycerol release between groups, as well as the increased plasma glycerol levels in SCI subjects, cast doubt on the view that interruption of adrenergic activity below the lesion is the sole mechanism underlying the increased body fat mass in SCI subjects.
The kinesin heterotetramer consists of two heavy and two light chains. Kinesin light chains have been proposed to act in binding motor protein to cargo, but evidence for this has been indirect. A library of monoclonal antibodies directed against conserved epitopes throughout the kinesin light chain sequence were used to map light chain functional architecture and to assess physiological functions of these domains. Immunocytochemistry with all antibodies showed a punctate pattern that was detergent soluble. A monoclonal antibody (KLC-All) made against a highly conserved epitope in the tandem repeat domain of light chains inhibited fast axonal transport in isolated axoplasm by decreasing both the number and velocity of vesicles moving, whereas an antibody against a conserved amino terminus epitope had no effect. KLC-All was equally effective at inhibiting both anterograde and retrograde transport. Neither antibody inhibited microtubule-binding or ATPase activity in vitro. KLC-All was unique among antibodies tested in releasing kinesin from purified membrane vesicles, suggesting a mechanism of action for inhibition of axonal transport. These results provide further evidence that conventional kinesin is a motor for fast axonal transport and demonstrate that kinesin light chains play an important role in kinesin interaction with membranes.
Comparison of astroglial immunoreactivity in mesencephalon, cerebellum, and hippocampus of 25-d-old rat pups exposed to 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) through the mother's milk was made using a quantitative immunohistochemical analysis. A glial reaction was detected at the level of serotonergic nuclei and extreme astrogliosis in the hippocampus and cerebellum. A quantitative analysis of reactive astrocytes was performed by using GFAP and S-100 protein as specific markers. The study showed a significant increase in their number, size, number of processes, and density of immunostaining in 2,4-D-exposed animals. Exposure to 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid on the first days of life modifies the astroglial cytoarchitecture in parallel to previously described neuronal changes.
A mutation on chromosome 4p16.3 with an expanded polyglutamine tract has been identified as the cause of Huntington's disease (HD). The neuroscience and clinical community now faces the formidable challenge of using this information to develop a treatment against this fatal and currently untreatable disease. This article reviews the recent literature pertaining to HD and presents an overview of possible intervention strategies against the neurodegenerative process of HD. Because little is known about the physiological function of the HD gene, there are four biological levels at which therapies could be devised. Identification and cloning of the gene might direct novel therapies for HD using the following strategies: interference (1) at the DNA or (2) at the RNA level; (3) blocking the deleterious effect of the protein; and (4) physiological intervention using pharmacological agents or neural cell transplants.
Previous studies have shown that neural stimulation of brown adipose tissue (BAT) reorganizes the expression and activity of signaling proteins in the beta-adrenergic adenylyl cyclase pathway. Cold stress increases neural stimulation of BAT and increases alpha1-adrenergic receptor number; however, the alpha1 receptor subtype involved and the mechanism of up-regulation by cold stress have not been determined. Using reverse transcription/polymerase chain reaction analysis and nuclease protection assay, BAT was demonstrated to express mRNAs encoding alpha1a and alpha1d, but not alpha1b, receptors. Parallel pharmacologic studies of BAT membranes and recombinant alpha1a and alpha1d receptors expressed in COS-7 cells demonstrated that alpha1a receptors predominate in BAT. Exposure of rats to 4 degrees for 4 days increased alpha1a receptors and mRNA in BAT but did not alter expression of alpha1d receptors or mRNA. The induction of alpha1a receptor and mRNA level by cold stress was prevented by selective surgical denervation of BAT. Furthermore, alpha1a receptor and mRNA expression could be induced in warm-adapted rats by infusions of the selective beta3-adrenergic receptor agonist CL 316,243. These data indicate that neural activation of beta3-adrenergic receptors is an important determinant of alpha1a adrenergic receptor expression in BAT.
Power spectrum analysis of myoelectric signals has been used to measure the propagation velocity in a large number of voluntary action potentials in biceps and brachioradialis muscles of normal children, 0-20 years old. The method used can be applied to both single motor units signals and interference electromyogram. From measurements of single motor units, the distribution of potential velocities in the muscle can be obtained, which makes conclusive statements on the development of the velocity during childhood more reliable. The propagation velocities are found to increase with age, body height, and muscle diameter. The dependencies on these size parameters are close to that of the square root function, in accordance with electrophysical theory.
It is difficult to extract the information carried by neuronal responses about a set of stimuli because limited data samples result in biased estimates. Recently two improved procedures have been developed to calculate information from experimental results: a binning-and-correcting procedure and a neural network procedure. We have used data produced from a model of the spatiotemporal receptive fields of parvocellular and magnocellular lateral geniculate neurons to study the performance of these methods as a function of the number of trials used. Both procedures yield accurate results for one-dimensional neuronal codes. They can also be used to produce a reasonable estimate of the extra information in a three-dimensional code, in this instance, within 0.05-0.1 bit of the asymptotically calculated value--about 10% of the total transmitted information. We believe that this performance is much more accurate than previous procedures.
Expression of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP), a proteoglycan whose proteolytically derived fragments have been implicated in the neuropathology observed in Alzheimer's disease, is regulated by a variety of stimuli including cytokines, phorbol esters, and growth factors. In this study we report the effects of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and the protein kinase C activator, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA), on beta-APP expression and secretion in SKNMC human neuroblastoma cells. Treatment of the cells with bFGF for 24 h increased APP promoter activity 200%, cell-associated full-length protein 189%, and secreted amino-terminal fragments 192% compared to basal levels. Treatment of the cells with PMA for 24 h also up-regulated APP expression and secretion with increases of 170, 112, and 161% being observed for promoter activity, cell-associated full-length protein, and secreted amino-terminal fragments, respectively. The effects of bFGF and PMA on the expression and secretion of beta-APP were additive and distinct in that: (a) co-treatment of the cells with maximally stimulating doses of bFGF and PMA had an additive effect on both induced full-length protein expression (242%) and secretion of amino-terminal fragments (311%) compared to basal levels; (b) net levels of full-length protein expression and secretion induced by bFGF and PMA differed significantly from each other; and (c) down-regulation of phorbol ester-stimulated protein kinase C by pre-treatment of the cells for 24 h with 1 microM PMA failed to attenuate bFGF-induced transcription or induced secretion of beta-APP.
The goldfish retina has been used extensively for the study of nerve regeneration. A role for phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) in neurite outgrowth from goldfish retinal explants has been examined by means of wortmannin (WT), a selective inhibitor of the enzyme. The presence of PI3K in retinal extracts was determined by means of immunoprecipitation as well as by an in vitro assay system for catalytic activity. The relative amount of the p85 subunit of PI3K detected by western blot in the retina following optic nerve crush was unchanged. WT inhibited goldfish brain PI3K activity at concentrations as low as 10(-9) M, approximating that reported for inhibition of mammalian PI3K's. Daily addition of 10(-8) M WT to retinal explants, activated by prior crush of the optic nerve, significantly inhibited neurite outgrowth during a 7 day in vitro culture period, while a single addition of WT to freshly explanted retina had no effect on neurite outgrowth. These results suggest that a PI3K-mediated process may be critical for nerve regrowth.

Four open-label studies have reported beneficial effects of clozapine on the tremor of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). We performed a double-blind crossover trial with a 2-week washout, comparing low-dose clozapine to benztropine for the treatment of tremor in PD. Twenty-two subjects enrolled and 19 completed the study. Benztropine and clozapine were equally effective in improving tremor and the motor score of the United Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale at mean doses of 3.0 and 39 mg/day, respectively. Significant adverse events were experienced with each drug, but leukopenia was not encountered. We conclude that the atypical antipsychotic drug clozapine is helpful in the treatment of tremor in PD and should be considered when all other drug therapies fail.
We explored the question of genetic overlap between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) because evidence suggests clinical, pathologic, and epidemiologic overlap between the two disorders. We compared the frequency of AD and PD between the first-degree relatives of probands with AD and PD and first-degree relatives of spouse control subjects. Using life-table methods, we found increased risk of AD in first-degree relatives of patients with AD and an increased risk of PD in first-degree relatives of patients with PD. The risk of PD in first-degree relatives of patients with AD was not increased, nor was the risk of AD in first-degree relatives of patients with PD increased. These data do not support the hypothesis that important genetic overlap exists between AD and PD.
MS is a T-cell-mediated demyelinating disease of the CNS, in which the cytokine network may be deranged, leading to an altered immunoregulation. Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) is a cytokine with several effects on the neuroimmune system. There are specific TNF-alpha receptors on human lymphocytes and other cell types, even in the CNS. We assayed TNF-alpha binding on peripheral blood T cells from MS patients compared with healthy subjects. T cells from MS patients have significantly more TNF-alpha receptors than those from control subjects (Bmax, 955 +/- 31 versus 126 +/- 3 [mean +/- SEM] receptors per cell). Such TNF-alpha binding sites are of the same type in patients and healthy subjects (Kd, 68.7 +/- 4.8 versus 70.2 +/- 4.1 [mean +/- SEM]pM). We discuss these results in terms of MS immunopathogenesis, because activated T cells have increased amounts of TNF-alpha receptors.
We have investigated the effects of interleukin (IL)-1 beta and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) on endothelin (ET)-induced intracellular Ca2+ rise in C6 rat glioma cells in order to study the mechanisms of their effects on Ca2+ signaling systems. Pretreatment with IL-1 beta (10(3) U/mL) and LPS (1 microgram/mL) for 24 h significantly inhibited 100 nM ET-1-induced increase in intracellular Ca2+ either in the presence or absence of external Ca2+. Their inhibitory effects were in dosedependent (IL-1 beta; 50-1000 U/mL, LPS; 10-1000 ng/mL) and time-dependent (12-24 h) manners. A tyrosine kinase antagonist genistein (50 microM) but not a protein kinase C inhibitor H7 (30 microM) prevented the inhibition of the ET response by IL-1 beta and LPS. These results suggest that activation of tyrosine kinase may be essential for the inhibition of the ET receptor-mediated Ca2+ signaling systems by IL-1 beta and LPS.
In a study of right-parietal patients, Behrmann and Moscovitch [Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, Vol. 6, pp.1-16, 1994] found object-centered left neglect for asymmetrical but not symmetrical letters, leading them to attribute this neglect to the objects' canonical handedness or intrinsic asymmetry. Using a similar task, we find the same results in neurologically intact observers. However, right-sided bias was observed only when the letters were identified. Because asymmetrical letters are distinguished by features on their right sides, we propose that the apparent object-centered bias in normals and in right-parietal patients may arise from attending to identifying features rather than from representational differences between symmetrical and asymmetrical letters.
Covered maze traversal models nonverbal planning, involving sequential execution of moves using learned spatial maps. To determine the neural substrate involved in maze processing, eleven adults underwent [H(2)15O]-PET while performing motor control, following the computer; visual control, choosing the wall with more dead-ends; uncovered maze, traversing fully visible mazes; covered maze, traversing mazes only locally visible. Maze processing lateralizes to the right hemisphere: uncovered maze versus controls revealed area 23 and 29 activation; covered maze versus controls activated areas 8, 10 and 19. The extrastriate region may store path information, evoked by prefrontal areas for spatial planning and navigation.
The effects of neonatal hippocampal lesions on behavioral responsiveness to dopaminergic agonists and antagonists were examined. The ventral hippocampus was damaged bilaterally using ibotenic acid on postnatal day 7, and locomotor responses to dopaminergic agonists and antagonists were evaluated on postnatal day 35 (PD35), 56 (PD56), and 70 (PD70). Qunipirole (0.06, 0.125, 0.25, and 0.5 mg/kg SC), but not SKF38393 (5 and 10 mg/kg SC), increased locomotion in a dose-dependent manner in control and lesioned groups on PD35 and PD56. However, lesioned rats displayed a greater behavioral response to quinpirole than controls at the doses of 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg on both PD35 and PD56. Amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg IP) increased locomotor activity in both groups on PD70, but this effect was greater in lesioned rats than in controls. Raclopride (0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg SC) and SCH23390 (0.01 and 0.02 mg/kg SC) blocked the amphetamine-induced hyperlocomotion in the lesioned and control groups. These results suggest that neonatal hippocampal lesion-induced behavioral hyperresponsiveness to amphetamine is likely related to an increased postsynaptic sensitivity of the D2 subtype of receptors.
To study the contribution of retinal and cortical afferents to the patterns of glutamate- and homocysteate-like immunoreactivities in dorsal lateral geniculate, combined retinal and cortical ablations were performed in rats. In controls, glutamate immunoreactivity was in terminal-like dots and neurons. Homocysteate immunoreactivity was in small puncta. In lesioned animals, most glutamate-immunoreactive dots disappeared. In contrast, abundant puncta resembling parts of glial cells were immunoreactive for homocysteate.
The effect of ascorbate/Fe2+-induced oxidative stress on the intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) and on the voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels (VSCC) of chick retinal cells was evaluated in this study. We also analyzed the effect of oxidation on the intracellular Na+ concentration ([Na+]i) and on the Ca2+-dependent release of [3H])gamma-aminobutric acid (GABA) evoked by 50 mM KCI. The resting [Ca2+]i was not affected by oxidation, but the [Ca2+]i response (delta[Ca2+]i) to K+-depolarization was significantly inhibited under oxidative stress conditions. The Ca2+ influx stimulated by membrane depolarization was mediated by L- and N-type VSCC, and by N-metyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor channel, activated by endogenous glutamate released by glutamatergic cells. In cultured retinal cells L-type channels are the major route of Ca2+ influx during depolarization and the most affected by oxidative stress. The N-type VSCC seem not to be affected by oxidant conditions; they were found to be involved in glutamatergic transmission and only indirectly in the release of [3H]GABA evoked by K+-depolarization. Although the Ca2+-dependent release of [3H]GABA evoked by 50 mM KCl is mediated by Ca2+ entry through L-type Ca2+ channels, it is not affected by pre-incubation with the oxidant pair. The oxidative stress conditions increased the [Na+]i in Ca2+-free medium, by a process dependent of Na+ entry through L-type VSCC. The increased permeability of L-type VSCC to Na+ may increase the Ca2+-independent release of endogenous glutamate which, by activating the NMDA receptors, induces the release of [3H]GABA by reversal of its transporter. The equilibrium between the release of GABA and glutamate may play an in important role in neuroprotection against excitotoxic insults.
Synaptic vesicle protein 2 is an integral synaptic vesicle membrane glycoprotein which is present in all synapses for which it has been examined. We used an anti-synaptic vesicle protein 2 monoclonal antibody to examine synaptic vesicle protein 2 localization in the developing hamster retinofugal pathway. From postnatal day 0 to day 1, a period of elongation of retinal ganglion cell axons to their central targets, fiber fascicles in the optic tract over the lateral geniculate nucleus were intensely synaptic vesicle protein 2-immunoreactive. Adjacent to the optic tract, single fibers could be seen. We also observed a marked immunostaining in growth cones and fiber fascicles in retinal explants in culture. By postnatal day 2, the staining of single fibers had ended, and by postnatal day 5, during the formation of terminal arbors, numerous fine puncta of synaptic vesicle protein 2 immunoreactivity were distributed within the neuropil of the lateral geniculate nucleus. In the adult, the optic tract was devoid of synaptic vesicle protein 2 staining, while the neuropil contained distinct immunoreactive profiles, particularly in the outer shell of the lateral geniculate. These synaptic vesicle protein 2-positive profiles closely resembled the grape-like clusters and large swellings of two known retinal axon terminal types. Eye removal resulted in the rapid disappearance of these synaptic vesicle protein 2-labelled terminal profiles contralateral to the enucleation. A similar pattern of synaptic vesicle protein 2 immunoreactivity was observed in the superior colliculus. From postnatal day 0 to day 2, retinal fiber fascicles in the stratum griseum superficiale/stratum opticum were darkly stained for synaptic vesicle protein 2. By postnatal day 5, the immunoreactivity shifted to the neuropil and from postnatal day 6 onwards, the synaptic vesicle protein 2 immunoreactivity was more intense in the stratum griseum superficiale than in the optic fibre layer. This study demonstrates dense synaptic vesicle protein 2-labelling of elongating axons both in vivo and in vitro. However, coincident with the transition from retinal ganglion cell axon elongation to terminal arborization, synaptic vesicle protein 2 is progressively restricted to synaptic terminals and becomes undetectable in axons. This study is the first to document an axonal localization of synaptic vesicle protein 2 during development and raises the question as to its role during axonal elongation.
The dependence of intracellular glutathione, an important radical scavenger, on the extracellular glutamate and cystine concentration and the velocity of the high affinity sodium/glutamate transporter was studied in freshly-isolated Mller glial cells of the guinea-pig, kept in vitro for up to 11 h. To this end the relative Mller cell glutathione levels were measured using the fluorescent dye monochlorobimane, using different concentrations of glutamate and cystine in Ringer solution. In some experiments L-buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine, a blocker of glutathione synthesis, or L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid and L-alpha-aminoadipic acid, inhibitors of glutamate uptake, were added. The Mller cells maintained about 80% of the normal glutathione level when maintained in Ringer solution containing 100 microM glutamate for 11 h. When under these conditions 100 microM cystine was added, the glutathione level increased to values, which were even higher than those at the beginning of the incubation period. Addition of cystine without glutamate caused a run down of the glutathione level to about 45% of the normal level, which is comparable to the run down in pure Ringer solution. Likewise, application of L-buthionine-[S,R]-sulfoximine (5 mM) lead to a strong run down of the glutathione level even in glutamate/cystine (100 microM)-containing solution. A similar suppressing effect was observed using L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid and L-alpha-aminoadipic acid in the presence of 100 microM cystine and glutamate. We conclude that the intracellular glutamate concentration of the Mller cells is determined by the extracellular glutamate concentration and the velocity of the sodium/glutamate uptake. Consequently, cystine uptake into Mller cells, which is performed by the cystine/glutamate antiporter, is fueled by the sodium/glutamate transporter with intracellular glutamate. Both glutamate and cystine are also substrates for glutathione synthesis. The glutathione level is logically limited by the capacity of the sodium/glutamate transporter to provide glutamate intracellularly for, first, cystine uptake and, second, direct insertion into glutathione. Accordingly, the glutathione level is reduced when the sodium/glutamate transporter is blocked. Thus, a diminution of the glutathione level should be taken into consideration when the effects of sodium/glutamate uptake failure and reduced intracellular glutamate concentrations are discussed.
The main pathway for transmitter glutamate turnover in excitatory synapses is thought to involve an uptake in glial processes, a conversion into glutamine, which recycles to the presynaptic terminal to serve as the main precursor for new synthesis of glutamate. To investigate whether the mechanisms of glutamine and glutamate turnover are linked with the properties of different glutamate synapses, the distribution of glutamine was studied in two types of glutamate synapse in the lamprey spinal cord using immunogold post-embedding electron microscopy. The synapses examined are formed by primary afferent axons (dorsal column axons), which predominantly exhibit a tonic firing pattern, and by giant reticulospinal axons, which primarily fire in brief bursts. Glial cell processes and postsynaptic dendrites displayed the highest density of glutamine labeling in both types of synapse. The level of glutamine was significantly higher in the glial cell processes surrounding the tonic dorsal column synapses, as compared to those surrounding the reticulospinal synapses. The axoplasmic matrix and presynaptic mitochondria, as well as postsynaptic dendrites, contained similar levels of glutamine labeling in both cases. The glutamate labeling in glial processes was also similar at the two types of synapse, while axoplasmic matrix and presynaptic mitochondria displayed four to six times higher levels in the tonic axons. In conjunction with our previous results, showing a different transport activity in glial processes of the two types of excitatory synapse, the results of the present study suggest that the glial pool of neurotransmitter precursor is linked to the rate of transmitter synthesis and release in adjacent synapses.
Growing neurites of rat dorsal root ganglion neurons in culture formed growth cones at the tips. Possible release of glutamate from these growth cones was investigated by using a whole-cell patch-clamp recording from an acutely dissociated hippocampal neuron containing glutamate receptors. The hippocampal neuron was placed in contact to various regions of the dorsal root ganglion neurons. Inward currents were recorded from the hippocampal neuron positioned on the growth cones of the dorsal root ganglion neurons (diameter, 12-16 microm) in response to the dorsal root ganglion cell body stimulation. The inward currents were associated with an increase in membrane conductance, and the reversal potential was estimated at -6.5 mV (n=8). The inward currents were blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline (10 microM), but not blocked by 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (50 microM) and bicuculline (10 microM). The inward currents were abolished by tetrodotoxin (1 microM), EGTA-buffered Ca2+-free external solution or omega-agatoxin IVA (300 nM), and were inhibited by omega-conotoxin GVIA (3 microM), but were not affected by nicardipine (10 microM). Intracellular calcium ion concentration ([Ca2+]i) in growth cones of the dorsal root ganglion neurons increased in response to dorsal root ganglion cell body stimulation, whereas the elevation of [Ca2+]i was not observed either in the presence of tetrodotoxin (1 microM) or in a Ca2+-free external solution. These results indicate that the inward currents were evoked by glutamate released from the growth cones via a Ca2+-dependent process, and suggest that the growth cones are already endowed with much of the machinery for neurotransmitter release, even before making a structure for synaptic transmission.
Feline immunodeficiency virus, like human immunodeficiency virus type 1, is a retrolentivirus causing neurological disease and immune suppression. Primary neurological complications, including human immunodeficiency virus encephalopathy and peripheral neuropathy, and neuropathological changes, including gliosis, neuronal injury and multinucleated giant cells, have been described for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection. Excitatory amino acids have been implicated as a basis for human immunodeficiency virus encephalopathy and the accompanying neuronal injury. Here, we test our hypothesis that feline immunodeficiency virus infection results in glial activation accompanied by enhanced glutamatergic activity, causing neuronal loss. Neurological signs observed in naturally and experimentally infected animals included ataxia, aggressivity and reduced motor activity. Neuropathological changes included gliosis, perivascular cuffing and neuronal dropout in the brains of both experimentally and naturally infected animals, but not in uninfected animals. Feline immunodeficiency virus antigen and genome were detected in the brains of all experimentally and naturally infected animals. Proton nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy revealed significantly increased glutamate levels in the feline immunodeficiency virus-infected animals. In contrast, glutamate decarboxylase levels in GABAergic neurons were reduced in feline immunodeficiency virus-infected animals. These findings provide direct in vivo evidence for enhanced glutamate levels in conjunction with neuronal loss, supporting the hypothesis of glutamate-mediated neurotoxicity as a major mechanism in the neuropathogenesis of retrolentiviral infections.
Proton magnetic resonance imaging enables non-invasive monitoring of lesion formation in multiple sclerosis and has an important role in assessing the potential effects of therapy. T2-weighted and short tau inversion recovery magnetic resonance imaging were used to assess the effect of a neurotrophic adrenocorticotrophic hormone analogue [H-Met(O(2))-Glu-His-Phe-D-Lys-Phe-OH] on the volume of lesions in the brains of rats suffering from chronic experimental allergic encephalomyelitis, an animal equivalent of multiple sclerosis. Lesion volume was monitored during a five-month period. Magnetic resonance imaging indicated that treatment with the adrenocorticotrophic hormone analogue significantly reduced the lesion volume by 84 and 85% 10 and 20 weeks after lesion induction, respectively. Furthermore, peptide treatment significantly reduced chronic experimental allergic encephalomyelitis-related neurological symptoms during the chronic phase of the disease (week 3 until week 20 after lesion induction). Both functional and morphological recovery were considerably advanced by peptide treatment. Twenty weeks after lesion induction rats with chronic experimental allergic encephalomyelitis were killed for histological analysis, to correlate magnetic resonance imaging findings with morphological changes. The regions of abnormally high signal intensities on T2-weighted magnetic resonance images coincided with areas of demyelination and concomitant widespread inflammatory infiltration, oedema formation and enlarged ventricles. The improved neurological status and the 84% reduction in the lesion volume in the cerebrum of rats chronic experimental allergic encephalomyelitis point to the potential value of trophic peptides in the development of strategies for limiting the damage caused by central demyelinating lesions in syndromes such as multiple sclerosis.
In the present study a detailed quantitative analysis was made using Fos as a marker for neural activation to define which subregions in the neural circuitry underlying male sexual behavior are involved in display of anogenital investigation versus copulation. Neural activity was differentially distributed following anogenital investigation versus mating and was restricted to specific subdivisions that form a heavily interconnected network. Chemosensory investigation increased neural activity in the posteromedial subdivision of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the posterodorsal subdivision of the medial amygdala, brain regions that receive chemosensory signals processed through the olfactory bulbs, presumably reflecting the acquisition of chemosensory signals or the display of anogenital investigation. However, other sensory signals or sexual experience may also have contributed to the induction of neural activation in these brain areas. Moreover, consummatory behavior increased neural activity in the subparafascicular nucleus, a brain region that receives genital sensory inputs. In turn, this brain region projects to the medial preoptic nucleus and posterior nucleus of the amygdala, where neural activity was also abundant only following copulation. In addition, clusters of neurons were activated in the posteromedial subdivision of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and posterodorsal subdivision of the medial amygdala following consummatory behavior. The present study provides an anatomically detailed picture about the distribution of neural activation following sexual behavior in the rat, specifically in relation to differences following anogenital investigation versus mating.
Substance P is involved in cardiovascular control at the spinal cord level, where it acts through neurokinin-1 receptors. In this study we used immunocytochemistry and retrograde tracing to investigate the presence of the neurokinin-1 receptor and its ultrastructural localization in rat sympathetic preganglionic neurons that project to the superior cervical ganglion or the adrenal medulla. Immunofluorescence for the neurokinin-1 receptor outlined the somatic and dendritic surfaces of neurons in autonomic subnuclei of spinal cord segments T1-T12, whereas immunofluorescence for the tracer, cholera toxin B subunit, filled retrogradely labelled cells. There was a significant difference in the proportion of neurokinin-1 receptor-immunoreactive sympathetic preganglionic neurons supplying the superior cervical ganglion and the adrenal medulla. Thirty-eight percent of the neurons that projected to the superior cervical ganglion were immunoreactive for the neurokinin-1 receptor compared to 70% of neurons innervating the adrenal medulla. Of neurons projecting to the superior cervical ganglion, significantly different proportions showed neurokinin-1 receptor immunoreactivity in spinal cord segment T1 (15%) versus segments T2 T6 (45%). At the ultrastructural level, neurokinin-1 receptor staining occurred predominantly on the inner leaflets of the plasma membranes of retrogradely labelled sympathetic preganglionic neurons. Deposits of intracellular label were often observed in dendrites and in the rough endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus of cell bodies. Neurokinin-1 receptor immunoreactivity was present at many, but not all, synapses as well as at non-synaptic sites, and occurred at synapses with substance P-positive as well as substance P-negative nerve fibres. Only 37% of the substance P synapses occurred on neurokinin-1-immunoreactive neurons in the intermediolateral cell column. These results show that presence of the neurokinin-1 receptor in sympathetic preganglionic neurons is related to their target. The ultrastructural localization of the receptor suggests that sympathetic preganglionic neurons may be affected (i) by substance P released at neurokinin-1 receptor-immunoreactive synapses, (ii) by other tachykinins (e.g., neurokinin A), which co-localize in substance P fibres in the intermediolateral cell column, acting through other neurokinin receptors, and (iii) by substance P that diffuses to neurokinin-1 receptors from distant sites.
4-Amino-2-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)-5-(2,3,5-trichlorophenyl)pyrimidine (BW619C89) is a sodium channel antagonist which when administered parenterally reduces neurological deficit and infarct volume after middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. We have investigated whether BW619C89 administered orally before middle cerebral artery occlusion is cerebroprotective when rats are assessed at one day after stroke, and whether cerebroprotection is long lasting and related to functional recovery. A cerebroprotective oral dose of BW619C89 (20 mg/kg) was used to determine whether reduction in infarct volume is long lasting and can be enhanced with continued therapy, and whether behavioural deficits occurring after middle cerebral artery occlusion such as disturbances in cognition and motor coordination are ameliorated by treatment with BW619C89. Rats received sham surgery or middle cerebral artery occlusion with a single treatment of BW619C89 (20 mg/kg) 1 h before middle cerebral artery occlusion, a double treatment group receiving 20 mg/kg BW619C89 1 h before and 10 mg/kg 5 h after middle cerebral artery occlusion, or continued treatment with BW619C89 for up to five days. Neurological deficit, assessed from days 1 to 21, and at 70 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion, was reduced to a similar extent in all three groups of rats treated with BW619C89, compared with vehicle-treated controls. At 70 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion, all groups performed at control level. Vehicle-treated rats were impaired in the Morris water maze and step-through passive avoidance paradigm five to eight weeks after middle cerebral artery occlusion, when neurological deficit was minimal. These deficits were partially alleviated, to a similar extent, by all of the three treatments with BW619C89. Total volumes of brain damage, assessed at 70 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion in Luxol Fast Blue- and Cresyl Violet-stained coronal sections, were reduced in all three groups of BW619C89-treated rats, to 46% in the single, 50% in the double and 58% in the continued treatment group, compared with vehicle-treated rats. Extent of brain damage correlated with extent of impairment of the rats in the water maze. These findings suggest that BW619C89 has long-lasting cerebroprotective effects with advantageous functional consequences after single oral administration in a rodent model of stroke. Prolonged treatment with BW619C89 did not significantly enhance the cerebroprotective effects. Deficits in performance of rats in the water maze and step-through passive avoidance tasks indicate sustained cognitive impairment after middle cerebral artery occlusion. The reductions in brain damage by BW619C89 correlated with significant long-term functional improvement.
Cutting or crushing rat sciatic nerve does not significantly reduce the number of central myelinated sensory axons in the dorsal roots entering the fourth and fifth lumbar segments even over very extended periods of time. Unmyelinated axons were reduced by approximately 50%, but only long after sciatic nerve lesions (four to eight months), and reinnervation of the peripheral target did not rescue these axons. This indicates that a peripheral nerve lesion sets up a slowly developing but major shift towards large afferent fiber domination of primary afferent input into the spinal cord. In addition, since myelinated axons are never lost, this is good evidence that the cells that give rise to these fibers are also not lost. If this is the case, this would indicate that adult primary sensory neurons with myelinated axons do not depend on peripheral target innervation for survival.
The goal of the present experiments was to examine the relationships of the zona incerta with two structures associated with visuomotor behavior, the superior colliculus and pretectum. The experiments were carried out in the cat, a species commonly used in studies of visuomotor integration, and utilized wheat germ agglutinin horseradish peroxidase and biocytin as retrograde and anterograde neuronal tracers. Retrograde axonal transport demonstrated that most cells in the ventral subdivision of the zona incerta project to the superior colliculus. Anterograde tracers demonstrated that the incertotectal terminal field is most dense in the intermediate gray layer, which is the primary source of the descending pathway from the superior colliculus to brainstem gaze centers. Further experiments showed that scattered cells within the intermediate gray layer give rise to a reciprocal pathway that terminates in both the dorsal and ventral subdivisions of the zona incerta. The distribution of both labeled incertotectal cells and tectoincertal terminals extends dorsolateral to the zona incerta proper, between the reticular thalamic nucleus and the external medullary lamina. Electron microscopic examination of labeled tectoincertal terminals demonstrated that they contain mainly spherical vesicles and have slightly asymmetric to symmetric synaptic densities. Labeled terminals were observed contacting labeled cells in the zona incerta, suggesting that the reciprocal pathway may be monosynaptic. The zona incerta is also reciprocally interconnected with the pretectum. The anterior pretectal nucleus provides a dense projection to the ventral part of the zona incerta and receives a sparse reciprocal projection. The posterior pretectal nucleus and nucleus of the optic tract may also project to the zona incerta. The pretectoincertal fibers form terminals that contain primarily spherical vesicles and make distinctly asymmetric synaptic contacts. In summary, these results indicate that the deep layers of the superior colliculus, which are important for controlling saccades, are the target of a projection from the ventral subdivision of the zona incerta. Like the substantia nigra, the zona incerta may play a permissive role in the tectal initiation of saccadic eye movements. The incertotectal terminal field in the cat is less dense than that observed previously in the rat, suggesting species differences in the development of this pathway. An additional finding of this study is that one of the main sources of input to these incertotectal cells is the anterior pretectal nucleus. This pretectal incertal tectal pathway is likely to play a role in the guidance of tectally initiated saccades by somatosensory stimuli.
Receptor autoradiography was used to investigate the distribution of brainstem binding sites for cholecystokinin, dopamine and N-methyl-D-aspartate with particular reference to the nucleus of the solitary tract of the rat, an area involved in the control of ingestive behavior. Binding sites for the A and B subtypes of the cholecystokinin receptor, labeled with [(125)I]cholecystokinin octapeptide sulfate in the presence or absence of antagonists for the devazepide (A) or L-365,260 (B) receptor, were present throughout the caudal rostral extent of the nucleus of the solitary tract, the A type predominating in the commissural, medial and gelatinous part and the B type in the lateral part. In the most rostral part of the medial nucleus of the solitary tract, both A and B receptors were present. Dopamine D2 receptors, labeled with [(125)I]NCQ-298, were found in all parts of the nucleus of the solitary tract. No binding to the dopamine D1 receptor, labeled with [(125)I]SCH-23982, was found in the brainstem. N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptors, labeled with [(3)H]dizocilpine maleate, were also present in the entire caudorostral extent of the nucleus of the solitary tract. Binding to cholecystokinin A receptors was co-distributed with [(125)I]NCQ-298 and [(3)H]dizocilpine maleate binding in the caudal and rostral parts of the nucleus of the solitary tract, and binding to cholecystokinin B receptors overlapped with [(125)I]NCQ-298 and [(3)H]dizocilpine maleate binding in the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that cholecystokinin, dopamine and glutamate interact in the nucleus of the solitary tract in the control of ingestive behavior.
Evidence from animal studies suggests that a period of anoxia to the fetus, a consequence common to many birth complications, results in long-term alterations in ventral mesencephalic dopamine function. Long-term functional changes in these dopamine neurons, in particular those that innervate the nucleus accumbens, also occur when animals are repeatedly stressed. In the present study, we examined the possibility that a period of anoxia during a Cesarean section birth can later alter the development of stress-induced sensitization of dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens. Dams were decapitated on the last day of gestation and the entire uterus was removed by Cesarean section. Pups were then delivered either immediately (Cesarean section group) or were immersed in a 37 degrees C saline bath for 3.5 or 13.5 min (Cesarean section+anoxia groups) before delivery of the pups. A fourth group of pups that were born vaginally served as controls (Vaginal group). Three to four months postnatally, animals from each group were implanted with monoamine-selective carbon-fiber electrodes into the nucleus accumbens. Voltammetry was used to monitor the dopamine response to each of five consecutive, once daily, 15-min exposures to tail-pinch stress. The results show that the first exposure to stress elicited dopamine signal increases of comparable amplitudes and durations in all animals. However, when compared to the initial stress response, the fourth and fifth exposures to tail-pinch elicited significantly longer-lasting dopamine responses in animals born by Cesarean section, either with or without added anoxia. In contrast, there was no significant day-to-day enhancement of the stress response in control, vaginally born animals. The findings reported here provide experimental support for the idea that birth complications may contribute to the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders, in particular those that involve central dopamine dysfunction, such as schizophrenia. Specifically, our results suggest that subtle alterations in birth procedure may be sufficient to increase the sensitivity of mesolimbic dopamine neurons to the effects of repeated stress in the adult animal.
Whole-cell recording from single neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus with an electrode containing the tracer neurobiotin resulted in the staining of multiple neurons in 30% of the cases. Typically, one neuron was darkly stained with dendritic processes and an axon clearly visible while other neurons were lightly stained. The darkly-stained cells were identified as the recorded neuron and tracer-coupled to one to five lightly stained neurons. The resting membrane potential, input membrane conductance, membrane capacitance, the decay time constant and the maximum H-current amplitude of the recorded neurons with tracer-coupled cells were not significantly different from those of neurons not showing tracer coupling. Stimulation of the preoptic area activated an antidromic action potential or an all-or-none small slow inward current in some neurons when the synaptic transmission was blocked by a calcium-free/Mn2+ solution. The small slow inward current did not &quot;collide&quot; with an orthodromically activated action spike suggesting that the current represents the signal from an electrotonically-coupled neuron. In addition, the frequency of biphasic field currents from a neighbouring cell firing were increased by depolarization and decreased by hyperpolarization of the recorded cell. These data demonstrate a chemical and electrical low-resistance coupling of suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons, which could be important in synthesizing the suprachiasmatic nucleus circadian rhythm.
The suprachiasmatic nuclei contain a circadian clock whose activity can be recorded in vitro for several days. Photic information is conveyed to the nuclei primarily via a direct projection from the retina, the retinohypothalamic tract, utilizing an excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter. Photic phase shifts may be mimicked by application of glutamate in vitro. A second, indirect pathway to the suprachiasmatic nuclei via the geniculohypothalamic tract utilizes neuropeptide Y as a transmitter. Phase shifts to neuropeptide Y in vitro are similar to those seen to non-photic stimuli in vivo. We have used the hypothalamic slice preparation to examine the interactions of photic and non-photic stimuli in the suprachiasmatic nuclei. Coronal hypothalamic slices containing the suprachiasmatic nuclei were prepared from Syrian hamsters and 3 min recordings of the firing rate of individual cells were performed throughout a 12 h period. Control slices receiving either no application or application of artificial cerebrospinal fluid to the suprachiasmatic nucleus showed a consistent daily peak in their rhythms. Glutamate produces phase shifts of the circadian clock in the hamster hypothalamic slice preparation during the subjective night but not during the subjective day. These phase shifts were similar in timing and direction to the photic phase response curve in vivo confirming previous work with the rat slice preparation. Neuropeptide Y produces phase shifts of the circadian clock during the subjective day but not during the subjective night. The phase shifts are similar in timing and direction to the non-photic phase response curve in vivo, confirming previous in vitro work. We then examined the interaction of these neurochemicals with each other at various times during the circadian cycle. We found that both advances and delays to glutamate in the slice are blocked by application of neuropeptide Y. We also found that phase shifts to neuropeptide Y in the slice are blocked by application of glutamate. These results indicate that photic and non-photic associated neurochemicals can block each others phase shifting effects within the suprachiasmatic nucleus in vitro. These experiments demonstrate the ability of photic and non-photic associated neurochemicals to interact at the level of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. It is clear that neuropeptide Y antagonizes the effect of glutamate during the subjective night, and that glutamate antagonizes the effect of neuropeptide Y during the subjective day. Great care must be taken when devising treatments where photic and non-photic signals may interact.
The neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) was used to generate a dose-dependent cell death of dopaminergic nigral neurons in the C57B1 mouse. Mice were injected with a total cumulative dose of 150 mg/kg of MPTP delivered over five days and killed at different time points both during and after the toxin injections. Two independent histological methods were used to determine whether the dopaminergic nigral neurons died via an apoptotic mechanism. In situ end-labelling with terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase was used on paraformaldehyde-fixed, serial, frozen sections to identity cells with double-stranded DNA breaks. Apoptotic cell death was found to be initiated within 72 h of the first injection of the neurotoxin and peaked 24 h after the final MPTP injection. The metachromatic fluorochrome, Acridine Orange, was used on alternate sections to provide structural confirmation of the nuclear chromatin &quot;clumping&quot; considered to be representative of apoptosis. Confocal laser imaging combined with deconvolution techniques was used to resolve the fluorescent signal emitted by the in situ Acridine Orange-DNA complexes. The number of Acridine Orange-stained nuclei demonstrating chromatin clumping was identical to that of the positive in situ end-labelled nuclei observed over a 25 day period. Based upon these two independent methods of assessing apoptosis in situ, we conclude that a 150 mg/kg dose of MPTP can elicit apoptotic cell death in nigral dopaminergic neurons of the C57B1 mouse.
Dopamine neurons in midbrain coronal slices from adult rats (40-70 days old) discharged only in pacemaker-like mode. Irregular or bursting mode was never observed. In contrast, dopamine neurons in slices from immature rats (15-21 days old) exhibited not only pacemaker-like firing (53.4% of neurons), but also irregular and bursting patterns (28.3 and 18.3%, respectively). Glutamate and kainate increased the firing rate but failed to induce bursts in dopamine neurons from either adult or immature rats. N-Methyl-D-aspartate augmented the firing rate in all neurons from adult rats and produced a modest increase of bursts in only three out of 18 cells. In slices from immature rats, N-methyl-D-aspartate activated the discharge rate in all neurons and also induced bursts in 37 and 53% of pacemaker and irregular neurons, respectively, and increased the occurrence of spikes in bursts in 76% of spontaneously bursting neurons. The selective N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (+/-)2-amino,5-phosphonopentanoic acid prevented N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced changes and also reduced spontaneous bursts, suggesting that bursting discharge is mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. While pacemaker neurons from immature and from adult rats exhibited the same sensitivity to N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced stimulation of firing rate, spontaneously bursting neurons were more sensitive than pacemaker neurons from either immature or adult rats. The present study indicates that spontaneous bursting, dependent on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation, is present, and may be induced, in dopamine neurons in slices from immature rats. Its absence from cells in slices from adult rats may reflect a reduced sensitivity of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors on dopamine or the loss of the N-methyl-D-aspartate-activated burst generator.
We studied sequential changes in electrophysiological profiles of the ipsilateral substantia nigra neurons in an in vitro slice preparation obtained from the middle cerebral artery-occluded rats. Histological examination revealed marked atrophy and neurodegeneration in the ipsilateral substantia nigra pars reticulata at 14 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion. Compared with the control group, there was no significant change in electrical membrane properties and synaptic responses of substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons examined at one to two weeks after middle cerebral artery occlusion. On the other hand, there was a significant increase in the input resistance and spontaneous firing rate of substantia nigra pars compacta neurons at 13-16 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion. Furthermore, inhibitory postsynaptic potentials evoked by stimulation of the subthalamus in substantia nigra pars compacta neurons was suppressed at five to eight days after middle cerebral artery occlusion. At the same time excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by the subthalamic stimulation was increased. Bath application of bicuculline methiodide (50 microM), a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, significantly increased the firing rate of substantia nigra pars compacta neurons from intact rats. These results strongly suggest that changes in electrophysiological responses observed in substantia nigra pars compacta neurons is caused by degeneration of GABAergic afferents from the substantia nigra pars reticulata following middle cerebral artery occlusion. While previous studies indirectly suggested that hyperexcitation due to deafferentation from the neostriatum may be a major underlying mechanism in delayed degeneration of substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons after middle cerebral artery occlusion, the present electrophysiological experiments provide evidence of hyperexcitation in substantia nigra pars compacta neurons but not in pars reticulata neurons at the chronic phase of striatal infarction.
This study determined whether there were differences in hippocampal neuron loss and synaptic plasticity by comparing rats with spontaneous epilepsy after limbic status epilepticus and animals with a similar frequency of kindled seizures. At the University of Virginia, Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with bilateral ventral hippocampal electrodes and treated as follows; no stimulation (electrode controls; n=5): hippocampal stimulation without status (stimulation controls; n=5); and limbic status from continuous hippocampal stimulation (n=12). The limbic status group were electrographically monitored for a minimum of four weeks. Four rats had no recorded chronic seizures (status controls), and all three control groups showed no differences in hippocampal pathology and were therefore incorporated into a single group (controls). Eight limbic status animals eventually developed chronic epilepsy (spontaneous seizures) and an additional eight rats were kindled to a similar number and frequency of stage 5 seizures (kindled) as the spontaneous seizures group. At the University of California (UCLA) the hippocampi were processed for: (i) Niss1 stain for densitometric neuron counts; (ii) neo-Timm's histochemistry for mossy fiber sprouting; and (iii) immunocytochemical staining for glutamate decarboxylase, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 2, AMPA receptor subunit 1 and the GABA(A) receptor. In the fascia dentata inner and outer molecular layers the neo-Timm's stain and immunoreactivity was quantified as gray values using computer image analysis techniques. Statistically significant results (P&lt;0.05) showed the following. Compared to controls and kindled animals, rats with spontaneous seizures had: (i) lower neuron counts for the fascia dentata hilus, CA3 and CA1 stratum pyramidale; (ii) greater supragranular inner molecular layer mossy fiber staining; and (iii) greater glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity in both molecular layers. Greater supragranular excitatory mossy fiber and GABAergic axon sprouting correlated with: (i) increases in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 2 inner molecular layer staining; (ii) more AMPA receptor subunit 1 immunoreactivity in both molecular layers; and (iii) greater outer than inner molecular layer GABA(A) immunoreactivity. Furthermore, in contrast to kindled animals, rats with spontaneous seizures showed that increasing seizure frequency per week and the total number of natural seizures positively correlated with greater Timm's and GABAergic axon sprouting, and with increases in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 2 and AMPA receptor subunit 1 receptor staining. In this rat limbic status model these findings indicate that chronic seizures are associated with hippocampal neuron loss, reactive axon sprouting and increases in excitatory receptor plasticity that differ from rats with an equal frequency of kindled seizures and controls. The hippocampal pathological findings in the limbic status model are similar to those in humans with hippocampal sclerosis and mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, and support the hypothesis that synaptic reorganization of both excitatory and inhibitory systems in the fascia dentata is an important pathophysiological mechanism that probably contributes to or generates chronic limbic seizures.
The control of suckling-induced bursting activity of oxytocin neurons and of phasic activity of vasopressin neurons by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was investigated in anaesthetized lactating rats. Receptor antagonist or agonist was applied in the vicinity of supraoptic neurons recorded extracellularly. The basal activity of oxytocin neurons was tonically decreased and increased by sustained application of the antagonist and agonist respectively. These effects occurred independently of the effectiveness of suckling to trigger the bursting pattern. When drugs were applied during an ongoing series of milk-ejection-related bursts, these changes were accompanied by parallel modifications in burst amplitude, but burst periodicity was unaffected. In rats failing to milk-eject, antagonist or agonist application did not facilitate the occurrence of bursts. Simultaneous recordings from oxytocin neurons in the contralateral supraoptic nucleus showed that neither their basal nor their bursting activity were affected, indicating the absence of cross-talk between nuclei during such application. The excitatory effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate differed from that induced in the same neurons by i.c.v. injection of oxytocin, which enhanced basal level of activity and burst amplitude, but also increased burst frequency. Furthermore, the distribution of interspike intervals indicated that N-methyl-D-aspartate, but not oxytocin, induced a regularization of the spike pattern. For vasopressin neurons, application of the receptor antagonist inhibited phasic activity by decreasing burst duration and increasing silences. Conversely, N-methyl-D-aspartate enhanced phasic activity, increasing both the duration of the active phases and the frequency of spikes during active phases. When applied to silent vasopressin neurons, N-methyl-D-aspartate induced a regular phasic activity. These results provide evidence that functional N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors regulate the excitability of both oxytocin and vasopressin neurons in lactating rats. These receptors play a paramount role in maintaining a certain level of basal activity which will favour appropriate discharge patterns, tonic for oxytocin neurons and phasic for vasopressin neurons. For oxytocin neurons, this sustained control by ambient glutamate influences the amplitude of bursts, but N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are probably not involved in the generation of the bursting pattern.
Intense electrical activity throughout the brain which results from generalized epileptic or kindled seizures is thought to cause persistent and widespread neuronal plastic changes. We have previously reported that stage 5 kindled seizures cause an increase in vasopressin messenger RNA content and nitric oxide synthase activity in neuroendocrine cells of the supraoptic nucleus which lasts for at least four months after the last seizure. To evaluate whether changes in the expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits might contribute to these effects, the expression of NR1, NR2A, NR2B. NR2C and NR2D subunit messenger RNAs was examined by in situ hybridization in neuroendocrine cells of the supraoptic nucleus one month after amygdala kindling to stage 5 seizures. No change in NR1 subunit messenger RNA expression was seen. In contrast, NR2B subunit messenger RNA was significantly increased. by about 63%, and NR2D subunit messenger RNA was significantly decreased, by about 22%. indicating a shift in NR2 subunit messenger RNA expression. NR2B subunit messenger RNA was also significantly increased in adjacent limbic structures. The long-lasting shift towards increased NR2B and decreased NR2D messenger RNA expression after kindling suggests that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor NR2 composition may be an important factor in the maintenance of pathological plasticity following generalized seizures. If these changes in messenger RNA are translated into increased NR2B and decreased NR2D subunits in the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in vivo, both a decrease in sensitivity due to a strong magnesium block and an increase in channel ion gating might be predicted.
Audiogenic seizures, a model of brainstem epilepsy, are characterized by a tonic phase (sustained muscular contraction fixing the limbs in a flexed or extended position) associated with a short cortical electroencephalogram flattening. When sound-susceptible rats are exposed to repeated acoustic stimulations, kindled audiogenic seizures, characterized by a clonic phase (facial and forelimb repetitive jerks) associated with cortical spike-waves, progressively appear, suggesting that repetition of brainstem seizures causes a propagation of the epileptic discharge toward the forebrain. In order to determine the structures through which this propagation occurs, four kinds of experiments were performed in non-epileptic rats and in sound-susceptible rats exposed to single or repeated sound stimulations. The following results were obtained: (I) Electrical amygdalar kindling was similar in non-epileptic and naive-susceptible rats, but was facilitated in sound-susceptible rats submitted to 40 acoustic stimulations and presenting kindled audiogenic seizures. (2) Audiogenic seizures induced an increase in [(14)C]2-deoxyglucose concentration in the amygdala after a single seizure, and in the amygdala, hippocampus and perirhinal and piriform cortices after a kindled audiogenic seizure. (3) A single audiogenic seizure induced the expression of c-Fos protein mainly in the auditory nuclei. A few cells were stained in the amygdala. After 5-10 audiogenic seizures, a clear staining appeared in the amygdala, and perirhinal and piriform cortices. The hippocampus expressed c-Fos later, after 40 audiogenic seizures. (4) Injection of lidocaine into the amygdala did not modify single audiogenic seizures, but suppressed myoclonias and cortical spike-waves of kindled audiogenic seizures. Similar deactivation of the hippocampus failed to modify kindled audiogenic seizures. Taken together, these data indicate a critical role for the amygdala in the spread of audiogenic seizures from brainstem to forebrain.
Responses of parietal association cortex efferent neurons to motor cortex and cerebellar nuclei stimulation were studied intracellularly in anaesthetized cats. Efferent neurons of the parietal cortex were identified according to their antidromic activation on stimulation of the motor cortex, pontine nuclei proper and red nucleus. Monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials of ipsilateral anterior suprasylvian and lateral gyri neurons to motor cortex stimulation have been established. Oligo- and polysynaptic excitatory responses of parietal cortex efferent neurons to cerebellar nuclei stimulation have been recorded. Correlation between the latencies of cerebellar-induced excitatory postsynaptic potentials and antidromic invasion of neurons on stimulation of different parietal cortex efferent projections (corticocortical, corticopontine, corticorubral) has been obtained. A similar correlation has been found between the latencies of excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked on stimulation of one of the cerebellar nuclei and latencies of antidromic invasion induced on stimulation of all studied parietal cortex efferent systems. Feedforward and feedback mechanisms in the input-output organization of parietal association cortex have been discussed.
The inferior olivary complex of adult rats was chemically destroyed using intraperitoneal injection of 3-acetylpyridine. Animals were submitted to different motor tasks: hanging test, equilibrium test and motor co-ordination test. The different scores show that 3-acetylpyridine-treated rats had motor co-ordination and static equilibrium deficiencies, whereas their rod suspension capabilities were intact. Animals were also trained on an unrotated rod or on a rod rotating at 5, 10 or 20 r.p.m. 3-Acetylpyridine-treated rats were able to maintain their equilibrium on the unrotated rod and at 5 r.p.m. Moreover, after motor training at 5 r.p.m., rats were able to improve their motor skills and reached the same score as controls. Despite their good motor skills, animals were unable to maintain their equilibrium when rotated at 10 and 20 r.p.m. These results suggest that the inferior olivary complex is needed for motor learning involving the temporal organization of movement.
The involvement of nitric oxide in cerebellar long-term depression is widely accepted. Nevertheless, its site of action has remained unclear. Using the coefficient of variation method applied to the parallel fibre-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents recorded in voltage-clamped Purkinje cells. this study shows that nitric oxide donors exert their effects at both presynaptic and postsynaptic sites. The presynaptic depression fades away with washout of nitric oxide donors and is mediated through the potentiation of A1 adenosine receptors. Part of this effect may be due to non-nitric oxide products. In contrast, long-term depression induced by nitric oxide donors is expressed at a postsynaptic site, and is independent of the ADP ribosylation. Long-term depression induced by pairing is also expressed mainly at a postsynaptic level. These results establish that long-term depression at the parallel fibre Purkinje cell synapse induced by pairing of nitric oxide donors is mostly expressed at a postsynaptic site.
To determine the functional role of synaptotagmin (Syt) regulatory domains, affinity-purified antibodies specific for C2A or C2B domains were injected into presynaptic neurons of cholinergic synapses formed between rat sympathetic neurons in culture. Following injection of anti-C2A antibody, postsynaptic responses evoked by presynaptic action potentials at a frequency of 0.05 Hz decreased rapidly, while anti-C2B antibody slowly decreased synaptic transmitter release. The inhibitory effect of anti-C2B antibody depended on the amount of synaptic activity. Asynchronous release induced by hypertonic solution was also affected by the antibodies. Anti-C2A antibody showed a dual action on miniature excitatory postsynaptic potentials, a decrease and following increase in the frequency, while synapses loaded with anti-C2B antibody showed a decrease in the frequency after long repetitive stimulation (0.05 Hz for more than 60 min). Anti-C2B antibody prevented the inhibition of acetylcholine release induced by injection of inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (IP4), indicating that C2B domain may down-regulate transmitter release by IP4 binding. These results confirm similar experiments in the glutamatergic squid giant synapses and suggest a model in which Syt C2A and C2B domains differentially control synaptic vesicle trafficking in mammalian cholinergic terminals; C2A domain may act on the fusion step as a calcium sensor in synaptic vesicle exocytosis evoked by action potentials in addition to controlling spontaneous transmitter release, while C2B domain is involved in exo- and endocytosis.
Spindling activity characterizes the EEG of animals and humans in the early stages of resting sleep. Spindles are defined as waxing and waning rhythmic waves at 7-14 Hz that recur periodically every 3-10 s. Spindling originates in the thalamus, but a role for the cerebral cortex in triggering and synchronizing thalamic spindles was shown by stimulation of the contralateral cortex avoiding antidromic activation of thalamocortical axons and by diminished coherency of thalamic spindles after hemidecortication. Spontaneous spindles under barbiturate anesthesia are waxing and waning but under ketamine-xylazine anesthesia or when evoked by strong stimuli spindle waves are almost exclusively waning, i.e. they start with maximum amplitude and then decrease progressively. Waxing and waning of spindles has been ascribed to progressive entrainment of units into the oscillation followed by a progressive desynchronization. Therefore, exclusively waning spindles would be produced by an initial high synchrony in the corticothalamic network. Such a situation is observable upon strong stimulation or, spontaneously, when spindles are paced by the slow cortical oscillation and preceded by a strong corticothalamic drive. We have conducted experiments in naturally sleeping cats to verify the occurrence of two patterns of spindle oscillations and to test the role of the cortex in synchronizing and shaping spindles. We have found that indeed two types of spindles (waxing and waning or mostly waning) occur in naturally sleeping animals. We also demonstrate that during cortical spreading depression spindles are less synchronous and only of the waxing and waning type. As cortical activity recovers, waning spindles reappear and are preceded by electroencephalogram deflections which are related to corticothalamic depolarizing inputs. Our results strongly support the hypothesis of the role of the cerebral cortex in shaping and synchronizing thalamically generated spindles.
Aplysia, a marine mollusc, has significant amounts of acetylcholinesterase in its hemolymph, reaching maximum levels in the adults with reproductive maturity [Srivatsan M., et al. (1992) J. comp. Physiol. 162, 29-37]. Since hemolymph of mature Aplysia is neurotrophic to Aplysia neurons in culture [Schacher S. and Proshanski E. (1983) J. Neurosci. 3, 2403-2413], we examined whether acetylcholinesterase is a hemolymph neurotrophic factor. Dopaminergic neurons from the pedal ganglia of young adult Aplysia were maintained in culture in defined medium or defined medium supplemented with hemolymph. After 24 h, neurons in defined medium supplemented with hemolymph were well attached to the substratum and exhibited multiple, long neurites. In contrast, neurons in defined medium alone attached poorly and exhibited one or two short neurites. When acetylcholinesterase was inhibited with a specific, membrane-impermeable inhibitor (1,5-bis(4-allyldimethylammoniumphenyl)-pentan-3-one dibromide) which binds to its catalytic and peripheral anionic sites, the neurotrophic effect of hemolymph was significantly reduced. However, inhibition of the catalytic site alone with membrane impermeable echothiophate still resulted in enhanced neurite growth. An analogue of acetylcholine, carbachol, which is not hydrolysed by acetylcholinesterase, did not interfere with neurite growth when added to the supplemented medium. Acetylcholinesterase isolated from the hemolymph and highly purified human acetylcholinesterase also promoted neurite growth in Aplysia neurons. These results show that i) acetylcholinesterase circulating in the hemolymph promotes neurite growth of adult neurons in culture; ii) the growth promoting action of acetylcholinesterase is independent of its function of hydrolysing acetylcholine and iii) the peripheral anionic site of acetylcholinesterase appears to be involved in neurite regeneration.
Using quantitative immunocytochemical procedures, the total number of estrogen and androgen receptors was estimated in a large number of hypothalamic and limbic nuclei of male rats, in which brain estrogen formation was inhibited neonatally by treatment with the aromatase inhibitor 1,4,6-androstatriene-3,17-dione. The highest densities of estrogen receptor immunoreactivity were observed in the periventricular preoptic area and the medial preoptic area. Neonatally estrogen-deprived males showed a higher estrogen receptor immunoreactivity than control males in the periventricular preoptic area and the ventrolateral portion of the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, i.e. those brain areas in which sex differences have been reported, with female rats showing a greater estrogen binding capacity than male rats. The highest densities of androgen receptor immunoreactivity were found in the septohypothalamic nucleus, the medial preoptic area, the posterior division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the posterodorsal division of the medial amygdaloid nucleus. No significant differences in distribution or total numbers of androgen receptors were found between neonatally estrogen-deprived males and control males. These findings suggest that neonatal estrogens, derived from the neural aromatization of testosterone, are involved in the sexual differentiation of the estrogen receptor system in the periventricular preoptic area and the ventromedial hypothalamus. The role of neonatal estrogens in the development of the forebrain androgen receptor system is less clear.
The hypothesis was tested that the activation of postganglionic sympathetic neurons contributes to the peripheral vasoconstriction and the blood pressure increase which are observed in rats after systemic blockade of nitric oxide synthase by substituted L-arginine analogues. Single and multifiber postganglionic sympathetic activity supplying hindlimb hairy skin and the activity in the caudal lumbar sympathetic trunk supplying mainly hindlimb skeletal muscle were recorded in anaesthetized, paralysed and artificially ventilated Wistar rats before, during and up to 1 h after intravenous injection of a supramaximal dose (10 or 35 mg/kg) of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester. This elicited a sustained rise of arterial blood pressure, a long-lasting decrease in heart rate and vasoconstriction in hindlimb skin and skeletal muscle as measured by laser Doppler flowmetry. With intact buffer nerves all sympathetic neurons analysed responded with a decrease in their ongoing activity in parallel with the vasoconstriction and the increased blood pressure, except for one neuron which was unresponsive. These responses were probably mediated by the arterial baroreceptors. since it was shown that N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester did not impair the function of both the afferent and the efferent limb of the reflex. Furthermore, baroreceptor denervation almost abolished the inhibitory responses in sympathetic neurons. In baroreceptor denervated animals, with a latency of about 15 min after N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester there was an increase in sympathetic activity without a further increase in blood pressure. It was concluded that sympathetic vasoconstrictor neurons which supply the rat hindlimb do not contribute by neurogenic means to the vasoconstriction and the blood pressure increase occurring after blockade of the nitric oxide synthase. Instead, the results suggest that sympathetic vasoconstrictor neurons, via the baroreceptor loop, counteract the vasoconstriction caused by the blockade of endothelium-derived nitric oxide. Therefore nitric oxide does not seem to play a role in the central regulation of activity in the sympathetic vasoconstrictor pathways studied here. The long latency increase in sympathetic activity observed after N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester in baroreceptor-denervated animals may be due to an impairment of blood flow in the brainstem.
Neurons lying in the white matter of the upper cervical spinal cord become transneuronally labelled following pseudorabies virus injections into the kidney or stellate ganglion, suggesting that they project directly to sympathetic preganglionic neurons. In the present study, we extend these findings and report here that i) neurons in both the lateral spinal nucleus and lateral funiculus become transneuronally labelled after pseudorabies virus injections into the superior cervical ganglion, stellate ganglion, celiac ganglion, or adrenal gland and ii) both of these two cell groups project directly to the sympathetic preganglionic neurons as demonstrated with the Phaseolus vulgaris leuco-agglutinin axonal tracing method. In addition, lateral funiculus neurons project to the cervical and upper thoracic dorsal horn (lamina V), intermediate gray matter (laminae VII and X), and ventral horn. The lateral spinal nucleus also projects to the medial part of laminae I and II, V, VII. To verify that pseudorabies virus-infected lateral funiculus and lateral spinal nucleus cells have a neuronal phenotype, we demonstrated that these cells also can be immunostained with antibodies directed against a neuron specific marker, neuronal nuclear protein called NeuN, but not with antibodies against glial acidic fibrillary protein or oligodendroglia. In summary, this report provides the first evidence that two descending sympathetic projection systems arise from neurons lying within the white matter of the cervical spinal cord.
The capacity of a calpain inhibitor to reduce losses of neurofilament 200-, neurofilament 68- and calpain 1-mediated spectrin breakdown products was examined following traumatic brain injury in the rat. Twenty-four hours after unilateral cortical impact injury, western blot analyses detected neurofilament 200 losses of 65% (ipsilateral) and 36% (contralateral) of levels observed in naive, uninjured rat cortices. Neurofilament 68 protein levels decreased only in the ipsilateral cortex by 35% relative to naive protein levels. Calpain inhibitor 2, administered 10 min after injury via continuous arterial infusion into the right external carotid artery for 24 h, significantly reduced neurofilament 200 losses to 17% and 3% relative to naive neurofilament 200 protein levels in the ipsilateral and contralateral cortices, respectively. Calpain inhibitor administration abolished neurofilament 68 loss in the ipsilateral cortex and was accompanied by a reduction of putative calpain-mediated neurofilament 68 breakdown products. Spectrin breakdown products mediated by calpain 1 activation were detectable in both hemispheres 24 h after traumatic brain injury and were substantially reduced in animals treated with calpain inhibitor 2 both ipsilaterally and contralaterally to the site of injury. Qualitative immunofluorescence studies of neurofilament 200 and neurofilament 68 confirmed western blot data, demonstrating morphological protection of neuronal structure throughout cortical regions of the traumatically injured brain. Morphological protection included preservation of dendritic structure and reduction of axonal retraction balls. In addition, histopathological studies employing hematoxylin and eosin staining indicated reduced extent of contusion at the injury site. These data indicate that calpain inhibitors could represent a viable strategy for preserving the cytoskeletal structure of injured neurons after experimental traumatic brain injury in vivo.
The influence of morphine and somatostatin on nociceptor-evoked activation of central trigeminal neurons and cardiovascular reflex responses was assessed in barbiturate-anaesthetized rats. Morphine or the somatostatin analogue, octreotide, was given intracerebroventricularly 20 min prior to application of mustard oil to the corneal surface. The expression of the immediate early gene, c-fos, was used to estimate neuronal activation within the spinal trigeminal nucleus. Morphine reduced the number of Fos-positive neurons produced at the transition region between trigeminal subnucleus caudalis and the upper cervical spinal cord, whereas c-fos expression at the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition was not affected significantly. Morphine also reduced the arterial pressure and heart rate responses to corneal stimulation in proportion to the dose of morphine and required a threshold dose similar to that which reduced c-fos expression. Naloxone prevented the morphine-induced inhibition of c-fos expression and cardiovascular reflex responses to corneal stimulation. Somatostatin analogue reduced the number of Fos-positive neurons at the subnucleus caudalis/cervical cord transition, but not at the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition, an effect that was not prevented by naloxone. Somatostatin analogue did not blunt the cardiovascular responses evoked by corneal stimulation. A subthreshold dose of morphine plus a threshold dose of somatostatin analogue caused a greater inhibition of Fos-positive neurons at the subnucleus caudalis/cervical cord transition, but not in reflex-evoked autonomic responses, than the same dose of either drug alone. Intracerebroventricular administration of morphine and somatostatin analogue inhibit corneal activation of neurons within the superficial laminae at the subnucleus caudalis/cervical cord transition through opioid and non-opioid-dependent neural pathways, respectively. By contrast, the low sensitivity of corneal-responsive neurons at the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition to analgesics suggests that these neurons are not simply a rostral extension of the medullary dorsal horn. Correlation analyses suggest that morphine-induced inhibition of cardiovascular responses to corneal stimulation depend on the activity of neurons at the subnucleus caudalis/cervical cord transition and not on those at the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition region.
In order to achieve a better understanding of the pathophysiology of ischemic white matter lesions, oligodendrocytic degeneration and subsequent proliferation were examined in the mouse model of middle cerebral artery occlusion. In situ hybridization histochemistry for proteolipid protein messenger RNA was employed as a sensitive and specific marker of oligodendrocytes, and immunohistochemistry for myelin basic protein was used as a compact myelin marker. Immunohistochemistry for microtubule-associated protein 2 and albumin was employed to monitor neuronal degeneration and the breakdown of the blood brain barrier, respectively. In the ischemic core of the caudoputamen, the immunoreactivity for microtubule-associated protein 2 disappeared and massive albumin extravasation occurred several hours after vessel occlusion, while proteolipid protein messenger RNA signals remained relatively strong at this time. The messenger RNA signals began to attenuate 12 h after ischemia and were hardly detectable 24 h after ischemia in the whole ischemic lesion. In situ end-labeling of fragmented DNA showed some cells with proteolipid protein messenger RNAs to have DNA fragmentation at this period. In contrast to proteolipid protein messenger RNA signals, the immunoreactivity for myelin basic protein was detected as long as five days after ischemia. An apparent increase in the cells possessing strong proteolipid protein messenger RNA signals was found five days after ischemia, mainly in the corpus callosum and the cortex bordering the infarcted areas. A double simultaneous procedure with in situ hybridization for proteolipid protein messenger RNA and immunohistochemistry for glial fibrillary acid protein or lectin histochemistry for macrophages/microglia showed proliferating oligodendrocytes to be co-localized with reactive astrocytes and macrophages/microglia. These findings show that oligodendrocytic damage occurred following ischemic neuronal damage and the breakdown of the blood brain barrier, but preceded the breakdown of myelin proteins in the ischemic lesion, that an apoptosis-like process was involved in ischemic oligodendrocytic death, and that surviving oligodendrocytes responded and proliferated in the outer border of the infarcted area.
We have examined the developmental profile of the alpha-1 and alpha-2 adrenergic receptor messenger ribonucleic acids expression in the rat superior cervical ganglion. The expression of the six messenger ribonucleic acids was studied using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. At four weeks, the dominant messenger ribonucleic acids transcripts in this sympathetic ganglion were alpha-1C, alpha-2A, alpha-2B and alpha-2C. The expression of alpha-1 genes in the superior cervical ganglion appears to be regulated during postnatal development in that two alpha-1 (alpha-1B, alpha-1C) genes were expressed at birth, three, seven and 14 days postnatal but no amplified product for alpha-1B was detected at 28 days and in the aged animals, while the alpha-1C transcript continued to be expressed. No amplified product for alpha-1D was detected in superior cervical ganglion at any of the ages studied. While all three alpha-2 genes were expressed in the superior cervical ganglion at four weeks the dominant alpha-2 messenger ribonucleic acids transcript expressed in the superior cervical ganglion was alpha-2A. This pattern of alpha-2 adrenoceptor gene expression was maintained from birth, throughout development and into old age. These results suggest that the expression of alpha-1 adrenergic receptors in the superior cervical ganglion is regulated developmentally while the expression of alpha-2 genes remains unchanged.
In this study, we have characterized the phenotype of mast cells in rat dura mater and their topological and functional relationships with C-fibers in normal and inflammatory conditions. Three mast cell populations with different size, morphology and localization were characterized by their content of specific neutral serine proteases. They showed immunoreactivity corresponding to rat mast cell protease I, rat mast cell protease II, or both proteases. Using confocal microscopy, all three mast cell types were observed in close apposition (distance less than 100 nm) to calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibers in both controls and rats infected with the nematode Nippostrongylus brasiliensis. After nematode infection or neonatal treatment with capsaicin, a large increase in the number of rat mast cell protease II-immunoreactive mast cells was found within dura mater segments (+1478% and +596%, respectively), without concomitant changes of rat mast cell protease I- or rat mast cell protease I/II-immunoreactive mast cells. Under both these conditions, the increase in mast cell number was accompanied by a significant increase in rat mast cell protease II level within tissue extracts (+281% after nematode infection and +36% after capsaicin treatment). The functional interaction of mast cells with sensory nerve fibers in the dura mater was assessed by evaluating [3H]histamine synthesis after administration of L-[3H]histidine, an index of mast cell activity. The H3 receptor agonist (R)-alpha-methylhistamine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) had no effect, but administration of the H3 receptor antagonist, thioperamide (10 mg/kg, i.p.), resulted in a significant increase of [3H]histamine synthesis (+62%). This effect was reduced in neonatal capsaicin-treated rats, but not completely suppressed (+35%), very likely because of partial denervation, as assessed by monitoring calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity. It is concluded that, in the dura mater, as in peripheral tissues, sensory nerve fibers and mast cells actively synthesizing and releasing histamine form a short inhibitory feedback loop involving prejunctional H3 receptors that could regulate the release of pro-inflammatory mediators, thus limiting the extent of inflammatory reactions.
This study evaluated the spectral characteristics of neuronal discharges in the caudal hypoglossal nucleus and their physiological relevance in adult, male Sprague Dawley rats which were anaesthetized and maintained with pentobarbital sodium. Based on auto-spectral analysis of extracellular single-neuron activity, three spectral patterns were identified in the spontaneous discharges of hypoglossal neurons. Neurons that exhibited a rhythmic pattern manifested a concentrated peak in the auto-spectrogram that corresponded to the mean discharge rate. A majority of hypoglossal neurons displayed the modulated pattern, which was manifested either as scattered power densities (wide-band modulated pattern) or with a peak frequency component that was different from the mean discharge rate (narrow-band modulated pattern). Neurons that exhibited a mixed pattern displayed both rhythmic and modulated spectral patterns. Cross-spectral analysis further revealed that respiratory modulation constituted a major physiological influence on caudal hypoglossal neurons. The respiratory modulated pattern, however, could be converted to a mixed pattern in the presence of a central dipsogen, angiotensin III. The results suggest that the spectral patterns of neuronal discharges in caudal hypoglossal neurons represent manifestations of multiple physiological information, including that regarding respiration and dipsogenesis, which is encoded in these neurons. It was also shown that this information may only be revealed by auto-spectral and cross-spectral analysis of neuronal discharge signals.
A combination of intracellular electrophysiological recording and injection of horseradish peroxidase with ultrastructural immunocytochemistry was used to investigate the synaptic interplay between substance P- and enkephalin-immunoreactive axonal boutons and three types of functionally characterized dorsal horn neurons in the cat spinal cord. The dorsal horn neurons were classified as nociceptive specific, wide dynamic range and non-nociceptive based on their responses to innocuous and noxious stimuli. Most of the nociceptive neurons (either nociceptive specific or wide dynamic range) contained enkephalin immunoreactivity, but none of the non-nociceptive neurons were positive for enkephalin. Three types of immunoreactive boutons were found in contact with the functionally characterized dorsal horn neurons. These boutons were positive for either substance P, enkephalin, or substance P+enkephalin. Quantitative analysis revealed that the percentages of substance P-immunoreactive boutons apposed to the cell bodies, proximal dendrites and distal dendrites of nociceptive neurons were significantly higher than those of non-nociceptive neurons. Furthermore, the percentages of substance P+enkephalin-immunoreactive axonal boutons apposed to the distal dendrites of nociceptive neurons were significantly higher than those of non-nociceptive neurons and the percentages of enkephalin-immunoreactive boutons apposed to the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of nociceptive neurons were significantly higher than in non-nociceptive neurons. Finally, neither enkephalin-immunoreactive nor substance P+enkephalin-immunoreactive boutons were ever seen presynaptic to substance P-immunoreactive boutons. These results provide evidence of an anatomical substrate within the dorsal horn for the interaction of substance P-mediated with enkephalin-mediated mechanisms. The data support the idea that the modulation of nociceptive input in the dorsal horn by enkephalinergic neurons occurs mainly via a postsynaptic mechanism, and thus suggest that dorsal horn enkephalinergic neurons participate in a local inhibitory feedback loop in a distinct pathway from the previously postulated opioid-mediated depression of substance P release from primary afferent terminals.
Extracellular recording techniques were used in brain slices to characterize excitatory responses produced by purine nucleotides in the rat medial vestibular nucleus, an area where functional purinoceptors have not previously been described. In the continued presence of the adenosine antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine, which alone caused a small increase in the spontaneous firing rate, the P2 purinoceptor agonists alpha,beta-methyleneadenosine 5'-triphosphate (alphabeta meATP) and adenosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) (ADPbetaS) caused concentration-dependent increases in spontaneous firing rate, with EC50 values of 41.8 and 1.7 microM, respectively. Only approximately 35% of all neurons studied displayed excitatory responses to these agents. Responses waned in the continued presence of high concentrations of the latter, but not the former agonist. Furthermore, in the continued presence of a maximal concentration of alphabeta meATP, ADPbetaS produced further increases in the firing rate of these neurons. The P2 antagonist, suramin, ablated responses to alphabeta meATP, but did not affect responses to ADPbetaS, whereas pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid antagonized responses to both agonists. The nucleotide analogue alpha,beta-methyleneadenosine 5'-diphosphate, which displays affinity for putative P2X receptors in brain, also produced concentration-dependent increases in firing frequency, which were also markedly antagonized in the presence of suramin, this agonist being only slightly less potent than alphabeta meATP. In conclusion, a subpopulation of rat medial vestibular neuronal responses mediated by both P2X and P2Y purinoceptors can be distinguished. Comparison of their properties with those of recombinantly expressed P2X and P2Y receptors suggests that these endogenous P2 purinoceptor types differ in several important aspects from heterologously expressed recombinant receptors identified from cloning studies.
Information flow within the intra-amygdaloid circuitry has been generally believed to be unidirectional rather than reciprocal, in which case sensory inputs entering the amygdala via the lateral nucleus would not be modulated by inputs from other amygdaloid regions. In the present study we extend our earlier findings which indicated that the lateral nucleus of the rat amygdala is reciprocally connected with the basal and accessory basal nuclei. The type of synaptic contacts made by these connections is also characterized at the ultrastructural level. An anterograde tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, was injected into the basal (n=22) or accessory basal nuclei (n=12) of the rat amygdala. The results demonstrate that the ventrolateral division of the lateral nucleus receives projections from the basal nucleus, while the medial division receives projections from the accessory basal nucleus. Electron microscopic analyses revealed that axons projecting from the basal nucleus formed both asymmetric and symmetric contacts within the ventrolateral division of the lateral nucleus, whereas axons projecting from the accessory basal nucleus to the medial division of the lateral nucleus formed only asymmetric synapses with their targets. These findings suggest that the lateral nucleus receives both inhibitory and excitatory intra-amygdaloid projections and indicate that information flow within the amygdala is not unidirectional as previously thought. The results of this study provide evidence that the early phase of sensory processing within the amygdala is already modified by inputs from other amygdaloid nuclei.
Basal ganglia of adult rats were examined for morphological and biochemical changes resulting from neonatal unilateral dopamine denervation of the striatum with increasing doses of 6-hydroxydopamine (4, 12 and 20 microg). Rotational behaviour induced by apomorphine (0.1 mg/kg) was observed in all rats injected with the high dose (20 microg) and totally absent in those injected with the low dose (4 microg). As assessed with tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry, the extent of dopamine denervation within the injected striatum was clearly related to the dose injected. In the mesencephalon, losses of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cell bodies were proportional to the dose injected and the extent of neostriatal dopamine denervation. This retrograde cell loss predominated in the ventromedial and lateral parts of the substantia nigra pars compacta, with relative sparing of the ventral tegmental area. After the injection of the intermediate (12 microg) and the high (20 microg) doses, a network of thin tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibres was visualized in the ventral part of the pars reticulata ipsilateral to the injected striatum, suggesting a neoinnervation of this structure by dopamine axons. After the high dose, the density of serotonin-immunoreactive fibres was enhanced in the anterior half of the lesioned striatum. Associated changes in dopamine and serotonin content and turnover were also documented on both sides, in the striatum and in two output structures of the basal ganglia, the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra. Dopamine content was decreased only on the injected side. After the low dose, equal reductions (-60%) were observed in the anterior striatum and the substantia nigra, whereas a more marked decrease was measured in the anterior striatum (-93%) than in the substantia nigra (-60% to -74%) after the intermediate and high doses. In the globus pallidus, dopamine tissue content was decreased (-51%) only after the high dose. Dopamine turnover was unchanged after the low dose in all structures examined and was increased in the striatum, on the lesioned side only, after the intermediate and high doses. Serotonin content was increased only on the injected side in the anterior striatum (+50% after the low and +92% after the high dose). Serotonin turnover was unchanged on the injected side but increased by +118% and by +81% in the contralateral anterior striatum after the low and high doses, respectively. It was also increased in both substantia nigra after the high dose. In conclusion, morphological changes similar to those described after a bilateral neonatal lesion were observed on the injected side in the model of the unilateral neonatal nigrostriatal dopamine denervation. Biochemical changes were, however, not restricted to the lesioned side. Notably, changes in serotonin turnover developed on the contralateral side. These morphological and biochemical adaptative changes need to be taken into account in considering the mechanisms implicated in the rotional behaviour measured in these animals.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor has been shown to affect dopaminergic and cholinergic neuron markers and functions in young rats. However, it is not known if the response to exogenous glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor is augmented during normal aging. Thus, the effects of chronic intraventricular infusions of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor were determined in young adult (three-months-old) and aged (24-months-old) Fischer 344 (F344) male rats. The effects of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor were compared to the effects of the neurotrophin nerve growth factor. Growth factors were administered at a dose of 10 mg/day for 14 days. Locomotor activity and weight changes were also examined in all rats. Aged F344 rats showed significantly reduced (by 75-80%) locomotor activity compared to young rats. In glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-treated aged and young rats there was significantly increased (242% and 149%, respectively) locomotor activity measured at seven days. There was also a significant increase in locomotor activity measured 14 days after the start of infusion. Both glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor reduced weight gain by 10% in young and old F344 rats. Two weeks following the start of nerve growth factor or glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor administration the brains were used for neurochemical analyses. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor significantly increased tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the substantia nigra and striatum of aged rats and in the substantia nigra of young rats. Nerve growth factor treatment did not significantly affect tyrosine hydroxylase activity. However, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and nerve growth factor increased choline acetyltransferase activity in the septum, hippocampus, striatum and cortex of aged rats and in the hippocampus and striatum of young rats to a comparable degree. These findings indicate that specific dopaminergic and cholinergic neuron populations remain responsive to glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor during the life span of the rat and may be involved in maintaining phenotypic expression within multiple neuronal populations. Additionally, the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-induced up-regulation of brain neurotransmitter systems may be responsible for increased locomotor activity in F344 rats.
The electrophysiological effects of CO2 on locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurons were investigated in rat brain slices. Under control conditions, when slices were perfused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid containing 24 mM NaHCO3/5% CO2 (pH approximately 7.34, 33 degrees C) and exposed to 5% CO2/95% O2 arriving through an interface chamber, locus coeruleus neurons discharged spontaneously at approximately 1 Hz. Extracellular recordings showed that lowering CO2 that arrived through the chamber below 5% resulted in reductions in firing rate, often with a complete cessation of activity when exogenous CO2 was removed completely. Intracellular recordings revealed that lowering CO2 produced an outward current with an increase in slope conductance and a reversal potential near the potassium equilibrium potential; doubling the concentration of external potassium shifted the reversal potential of the current activated by CO2 removal by approximately +20 mV. Raising CO2 above 5% induced an increase in firing rate, an inward current, a decreased slope conductance at potentials near resting membrane voltage, and an increased slope conductance at more negative potentials. These effects of CO2 were mimicked by other manipulations that are known to affect intracellular pH. For example, NH4Cl, which acutely induces intracellular alkalinization, caused a marked reduction in firing rate, an outward current and an increased slope conductance that reversed near the potassium equilibrium potential. Bath-applied barium blocked the effects induced by removal of CO2 or addition of NH4Cl. The polyamine spermine (tetrahydrochloride) applied via intracellular micropipettes blocked the outward current induced by removal of CO2 or addition of NH4Cl. Spermine (free base) or an equivalent concentration of putrescine failed to alter the CO2 (0%)- or NH4Cl-induced effects. We conclude that CO2 maintains the tonic activity of locus coeruleus neurons by decreasing intracellular pH which, in turn, closes inward rectifier potassium channels, an effect that may be mediated by a protonated polyamine. According to this model, when there is alkalinization of locus coeruleus cells through removal of CO2 or addition of NH4Cl, endogenous spermine or a similar polyamine becomes partially deprotonated, releasing the channel block and allowing the cell to hyperpolarize. The possible implications of these results for the physiological effects of CO2 in the locus coeruleus are discussed.
In urethane anaesthetized rats subcutaneous formalin injection in the right hind paw, a model of persistent pain, produced (i) a prolonged increase in the period of field rhythmic sinusoidal (or theta) activity, (ii) a depression of dorsal hippocampal field CA1 pyramidal cell synaptic excitability (mean peak depression of population spike amplitude being 50 +/- 6%) observed to the 60th min post injection, and (iii) a persistent decrease in extracellular activity of the majority of CA1 pyramidal cells (15/20 or 75%) with only a small percentage excited (5/20 or 25%). In contrast an intense noxious heat stimulus applied briefly to the distal end of the tail evoked a short duration increase in period of theta activation and suppression of pyramidal cell responses. With this acute stimulus the proportion of CA1 pyramidal cells excited (8/16) were similar to that suppressed (7/16). Finally, electrolytic lesions centred in the medial septal vertical limb of diagonal band of Broca (or septal region) prevented a noxious stimulus-induced theta and depression of CA1 pyramidal cell responses. Rather, in such lesioned animals noxious stimulation excited the majority CA1 complex spike cells studied (8/10). The above data are consistent with the notion that septohippocampal inputs are involved in noxious stimulus-induced CA1 pyramidal cell suppression. The formalin injection-induced selective activation of CA1 complex spike cells against a background of widespread pyramidal cell suppression might produce a &quot;signal to noise&quot; contributory to nociceptive processing in limbic structures. Such a processing might be involved in the affective motivational component of pain.
Granuloprival cerebellar cultures derived from neonatal mice were transplanted at nine days in vitro with granule cells and glia, and the changes induced in the host explants were examined daily with the electron microscope from one to nine days post-transplantation. Granule cells and astrocytes had migrated into the host cultures within 24 h, and astrocytic processes began to ensheath Purkinje cells and to interpose themselves between axon terminals and Purkinje cell somata, reducing the number of axosomatic synapses. Occasional degenerating Purkinje cells were present. At two days post-transplantation, synapse formation between parallel fibre terminals and Purkinje cell dendritic spines was initially evident, and Purkinje cells began to proliferate dendritic spines near astrocytic processes. Degenerating Purkinje cells were more frequently encountered. Myelin was first observed in host cultures at three days after transplantation, and astrocytes continued to ensheath Purkinje cells and reduce the population of axosomatic synapses, a process that began to stabilize at four days post-transplantation. At this time astrocytic ensheathment had extended to Purkinje cell dendrites and dendritic spine synapses. Proliferation of Purkinje cell dendritic spines accelerated, and occasional synapses with presumptive parallel fibre terminals were present among clusters of proliferated spines. At five days after transplantation, contours of Purkinje cells were rounded, and there was a decrease of somatic spines and of synapses with somatic spines. Purkinje cells were fully ensheathed by astrocytic processes by six days post-transplantation and had assumed a mature appearance. Homotypical parallel fibre-Purkinje cell dendritic spine synapses were predominant in more developed areas of cortical neuropil as heterotypical recurrent axon collateral-Purkinje cell dendritic spine synapses were reduced. Increasing synapse formation was evident among clusters of proliferated spines, which continued at seven days post-transplantation, as the spine clusters became less frequent. At eight days after transplantation, space between Purkinje cells had increased and the cortical neuropil resembled that of comparably aged control cultures. Occasional degenerating Purkinje cells were still evident at nine days post-transplantation, at which time residual clusters of proliferated unattached dendritic spines were scarce. The sequence of changes after transplantation was consistent with the specific roles of the transplanted elements. Astrocytes were involved with the regulation of synapse density, including reduction of some heterotypical synapses, and induced proliferation of Purkinje cell dendritic spines. Granule cell axons synapsed with Purkinje cell dendritic spines, further reducing heterotypical synapses and restoring cortical circuitry to a near control state. The loss of heterotypical synapses was associated with programmed cell death of excess Purkinje cells, reducing the Purkinje cell population to control levels.
Using single-cell imaging, we investigated developmental changes in the modulation of KCl-evoked Ca2+ entry by various voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels and the coupling of these channels to exocytosis in cultured cerebellar granule neurons. A component of the KCl-evoked Ca2+ elevation sensitive to nifedipine and localized at cell somata, decreases with culture age. A component blocked by 200 nM omega-Agatoxin-IVA increases with age and whilst localized primarily at the cell somata, also becomes evident at the neurites. The change in activity between nifedipine-sensitive Ca2+ channels and omega-Agatoxin-IVA-sensitive Ca2+ channels occurs at 13 days in vitro at cell somata. A component of Ca2+ entry insensitive to nifedipine and 200 nM omega-Agatoxin-IVA is localized primarily at the neurites and is apparent at all ages. Single-cell imaging of exocytosis using FM1-43 destaining indicates that the residual, but not the nifedipine- or omega-Agatoxin-IVA-sensitive components of Ca2+ entry, modulates exocytosis. However cells cultured for 20-26 days develop a component of Ca2+ entry at the neurites which is sensitive to 200 nM omega-Agatoxin-IVA and omega-Conotoxin-MVIIC and which partially controls release. Immunolocalization studies reveal that binding sites for omega-Conotoxin-GVIA are present throughout development, even though this toxin does not inhibit KCl-evoked [Ca2+]c elevations or exocytosis. 300 nM omega-Agatoxin-IVA labels both somata and, at later developmental stages, neurites, consistent with the functional studies.
Calcium entry through voltage-dependent channels play a critical role in neuronal development. Using patch-clamp techniques we have identified the components of the macroscopic Ca2+ current in acutely-isolated chick cochlear ganglion neurons and analysed their functional expression throughout embryonic development. With Ba2+ as a charge carrier, the currents exhibited two main components, both with a high activation threshold but differing in their inactivation kinetics. One component showed inactivation with a time constant around 100 ms (transient) whereas the other hardly inactivated (sustained). The currents were sensitive to omega-Conotoxin GVIA and dihydropyridines, blocked by 20 microM Cd2+, but unaffected by omega-Agatoxin IVA. In a few cases, only with Ca2+ as a charge carrier, an additional component with low activation threshold and fast inactivation (time constant of 20 ms), was observed. Currents were first detected at day 7 of embryonic development. Current density (amplitude/cell capacitance) increased through embryonic day 9, when early synaptic contacts are established, and decreased thereafter to lower steady values. The effect of neurotrophin-3, a neurotrophic factor required for survival and differentiation of cochlear ganglion neurons, was also examined. Neurons isolated at embryonic day 7 or day 11 and maintained two days in culture with 2 ng/ml neurotrophin-3 showed a substantial increase in Ca2+ current density, particularly in the transient component. These findings indicate that the expression of neuronal Ca2+ channels is predominant at the time of synapse formation between transducing hair cells and their primary afferents. Besides its effects on survival and neuritogenesis, neurotrophin-3 enhances the expression of Ca2+ channels in cultured neurons. Taken together these results suggest that the functional expression of Ca2+ channels is regulated during embryonic development of cochlear neurons by the release of neurotrophin-3 from the differentiating sensory epithelium of the cochlea.
We investigated the effects of arachidonic acid on K+ channels in freshly dissociated neurons of 10- to 20-day-old rat visual cortex, using a perforated and conventional whole-cell patch-clamp and inside-out excised patch configurations. Arachidonic acid at 5-30 microM induced an outward current in 88.1% of the neurons in whole-cell mode, and evoked channel opening with a conductance of 170-238 pS in 90.5% of neurons under inside-out patch recording. Arachidonic acid-activated K+ channels were partially blocked by extracellular administration of 1 mM tetraethylammonium and 100 nM charybdotoxin. However, Ba2+ completely blocked the channel in all cases. None of the other K+ channel blockers, including 4-aminopyridine, quinidine, apamin and glibenclamide, inhibited the arachidonic acid-activated channels. Intracellular perfusion with Ca2+-free and 5 mM BAPTA in Ca2+-free extracellular perfusate containing 2 mM EGTA in conventional whole-cell recording did not inhibit the K+ channel, implying that the channel is not Ca2+ dependent. Neither guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) nor staurosporine applied in inside-out mode affected the arachidonic acid-activated channels, indicating that G-protein and protein kinase C are not involved in this phenomenon. In addition, neither indomethacin nor nordihydroguaiaretic acid blocked the channel currents, demonstrating that it is arachidonic acid itself but not its metabolites that induced the effect. Among the fatty acids tested, only cis-unsaturated fatty acids, having more than two double bonds, such as arachidonic acid, docosahexaenoic acid and linolenic acid, activated the K+ channels. These findings suggest that there exists a novel type of K+ channel activated by arachidonic acid which may play a critical role in modulating neuronal excitability in cortical neurons.
Lesion models in the rat were used to examine the effects of removing innervation of the hippocampal formation on glutamate receptor binding in that system. Bilateral aspiration of the entorhinal cortex was used to remove the cortical innervation of the hippocampal formation and the dentate gyrus. The subcortical input to the hippocampus from cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain was lesioned by microinjection of the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin into the medial septum and vertical limb of diagonal band. After a 30-day postlesion survival, the effects of these lesions on N-methyl-D-aspartate-displaceable [3H]glutamate and [3H]kainate binding in the hippocampus were quantified using in vitro autoradiography. The bilateral entorhinal lesion induced a sprouting response in the dentate gyrus, measured by an increase in the width of [3H]kainate binding. It also induced an increase in the density of [3H]kainate binding in CA3 stratum lucidum and an increase in N-methyl-D-aspartate binding throughout the hippocampus proper and the dentate gyrus. The selective lesion of cholinergic septal input did not have any effect on hippocampal [3H]kainate binding and induced only a moderate decrease in N-methyl-D-aspartate binding that was not statistically reliable. The entorhinal and cholinergic lesions were used as in vivo models of the degeneration of hippocampal input that occurs in normal aging and Alzheimer's disease. The results from the present lesion study suggest that some, but not all, of the effects on hippocampal [3H]kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate binding induced by the lesions are consistent with the status of binding to these receptors in aging and Alzheimer's disease. Consistent with the effects of aging and Alzheimer's disease is an altered topography of [3H]kainate binding after entorhinal cortex lesion and a modest decline in N-methyl-D-aspartate binding after lesions of the cholinergic septal input to the hippocampus.
Entorhinal cortex layer III cells send their axons into hippocampal area CA1, forming the less well studied branch of the perforant path. Using electrophysiological and morphological techniques within a slice preparation, we can classify medial entorhinal cortex layer III cells into four different types. Type 1 and 2 cells were projection cells. Type 1 cells fired regularly and possessed high input resistances and long membrane time constants. Electrical stimulation of the lateral entorhinal cortex revealed a strong excitation by both N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Type 2 cells accommodated strongly, had lower input resistances, faster time constants and featured prominent synaptic inhibition. Type 1 and 2 cells responded to repetitive synaptic stimulation with a prolonged hyperpolarization. We identified the two other, presumed local circuit, cell types whose axons remained within the entorhinal cortex. Type 3 cells were regular firing, had high input resistances and slow membrane time constants, while type 4 cells fired at higher frequencies and possessed a faster time constant and lower input resistance than type 3 neurons. Type 3 cells presented long-lasting excitatory synaptic potentials. Type 4 neurons were the only ones with different responses to stimulation from different sites. Upon lateral entorhinal cortex stimulation they responded with an excitatory postsynaptic potential, while a monosynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic potential was evoked from deep layer stimulation. In contrast to type 1 and 2 neurons, none of the local circuit cells could be antidromically activated from deep layers, and prolonged hyperpolarizations following synaptic repetitive stimulation were also absent in these cells. Together, the complementing morphology and the electrophysiological characteristics of all the cells can provide the controlled flexibility required during the transfer of cortical information to the hippocampus.
The cellular transcription factor Fos, product of the immediate early gene c-fos, is induced in secretory neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus in response to stress. Recent evidence indicates that the paracrine-acting messenger molecule nitric oxide may be involved in the activation or regulation of c-fos expression in neurons, and many neurons in the paraventricular nucleus contain the enzyme nitric oxide synthase. Furthermore, nitric oxide has been implicated in the regulation of corticotropin-releasing factor and arginine vasopressin release from neurons of the paraventricular nucleus. To study whether nitric oxide is involved in stress activation of c-fos expression in the paraventricular nucleus, we assessed the effect of treatment with competitive nitric oxide synthase blockers on expression of Fos protein in neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of rats subjected to immobilization stress. We found that such treatment blocks stress-induced Fos expression in the paraventricular nucleus. Furthermore, using double staining for Fos and the nitric oxide synthase histochemical marker, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphatediaphorase, we found that many neurons in the paraventricular nucleus that express Fos in response to immobilization stress also contain nitric oxide synthase. These results indicate that nitric oxide is involved in the regulation of Fos expression in stress-activated cells of the paraventricular nucleus.
Ion channels play a key role in determining both neuronal membrane excitability and specificity. Neuronal specificity is achieved by several mechanisms, including the properties of the afferent network neurons are involved in, and the expression of specific sets of ion channels at the cellular level. In addition, subcellular distribution of channels might contribute to neuronal specificity, as suggested by the growing number of recent studies. Among ion channels, potassium (K+) channels have been shown to play an essential contribution in repolarization and interspike duration. Recently, K+ channel subtypes examined by light microscopy were reported to display a differential subcellular distribution in central neurons. But the precise localization of the channels on pre- or post-synaptic membrane was only assessed in a few brain areas. Here we used confocal and immunoelectron microscopic approaches to determine the hypothalamic localization of Kv4.2 K+ channels, which encode an A-type current. We found that intense immunostaining was localized to the supraoptic nucleus where it frequently formed rings outlining the somata of magnocellular neurons. Electron microscopy further revealed that this immunostaining was essentially associated with the plasma membrane limitating the somata or the dendrites of these neurons, and that it was particularly concentrated at the site of synaptic contacts. This is the first report showing clusters of voltage-gated channels on postsynaptic membranes in central mammalian neurons. The specific localization of the Kv4.2 channel indicates that this channel may play a role in signal integration at the synapse.
One hundred years ago, in 1896, Joseph Babinski published a preliminary report on &quot;rflexe cutan plantaire&quot; (cutaneous plantar reflex), which became widely known as the Babinski sign. However, Babinski did not view the description of the sign as his major achievement. Instead, he considered his greatest contribution to medicine to be his having &quot;... indiqu la voie  Martel et  Vincent&quot; (pointed the way to Thierry de Martel and Clovis Vincent, founders of French neurosurgery). Several of Babinski's manuscripts deal with neurosurgical problems. In 1900, 1 year before Alfred Frhlich's description, Babinski gave the first account of the adiposogenital syndrome and its relation to pituitary-hypothalamic disorder. Many other original contributions ensued. These include a report on the relief of papilledema by surgical decompression in 1901, the successful removal (in collaboration with de Martel) of an intracranial meningioma in 1909, the description (again with de Martel) of a cerebellopontine angle tumor treated by surgical excision with good result in 1925, and several manuscripts concerning diagnosis and treatment of compressive spinal cord lesions. Babinski's dream to establish a department of neurosurgery became a reality shortly after his death. The Hpital de la Pitie in Paris, where Babinski did most of his work, established the first French department of neurosurgery chaired by Babinski's pupil, Vincent.


Expression of neuronal diseases by acute viral infection concerns itself with the mechanisms of the virus-host neuronal cell interactions. The neuropathogenecity of a virus can be determined by the availability of specific host macromolecules in the neuronal cells for such virus and ability of virus-coded molecules to interact with those host macromolecules. Factors concerned with the neuropathogenecity may be a receptor, transcription or replication factor, or translation initiation factor and virus structural and non-structural proteins.
Few controversies in contemporary neuroscience have endured as long as that concerning the immediate neurophysiological effect(s) of 'D2-like' dopamine receptor activation. While the issue is of fundamental importance, it could be argued that the matter is more abstract and of less consequence than clarifying receptor-mediated actions at other, more functional levels from second messenger through neurochemistry to behaviour. Yet it is not possible to define fully these processes without insight into the immediate neurophysiological action. This necessity has been accentuated by a number of recent developments, including (i) recognition of multiple, complex forms of functional interactions between 'D2-like' and 'D1-like' receptor families which ultimately regulate so many forms of behaviour and (ii) the ongoing debate as to the extent to which members of 'D1-like' and 'D2-like' receptor families might be co-localised on the same neuronal membrane to subserve such interactions. Full specification of these phenomena requires a clear understanding of the relevant neurophysiological events.
This short review summarizes work from the authors' laboratory regarding electrophysiological roles for two members of the dopamine (DA) D2 receptor family, the D2 and D2 receptors, and their interactions with DA D1 receptors, within the ventral striatum. The inhibitory effects of D2 receptor class agonists on ventral striatal neurons appears to be mediated by D2 as opposed to D2 receptors. This effect requires simultaneous stimulation of the D1 (D1A) receptor. The inhibitory effects of D1 class receptor agonists may involve both the D1 receptor as well as a D1-like receptor not linked to adenylyl cyclase. This effect does not require co-stimulation of a D2 class receptor. The ability of DA to enhance the excitatory effects of glutamate on ventral striatal neurons requires stimulation of both D1 and D2 class receptors. Stimulation of D2 class receptors can either increase or decrease whole cell sodium currents; the particular D2 receptor subtypes responsible for these effects have yet to be established.
Rat C6 glioma cells were stably transfected with a human cDNA encoding heat shock protein (HSP)70. Immunostaining revealed the presence of largely cytosolic HSP70 in C6-hsp70 cells, but not in control (vector transfected) C6-pTK cells. Induction of nitric oxide synthase (NOS-2) expression in C6-hsp70 cells, assessed by nitrite accumulation, was significantly reduced compared to control C6-pTK cells (25+/-8% of control cell induction, P &lt; 0.005), when induced with a maximally stimulatory combination of bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) plus a mixture of three cytokines (&quot;CM:&quot; TNF-alpha, IL1-beta, and IFN-gamma). Immunostaining for the transcription factor NFkappaB p65 subunit revealed decreased cytokine-dependent nuclear uptake in HSP70 expressing cells compared to control cells. Activation of C6 cell NFkappaB by LPS plus CM required IkappaB degradation by the 20S proteasome, since NOS-2 expression was blocked by a selective proteasome inhibitor. In parental C6 cells, the presence of LPS plus CM caused a rapid (within 30 min) decrease in inhibitory IkappaB-alpha protein levels, and this loss was abolished by prior heat shock of the cells. In contrast, IkappaB-alpha levels in transfected cells were not modified by the expression of HSP70. These results demonstrate that constitutive HSP70 expression in glial cells can reduce NOS-2 induction, presumably due to inhibition of NFkappaB nuclear uptake. Furthermore, whereas prevention of decreases in IkappaB-alpha can account for the suppressive effects of heat shock, the results suggest that HSP70 blocks NOS-2 induction by interfering at a later step in the NFkappaB activation pathway.
This paper reports the case of a 54-year-old woman who had a history of neurofibromatosis (NF I) presenting progressive quadriplegia and urinary incontinence due to a cervical arteriovenous fistula (AVF). MRI revealed a huge flow void mass in the cervical subcutaneous tissue as well as within the spinal canal. These flow voids originated in the left vertebral artery. A high intensity lesion was observed in the spinal cord adjacent to the flow void. Angiography revealed that the cervical AVF was fed by the third segment of the left vertebral artery with a rich communication with the intraspinal veins. Furthermore, an aneurysmal dilatation of the proximal vertebral artery and occlusion of the right middle cerebral artery with moyamoya vessels were found. Endovascular treatment using a Goldvalve detachable balloon successfully obliterated the AVF. Postoperative MRI and angiography showed evidence of the disappearance of AVF and postoperatively, the patient's neurological signs improved gradually. Sixteen reported AVFs accompanied with NF were reviewed.

In the autumn of 1993, a new system of nursing education started in Sweden. A questionnaire was sent to the presidents of all the colleges of nursing, health and the caring sciences, and questions were asked about the part played by gerontology and geriatrics in the new curricula. The responses showed a considerable variety in the amounts of theoretical and clinical education given at the colleges. During the first or second week of their education, the students admitted to three colleges in the Mlaren area answered a questionnaire containing questions about their educational backgrounds, their working experiences in the health care system, why they chose nursing education, their ideas of the tasks that a registered nurse primarily carries out, and their preferences for work after graduation. The result shows a correlation between working experience and the reasons for studies. The students stated a preference for working in emergency care rather than in geriatric care after graduation from college.
The inbred mouse strains, DBA/2J (D2) and C57BL/6J (B6), display differential sensitivity to acute, thermal nociception as measured on the hot-plate (HP) assay. In an ongoing quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping study designed to reveal genomic loci showing genetic linkage to HP sensitivity, a putative QTL on chromosome 4 (50-80 cM from the centromere) has been identified that appears to account for variability in this trait in male, but not female mice. An obvious candidate gene located in this same chromosomal region is Oprd1, which encodes the murine delta-opioid receptor. In an attempt to evaluate whether Oprd1 represents this sex-specific QTL for HP sensitivity, we tested D2 and B6 mice of both sexes for HP latencies (hindpaw-lift, -lick or -flutter) following systemic injections of saline, or the opioid receptor antagonists naloxone (NAL; 0.1 and 10 mg/kg), nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI; 5 mg/kg), naltrindole (NTI; 5 mg/kg), 7-benzylidenenaltrexone (BNTX; 0.7 mg/kg), or naltriben (NTB; 1 mg/kg). High-dose (10 mg/kg) NAL lowered HP latencies in D2, but not B6 mice, suggesting that the higher HP latencies exhibited by D2 mice reflect opioid mechanisms. HP latencies in both strains and both sexes were unaffected by pretreatment with low-dose (0.1 mg/kg) NAL or nor-BNI, suggesting that neither mu nor kappa receptors affect basal nociceptive sensitivity. The delta-receptor antagonist, NTI, and the delta2-specific antagonist, NTB, (but not the delta1-specific antagonist, BNTX) effectively lowered HP latencies in a strain- and sex-dependent manner: D2 male &gt; B6 male &gt; D2 female &gt; B6 female. These data support the possibility that Oprd1 is a QTL mediating HP sensitivity in mice, and more generally illustrate the important roles of genetic background and gender in the perception of pain.
Carcinoma of the pancreas is the fifth leading cause of cancer death, with the majority of patients presenting with unresectable disease. Research into new adjuvant therapies is hampered by the lack of suitable in vivo and in vitro models. We have examined the potential of seven pancreatic carcinoma cell lines to grow as multicellular tumor spheroids (MTS). Three of seven (43%) cell lines were scored positive for MTS formation, and the growth characteristics for spheroid models of the cell lines PANC1 and MIAPaCa2 are presented. Implantation of PANC1 MTS into the pancreas of athymic nude mice produces tumors with reproducible growth characteristics and histology.
Neuropsychiatric side effects often complicate anti-Parkinsonian therapy and pose a significant problem in the optimal management of idiopathic Parkinson's disease. Several publications report a relative lack of neuropsychiatric side effects in Parkinsonian patients treated with subcutaneous apomorphine. To investigate this further, we have used subcutaneous apomorphine to treat 12 non-demented IPD patients with previous oral drug-related neuropsychiatric problems. Treatment with apomorphine allowed alteration of anti-Parkinsonian medication and led to the abolition or reduction of neuropsychiatric complications in all patients. The mechanism remains unclear but may be due, in part, to a reduction in oral medication or a psychotropic action of apomorphine, possibly due to the piperidine moiety in its structure, or both.
We report a patient with Noonan syndrome and asymptomatic cardiac disease (supravalvular aortic stenosis and pulmonary valvular stenosis) who had frequent transient ischemic attacks. Bilateral moyamoya was evident; in addition, he manifested activated protein C resistance and was heterozygous for the factor V Leiden mutation. Anticoagulation abolished his episodes and, despite extensive cerebrovascular disease, he has no permanent neurologic deficits. The association between Noonan syndrome and moyamoya has not previously been described. Disruption of vascular development in prenatal life may have resulted in both cardiac and cerebrovascular disease in this child.
Neurophysiologic assessments using EEG/polysomnographic studies permit the clinician to recognize expected patterns of brain maturation in the healthy neonate. By comparison, one can detect encephalopathic behaviors of newborns who are medically at risk. Severe physiologic expressions of encephalopathy are associated with neuropathologic lesions on postmortem examinations, brain lesions documented on neuroimaging studies, and major neurodevelopmental sequelae of survivors. However, such patterns are observed for only a minority of high risk neonates; less severe encephalopathies occur more frequently in neonates without evidence of brain lesions on imaging studies who either recover from medical illness or who manifest no findings of neurological dysfunction. These subtle and persistent brain disorders are obviously more difficult to detect and grade. This is specifically relevant for preterm infants in whom various degrees of encephalopathy may exist, but whose physiologic behaviors must be distinguished form expected behavioral and neurophysiologic patterns of prematurity. Neonates may express brain dysfunction as altered rates of brain maturation, as compared with expected patterns for a given conceptional age. Neurophysiologic expressions of brain dysmaturity, either from prenatal and/or postnatal stresses, may actually occur in a substantially larger segment of the high risk neonatal population than has been anticipated. EEG-sleep studies can serve as a noninvasive neurophysiologic probe of brain organization and maturation to extend clinical observations to assess the severity and persistence of brain dysfunction in a neonate who may be at risk for later neurodevelopmental compromise.
Symptomatic canal stenosis at the level of atlas (C1) without atlantoaxial dislocation is thought to be very rare in children. Though common, anomalies of the arch of atlas are generally incidental findings in X-rays. High cord compression due to a narrow canal from a bifid posterior arch, or an absent posterior arch, is a very rare condition. We report 5 children with high cord compression from stenosis of C1 arch.
A computer-based content of 109 abstracts retrieved by the subject heading &quot;parapsychology&quot; from the database MEDLINE for the years 1975-1995 is presented. Data were analyzed by four categories to terms denoting (1) research methods, (2) neurosciences, (3) humanities/psychodynamics, and (4) parapsychology. Results indicated a growing interest in neuroscientific and neuropsychological explanations and theories.
The present study investigated whether combined stimulation of the cholinergic system and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) subtype 2 receptors can suppress neocortical high-voltage spindles (HVSs) reflecting thalamocortical oscillations in aged rats. Cholinesterase inhibitors-tetrahydro-aminoacridine (THA: 1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg i.p.) and physostigmine (0.36 mg/kg i.p.)- and a 5-HT2 receptor agonist 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI; 0.3 and 1.0 mg/kg SC)-suppressed HVSs in aged rats. A combination of subthreshold doses of THA (0.3 mg/kg i.p.) and DOI (0.1 mg/kg s.c.) suppressed HVSs more effectively than either drug alone. Furthermore, a 5-HT2 receptor antagonist, ketanserin (5.0 and 20.0 mg/kg s.c.), reduced the efficacy of THA (1.0 and 3.0 mg/kg i.p.) and physostigmine (0.12 and 0.36 mg/kg i.p.) in decreasing HVSs. THA and ketanserin slightly decreased, physostigmine tended to increase, and DOI significantly increased behavioral activity of the rats, demonstrating that the effects of the drugs on behavioral activity may be separated from their effects on generation of thalamocortical oscillations. The results suggest that activation of the cholinergic system and 5-HT2 receptors has additive effects in the suppression of thalamocortical oscillations in aged rats.
There are three isoforms of the 33-kDa protein apolipoprotein E (apoE), termed apoE2, apoE3, and apoE4, each encoded by distinct genes APOE2, APOE3 and APOE4, respectively. In 1993, the APOE genotype was identified as a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and was subsequently acknowledged to account for approximately 60% of all cases. The influence of the APOE genotype in AD is clearly isoform dependent, APOE4 imparting susceptibility and APOE2 protection. Thus, patients homozygous for the E4 allele show a very strong likelihood of developing the disease by age 75, whereas patients carrying at least one E2 allele are unlikely to develop symptoms of AD by this age. A major issue in AD research is therefore to understand the functional differences between the ApoE isoforms, with the ultimate aim of designing the next generation of drugs to treat this disease. The purpose of the present article is to summarise some of this work. This review encompasses the rapidly developing molecular, cellular and behavioural research into ApoE, and attempts to highlight those findings we consider to be of particular significance.
Mice have paw preferences that are consistent upon repeated measurement. The Collins HI and LO strains are two populations of mice that have been selectively bred to differ markedly in the degree of paw preference. They represent a unique genetic model of functional cerebral lateralization. Rotation (or circling) behavior in normal unlesioned animals reflects an endogenous lateralization of the functioning brain dopamine (DA) systems. In the present study, rotational behavior and lateralized brain DA neurochemistry were assessed in the Collins HI and LO strain mice. Confirming Collins findings, HI strain mice exhibited stronger paw preferences than LO strain mice. HI strain mice also showed stronger percent directional preferences during nocturnal tests of spontaneous rotation. Neurochemical differences were also apparent between the strains. DA and its metabolites were measured in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC), nucleus accumbens (NAS), and striatum. Degrees of rotational and paw preference in HI, but not LO, mice were correlated with PFC asymmetries in DA and the DA metabolite dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC), respectively. Hemisphere, paw preference, turning preference, and strain interacted in a complex way to determine measures of DA utilization in the NAS and striatum. Even though the directions of paw preference and rotation were not correlated, HI and LO mice of differing paw and rotational directional preferences showed differences in DA neurochemistry in the NAS and striatum.
The intrauterine position that a rodent fetus occupies relative to members of the same or opposite gender affects both its reproductive physiology and behavior when adult. Cytochrome oxidase histochemistry was used to assess regional differences in the oxidative metabolic capacity of the hypothalamus of female Mongolian gerbils that developed in utero between 2 female fetuses (n = 15) or between 2 male fetuses (n = 14). Cytochrome oxidase reactivity was measured densitometrically by experimenters unaware of subject intrauterine position. Gray-to-white matter ratios of optical density in 11 brain regions were used as a normalized index of metabolic capacity. Significant group differences in the metabolic capacity of the medial and the posterior parts of the anterior hypothalamus were revealed. Females that developed in utero between 2 male fetuses showed significant increases (19-22%) in cytochrome oxidase reactivity in these brain regions compared to that in females that developed between 2 female fetuses. The medial part of the anterior hypothalamus contributes to copulatory behavior, whereas the posterior part of the anterior hypothalamus may be involved in the control of pituitary gonadotropin secretion. Both these functions are influenced by intrauterine position during fetal life. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of metabolic changes in hypothalamic areas of the adult related to the differences in intrauterine position.
The visual areas of the temporal lobe of the primate are thought to be essential for the representation of visual objects. To examine the role of these areas in the visual awareness of a stimulus, we recorded the activity of single neurons in monkeys trained to report their percepts when viewing ambiguous stimuli. Visual ambiguity was induced by presenting incongruent images to the two eyes, a stimulation condition known to instigate binocular rivalry, during which one image is seen at a given time while the other is perceptually suppressed. Previous recordings in areas V1, V2, V4, and MT of monkeys experiencing binocular rivalry showed that only a small proportion of striate and early extrastriate neurons discharge exclusively when the driving stimulus is seen. In contrast, the activity of almost all neurons in the inferior temporal cortex and the visual areas of the cortex of superior temporal sulcus was found to be contingent upon the perceptual dominance of an effective visual stimulus. These areas thus appear to represent a stage of processing beyond the resolution of ambiguities--and thus beyond the processes of perceptual grouping and image segmentation--where neural activity reflects the brain's internal view of objects, rather than the effects of the retinal stimulus on cells encoding simple visual features or shape primitives.
Neuronal nitric-oxide synthase (nNOS) is subject to alternative splicing. In mice with targeted deletions of exon 2 (nNOS(delta/delta)), two alternatively spliced forms, nNOS beta and gamma, which lack exon 2, have been described. We have compared localizations of native nNOS alpha and nNOS beta and gamma by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry in wild-type and nNOS(delta/delta) mice. To assess nNOS catalytic activity in intact animals we localized citrulline, which is formed stoichiometrically with NO, by immunohistochemistry. nNOS beta is prominent in several brain regions of wild-type animals and shows 2-to 3-fold up-regulation in the cortex and striatum of nNOS(delta/delta) animals. The persistence of much nNOS mRNA and protein, and distinct citrulline immunoreactivity (cit-IR) in the ventral cochlear nuclei and some cit-IR in the striatum and lateral tegmental nuclei, indicate that nNOS beta is a major functional form of the enzyme in these regions. Thus, nNOS beta, and possibly other uncharacterized splice forms, appear to be important physiological sources of NO in discrete brain regions and may account for the relatively modest level of impairment in nNOS(delta/delta) animals.
Synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) were studied in the visual cortex of mutant mice lacking alpha-calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (alphaCaMKII). In adult mutants, little LTD or LTP could be elicited using standard conditioning protocols. However, substantial LTD and LTP were induced in 4- to 5-week-old mutants. Thus, the reduction in cortical plasticity in alphaCaMKII (-/-) mice is conditional, with the relevant condition being postnatal age.
During brain development, an intricate array of signals is likely to control the transition from proliferation to differentiation, particularly in the complex cerebral cortex. Although factors regulating proliferation and differentiation have been identified, little is known about mechanisms governing the exit of precursors from the cell cycle. We now report that pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP), a new member of the vasoactive intestinal peptide family expressed in embryonic brain, promotes this transition. In virtually pure cultures of embryonic day 13.5 (E13.5) rat cortical precursors, PACAP inhibited [3H]thymidine incorporation by 43%, decreasing the proportion of mitotic cells. Moreover, the peptide promoted morphological and biochemical differentiation; PACAP elicited a 2-fold increase in cells bearing neurites and a 30% increase in neurotrophin trkB receptor expression, indicating that PACAP induced cell cycle withdrawal and promoted neuronal differentiation. The expression of PACAP ligand and receptor in precursors raised the possibility of autocrine function. Indeed, 85% of cells exhibited PACAP immunoreactivity while 64% expressed type I receptor, which, in turn, mediated cAMP activation and phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein nuclear signaling. Furthermore, treatment with the PACAP antagonist or neutralizing antibody increased DNA synthesis and proliferation, which is consistent with interruption of ongoing mitotic inhibition mediated by endogenous PACAP. Our observations suggest that cortical precursors produce PACAP as an autocrine signal to elicit cell cycle withdrawal, inducing the transition from proliferation to neuronal differentiation.

Comparative studies of behavioral responses to centrally acting drugs in inbred strains of mice which show differences in brain neurotransmitter activity represent a major strategy in the investigation of the neurochemical bases underlying behavioural expression. Moreover, these studies represent a preliminary stage in behavioral genetic research since they allow quantitative scales to be established and suggest correlations to be tested in recombinant inbred strains. The present review evaluates results obtained in mice of the C57BL/6 (C57) and DBA/2 (DBA) inbred strains which have been used for studies of the behavioral pharmacology of dopamine (DA) and investigated for the functional and anatomical characteristics of their brain DA systems. Differences between C57 and DBA strain involve susceptibility and sensitivity as well as qualitative differences in the type or direction of the behavioral effects of DA agonists. Moreover, data on strain-dependent differences for DA metabolism, release and receptor densities and distribution provide important indications about the relationship between behavioral and central effects of DA agonists and, more generally, about the involvement of brain DA in behavior. Comparative studies in C57 and DBA mice have also revealed differences in susceptibility to context-dependent, context-independent and stress-induced behavioral sensitization to psychostimulants. Consequently, they support the view that the term &quot;behavioral sensitization&quot; may define different phenomena in which different, independent genotype-related factors play a major role. Finally, studies on the behavioral and central effects of stressful experiences in C57 and DBA mice together with psychopharmacogenetic analyses, indicate that different symptomatological profiles may derive from genotype-dependent adaptation of brain DA receptors to environmental pressure.
Thalamocortical synapses inform the cerebral neocortex about the external and internal worlds. The thalamus produces myriad thalamocortical pathways that vary in morphological, physiological, pharmacological and functional properties. All these features are of great importance for understanding how information is acquired, integrated, processed, stored and retrieved by the thalamocortical system. This paper reviews the properties of the afferents from thalamus to cortex, and identifies some of the gaps in our knowledge of thalamocortical pathways.
1. In vertebrates as in invertebrates, protein kinase C appears to have a key role in learning and memory, probably given its involvement in synaptic plasticity. 2. Hippocampal PKC in mammalians is activated by learning in a large variety of memory tasks. However, the kind of information processed, the type of task, and the dynamics of learning processes all induce differential changes in the mode of PKC activation and in its anatomy. 3. The behaviourally induced changes in PKC activity are often varying in their magnitude. Inter-individual differences in PKC basal activity are generally correlated to the ability to learn. 4. Pharmacologic activation and inhibition of brain PKC shows that PKC activation plays an important role in cognitive function. 5. Basal PKC stores characterising each individual could be determined by genetic factors and modulated through life by individual experience. 6. The issue of PKC and memory relationships is reformulated through a comprehensive interactionist model which leads to formulating some new testable predictions.
1. Long-term potentiation and its counterpart long-term depression are two forms of activity dependent synaptic plasticity, in which protein kinases and protein phosphatases are essential. 2. B-50/GAP-43 and RC3/neurogranin are two defined neuronal PKC substrates with different synaptic localization. B-50/GAP-43 is a presynaptic protein and RC3/neurogranin is only found at the postsynaptic site. Measuring their phosphorylation state in hippocampal slices, allows us to simultaneously monitor changes in pre- and postsynaptic PKC mediated phosphorylation. 3. Induction of LTP in the CA1 field of the hippocampus is accompanied with an increase in the in situ phosphorylation of both B-50/GAP-43 and RC3/neurogranin, during narrow, partially overlapping, time windows. 4. Pharmacological data show that mGluR stimulation results in an increase in the in situ phosphorylation of B-50/GAP-43 and RC3/neurogranin.
Animal studies have suggested the involvement of the adrenergic system in drinking behavior. The present study investigated the involvement of the alpha2-adrenergic system in the polydipsia of patients with chronic schizophrenia by use of an alpha2 agonist and an antagonist. Four patients with schizophrenic disorders accompanied by intermittent hyponatremia and polydipsia were the subjects of, and completed, this study. Drinking behavior was assessed by calculating the percent of maximum weight gain [PMWG: (maximum diurnal weight - standard weight) x 100/standard weight]. Standard weight was defined as body weight after 8 h of water restriction. Clonidine (75, 150, and 225 mg/day) increased the PMWG in a dose-dependent manner in the four subjects. In contrast, in three of the subjects, mianserin (30, 60, and 90 mg/day) decreased PMWG, and the severe polydipsia disappeared almost completely. These findings indicate clearly that the alpha2-adrenergic system is involved in the drinking behavior of schizophrenic patients. Mianserin appears to be clinically useful in treating such patients with polydipsia.
The Y-maze was used to assess spontaneous alternation behaviour in mice to examine possible interactions between the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channel blocker dizocilpine and purine receptor agonists and antagonists. Scopolamine reduced spontaneous alternation. Dizocilpine also produced a dose-dependent reduction in alternation scores, which was accompanied by an increase in locomotion. The selective A1 adenosine receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (CPX) had no effect when administered alone, or in combination with scopolamine. However, when co-administered with dizocilpine, CPX reversed both the deficit in alternation behaviour and also the increase in locomotion induced by dizocilpine. The A1 selective agonist N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) had no effect on either locomotion or alternation scores when administered alone, but in combination with scopolamine, CPA attenuated the scopolamine-induced deficit. CPA had no significant effect on the dizocilpine-induced deficit. The A2 selective agonist N6-[2-(3, 5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2(2-methylphenyl)-ethyl]adenosine (DPMA), had no effect on spontaneous alternation when administered alone, but did cause a depression of locomotion. DPMA had no significant effect when co-administered with scopolamine, but reversed the deficit in spontaneous alternation, and the increase in locomotion induced by dizocilpine. The A2 selective antagonist 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX) had no effect when given alone or in combination with scopolamine, but when co-administered with dizocilpine, DMPX reversed the reduction in spontaneous alternation caused by dizocilpine. It is concluded that dizocilpine has a detrimental effect on spontaneous alternation which is mediated partly by A1 and A2 adenosine receptors.
Diazepam has been reported to impair spatial learning in the water maze. This experiment reexamined this topic using control groups that had first been non-spatially pretrained to familiarize them with the general behavioral strategies required in the water maze task. Naive rats given diazepam (0.5, 3.0, 6.0 mg/kg, IP) displayed dose-related maze acquisition impairments and sensorimotor disturbances (swimming in the periphery of the pool, deflecting off or swimming over the hidden platform, jumping off the platform when placed there after a trial, ataxia on a narrow wooden beam). The sensorimotor disturbances interfered with the acquisition of information about the spatial location of the platform, occurred in the absence of impairments in a subsequent visible platform task or swim speed, and correlated strongly with measures of acquisition. In contrast, the non-spatially pretrained groups did not exhibit sensorimotor disturbances in the water maze and acquired the maze task as rapidly under diazepam as control rats. The non-spatially pretrained groups continued to display diazepam-induced sensorimotor disturbances (ataxia) in a novel beam walking task. CGS8216 (10.0 or 20.0 mg/kg), a benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, attenuated the effect of 3.0 or 6.0 mg/kg diazepam in naive rats, suggesting that the effects of diazepam were mediated by benzodiazepine receptors. Occupancy of benzodiazepine receptors by diazepam does not prevent robust spatial learning in the water maze.
The &quot;limbic system&quot; is a widespread and frequently used concept in the neurosciences although it is characterized by many different and often vague or even contradictory definitions. This concept has therefore received an increasing amount of critique during the past years. An appraisal of various opinions - ranging from rejection to limited use and support - led us to suggestions concerning its appropriate use. Most importantly, the diversity of definitions and the weak empirical foundation require careful consideration as to what extent certain aspects of the &quot;limbic system&quot; concept can be useful heuristic tools in scientific reasoning.
Information reaches the neocortex through different types of thalamocortical pathways. These differ in many morphological and physiological properties. One interesting aspect in which thalamocortical pathways differ is in their temporal dynamics, such as their short-term plasticity. Primary pathways display frequency-dependent depression, while secondary pathways display frequency-dependent enhancement. The cellular mechanisms underlying these dynamic responses involve pre- and post-synaptic and circuit properties. They may serve to synchronize, amplify and/or filter neural activity in neocortex depending on behavioral demands, and thus to adapt each pathway to its specific function.
Neurophysiological mechanisms of the photogenic catalepsy (the &quot;animal hypnosis&quot;), genetic catalepsy, and cataplexy are discussed. The data obtained demonstrates a significance of the brainstem structures suppressing motor activity and the muscle tone in these conditions. Motor disorders associated with the general immobility are discussed from the standpoint of the evolutionary theory.
Patients with psychogenic non-epileptic seizures (pseudoseizures) have been diagnosed as having conversion disorder or dissociative disorder. Pseudoseizure patients frequently report a history of physical and sexual abuse, and traumatic experience is considered part of the mechanism for producing dissociation. Pseudoseizures may be a manifestation of dissociative disorder, especially when a history of sexual or physical abuse is documented. A common mechanism involving traumatic experience may be present in both pseudoseizures and dissociative disorders. A complete neurodiagnostic evaluation along with an awareness of this relationship is needed to provide appropriate care for this patient population.
The opinions of general practitioners are considered important in the management of people with epilepsy. As part of an evaluation of the Comprehensive Epilepsy Service at The Queen Elizabeth Hospital in South Australia, 120 general practitioners were surveyed about their opinions of the Service and epilepsy issues using self-administered questionnaires. This enabled their opinions about the Service and epilepsy management to be elicited for future planning of effective service provision. The results of the evaluation showed that the Service needed to have a higher profile in the community regarding its existence and role. GPs considered they should manage the care of patients with epilepsy but a cooperative approach between GPs and the Service was important for successful management of difficult cases. Education about epilepsy for the patient and GP was also considered to be important for successful service provision. The GP's involvement in evaluation is essential for influencing the way in which health care services are delivered with regard to availability and accessibility for both themselves and their patients and should be encouraged to ensure effective epilepsy patient management.

Previous findings from this laboratory have shown that low (2 Hz) and high (100 Hz)-frequency electroacupuncture (EA) accelerated the release of different kinds of opioid peptides in the CNS. In the present study, we tried to elucidate whether EA of different frequencies would affect the transcription of genes encoding different opioid peptides. Digoxin-labeled antisense cRNA probes were used for in situ hybridization to detect the mRNA encoding preproenkephalin (PPE), preprodynorphin (PPD) and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) in the rat brain. The results showed that: (1) Neither 2 Hz nor 100 Hz EA altered the POMC mRNA level in the rat brain. (2) EA of the two frequencies induced a similar degree of increase of PPE mRNA in rostromedial reticular formation (gigantocellular, paragigantocellular and lateral reticular nucleus); whereas in supraoptic nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus, arcuate nucleus, paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, ventromedial nucleus and the nucleus of lateral lemniscus, 2 Hz EA induced a higher PPE mRNA expression than 100 Hz EA. (3) 100 Hz EA markedly increased the PPD mRNA levels in supraoptic nucleus, paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, ventromedial nucleus and parabrachial nucleus, while 2 Hz was without effect. Since de novo peptide synthesis is regarded as a natural outcome following accelerated peptide release, the present results substantiate our previous observation that EA of different frequencies exert different acceleratory effects on the release and synthesis of different opioid peptides in the central nervous system.




Glucocorticoid receptor (GR)-mediated facilitation of striatal dopaminergic (DA) neurotransmission has been proposed to play a role in behavioral sensitization induced by intermittent exposure to drugs of abuse or stressors. Searching for possible common neuronal substrates acted upon by drugs of abuse and corticosterone, we addressed the question as to whether such a facilitatory effect is apparent (i.e., persists) in primary cultures of rat striatum subsequent to intermittent (prenatal) morphine administration. As previously observed in striatal slices of morphine-treated rats, intermittent morphine exposure in vivo caused a long-lasting increase in DA D1 receptor-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity, that appeared to persist in primary cultures of rat striatal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons. Subsequent in vitro exposure of these striatal neurons to corticosterone or dexamethasone, simultaneously activating GR and mineralocorticoid receptors (MR), about doubled this adaptive effect of previous in vivo morphine administration. The selective MR agonist aldosterone was ineffective in this respect. Prior in vivo morphine treatment also enhanced the stimulatory in vitro effect of corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) on adenylyl cyclase in cultured GABA neurons. However, the enhanced CRH receptor functioning was not potentiated by in vitro corticosterone exposure. Activation of GR by corticosterone did not facilitate the increase in D1 receptor efficacy induced by sustained activation of muscarinic receptors in cultured striatal neurons. These data indicate that previous intermittent morphine administration induces a long-lasting synergistic effect of corticosterone on enhanced striatal DA neurotransmission at the level of postsynaptic D1 receptors. Moreover, the induction of this neuroadaptation seems to display opioid receptor selectivity and its long-term expression may be confined to D1 receptors. Since exposure to drugs of abuse or stressors not only increase striatal DA release but also plasma corticosterone levels, we hypothesize that this adaptive phenomenon in DA-sensitive GABA neurons is involved in the expression of morphine-induced long-term behavioral sensitization to drugs of abuse and stressors.
Studies were conducted regarding the hypothesis that enhanced cAMP formation in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) affects the magnitude of the behavioral responses elicited by psychostimulant drugs. In the first paradigm, spontaneous and amphetamine-elicited locomotor activity was measured at various times following injection of cholera toxin (CTX), a known activator of adenylate cyclase, into the VTA. Adult male rats showed enhanced amphetamine-stimulated locomotor activity when tested 1 or 3 days after treatment with 0.5 microgram CTX into the VTA. Spontaneous activity was markedly increased 1 and 3 days following treatment with the higher dose of 1.0 microgram CTX into the VTA, and amphetamine was still capable of eliciting an increased level of locomotor activity above this high baseline. Using a paradigm in which repeated amphetamine injections were given on an intermittent schedule following injection of CTX into the VTA, it was observed that a single low dose of amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg) given 1 day after CTX (0.5 microgram) injection into the VTA led to a markedly potentiated locomotor activity response to subsequent treatment with amphetamine. Evaluation of this protocol (initial amphetamine dose 24 h after CTX injection, and challenge treatment of amphetamine at various times thereafter) showed that the sensitization was long-lasting and could be observed after an initial dose of amphetamine as low as 0.1 mg/kg. A sensitized response was also expressed when the challenge dose was given directly into the nucleus accumbens. These data suggest that injection of CTX into the VTA enhances the induction of locomotor sensitization to amphetamine.
Positron emission tomography was used to examine the in vivo binding of [11C]raclopride to D2-dopamine (DA) receptors in the striatum of two Cynomolgus monkeys after a single dose of reserpine (1 mg/kg, i.v.). A Scatchard procedure was repeated five times to follow D2 receptor density and apparent affinity for 7 weeks after reserpine. Reserpine-induced depletion of DA lead to a marked increase in [11C]raclopride binding, which was still detectable 20 days after treatment. Scatchard analyses indicated that the measured increase in [11C]raclopride binding reflected an increase in receptor affinity but no evident change in receptor density (Bmax). Thus, the increase in [11C]raclopride binding after reserpine should correspond to a reduced competition with endogenous DA for binding to D2 receptors. The results were used to estimate the DA-induced D2 occupancy to be about 40% at physiological conditions.
One of the major challenges in imaging neuroscience is the integration of cognitive science with the empiricism of neurophysiology. The cognitive architectures and principles offered by cognitive science have been essential in shaping experimental design and image analysis strategies from the outset. Now some of the cognitive models and their assumptions (for example, cognitive subtraction) are being re-evaluated in the light of how the brain actually implements putative components and processes. In this review we will consider experimental designs that go beyond cognitive subtraction and also consider how functional imaging can be used to assess the context-sensitivity of cognitive processing (using conjunction analyses), and the integration of different processes (in terms of interactions, using factorial designs) and how both these themes can be developed in the context of parametric designs. These new approaches reflect an ongoing discourse between cognitive science and the emerging principles of functional anatomy.

This study employed a selective adaptation paradigm and investigated thresholds for direction discrimination of translational stereoscopic motion (moving binocular disparity information). The stimuli were moving arrays of randomly positioned stereoscopic discs created from disparity embedded in dynamic random-element stereograms. When discrimination thresholds were measured across a range of base directions following adaptation in a fixed direction, discrimination thresholds were maximally elevated 20-30 deg away from adaptation and reduced in the same direction as adaptation. These results are consistent with a distributed-channel model of direction coding and indicate that the direction of stereoscopic motion is encoded by adaptable direction-selective mechanisms similar to those proposed for luminance-defined motion.
This study examines the relationship between the appearance of degenerative changes in synaptic terminals and axons and the activation of microglia in denervated neuropil regions of normal mice of the C57BL/6 strain and mutant mice (Wld(S)), in which Wallerian degeneration is substantially delayed. The time course of degenerative changes in synaptic terminals and axons was assessed using selective silver staining. Microglial cells were identified by immunostaining for Mac-1, a monoclonal antibody to the CR3 complement receptor, and by histochemical staining for nucleoside diphosphatase (NDPase). Increased argyrophilia, indicative of degenerative changes, was evident as early as 1 day postlesion in normal mice, but was not seen until 6-8 days in mice with the Wld(S) mutation. Microglial activation in normal C57BL/6 mice was evident by 24 hours postlesion, as evidenced by increased immunostaining for Mac-1, increased histochemical staining for NDPase, and morphological changes indicative of an activated phenotype (short, thick processes). Quantitative evaluation of immunostaining for Mac-1 revealed that peak activation occurred between 2 and 6 days postlesion with a return to a quiescent phenotype by 12 days. In contrast, the microglial response was significantly delayed and prolonged in mice bearing the Wld(S) mutation. Activated microglia were not seen within the deafferented area until 6 to 8 days postlesion and peak activation occurred between 12 and 20 days postlesion. These data suggest that the response of microglia in denervated neuropil zones is triggered by the same types of degenerative changes that cause increased argyrophilia as detected by selective silver staining methods.
This study compares the reactive changes in astrocytes in denervated neuropil regions in normal mice and in mice carrying the Wld(S) mutation which leads to delayed Wallerian degeneration. In situ hybridization and immunocytochemical techniques were used to define the time course of changes in the levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and GFAP mRNA in the denervated neuropil of the hippocampus after unilateral aspiration lesions of the entorhinal cortex. In control mice, GFAP mRNA levels increased rapidly in the denervated neuropil to a peak that was about tenfold higher than control at 2-4 days, decreased between 6 and 8 days postlesion, and then increased again to a second peak at 10 days postlesion. Increases in immunostaining for GFAP were evident by 2 days, remained elevated until 12 days postlesion and then decreased slowly. In mice carrying the Wld(S) mutation, the upregulation of GFAP mRNA levels in the denervated laminae was substantially delayed. Strikingly absent was the dramatic increase in labeling at 2-4 days postlesion which was such a prominent feature of the response in control animals. Peak labeling in the denervated laminae was not seen until 10-12 days postlesion. The development of a well-defined band of intensely immunostained and hypertrophied astrocytes in the denervated zone was also delayed in the Wld(S) animals, although there were modest increases in immunostaining as early as 2 days postlesion that were seen throughout the hippocampus ipsilateral to the lesion. These results suggest that degenerative changes in axons and synaptic terminals are the principal trigger for upregulating GFAP expression in the denervated neuropil, although other signals also play a role in the early postlesion response.
Potential neurotoxins such as nitric oxide have been implicated in the pathogenesis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) dementia complex. The LP-BM5 murine leukemia-infected mice, which develop immunological and cognitive deficits reminiscent of human HIV-1 infection, were employed to investigate the changes in brain constitutive nitric oxide synthase (cNOS) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression. Cerebellar and striatal cNOS enzymatic activity increased approximately 70% as early as 2 weeks after infection, declining to control levels by 12-16 weeks. In contrast, cNOS protein expression in the striatum and cerebellum was decreased 30% at 4 weeks, declining to 50% of control levels by 16 weeks post-infection. Staining intensity for cNOS, but not neuron number was reduced in the cerebral cortex, striatum, ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus and amygdala. Although iNOS protein expression was elevated in splenic monocytes, neither iNOS activity, mRNA nor protein was detected in the brains of mice 12 weeks after infection. These results indicate that neurons decrease cNOS protein expression to compensate for chronic cNOS activation, probably resulting from glutamatergic stimulation. The cNOS activation is contemporaneous with microglial activation in LP-BM5-infected mice, and precedes the development of cognitive deficits. Moreover, the lack of iNOS induction in either infected macrophages or glial elements suggests that iNOS is not necessary for the development of these cognitive deficits.
A polyclonal antiserum was generated against a unique peptide fragment in the rat D4 dopamine (DA) receptor. The titer was monitored using solid-phase ELISA and once it was established, specificity was assessed using Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells, stably transfected with the full-length cDNA for the rat D4 DA receptor. Immunofluorescent staining produced by incubation with the anti-D4 DA receptor antiserum was selective for D4 DA receptor-transfected CHO cells, and was expressed at their cell membranes and cytoplasm. Attenuated staining for D4 DA receptor protein was visible in untransfected, K1 CHO cells, and in D2 or D3 DA receptor-transfected CHO cells. The regional and cellular CNS distribution patterns for the D4 DA receptor subtype were examined, and illustrated significant protein levels within the frontal (FCx) and parietal cortices. Lesser amounts of receptor protein staining occurred in the thalamus, globus pallidus, hippocampus, cerebellar vermis, and very low expression was detected in the striatum (CPu). D4 DA receptor protein staining was correlated with the cellular expression of its mRNA transcripts in these same brain regions using concurrent fluorescent analyses. The homologous coincidence in staining patterns for the D4 DA receptor transcripts and encoded proteins in identified neurons of the FCx and CPu showed variations in receptor expression in these identified basal ganglia pathways.
Myoblasts, transfected with a human gene encoding a beta-actin point mutation, down-regulate expression of actin depolymerizing factor (ADF) and its mRNA. Regulation is posttranscriptional. Expression of cofilin, a structurally similar protein, and profilin, CapG, and tropomodulin is not altered with increasing mutant beta-actin expression. Myoblasts expressing either human gamma-actin or the mutant beta-actin down-regulate the endogenous mouse actin genes to keep a constant level of actin mRNA, whereas the gamma-actin transfectants do not down-regulate ADF. Thus, ADF expression is regulated differently from actin expression. The mutant beta-actin binds to ADF with about the same affinity as normal actin; however, it does not assemble into normal actin filaments. The decrease in ADF expression correlates with an increase in the unassembled actin pool. When the actin monomer pool in untransfected myoblasts is increased 70% by treatment with latrunculin A, synthesis of ADF and actin are down-regulated compared with cofilin and 19 other proteins selected at random. Increasing the actin monomer pool also results in nearly complete phosphorylation of both ADF and cofilin. Thus, ADF and cofilin are coordinately regulated by posttranslational modification, but their expression is differentially regulated. Furthermore, expression of ADF is responsive to the utilization of actin by the cell.
Capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE) of five model proteins (lysozyme, myoglobin, ribonuclease A, alpha-lactalbumin, and trypsinogen), using ammonium formate as the electrophoretic buffer and triethylamine (TEA) as a buffer additive at pH 2.5, was used for protein separation. The electrophoretic behavior of these proteins was examined with respect to various concentrations (10-40 mM) of TEA and of ammonium formate. Based on the experimental parameters of electrophoretic resolution, current, and peak separation time, an electrolyte (30 mM each of TEA and ammonium formate) was empirically derived as the optimum for scale-up separation. The loading limit for proteins, covering a wide range of injection volumes (60-990 nl) and amount of protein (1-21 pmol of each protein), was investigated on 75 and 100 microns I.D. untreated fused-silica capillaries. Protein adsorption (average &lt; 15%) was experimentally determined using this volatile buffer system.
We previously reported novel Boc-CCK-4 (Boc-Trp-Met-Asp-Phe-NH2) derivatives possessing the general structure Boc-Trp-Lys[N epsilon-CO-NH-(R-Ph)]-Asp-Phe-NH2 (Shiosaki et al. J. Med. Chem. 1991, 34, 2837-2842). In contrast to Boc-CCK-4, which is 70-fold selective for the CCK-B receptor, the modified lysine-bearing tetrapeptides were highly potent and selective full agonists at the CCK-A receptor. Further investigation of the structure-activity profile following modification of the substituted phenylurea moiety appended off the lysine revealed that moving certain substituents, e.g. nitro or acetyl, from the 2- or 3-position on the phenyl ring to the 4-position, a relatively minor and subtle structural modification within the tetrapeptide, resulted in loss of CCK-A receptor selectivity and development of a trend toward CCK-B selectivity. These tetrapeptides, e.g. Boc-Trp-Lys[N epsilon-CO-NH-(4-NO2-Ph)]-Asp-Phe-NH2 and Boc-Trp-Lys[N epsilon-CO-NH-(4-Ac-Ph)]-Asp-Phe-NH2, were full agonists relative to CCK-8 in stimulating intracellular calcium mobilization in a cell line that expresses the CCK-B receptor.
In search of an alpha2-antagonist/5-HT uptake inhibitor as a potential new class of antidepressant with a more rapid onset of action, compound 3 was prepared and observed to possess high affinity for the alpha2-receptor (K(i) = 6.71 nM) and the 5-HT uptake site (20.6 nM). A series of tertiary amine analogs of 3 were synthesized and assayed for their affinity at both the alpha2-receptor and the 5-HT uptake site. The structure-activity relationship reveals that a variety of structural modifications to the arylethyl fragment are possible with retention of this dual activity. On the tetralin portion, 5-OMe substitution and the (R) stereochemistry at C-1 are optimal with alternate substitutions producing compounds retaining high affinity for the alpha2-receptor but lacking affinity for the 5-HT uptake site. Data for several rigidified 5-O-alkyl analogs suggests that the favored orientation of the oxygen lone pairs may be away from the 6-position of the tetralin.
Aging process involves an increase in stress at cellular level. We studied whether aging affects the regulation of stress responsive transcription factor NF-kappa B in brain samples of Wistar rats. Hippocampus, cerebellum, and temporal and frontal lobes of cortex were studied. We observed a significant up-regulation in the constitutive, nucleus-located NF-kappa B binding activity in 30-month-old Wistar rats compared to young and 18-month-old rats. The increase was most prominent in cerebellum and in frontal cortex, but age-related changes did not occur in hippocampus. Inducible, cytoplasmic NF-kappa B binding activity was not affected by aging in any of the samples studied. Western blot assays did not show any age-related changes in the nuclear level of p50, p52, and p65 protein components of NF-kappa B complex. Cytoplasmic level of inhibitory I kappa B-alpha was also unaffected. The increase in nuclear constitutive NF-kappa B binding activity during aging may be related to the NF-kappa B driven cellular response to adapt neurons against apoptotic pressure, as observed recently in several apoptotic conditions.
Double immunolabelling immunohistochemistry in the arcuate nucleus of the rat demonstrates that neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1 receptor like immunoreactivity is strongly present in a subpopulation of beta-endorphin immunoreactive nerve cell bodies, while the small NPY immunoreactive nerve cell bodies located medially lack NPY Y1 receptor like immunoreactivity. The NPY Y1 like immunoreactive nerve cell bodies lie in an arcuate area rich in NPY immunoreactive nerve terminals forming an uniform plexus. It is postulated that NPY Y1 receptors in beta-endorphin neurons may mediate some actions of NPY on motivational processes and pain control as well as on hypophyseal hormone secretion, involving at the least in part a regulation of the tubero-infundibular DA neurons.
The effects of CP-154,526 (butyl-ethyl-[2,5-dimethyl-7-(2,4,6 -trimethyl-phenyl)-7H-pyrrolo[2,3-d]pyrimidin-4-yl]-amine), a selective corticotropin releasing factor (CRF1) receptor antagonist, were examined in the learned helplessness procedure, a putative model of depression with documented sensitivity to diverse classes of antidepressant drugs. Rats were exposed to a series of inescapable foot shocks on three consecutive days and tested in a shock-escape procedure on the fourth day. Animals exposed to 'helplessness' training performed poorly in the shock-escape test compared with control animals not receiving inescapable shocks. CP-154,526 (10-32 mg/kg, intraperitoneally) dose-dependently reversed the escape deficit when administered 60 min prior to the test session, but had no effect on the performance of control rats not receiving prior exposure to inescapable stress. In comparison, the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine (17.8 mg/kg) reversed the escape deficit after repeated, but not acute, administration. These data support evidence implicating stress systems in the pathophysiology of depression, and suggest potential efficacy of small-molecule CRF receptor antagonists in the treatment of affective disorders.
We investigated the effects of acute oral pretraining treatment with an indirect acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, metrifonate, on water maze spatial navigation in medial septum-lesioned rats. We observed that metrifonate (30 mg/kg, orally) (1) does not alter the pattern of exploration of lesioned rats at the water maze pool or retrieval of spatial memory, (2) effectively reverses the acquisition defect, (3) enhances reversal learning, and (4) improves acquisition of water maze navigation by facilitating the encoding of the spatial representation of a specific environment. These results indicate that metrifonate does not improve escape performance to the hidden platform by modulating exploration strategy, but that metrifonate enhances the speed and accuracy of development and durability of spatial memory engrams, and facilitates learning capacity that depends on activity of the septo-hippocampal projection.
The macrocyclic ligand DO2A (1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-1,7-bis(acetic acid)) was prepared and used as a building block for four new macrocyclic ligands having mixed side-chain chelating groups. These ligands and their complexes with Mg(II), Ca(II), and Ln(III) were studied extensively by potentiometry, high-resolution NMR, and water proton relaxivity measurements. The protonation constants of all compounds compared well with those of other cyclen-based macrocyclic ligands. All Ca(II) complexes were found to be more stable than the corresponding Mg(II) complexes. Trends for the stabilities of the Ln(III) complexes are discussed and compared with literature data, incorporating the effects of water coordination numbers, Ln(III) contraction, and the nature of the side chains and the steric hindrance between them. (1)H NMR titrations of DO2A revealed that the first and second protonations take place preferentially at the secondary ring nitrogens, while the third and fourth involved protonation of the acetates. (17)O NMR shifts showed that the DyDO2A(+) complex had two inner-sphere water molecules. Water proton spin-lattice relaxation rates for the GdDO2A(+) complex were also consistent with water exchange between bulk water and two inner-sphere Gd(III) coordination positions. Upon formation of the diamagnetic complexes of DO2A (Ca(II), Mg(II), La(III), and Lu(III)), all of the macrocyclic ring protons became nonequivalent due to slow conformational rearrangements, while the signals for the acetate CH(2) protons remained a singlet.
A dose of oxytocin (50 ng i.c.v.) that induces penile erection and yawning, increased the concentration of NO2- from 0.98 +/- 0.29 to 4.2 +/- 0.79 microM and of NO3- from 5.6 +/- 0.33 to 12.03 +/- 0.99 microM in the dialysate from the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of male rats, as measured by in vivo microdialysis. NO2- concentration was also increased by [Thr4, Gly7]-oxytocin (100 ng i.c.v. and oxytocin(8) (1 microgram i.c.v.) which also induced penile erection and yawning, but not by oxytocin(1-6) (1 microgram i.c.v.) or oxytocin (7-9) 1 microgram i.c.v.), which were unable to induce these behavioral responses. The oxytocin effect on NO2 concentration, penile erection and yawning was prevented by the oxytocin receptor antagonist. d(CH2)5,Tyr(Me)-Orn8-vasotocin (1 microgram i.e.v.) or by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, NG-nitro-1-arginine methyl ester (200 micrograms i.c.v.), but not by the dopamine receptor antagonist, haloperidol (0.5 mg/kg i.p.). The nitric oxide scavenger, hemoglobin (200 micrograms i.c.v.), prevented oxytocin-induced NO2- concentration increase, but was unable to prevent penile erection and yawning. Methylene blue (300 micrograms i.c.v.) an inhibitor of guanylate cyclase, was ineffective on oxytocin-induced NO2- concentration increase, but prevented the behavioral responses. The results suggest that oxytocin induces penile erection and yawning by increasing nitric oxide synthase activity in the cell bodies of oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extra-hypothalamic brain areas and mediating the behavioral responses.
The subplate and marginal zone are prominent transient zones of the developing cerebral wall and contain a variety of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive (NPY-ir) cells. This study investigates morphological maturation as well as regression and/or transformation of NPY-ir neurons in the transient compartments and the cortical plate of the human frontal cortex. The most prominent NPY-ir neuronal population is that of NPY-ir subplate neurons. They exhibited features of all subplate neuronal types reported in Golgi-impregnated sections, with the exception of the pyramidal type. The NPY-ir subplate neurons were the largest of all NPY-ir neurons, but their size regressed rather sharply between 1 month after birth and 2 years. In the NPY-ir subplate neurons and in the NPY-ir Cajal-Retzius cells of the marginal zone, signs of degeneration were observed between 36 postovulatory weeks and about 9 months after birth. Only a few subpial granular layer cells were NPY positive, and they exhibited degeneration-like features, such as cytoplasmic vacuolization, as early as 23 postovulatory weeks. However, NPY-ir neurons continued to be present in the adult counterparts of the subplate and marginal zone, i.e., gyral white matter and layer I, respectively. Across cortical layers II-VI, NPY-ir neurons had the hallmarks of all aspinous short-axon types, with the exception of the neurogliaform and the chandelier neuronal types. Some signs of degeneration were also observed among a few cortical NPY-ir neurons around birth. Unlike the NPY-ir subplate neurons, the general development of cortical NPY-ir neurons did not show an obvious decline in neuronal size and was similar to the pattern in Golgi-staining.
Interferon-gamma receptor (IFN-gamma R) immunoreactivity was observed in the superficial dorsal horn and lateral spinal nucleus in rat and mouse spinal cord. Dorsal rhizotomies did not reduce immunoreactivity in the rat. IFN-gamma R distribution overlapped with nitric oxide synthase-1 immunoreactivity. In wild-type mice, intrathecal injections of mouse IFN-gamma evoked biting behaviour, whereas mice with disruption of the functional gene for IFN-gamma R did not respond. Both types of mice had similar withdrawal thresholds to mechanical stimulation and reacted similarly to foot-pad carrageenan injections. In contrast to wild-type mice, IFN-gamma R knock-out mice did not show autotomy after sciatic nerve section. This study demonstrates a functional IFN-gamma R in spinal nociceptive pathways related to neuropathic pain.
The status of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxizole (AMPA) receptors in several brain regions was investigated in a murine model of retrovirus-associated cognitive impairment, the LP-BM5 infected mouse. The Bmax of [3H]AMPA receptors in the cortex, striatum, hippocampus and cerebellum declined by 29-50% as early as 8 weeks post-inoculation. Immunohistochemistry revealed foci of decreased glutamate receptor (GluR)-2/3 protein expression by Purkinje neurons distributed throughout the cerebellum. Immunoblots indicated that cerebellar expression of only GluR-3 protein was reduced. This global decrease in AMPA receptors may constitute a compensatory response to elevated excitotoxin (glutamate) concentrations and are concurrent with the development of spatial learning deficits observed in these mice. Thus, the reduction in AMPA receptor density may contribute to the development of the cognitive abnormalities associated with infection by retroviruses such as HIV-1.
Saccades of patients with mild Parkinson's disease (PD) are said to be abnormal in the absence of a concurrently visible target or when they are part of a rapid sequence of eye movements. We tested this hypothesis using a predictive saccade paradigm in which target visibility is withdrawn for a period. Three rates of target alternation were used (0.25 Hz, 0.5 Hz and 1.0 Hz). Withdrawal of target visibility brought out the extremes of primary saccade gain for both the controls and the patients with PD, most undershoot being displayed at the lowest frequency, whereas the gain was greatest at the highest frequency, actually overshooting the target location. These results demonstrate that the spatial error of parkinsonian saccades does not invariably take the form of hypometria when part of a rapid sequence of eye movements.
Sprouting of mossy fibres from dentate granule cells occurs in several animal models of epilepsy and in epileptic humans. Mossy fibre sprouting might contribute to epileptogenesis but also could be a compensatory, inhibitory response. We analysed mossy fibre sprouting in the supragranular zone of the dentate gyrus using Timm's histochemical method in genetically fast and slow kindling rats. Before the start of amygdala kindling, the slow rats showed higher Timm's staining scores than did the fast kindlers. No increase of mossy fibre density was observed when the animals were stimulated until either the fast or the slow rats had reached the fully kindled state. Our data argue against the hypothesis that mossy fibre sprouting facilitates epileptogenesis.
In a model of neurons in a brain cell assembly, changes in volume of the extracellular space affect neuronal excitability and basal metabolism. A widely applicable coefficient of excitability with respect to a variation of the volume fraction has been determined. Calculations suggest that chloride increases membrane stability by indirectly promoting an acceleration of the metabolic pumping rate as a response to a diminished extracellular volume fraction. Volume fraction changes induced by cell swelling in a compact and highly tortuous microenvironment may play a role in epilepsy and, following brain damage, in cell death and recovery.
Immunohistochemical and immunoblotting studies with an antibody against cyclo-oxygenase 2 (COX2) were performed in the cerebral cortex of patients with Down's syndrome (DS) and dementia of Alzheimer type (DAT). A high level of COX2 expression was observed in DAT and older DS patients, specifically localized in neurones with neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) and damaged axons. Furthermore, immunohistochemical study of patients with DS of varying age showed that the induction of COX2 correlated well with the appearance of NFT as well as with ageing. These findings demonstrated the induction of COX2 in DAT and DS, which may lead to the production of free radicals and may be causally related to neuronal degeneration.
One of the difficulties in understanding peritumoural brain dysfunction is the lack of defined clinical deficits in experimental glioma models. In this study progressive focal neurological dysfunction was measured using the staircase test in rodents subjected to striatal implantation of C6 glioma cells. After 22 days none of the animals, all of which had cortico-striatal tumours ranging in size from 93 to 140 mm3, showed any obvious gross behavioural abnormality. However, contralateral forelimb function was significantly worse than that before surgery by day 7 (p &lt; 0.01) and worse than sham-implanted animals by day 12 (p &lt; 0.01). Using this experimental paradigm the staircase test can be used to measure progressive focal neurological deterioration and evaluate both the mechanisms of, and therapies for peritumoural brain dysfunction.
We previously reported a trend toward a higher mean nocturnal serum melatonin (MEL) concentration, based on 30-min blood sampling over 24 h, in 23 female definite endogenous depressive compared to 23 matched normal female control subjects, and no significant difference in 15 male depressives compared to their controls (Rubin et al., 1992). In both groups of patients vs. their controls, there also were trends toward an earlier MEL rise time, by about 30 min, and a later MEL peak time, by about 90 min. Because the offset of MEL secretion was not estimated in that study, the total duration of MEL secretion could not be determined. To further delineate the nocturnal MEL secretion curve, we modeled the MEL data by a linear-Beta model, a four-parameter adaptation of the Beta function. One parameter accounted-for baseline (diurnal) MEL concentration, two accounted for the shapes of the ascending and descending phases of the nocturnal secretion curve, and the fourth accounted for the area under the curve. The model permitted estimation of the start, peak, and end times of nocturnal MEL secretion. There again was a trend toward a higher mean nocturnal MEL concentration in the female depressives compared to their matched controls. There were no significant patient-control differences in secretion onset or peak times in either the women or the men except for nocturnal MEL offset time: the female patients had a trend toward a later offset time, by about 40 min, than their controls; this difference was not present in the men. With women and men analyzed together, the difference in nocturnal MEL offset time between patients and controls just reached significance (P &lt; 0.05). The linear-Beta model appears to satisfactorily fit the MEL data and provides estimators of the onset, peak, and offset times of the activation phase of MEL secretion. This model may be applicable to more severely skewed 24-h hormone secretion curves, such as ACTH and cortisol.
Recent studies suggest that apolipoprotein E (apoE) might play a neurotrophic function in the central nervous system and that altered functioning of this molecule could result in neurodegeneration. The main objective of this study was to determine if neurodegenerative and cognitive alterations in apoE-deficient mice are reversible by infusion of recombinant apoE into the lateral ventricles. ApoE-deficient mice treated with either apoE3 or apoE4 showed a significant improvement in their learning capacity in the Morris water maze compared to saline-infused apoE-deficient mice. While this improved performance was associated with restoration of neuronal structure, the poor learning ability of apoE-deficient mice treated with saline correlated with the disrupted synapto-dendritic structure. This study supports the contention that apoE might play a neurotrophic effect in vivo and suggests that apoE might have a potential therapeutic role.
Prion protein (PrP) is the only known constituent of the agents (called prions) that cause fatal neurodegenerative diseases in animals and humans. PrP derives from a host protein encoded by a single copy gene having three known exons in mice, cattle and sheep but only two exons in hamsters and humans. We have identified and sequenced the missing exon from the hamster PrP gene. The new hamster PrP exon is 83% identical to mouse exon 2 and 76% identical to exon 2 from cattle and sheep. PrP mRNAs containing the new exon 2 (mRNA[1+2+3]) were expressed in the colliculi, frontal cortex and hippocampus of normal hamsters at approximately 30% to approximately 50% of the levels of the mRNA without exon 2 (mRNA[1+3]). Expression of PrP mRNA[1+2+3] was increased in the colliculi beginning 49 days after inoculation with scrapie prions and reached a level 2.5 times normal by day 77. Increased expression of PrP mRNA[1+2+3] in the colliculi correlated with expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) mRNA. Expression of GFAP and PrP mRNAs was not significantly increased in the hippocampus or the frontal cortex during the disease. Our study shows that exon 2 plays a role in regulating the cellular expression of hamster PrP and suggests that mRNA[1+2+3] may be preferentially expressed in hamster astrocytes.
The loss of a free-living larval stage during the evolution of directly developing frogs of the genus Eleutherodactylus resulted in dramatic alterations in ontogeny. Immunostaining for proliferating cell nuclear antigen reveals that in the directly developing frog Eleutherodactylus coqui pervasive cell proliferation occurs throughout the retina even after the plexiform layers have formed. In striking contrast to biphasically developing frogs (e.g. Discoglossus pictus or Xenopus laevis), in E. coqui proliferation becomes restricted to the ciliary margin only after the eye has reached the size typical of a postmetamorphic froglet and after its laminar structure has developed. As a consequence, the retina of E. coqui develops rapidly without recapitulating larva-typical stages. Our results suggest that dissociation of cell proliferation and differentiation can lead to the abbreviation of ontogenies during evolution.
Spatial localization and clustering of membrane proteins is critical to neuronal development and synaptic plasticity. Recent studies have identified a family of proteins, the PDZ proteins, that contain modular PDZ domains and interact with synaptic ionotropic glutamate receptors and ion channels. PDZ proteins are thought to have a role in defining the cellular distribution of the proteins that interact with them. Here we report a novel dendritic protein, Homer, that contains a single, PDZ-like domain and binds specifically to the carboxy terminus of phosphoinositide-linked metabotropic glutamate receptors. Homer is highly divergent from known PDZ proteins and seems to represent a novel family. The Homer gene is also distinct from members of the PDZ family in that its expression is regulated as an immediate early gene and is dynamically responsive to physiological synaptic activity, particularly during cortical development. This dynamic transcriptional control suggests that Homer mediates a novel cellular mechanism that regulates metabotropic glutamate signalling.
To elucidate the effect of heat stress on the sympathetic nervous system, we evaluated changes in muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA), plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP), tympanic temperature, skin blood flow, cardiac output, mean blood pressure, and heart rate in 9 subjects in response to acute heat stress induced by raising the ambient temperature from 29 to 34 degrees C and then to 40 degrees C. With the heat exposure, MSNA was significantly increased with a significant increase in tympanic temperature. Skin blood flow and heart rate were also significantly increased, while mean blood pressure tended to decline and cardiac output tended to increase. The combination of the increased MSNA and skin blood flow may have caused the redistribution of the circulatory blood volume from the muscles to the skin, facilitating convection heat loss. The increases in MSNA counteracted the lowered blood pressure during heat exposure. Thus, the increased MSNA may play an important role both in thermoregulation and in the maintenance of blood pressure against heat stress.
Precocious puberty of cerebral origin is a poorly understood disorder of human sexual development, brought about by the premature activation of those neurons that produce luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH), the neuropeptide controlling sexual maturation. An increased production of transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) in the hypothalamus has been implicated in the mechanism underlying both normal and precocious puberty. We have now used two gene delivery systems to target TGF alpha overexpression near LHRH neurons in immature female rats. Fibroblasts infected with a retroviral construct in which expression of the human TGF alpha gene is constitutively driven by the phosphoglycerate kinase promoter, or transfected with a plasmid in which TGF alpha expression is controlled by an inducible metallothionein promoter, were transplanted into several regions of the hypothalamus. When the cells were in contact with LHRH nerve terminals or in the vicinity of LHRH perikarya, sexual maturation was accelerated. These results suggest that precocious puberty of cerebral origin may result from a focal disorder of TGF alpha production within the confines of the LHRH neuron microenvironment.
Protein phosphatase 1 (PP-1) is known to be a critical component of eukaryotic cell cycle progression. In vitro, our previous studies showed that cdc2 kinase phosphorylates Thr-320 (T320) in PP-1, and that this leads to inhibition of enzyme activity. To examine directly the phosphorylation of PP-1 in intact mammalian cells, an antibody has been prepared that specifically recognizes PP-1C alpha phosphorylated at T320. Cell synchronization studies revealed in a variety of cell types that T320 of PP-1 was phosphorylated to high levels only during early to mid-mitosis. The phosphorylation of T320 of PP-1 was reduced by the cyclin-dependent protein kinase inhibitor, olomoucine, and increased by the PP-1/PP-2A inhibitor, calyculin A. Immunofluorescence microscopy using phospho-T320 antibody indicated that in NIH 3T3 cells the phosphorylation of PP-1 began to increase from basal levels in prophase and to peak at metaphase. Immunostaining indicated that phospho-PP-1 was localized exclusively to nonchromosomal regions. Furthermore, in cell fractionation studies of mitotic cells, phospho-PP-1 was detectable only in the soluble fraction. These observations suggest that phosphorylation by cdc2 kinase in early to mid-mitosis and inhibition of PP-1 activity is likely to contribute to the increased state of phosphorylation of proteins that is critical to the initiation of normal cell division.
Synelfin is a presynaptic protein of unknown function that is differentially regulated in the avian song control circuit during the critical period for song learning; in humans, it gives rise to an amyloidogenic peptide found in senile plaques of Alzheimer's disease. To gain insight into the potential involvement of synelfin in synapse development, we investigated its expression in neurons cultured from the embryonic rat hippocampus. These neurons express a variety of defined synaptic proteins, and form numerous synaptic connections after several days in culture. Synapsin I, a synaptic vesicle-associated protein, was detected within one day after the neurons were put in culture, but significant immunoreactivity for synelfin was not detected until approximately 5 days in vitro (DIV). By 3 DIV, synapsin-positive puncta (previously shown to correspond to presynaptic specializations) were detected surrounding the soma and proximal dendritic processes, whereas comparable aggregations of synelfin did not appear until several days later. By 14 DIV the punctate concentrations of synelfin and synapsin overlapped completely. Thus synelfin is expressed in these cultured neurons and eventually becomes localized to presynaptic terminals, but it is absent from these specializations when they first form. We conclude that presynaptic terminals can change in molecular composition, and that synelfin is associated with later stages in synaptic development or modulation.
Previous studies suggested that intramacular, unmyelinated segments of vestibular afferent nerve fibers and their large afferent endings (calyces) on type I hair cells branch. Many of the branches (processes) contain vesicles and are presynaptic to type II hair cells, other processes, intramacular nerve fibers, and calyces. This study used serial section transmission electron microscopy and three-dimensional reconstruction methods to document the origins and distributions of presynaptic processes of afferents in the medial part of the adult rat utricular macula. The ultrastructural research focused on presynaptic processes whose origin and termination could be observed in a single micrograph. Results showed that calyces had 1) vesiculated, spine-like processes that invaginated type I cells and 2) other, elongate processes that ended on type II cells pre- as well as postsynaptically. Intramacular, unmyelinated segments of afferent nerve fibers gave origin to branches that were presynaptic to type II cells, calyces, calyceal processes, and other nerve fibers in the macula. Synapses with type II cells occurred opposite subsynaptic cisternae (C synapses); all other synapses were asymmetric. Vesicles were pleomorphic but were differentially distributed according to process origin. Small, clear-centered vesicles, approximately 40-60 nm in diameter, predominated in processes originating from afferent nerve fibers and basal parts of calyces. Larger vesicles approximately 70-120 nm in diameter having approximately 40-80 nm electron-opaque cores were dominant in processes originating from the necks of calyces. Results are interpreted to indicate the existence of a complex system of intrinsic feedforward (postsynaptic)-feedback (presynaptic) connections in a network of direct and local microcircuits. The morphological findings support the concept that maculae dynamically preprocess linear acceleratory information before its transmission to the central nervous system.

The present study revealed that (1) a pyrogenic dose of IL-1 beta induced COX-2 mRNA in the brain vasculature and leptomeninges, and (2) the cells positive for COX-2 mRNA in the blood vessels were endothelial cells that possess receptors for IL-1. These results imply that circulating IL-1 beta acts on its receptor on the endothelial cells of the brain vasculature to induce COX-2 mRNA, which is possibly responsible for the elevated level of PGE2 seen during fever. In this sense, the endothelial cells in the brain vasculatures seem to play a role as an interface between the blood borne substance and the brain. The nature of the COX-2 mRNA-positive cells in the leptomeninges will be identified in our future study.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) children participated in a double-blind placebo-controlled study in which the effects of a dosage of 15 mg methylphenidate (MPH) on auditory and visual selective attention tasks was determined by presenting frequent (90%) and infrequent (10%) stimuli in both relevant and irrelevant input channels. The subject's task was to respond to the infrequent tones in the relevant input channel. Processing activity (negativity and positivity) was assessed for both tasks. N1, P2, N2, and P3b peaks were scored in the auditory task and N1, P1, N2, P2, P3(1), and P3b peaks were scored in the visual task. Effects of MPH were more prevalent in the visual than in the auditory condition. In the visual condition MPH enhanced the percentage of hits, caused higher central, parietal, and occipital P3b amplitudes to attended stimuli (both standards and deviants), and also enhanced the frontal processing negativity (PN). In the auditory task MPH did not influence performance, but it enhanced the frontal PN as well as the parietal and occipital P3b amplitudes to all stimulus types. In ADHD children, MPH ameliorates some, but not all, deficits and also improves processing where no differences with normal children are present.
The dominant efferent innervation of the cochlea terminates on outer hair cells (OHCs), with acetylcholine (ACh) being its principal neurotransmitter. OHCs respond with a somatic shape change to alterations in their membrane potential, and this electromotile response is believed to provide mechanical feedback to the basilar membrane. We examine the effects of ACh on electromotile responses in isolated OHCs and attempt to deduce the mechanism of ACh action. Axial electromotile amplitude and cell compliance increase in the presence of the ligand. This response occurs with a significantly greater latency than membrane current and potential changes attributable to ACh and is contemporaneous with Ca2+ release from intracellular stores. It is likely that increased axial compliance largely accounts for the increase in motility. The mechanical responses are probably related to a recently demonstrated slow efferent effect. The implications of the present findings related to commonly assumed efferent behavior in vivo are considered.
One of the primary outputs of the nucleus accumbens is directed to the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus (MD) via its projections to the ventral pallidum (VP), with the core and shell regions of the accumbens projecting to the lateral and medial aspects of the VP, respectively. In this study, the multisynaptic organization of nucleus accumbens projections was assessed using intracerebral injections of an attenuated strain of pseudorabies virus, a neurotropic alpha herpesvirus that replicates in synaptically linked neurons. Injection of pseudorabies virus into different regions of the MD or reticular thalamic nucleus (RTN) produced retrograde transynaptic infections that revealed multisynaptic interactions between these areas and the basal forebrain. Immunohistochemical localization of viral antigen at short postinoculation intervals confirmed that the medial MD (m-MD) receives direct projections from the medial VP, rostral RTN, and other regions previously shown to project to this region of the thalamus. At longer survival intervals, injections confined to the m-MD resulted in transynaptic infection of neurons in the accumbens shell but not in the core. Injections that also included the central segment of the MD produced retrograde infection of neurons in the lateral VP and the polymorph (pallidal) region of the olfactory tubercle (OT) and transynaptic infection of a small number of neurons in the rostral accumbens core. Injections in the lateral MD resulted in retrograde infection in the globus pallidus (GP) and in transynaptic infection in the caudate-putamen. Viral injections into the rostroventral pole of the RTN infected neurons in the medial and lateral VP and at longer postinoculation intervals, led to transynaptic infection of scattered neurons in the shell and core. Injection of virus into the intermediate RTN resulted in infection of medial VP neurons and second-order infection of neurons in the accumbens shell. Injections in the caudal RTN or the lateral MD resulted in direct retrograde labeling of cells within the GP and transynaptic infection of neurons in the caudate-putamen. These results indicate that the main output of VP neurons receiving inputs from the shell of the accumbens is heavily directed to the m-MD, whereas a small number of core neurons appear to influence the central MD via the lateral VP. Further segregation in the flow of information to the MD is apparent in the organization of VP and GP projections to subdivisions of the RTN that give rise to MD afferents. Collectively, these data provide a morphological basis for the control of the thalamocortical system by ventral striatal regions, in which parallel connections to the RTN may exert control over activity states of cortical regions.
We have analyzed clonal cell proliferation in the ventricular zone (VZ) of the early developing mouse neocortex with a replication-incompetent retrovirus encoding human placental alkaline phosphatase (AP). The retrovirus was injected into the lateral ventricles on embryonic day 11 (E11), i.e., at the onset of neuronogenesis. Three days postinjection, on E14, a total of 259 AP-labeled clones of various sizes were found in 7 fetal brains. There are approximately 7 cell cycles between E11 and E14 (), and there is a 1-2 cell cycle delay between retroviral injection and the production of a retrovirally labeled &quot;founder&quot; cell; thus, we estimate that the &quot;age&quot; of the clones was about 5-6 cell cycles. Almost one-half of the clones (48.3%) identified were pure proliferating clones containing cells only in the VZ. Another 18.5% contained both proliferating and postproliferative cells, and 33.2% contained only postproliferative cells. It was striking that over 90% of the clonally related proliferating cells occurred in clusters of two or more apparently contiguous cells, and about 73% of the proliferating cells occurred in clusters of three or more cells. Regardless of the number of cells in the clone, these clusters were tightly packed and confined to a single level of the VZ. This clustering of proliferating cells indicates that clonally related cells maintain neighbor-neighbor relationships as they undergo interkinetic nuclear migration and progress through several cell cycles, and, as a result, the ventricular zone is a mosaic of small clusters of clonally related and synchronously cycling cells. In addition, cells in the intermediate zone and the cortical plate were also frequently clustered, indicating that they became postproliferative at a similar time and that the output of the VZ is influenced by its mosaic structure.
We have measured the amount of variation in the length of the cell cycle for cells in the pseudostratified ventricular epithelium (PVE) of the developing cortex of mice on embryonic day 14. Our measurements were made in three cortical regions (i.e., the neocortex, archicortex, and periarchicortex) using three different methods: the cumulative labeling method (CLM), the percent labeled mitoses (PLM) method, and a comparison of the time needed for the PLM to ascend from 0 to 100% with the time needed for the PLM to descend from 100 to 0%. These 3 different techniques provide different perspectives on the cytokinetic parameters. Theoretically, CLM gives an estimate for a maximum value of the total length of the cell cycle (TC), whereas PLM gives an estimate of a minimum value of TC. The difference between these two estimates indicates that the range for TC is +/-1% of the mean TC for periarchicortex, +/-7% for neocortex, and +/-8% for archicortex. This was confirmed by a lengthening of the PLM descent time in comparison with its ascent time. The sharpness of the transitions and the flatness of the plateau of the PLM curves indicate that 99% of the proliferating cells are within this narrow estimated range for TC; hence, only approximately 1% deviate outside of a relatively restricted range from the average TC of the population. In the context of the possible existence within the cortical PVE of two populations with markedly dissimilar cell cycle kinetics from the mean, one such population must comprise approximately 99% of the total population, and the other, if it exists, is only approximately 1% of the total. This seems to be true for all three cortical regions. The narrow range of TC indicates a homogeneity in the cell cycle length for proliferating cells in three different cortical regions, despite the fact that progenitor cells of different lineages may be present. It further predicts the existence of almost synchronous interkinetic nuclear movements of the proliferating cells in the ventricular zone during early development of the cerebral cortex.
Nociceptive withdrawal reflexes (NWRs) were studied in adult rats in which the movement patterns produced by single muscles had been altered by neonatal tendon transfer. NWRs evoked by cutaneous noxious mechanical and thermal (CO2-laser) stimulation were recorded using electromyography in a decerebrate spinal preparation. The sensitivity distribution within the receptive fields of the NWRs of the extensor digitorum longus and the peronei muscles exhibited changes corresponding to the altered movement patterns. No detectable change of NWRs was found in normal muscles whose receptive fields overlapped that of the modified muscle. Furthermore, NWRs of muscles that regained an essentially normal function after neonatal tendon transfer did not differ from normal. It is proposed that a developmental experience-dependent mechanism, which takes into account the hindlimb movement pattern caused by contraction of single muscles, underlies the functionally adapted organization of adult NWRs.
Fifty-five patients underwent radiosurgical placement of lesions either in the thalamus (27 patients) or globus pallidus (28 patients) for treatment of movement disorders. Patients were evaluated pre- and postoperatively by a team of observers skilled in the assessment of gait and movement disorders who were blinded to the procedure performed. They were not associated with the surgical team and concomitantly and blindly also assessed a group of 11 control patients with Parkinson's disease who did not undergo any surgical procedures. All stereotactic lesions were made with the Leksell gamma unit using the 4-mm secondary collimator helmet and a single isocenter with dose maximums from 120 to 160 Gy. Clinical follow-up evaluation indicated that 88% of patients who underwent thalamotomy became tremor free or nearly tremor free. Statistically significant improvements in performance were noted in the independent assessments of Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) scores in the patients undergoing thalamotomy. Eighty-five and seven-tenths percent of patients undergoing pallidotomy who had exhibited levodopa-induced dyskinesias had total or near-total relief of that symptom. Clinical assessment indicated improvement of bradykinesia and rigidity in 64.3% of patients who underwent pallidotomy. Independent blinded assessments did not reveal statistically significant improvements in Hoehn and Yahr scores or UPDRS scores. On the other hand, 64.7% of patients showed improvements in subscores of the UPDRS, including activities of daily living (58%), total contralateral score (58%), and contralateral motor scores (47%). Ipsilateral total UPDRS and ipsilateral motor scores were both improved in 59% of patients. One (1.8%) of 55 patients experienced a homonymous hemianopsia 9 months after pallidotomy due to an unexpectedly large lesion. No other complications of any kind were seen. Follow-up neuroimaging confirmed correct lesion location in all patients, with a mean maximum deviation from the planned target of 1 mm in the vertical axis. Measurements of lesions at regular interals on postoperative magnetic resonance images demonstrated considerable variability in lesion volumes. The safety and efficacy of functional lesions made with the gamma knife appear to be similar to those made with the assistance of electrophysiological guidance with open functional stereotactic procedures. Functional lesions may be made safely and accurately using gamma knife radiosurgical techniques. The efficacy is equivalent to that reported for open techniques that use radiofrequency lesioning methods with electrophysiological guidance. Complications are very infrequent with the radiosurgical method. The use of functional radiosurgical lesioning to treat movement disorders is particularly attractive in older patients and those with major systemic diseases or coagulopathies; its use in the general movement disorder population seems reasonable as well.
Patch-clamp recording techniques were used to examine the effect of troglitazone upon visually identified neurones contained in slices from the rat ventromedial hypothalamus. Bath application of 1-50 microM troglitazone depolarised tolbutamide-sensitive neurones in a poorly reversible manner. In outside-out patches, troglitazone inhibited KATP channel activity when added to the bath solution. It is concluded that troglitazone is a novel modulator of the type 2 KATP channel.
While schizophrenia has a genetic component, its pathogenesis is unknown. Abnormal concentrations of two cell recognition molecules (CRMs), neural-cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) and L1 antigen have been described in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with schizophrenia. Studies of monozygotic twins discordant for schizophrenia may help separate genetic and environmental contributions to the disease. In the present study of monozygotic twins discordant for schizophrenia, the affected twins had increased N-CAM and decreased L1 antigen in their CSF. Non-affected twins were not different from normals. Although processes related to genetic instability cannot be entirely ruled out, these results suggest that these abnormalities are not a part of the genetic predisposition to become schizophrenic. Thus the changes in N-CAM and L1 antigen may reflect either the events which precipitated the onset of schizophrenia, or events which are associated with the experience of having the disease.
The effect of phosphatidylethanol (PEth) on phosphatidylinositol-phospholipase C (PLC) activity was investigated in rat cerebral cortex. PEth decreased PLC activity in both the membrane and the cytosol of the cortex in a concentration-dependent manner, varying from 6 to 400 microM, and PLC activity was almost entirely inhibited at concentrations of PEth over 200 microM (90% inhibition). The IC50 of PEth in the cytosol was 25.2 microM and was 22.1 microM in the membrane. Preincubation of the cytosol with anti-PLC-beta 1, anti-PLC-gamma 1 or anti-PLC-delta 1 antibodies did not prevent the decrease in PLC activity. These results suggest that PEth caused the decrease in PLC activity without isozyme specificity. The sensitivity of PLC to Ca2+ in the cytosol and membrane was not changed by PEth, suggesting that PEth may act on PLC at a site different from that of Ca2+ activation. In higher concentrations of the PLC substrate, PEth did not inhibit PLC activity, indicating that PEth inhibited PLC activity in a substrate competitive manner. Neomycin, which binds to negatively charged phospholipids such as phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) and thus causes inhibition of PLC activity, attenuated the PEth-induced decrease in PLC activity. This result suggests that the inhibitory action of PEth on PLC may be related to the fact that PEth is a negatively charged phospholipid similar to PIP2.

What kinds of knowledge underlie the use of language and how is this knowledge acquired? Linguists equate knowing a language with knowing a grammar. Classic &quot;poverty of the stimulus&quot; arguments suggest that grammar identification is an intractable inductive problem and that acquisition is possible only because children possess innate knowledge of grammatical structure. An alternative view is emerging from studies of statistical and probabilistic aspects of language, connectionist models, and the learning capacities of infants. This approach emphasizes continuity between how language is acquired and how it is used. It retains the idea that innate capacities constrain language learning, but calls into question whether they include knowledge of grammatical structure.
Brain research on mental illnesses has made substantial advances in recent years, supported by conceptual and technological developments in cognitive neuroscience. Brain-based cognitive models of illnesses such as schizophrenia and depression have been tested with a variety of techniques, including the lesion method, tract tracing, neuroimaging, animal modeling, single-cell recording, electrophysiology, neuropsychology, and experimental cognitive psychology. A relatively sophisticated picture is emerging that conceptualizes mental illnesses as disorders of mind arising in the brain. Convergent data using multiple neuroscience techniques indicate that the neural mechanisms of mental illnesses can be understood as dysfunctions in specific neural circuits and that their functions and dysfunctions can be influenced or altered by a variety of cognitive and pharmacological factors.
The present experiment was designed to elucidate whether chronic dietary treatment with nimodipine (3 months, 1000 ppm) enhances water maze spatial navigation, passive avoidance behavior and locomotor activity, and whether such a treatment with nimodipine would interact with the therapeutic effect of acute metrifonate treatment. In young medial septum-lesioned rats, nimodipine had no effect by its own on cognitive or motor behavior, and did not enhance the water maze and passive avoidance behavior improving action of metrifonate (3 and 10 mg/kg. p.o.). Nimodipine treatment of aged rats did not markedly affect the deficit in motor performance. Single and combined nimodipine and metrifonate (3 and 10 mg/kg, p.o.) treatment of aged rats resulted in shorter escape distance values to the hidden water maze escape platform compared to those of control aged rats. The passive avoidance performance of aged rats was more effectively facilitated by a combined nimodipine and metrifonate treatment than by either of the drugs on their own. Following a washout period of 2.5 months the rats that were treated previously with nimodipine no longer performed better than aged controls in the water maze test. Furthermore, after the washout period metrifonate 10 mg/kg was no longer effective in improving the water maze behavior of the now 26-month-old rats irrespective of their chronic pretreatment. Taken together, these findings indicate that chronic nimodipine and acute metrifonate treatment may more effectively stimulate cognitive functioning than either of the treatments on their own.
It is unclear whether reparative processes in the injured mammalian brain are able to restore the topographic organisation of neuronal connections. To address this question, we have investigated the plasticity of the olivocerebellar system. This pathway has a precise topographic arrangement, in which subsets of inferior olivary neurons project to parasagittally oriented Purkinje cell compartments. Following unilateral transection of the inferior cerebellar peduncle in newborn rats, axons from the contralateral projection cross the cerebellar midline and reinnervate the deafferented hemicerebellum. By this experimental approach, we first analysed the behaviour of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-immunoreactive climbing fibres. This marker is transiently expressed by a subset of developing inferior olivary axons, which terminate in the cerebellar cortex into several parasagittal strips. We show that transcommissural axons reestablish the original pattern of climbing fibre bands within a few days after lesion. Then, in adult animals injured at birth, we assessed whether the newly formed climbing fibre bands align with zebrin II+/- Purkinje cell compartments, as in normal conditions. The newly formed projection is organised in parasagittally oriented strips which mirror the distribution of their counterparts on the intact side and are precisely aligned to the heterogeneous Purkinje cell compartments. In addition, the patchy distribution of olivo-nuclear fibres suggests that specific reinnervation is also achieved in the deep nuclei. Thus, transcommissural olivocerebellar reinnervation is not random, but it is regulated by selective interactions between distinct subsets of olivocerebellar axons and target neurons aimed at reestablishing the correct projection map.
The present study provides a detailed comparative description in the adult rat brain of areas that express mRNAs coding for the fibroblast growth factor subtype receptors 1-3 (FGFR1-3). One observation in this analysis was a widespread expression in the brain of all three FGFR mRNAs, according to the following rank order: FGFR1, diencephalon &lt; telencephalon &lt; mesencephalon and metencephalon &lt; myelencephalon; FGFR2 and FGFR3, telencephalon &lt; diencephalon &lt; mesencephalon and metencephalon &lt; myelencephalon. Another observation was an apparent cellular specificity in their basal expression. Thus, the FGFR1 mRNA was expressed mainly in large and weakly stained cells, whereas FGFR2 transcripts were expressed primarily in small and strongly stained cells and in cells of brain regions devoid of neuronal cells, such as the white matter. FGFR3 mRNA was always detected in small and strongly stained cells with scattered distribution and was not expressed in the white matter. However, FGFR2 mRNA was weakly expressed also in large cells localized in some nuclei of the lower brainstem, in the diagonal band, and in the septum. Furthermore, in the medial habenula and in the nuclei of the pons, there exists a high density of cells expressing both FGFR1 and FGFR2 (60-100%). With neurotoxic lesions involving 6-hydroxydopamine microinjections in the substantia nigra, reactive glial cells in the lesioned area and surrounding the cannula tract showed an increase in the expression of both FGFR1 and FGFR2 mRNAs, whereas no increased expression was found for FGFR3 mRNA. Taken together, these findings showed that these three FGF receptors exist in all subtypes of cells of each brain region. Their apparent cellular specificity suggests that these receptor subtypes can have a differential trophic role in the brain, reflecting the various biological activities shown by the ligands of the FGF family.
We have raised affinity-purified polyclonal antibodies specific for the inward rectifying K+ channel (IRK1/Kir2.1) and the G protein-activated inward rectifying K+ channel (GIRK1/Kir3.1) examined their distributions in the rat brain immunohistochemically. The regional expression pattern of the IRK1 and GIRK1 proteins were similar to those of mRNA of the previous in situ hybridization study. The subcellular distribution was studied in the cerebellum; cerebral cortex and hippocampus. In the cerebellum, the IRK1 protein was clearly detected in the somata and proximal dendrites of Purkinje cells, while the GIRK1 protein was present in the somata and clustered dendrites of granule cells. In the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, both IRK1- and GIRK1-immunoreactivities were detected in the somata and apical dendrites of the pyramidal cells. The presence of IRK1 or GIRK1 proteins in the axons could not proved by the present study. The developmental changes of the expression pattern of the GIRK1 protein were also investigated in the hippocampus and in the cerebellum of postnatal day (P) 7 to P17 rats. The GIRK1 protein was detected neither in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus nor in the proliferative zone of the external granule cell layer of the cerebellum, in which granule cell precursors are reported to proliferate, while it was clearly detected in the adjacent layer in which postmitotic but immature cells exist. These results imply that the expression of the GIRK1 protein starts just after the neuronal precursors finished the last mitotic cell division.
Whole-cell recordings were made, in both current and voltage clamp, from suprachiasmatic neurones maintained in coronal rat brain slices. In current clamp doses of 10 and 100 nM neuromedin C (NMC) were shown to increase basal firing rate in 9 out of 32 neurones. The excitatory responses to 100 nM NMC were accompanied by small increases in neuronal input resistance (25.0 +/- 9.9% in 4 out of 7 neurones tested) and depolarisations of membrane potential (9.8 +/- 3.4 mV in 4 out of 7 neurones tested). However, 10 nM NMC caused no changes in either neuronal input resistance or membrane potential despite the clear increases in neuronal firing rate. When voltage-clamped at -60 mV, 100 nM NMC induced an inward current of 14.8 +/- 1.2 pA in 46 of 210 neurones. The NMC-induced inward current was shown to be unaffected by perfusion with 1 microM tetrodotoxin (TTX). The inward current recorded at -60 mV was typically associated with a decrease in membrane conductance. Construction of current-voltage relationships in the absence and presence of 100 nM NMC showed that with the majority of the NMC-sensitive neurones the inward current either reversed polarity close to the potassium reversal potential or decreased at hyperpolarised potentials. This reversal potential was shifted to more depolarised potentials when the extracellular concentration of potassium was increased. The NMC-induced inward current was unaffected by reduction of the extracellular concentration of sodium or by addition of 0.2 mM cadmium. In potassium-free conditions, in both the dialysing pipette solution and perfusing saline, NMC was still able to induce an inward current. The additional reduction of the extracellular concentration of sodium, whilst recording in potassium-free conditions, was also unable to abolish the inward current. Recordings made with an electrode containing the non-hydrolysable guanosine triphosphate analogue, guanosine 5'-thio-triphosphate, resulted in NMC-induced inward currents which failed to recover to baseline. It is concluded that NMC excites a subpopulation of suprachiasmatic neurones by decreasing a resting potassium conductance and increasing a non-specific conductance, via a G-protein link.
The cytoskeletal protein, tubulin, has been shown to regulate adenylyl cyclase activity through its interaction with the specific G protein alpha subunits, Galphas or Galphai1. Tubulin activates these G proteins by transferring GTP and stabilizing the active nucleotide-bound Galpha conformation. To study the possibility of tubulin involvement in Galphaq-mediated phospholipase Cbeta1 (PLCbeta1) signaling, the m1 muscarinic receptor, Galphaq, and PLCbeta1 were expressed in Sf9 cells. A unique ability of tubulin to regulate PLCbeta1 was observed. Low concentrations of tubulin, with guanine nucleotide bound, activated PLCbeta1, whereas higher concentrations inhibited the enzyme. Interaction of tubulin with both Galphaq and PLCbeta1, accompanied by guanine nucleotide transfer from tubulin to Galphaq, is suggested as a mechanism for the enzyme activation. The PLCbeta1 substrate, phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate, bound to tubulin and prevented microtubule assembly. This observation suggested a mechanism for the inhibition of PLCbeta1 by tubulin, since high tubulin concentrations might prevent the access of PLCbeta1 to its substrate. Activation of m1 muscarinic receptors by carbachol relaxed this inhibition, probably by increasing the affinity of Galphaq for tubulin. Involvement of tubulin in the articulation between PLCbeta1 signaling and microtubule assembly might prove important for the intracellular governing of a broad range of cellular events.
A cDNA encoding a G-protein-coupled receptor was cloned from the central nervous system of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. The predicted amino acid sequence of this cDNA most closely resembles the Drosophila tyramine/octopamine receptor, the Locusta tyramine receptor, and an octopamine receptor (Lym oa1) that we recently cloned from Lymnaea. After stable expression of the cDNA in HEK293 cells, we found that [3H]rauwolscine binds with high affinity to the receptor (KD = 6.2.10(-9) M). Octopamine appears to be the most potent naturally occurring agonist to displace the [3H]rauwolscine binding (Ki = 3.0.10(-7) M). Therefore, the receptor is considered to be an octopamine receptor and is consequently designated Lym oa2. The novel receptor shares little pharmacological resemblance with Lym oa1, indicating that the two receptors represent different octopamine receptor subfamilies. Octopaminergic stimulation of Lym oa2 does not induce changes in intracellular concentrations of cAMP or inositol phosphates. However, electrophysiological experiments indicate that octopamine is able to activate a voltage-independent Cl- current in HEK293 cells stably expressing Lym oa2. Although opening of this chloride channel most probably does not require the activation of either protein kinase A or C, it can be blocked by inhibition of protein phosphorylation.
Although dopamine (DA) usually inhibits firing of rat striatal neurons in vivo, iontophoresis of DA with low ejection currents can also potentiate glutamate-evoked activity. We used extracellular single cell recording to examine the DA receptor subtypes involved in such potentiation. At low iontophoretic currents (1-8 nA), both the DA D1 class receptor agonist SKF 38393 and the DA D2 class receptor agonist quinpirole mimicked the ability of DA to facilitate glutamate-induced activity. Acute depletion of DA abolished the excitatory modulation produced by either D1 or D2 agonists but not by DA. Co-administration of SKF 38393 and quinpirole restored the facilitation of glutamate effects in DA-depleted rats. Stimulation of both D1 and D2 class receptors appears to be required for DA to enhance glutamate-induced firing of striatal neurons.
This experiment was designed to simulate experimentally the specific parameters of geomagnetic activity that evoke epileptic seizures. The numbers of overt limbic seizures (rearing, paroxysmal forelimb clonus and falling) in a population of epileptic rats were recorded nightly for 65 successive days between 0200 and 0400 h during red light conditions. On some nights an experimental 7 Hz magnetic field whose magnitudes shifted in successive steps from zero to approximately 50 nT every 3 min was presented. The partial regression coefficients from the analysis indicated that either the presence of the 'synthetic' geomagnetic activity or increased magnitudes of the daily, natural geomagnetic activity (regional range approximately 10-70 nT) during the observational period significantly (P &lt; 0.05) increased the proportion of nightly seizures. The effect sizes (6-8%) for both magnetic sources were comparable and additive. Concerted efforts to experimentally simulate the temporal profiles of geomagnetic activity may help reveal the neuromechanisms by which biobehavioral changes during geomagnetic perturbations occur within susceptible populations.
P19 EC cells undergoes apoptosis during neuronal differentiation induced by retinoic acid. Two CPP32-like proteases, CPP32 and Mch-3, are expressed in untreated and retinoic acid-treated P19 EC cells. CPP32-like activity is remarkably increased in apoptosis during neuronal differentiation of P19 EC cells. Inhibition of CPP32-like proteases prevents apoptosis, suggesting that activation of CPP32-like proteases play central roles in the apoptosis during neuronal differentiation of P19 EC cells. Wortmannin, PI-3K inhibitor, enhances the CPP32-like activity of the retinoic acid-treated P19 EC cells. PI-3K may be involved in the apoptosis during neuronal differentiation as negative regulator.

Stroke is the third most common cause of death in Britain, but despite its medical and economic importance, management of the three facets of stroke--prevention, acute care and rehabilitation--has been unstructured and poor value for money. This article considers how these issues might be more effectively addressed by a pragmatic coordinated approach to the whole problem of stroke in a health authority.
Though L-amino acids predominate in living organisms, substantial levels of free D-serine and D-aspartate occur in mammals, especially in nervous and endocrine tissues. Using an antibody specific for glutaraldehyde-fixed D-aspartate, we have localized D-aspartate in rat tissues. In the brain we observe discrete neuronal localizations of D-aspartate, especially in the external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb, hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei, the medial habenula, and certain brainstem nuclei. In rats 3-4 weeks old, we observe D-aspartate in septal nuclei and in a subset of stellate and basket cells of the cerebellum. D-aspartate is also concentrated in glands, including the epinephrine cells of the adrenal medulla, the posterior pituitary, and the pineal gland. Levels in the pineal gland are the highest of any mammalian tissue. D-aspartate oxidase, visualized by enzyme histochemistry, is concentrated in neurons of the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, and olfactory epithelium, as well as choroid plexus and ependyma. Localizations of D-aspartate oxidase are reciprocal to D-aspartate, suggesting that the enzyme depletes endogenous stores of the amino acid and might inactivate synaptically released D-aspartate.
Phototransduction in retinal rods involves a G protein-coupled signaling cascade that leads to cGMP hydrolysis and the closure of cGMP-gated cation channels that are open in darkness, producing a membrane hyperpolarization as the light response. For many years there have also been reports of the presence of a phosphoinositide pathway in the rod outer segment, though its functions and the molecular identities of its components are still unclear. Using immunocytochemistry with antibodies against various phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C (PLC) isozymes (beta1-4, gamma1-2, and delta1-2), we have found PLCbeta4-like immunoreactivity in rod outer segments. Similar experiments with antibodies against the alpha-subunits of the G(q) family of G proteins, which are known to activate PLCbeta4, have also demonstrated G(alpha11)-like immunoreactivity in this location. Immunoblots of total proteins from whole retina or partially purified rod outer segments with anti-PLCbeta4 and anti-G(alpha11) antibodies gave, respectively, a single protein band of the expected molecular mass, suggesting specific labelings. The retinal locations of the two proteins were also supported by in situ hybridization experiments on mouse retina with probes specific for the corresponding mouse genes. These two proteins, or immunologically identical isoforms, therefore likely mediate the phosphoinositide signaling pathway in the rod outer segment. At present, G(alpha11) or a G(alpha11)-like protein represents the only G protein besides transducin (which mediates phototransduction) identified so far in the rod outer segment. Although absent in the outer segment layer, other PLC isoforms as well as G(alpha q) (another G(q) family member), are present elsewhere in the retina.
To assess the role of tyrosine phosphorylation/dephosphorylation balance in synaptic transmission, a set of studies was implemented at the squid giant synapse. Presynaptic induction of tyrosine phosphorylation, following administration of the tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor pervanadate, produced a sizable increase in presynaptic calcium current and a concomitant and paradoxical decrement of the postsynaptic potential amplitude. Presynaptic microinjection of an active protein tyrosine kinase dramatically increased calcium currents and incremented postsynaptic potential amplitude. By contrast, the same procedure at the postsynaptic terminal reduced the size of the postsynaptic potential. This differential effect may be prodromic to long-term plasticity, as postsynaptic sensitivity is momentarily deemphasized, whereas presynaptic second messenger cascades triggered by increased calcium currents are accentuated.
Immunoglobulins (Ig), particularly IgE, are believed to be crucially involved in the pathogenesis of asthma and, equally, in allergic models of the disease. To validate this paradigm we examined homozygous mutant C57BL/6 mice, which are B cell deficient, lacking all Ig. Mice were immunized intraperitoneally with 10 micrograms ovalbumin (OVA) plus alum, followed by daily (day 14-20) 30 min exposures to OVA aerosol (OVA/OVA group). Three control groups were run: OVA intraperitoneally plus saline (SAL) aerosol (OVA/SAL group); saline intraperitoneally plus saline aerosol; saline intraperitoneally plus OVA aerosol (n = 6-7). Lung and large airway tissues obtained 24 h after the last OVA or SAL exposure were examined by light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). The Ig-deficient mice receiving OVA/ OVA treatment had swollen and discolored lungs and exhibited marked eosinophilia both in large airway subepithelial tissue (49.2 +/- 12.0 cells/mm basement membrane [BM] versus OVA/ SAL control 1.2 +/- 0.3 cells/mm BM; P &lt; 0.001), and perivascularly and peribronchially in the lung (49.3 +/- 9.0 cells/unit area versus OVA/SAL control 2.6 +/- 0.6 cells/unit area; P &lt; 0.001). The eosinophilia extended to the regional lymph nodes. TEM confirmed the subepithelial and perivascular localization of eosinophils. Mucus cells in large airway epithelium increased from 1.5 +/- 0.8 (OVA/SAL mice) to 39.5 +/- 5.7 cells/mm BM in OVA/OVA treated mice (P &lt; 0.001). OVA/SAL mice never differed from the other control groups. Corresponding experiments in wild-type mice (n = 6-7 in each group) showed qualitatively similar but less pronounced eosinophil and mucus cell changes. Macrophages and CD4+ T cells increased in lungs of all OVA/OVA-treated mice. Mast cell number did not differ but degranulation was detected only in OVA/OVA-treated wild-type mice. Immunization to OVA followed by OVA challenges thus cause eosinophil-rich inflammation in airways and lungs of mice without involvement of B cells and Ig.
c-Jun, a transcriptional activator, as well as cyclin D1, a key regulator of the cell cycle, have been described in vitro as mediators of programmed neuronal death. After trophic factor deprivation, the activation of c-jun and cyclin D1 genes is considered as a necessary step within the cellular machinery that leads to cell death. We show here that both c-Jun and cyclin D1 proteins are present in neurones within the infarcted area after experimental cerebral ischaemia in the mouse. Since their presence was associated with DNA fragmentation revealed by the TUNEL procedure, we propose that c-Jun and cyclin D1 are involved in the process of neuronal death.
The neuroendocrine and the immune systems are interconnected. Monoclonal antibodies against major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I, class II, CD4, CD8, pan T cells, and macrophages were used for immunostaining brains from adrenalectomized (ADX) and shamoperated rats to investigate the potential involvement of the immune/inflammatory mechanisms in the neurodegeneration of hippocampus after ADX. Our results demonstrate upregulation of MHC class II, CD4 antigens and activated microglial marker-ED1 expression selectively in the hippocampus after ADX. The absence of CD5 reactivity precludes that these activated cells were T lymphocytes. The activated microglial cells may either be instrumental in the hippocampal neuronal loss or activated secondarily to the neuronal degeneration after long-term adrenalectomy.
The present study demonstrates that local cutaneous administration of either the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptor antagonist MK-801 or the non-NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) significantly attenuates formalin-induced nociceptive behaviors. Specifically, pretreatment with either drug reduced the magnitude and time course of lifting and licking behavior in the late phase of formalin pain; however, flinching behavior was not affected. In contrast, post-treatment of formalin pain with either antagonist did not affect lifting and licking behavior, although flinching behavior was mildly attenuated. We hypothesize that these actions result from blocking of peripheral glutamate receptors located on unmyelinated axons at the dermal-epidermal junction. These data suggest that peripheral glutamate receptors on cutaneous axons can be manipulated to reduce certain aspects of pain of peripheral origin. This route of administration offers the advantage of avoiding the side effects of systemic administration.
Acute arthritis is associated with pain-related behavior, joint swelling and increased joint temperature. Arthritic animals exhibit a significant decrease in paw withdrawal latency 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 h after induction of inflammation, when compared with baseline values, indicative of secondary hyperalgesia. Intra-articular injection of a non-specific nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride (L-NAME), resulted in a complete reversal of heat hyperalgesia and prevented further increase in joint swelling and temperature, while injection of either isotonic saline or the inactive enantiomer NG-nitro-D-arginine methyl ester (D-NAME) after induction of arthritis had no effect on any of these parameters. Intra-articular injection of 7-nitro-indazole (7-NINA), a selective neuronal NOS inhibitor, reversed the heat hyperalgesia for about 1 h but did not inhibit the increase in joint swelling or temperature. These results suggest an important role for nitric oxide (NO) in mediating peripheral nociceptive transmission and inflammation.
Thiamine deficiency (TD) produces lesions in the thalamus, mamillary and medial geniculate nuclei, and inferior colliculus. To clarify the pathogenesis of these lesions, we examined the occurrence of hallmarks of apoptosis following TD in rat brain. Histological assessment showed apoptotic cells in the thalamus and medial geniculate nucleus but not in the inferior colliculus. We used terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine (dUPT)-biotin nick-end labelling (TUNEL) and gel electrophoresis to demonstrate that TD is associated with apoptotic cell death. In the thalamus, DNA fragmentation appeared from day 14 of deficiency and preceded the appearance of ataxia. The inferior colliculus and mamillary nucleus were without electrophoretic DNA fragments, and only rare TUNEL-positive labelling was observed. This model shows a rare combination of both apoptosis and necrosis in the same lesioned brain.
After neonatal lesions of dopamine neurones, an enhanced behavioural responsiveness towards D1 agonists has been described, suggesting a D1 receptor hypersensitivity. In the present study, unilateral striatal dopamine denervation in newborn rats induced a pronounced rotational behaviour following apomorphine injection at the adult age, without any change in the density of D1 binding sites in the denervated striatum. The amount of stimulatory G(olf) alpha subunit was increased by 35% in the lesioned striatum. The large form and the short forms of Gs alpha were also increased by 26% and 9%, respectively. Since in striatal neurones, the coupling of D1 receptor to adenylate cyclase is mostly provided by G(olf) alpha, our results strongly suggest that D1 hypersensitivity described after neonatal dopamine lesions results from an increase in the levels of G(olf) alpha protein.
Recent experiments have demonstrated the effectiveness of members of the neurotrophin family of growth factors in supporting the survival of primary auditory neurons following ototoxic trauma. In this report, we examined the implications of these results in light of current knowledge about activity dependent central nervous system reorganization. We suggest that the use of trophic factors in conjunction with patterned stimulation of afferent nerve fibers could preserve the majority of the tonotopic arrangement of the central pathway. We propose experiments to test the effects of NT-3 induced neuron survival on the organization of primary auditory cortex.
The aim of this study was to examine the attitudes towards suicidal patients of a group of psychiatric nursing personnel (n = 197) and to establish a baseline of attitudinal measures against which the effects of a subsequent educational programme can be assessed. A scale, known as the Understanding of Suicide Attempt Patient Scale (USP Scale) was developed for this purpose. The reliability of the scale was satisfactory, and its correlation with visual analogue scale (VAS) scores based on clinical vignettes suggests that it has validity. Women tended to be more sympathetic than men, and older personnel were more favourably disposed than the younger nurses. Differences between personnel working in different settings were found, which might be explained by differences in the frequency of contact with suicide-prone patients, more frequent exposure being associated with more positive attitudes.
Using tests for cognitive performance (the Pauli test) and psychomotor coordination (the Pursuit Rotor test), the interaction between the drinking history of the subjects, the alcohol dose, and acute alcohol tolerance were examined in light and moderate alcohol consumers (N = 10). Both groups of subjects were tested with doses of alcohol corresponding to 0.5 and 1.0 g/kg. Dose order was random and tests were carried out at an interval of 1 week. Reports of the subjects' previous experience with alcohol indicated that the moderate consumers ingested alcohol in higher quantities than the light consumers. The light consumers were rather inexperienced with frequent alcohol consumption at the quantities investigated, as were the moderate consumers for the higher of the alcohol doses used. Acute tolerance was assessed by comparing performance at equal concentrations of alcohol on the ascending and the descending limbs of the alcohol concentration curve. In the test for cognitive performance, both doses of alcohol in light alcohol consumers yielded significant differences between the ascending and descending limbs of the alcohol concentration curve, suggesting the existence of acute tolerance. In the moderate alcohol consumers, only a tendency to acute tolerance was observed for the higher of the doses tested. In the test for the psychomotor performance, both of the measures of frequency (of misses) and duration (of time outside the target area) were used. The results showed that in the light consumers, acute tolerance was seen for both of the doses, and to some extent for both of the dependent measures (frequency and duration) investigated. However, in the moderate alcohol consumers, acute tolerance was only observed for the higher of the doses and only for the duration measure. Given the difference in drinking history between the two groups of subjects, the implication would be that when the dose of alcohol exceeds the subjects' prior experience, acute tolerance seems inevitable. The present results clearly demonstrate the complexity of the acute tolerance phenomenon, and emphasize the fact that the results are dependent on the subjects' prior experience with alcohol as well as the dose of alcohol ingested, and consequently suggest the interaction between acute and chronic alcohol tolerance.
To investigate the association between level of alcohol consumption and mortality and hospital admissions, data from the Swedish twin registry were utilized. Twins born in 1925 or later responded to a questionnaire on lifestyle and personality in 1973. A total of 9057 twins were followed in the national cause of death register and in hospital discharge registers through 1992. The proportion of deaths attributable to high levels of alcohol consumption, after adjustment for confounding, was 11.3% for men and 9.4% for women. The proportion of hospital admissions attributable to high levels of alcohol consumption was 13.2% for men and 1.1% for women. For psychiatric admissions, the corresponding figures were 28.7% and 7.2% respectively. We conclude that, in this cohort of young and middle aged men and women (ages 18-67), a considerable number of productive life years are lost due to high alcohol consumption. Furthermore, a considerable proportion of health care consumption is alcohol-related, especially psychiatric care.
The development of reliable diagnostic tools for assessing alcoholism and harmful alcohol consumption is an utmost necessity for the success of efforts to prevent and treat alcohol-induced damage to both individuals and to society. A multinational study is underway to aid in the development of biological screening tools (state markers) which can, with good sensitivity and specificity, identify problem drinkers. To attain this goal information needs to be available on an individuals's drinking history and habits and related factors. A detailed instrument has been developed to obtain this information. The second goal of the study was to begin to develop diagnostic 'trait markers' which provide biological information on genetically determined predisposing and protective factors in the development of alcoholism. The developed questionnaire also provides background information on subject characteristics necessary for the development of trait markers. Centres will assay the obtained biological samples for 'traditional' and newly identified state markers of excessive alcohol consumption. These will include methanol measurements, gamma-glutamyltransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, carbohydrate-deficient transferrin, serotonin metabolite ratios, and erythrocyte aldehyde dehydrogenase. DNA obtained from the lymphocytes of subjects will be assayed for polymorphisms of alcohol- and aldehyde-metabolizing enzymes and dopamine receptor polymorphisms which can provide insights into protective and predisposing factors in alcoholism. The platelet enzymes, monoamine oxidase and adenylyl cyclase, will be assayed to assess the relationships between these putative trait markers and the genetic and environmental factors contributing to the aetiology of alcoholism. The current report is meant to introduce the study design and present a portion of the preliminary data gathered in the process of establishing this research programme.
The number of older drivers in Sweden will be rapidly increasing during the next decades. A possible relationship exists between the increased relative crash risk of older drivers and the prevalence of age-related diseases such as dementia. However, a clear-cut policy for evaluating driving competence in demented persons is still lacking. In recognition of this fact, the Swedish National Road Administration invited a group of researchers to formulate a consensus on the issue of driving and dementia. This consensus document is aimed at providing primary care physicians with practical advice concerning the assessment of cognitive status in relation to driving. Suggestions are based on a review of existing research and discuss the use of general and driving-specific sources of information available to the physician. Consensus was reached on the statement that a diagnosis of moderate to severe dementia precludes driving and that certain individuals with mild dementia should be considered for a specialized assessment of their driving competence.

We studied the effects of stimulation of the apical adenosine receptor on ion transport by HT29cl.19A cells with the conventional microelectrode technique. Adenosine (100 microM) caused an increase in the transepithelial potential (3.6 +/- 0.4 mV) and equivalent short-circuit current (I(sc), 21 +/- 3 microA/cm2), a transient depolarization of the apical membrane potential (14 +/- 2 mV), and a decrease in the apical membrane resistance. The increase in I(sc) was additive to the effect of forskolin or basolateral addition of a maximal concentration of adenosine. Bumetanide, applied after adenosine, caused a further depolarization (7 +/- 2 mV) concomitant with a decrease in I(sc) (-13 +/- 2 microA/cm2) and an increase in the basolateral membrane resistance. Substitution of Cl- with gluconate or Na+ with N-methylglucamine reduced the response to adenosine by &gt;60%. The response was also reduced by a low concentration of amiloride. We conclude that stimulation of the apical adenosine receptor activated a cation conductance in the apical membrane.
Signal transmission from afferent nerves to neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) may be mediated partially by nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Here, we investigated nAChR-mediated signal transmission using rat NTS slices. First, we characterized nAChRs by obtaining patch-clamp recordings from NTS neuronal cell bodies. Under whole cell voltage-clamp conditions at -60 mV, application of nicotine induced an inward current, and this effect was blocked by hexamethonium. In outside-out patch recordings, nicotine was seen to induce a hexamethonium-sensitive single-channel current. Second, we investigated nAChR-mediated signal transmission. Fast synaptic transmission mediated by nAChRs was not detected. The action of diffusible acetylcholine (ACh) on nAChRs was then tested using the outside-out patches excised from NTS neurons as probes for ACh. When the patch was placed at a distance of 20-30 microm from the cell body, single-channel currents were recorded, and these were inhibited by hexamethonium. The frequency of channel opening was increased by high-extracellular potassium concentration solution suggesting the voltage-dependent release ofACh that acts on nAChRs. These results suggested that nAChR-mediated signal transmission from sensory afferents to NTS neurons is in part mediated by diffusible ACh.
The gigantocellular depressor area (GiDA) is a functionally defined subdivision of the medullary gigantocellular reticular formation where vasodepressor responses are evoked by glutamate microinjections (Aicher, S. A., D. J. Reis, D. A. Ruggiero, and T. A. Milner. Neuroscience 60: 761-779, 1994). The present experiments sought to determine whether the GiDA 1) tonically inhibits the sympathetic nervous system; 2) is necessary for baroreflex function; and 3) is functionally distinct from adjacent vasodepressor regions in the medullary reticular formation, including the midline raphe nuclei and the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVL). Excitotoxic lesions of the GiDA abolished the baroreflex and significantly increased sympathetic nerve activity in anesthetized rats. Equivalent injections into the midline raphe nuclei elevated sympathetic activity but did not alter baroreflex responses. Therefore, the GiDA is functionally distinct from the raphe nuclei, although both contain tonically active sympathoinhibitory neurons. Because the effects of GiDA lesions were identical to those seen after lesions of the CVL, further studies were required to demonstrate that the GiDA and CVL are functionally and anatomically distinct. First, intramedullary injections of kynurenic acid produced hypertension and blocked the baroreflex when placed in the CVL, but not when placed in the GiDA. Second, muscimol inactivation of the RVL blocked the hypertension produced by excitotoxic lesions of the CVL, but failed to block the hypertension produced by similar lesions of the GiDA. Third, CVL neurons project to the RVL but not the spinal cord, whereas GiDA neurons project to the spinal cord but not the RVL. These studies show that the CVL and GiDA are both tonically sympathoinhibitory regions, but they are distinct with regard to their functional connectivity with other autonomic regions.
Inheritance of the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) epsilon 4 allele is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is associated with increased deposition of beta-amyloid (A beta) in AD, Down's syndrome, and normal aging. A beta deposition in the form of senile plaques (SPs) has recently been described in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). We studied the relationship between ApoE epsilon 4 genotype and the deposition of A beta in temporal lobe tissue from patients who underwent temporal lobectomy for intractable epilepsy. TLE patients with SPs had a 70% ApoE epsilon 4 carrier frequency compared with a 27% carrier frequency among age-matched TLE controls without SPs. Our data suggest that the association between ApoE epsilon 4 and intracerebral A beta accumulation is not unique to the elderly or to those with dementia, and may be a feature of conditions in which there is both an ApoE epsilon 4 allele and over-production of A beta precursor protein, and, presumably, A beta.




Extensive study of the brain has resulted in the development of interventions to augment and preserve function. However, there exists a phenomenon that affects the vital brain centres including speech and memory the control of vital functions, and the immune system. What has this power? Humour. Recognized as hazardous to illness, humour leads to laughing, smiling and good feelings. Humour has been described as a basic need, a coping mechanism, and a form of communication, all integral in the care of patients and families. The use of humour gives one the permission to laugh, and to relax. While the value of humour is unique to each person and culture, its deliberate use is an effective nursing intervention to decrease tension and anxiety. This paper will examine the use of humour as a nursing intervention in the care of neuroscience patients. It will look at using humour as an adjunct to pain control and an augment to the efficacy of treatment. Nurses will learn what constitutes therapeutic humour, and the pathways to humour. Participants will come away with a repertoire of strategies to incorporate humour in neurosciences nursing care infusing it with joy.
Using a collar to immobilize the cervical spine is a standard health care intervention for patients with cervical spine injuries. Although there is little research into the nature and extent of possible iatrogenic complications resulting from this intervention, anecdotal information suggests that prolonged use a cervical collar may case skin ulcers and infections. Further, the stabilizing effect of a cervical collar may impart a false sense of security as it permits fine flexion and extension movements. Compounding the potential untoward effects of this intervention, is the lack of research concerning nursing care implications. As a first step to examining the problem, the author surveyed trauma and neuroscience centres throughout Canada to determine: what immobilization devices are currently used; patient problems associated with these devices; nursing care interventions employed including hygiene and transfer techniques; and the outcomes of these interventions. The findings describe the relative efficacy of different products and nursing interventions as reported by the surveyed groups. Further, the findings offer direction for future research that will quantitatively investigate the patient care outcomes associated with specific interventions.
We have shown previously that ibotenic acid lesions of the prefrontal cortex, performed prior to repeated amphetamine administration, do not affect sensitization of stereotyped behaviors but do prevent sensitization of post-stereotypy locomotor hyperactivity [Wolf et al., Neuroscience, 69 (1995) 417-439]. This could reflect an effect of the lesion on either development or expression of locomotor sensitization. To test the latter possibility, rats were treated with repeated amphetamine injections and tested to establish behavioral sensitization. Then, half received ibotenic acid lesions of prefrontal cortex and half received sham lesions. A second amphetamine challenge, 7 days later, demonstrated that the lesion failed to prevent expression of sensitization. Together with previous results, this suggests that intrinsic neurons of prefrontal cortex, most likely those sending excitatory amino acid-containing projections to the ventral tegmental area, are required for the development but not the expression of behavioral sensitization to amphetamine.
We report here data suggesting that reactivation of a well-established memory by a retention test triggers cellular events which depend upon N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors for up to 2 h after reactivation. Rats were overtrained on a maze task requiring integration of distal spatial information contained in cues strategically placed around the maze. Previous experiments showed that pretrial injection of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801, at a dose which had no effect on overt behavior (0.05 mg/kg), markedly disrupted the well-trained performance of the task. Surprisingly, the behavioral deficit persisted on subsequent, drug-free trials, 24 h later. The present experiments showed that post-trial injections produced the same effects on performance on one or two subsequent daily trials. A temporal gradient for this amnestic effect of the drug treatment was established by injecting rats at 5, 30, 60, 90, 120 or 180 min after the performance trial. Only those rats whose MK-801 treatment was delayed for 120 min or more after the trial were able to perform the task normally 24 h later. All other treatment times induced significant amnesia for the task, when the rats were tested 24 h later. A subsequent experiment, using a more difficult version of the task, showed a longer amnesia gradient, but the predrug performance level could be reinstated within one multiple trial test session. Thus, it appears that activation of a well-established memory circuit renders the trace labile, requiring its reconsolidation. To what extent the entire post-acquisition cascade of NMDA receptor-dependent intracellular events is recapitulated each time a memory is activated and reorganised is probably a function of the age and complexity of the memory and the amount of new information to be integrated into the circuit. These results provide physiological evidence for the notion that memory is a dynamic process undergoing continual reorganization as a function of the ongoing experience of the organism.
The role of NMDA receptors and NMDA-mediated hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) in spatial learning was studied in rats using the competitive, systemically administered NMDA receptor antagonists CGS19755 ((+/-)-cis-4-phosphonomethyl-2-piperidine carboxylic acid) and NPC17742 (2R,4R,5S-2-amino-4,5-(1,2-cyclohexyl)-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid). CGS19755 caused sensorimotor disturbances and disrupted acquisition of the water maze in naive rats. The sensorimotor disturbances were greatly reduced and maze learning was normal in spite of the blockade of dentate gyrus LTP by CGS19755 in rats that had first been familiarized with the general task requirements by non-spatial pretraining. In a second experiment, antagonism of NMDA receptors caused small, but reliable, impairments in Y-maze and visible platform visual discrimination tasks. The results indicate that NMDA receptors are not crucial for water maze acquisition using a spatial learning strategy, and that NMDA antagonists cause visual and other sensorimotor disturbances in naive rats that could help account for their poor performance in this task.
The prelimbic area of the rat medial prefrontal cortex is anatomically connected to the CA1 layer of the temporal hippocampus. As cells recorded from this region of the hippocampus act as place cells (i.e., their firing is related to the animal's location in the environment), the possibility arises that the prefrontal recipients of hippocampal efferences also display spatial firing patterns. To examine this hypothesis, recordings were made from prelimbic frontal units while the position and head direction of the freely moving rat were simultaneously recorded by tracking two lights mounted on the rat's head. Of 42 cells recorded in this situation, none was found to have a firing pattern bearing a significant relationship to the animal's position or to its head direction. Rather, cell activity was modulated during specific behaviors such as food-searching or exploratory behaviors.
In a neural model of olfactory bulb processing, we demonstrate the putative role of the modulation of two types of inhibition, inspired by electrophysiological data on the effect of acetylcholine and noradrenaline on olfactory bulb synaptic transmission. Feedback regulation of modulation based on bulbar activity serves to 'normalize' the activity of output neurons in response to different levels of input activities. This mechanism also decreases the overlap between pairs of output patterns (Mitral cell activities), enhancing the discrimination between overlapping olfactory input patterns. The effect of the modulation at the two levels of interneurons is complementary: while an increase in periglomerular inhibition decreases the number of responding output neurons, a decrease in granule cell inhibition increases the firing frequencies of these neurons.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is usually considered to be a brain area important for working memory processes. In rats this statement is evidenced by their diminished performance in delay-type tasks following mPFC damage, notably in spatial delayed alternation (SDA) in a T-maze. This study has addressed two questions. First, to examine whether the functional deficiency in SDA, observed in rats with (usually large) mPFC damage, can be ascribed to an anatomically defined subarea of mPFC, the dorsal anterior cingulate area (ACd). Small, bilateral, NMDA-induced lesions were made, restricted to the dorsal part of mPFC. The performance of such animals in a T-maze paradigm, using delays of 0 and 15 s, was compared with sham-operated animals. Although these small lesions resulted in an increased number of perseverative errors, this effect was not delay-dependent, and, moreover, by the end of the training group differences had disappeared. The second aim was to study whether or not spatial (extra-maze) cues are important for the performance of this task. This was achieved by subjecting the well-trained sham-operated animals to a series of systematic trial-to-trial variations in the position of the maze in the experimental room. These spatial manipulations severely impaired the performance of the SDA task, indicating that extra-maze information is required to solve this task. In animals with ACd lesions, subjected to the same manipulations, the deficiency was comparable to that of the sham-operated animals.
Some regularities enjoy only an attenuated existence in a body of training data. These are regularities whose statistical visibility depends on some systematic recoding of the data. The space of possible recoding is, however, infinitely large--it is the space of applicable Turing machines. As a result, mappings that pivot on such attenuated regularities cannot, in general, be found by brute-force search. The class of problems that present such mappings we call the class of &quot;type-2 problems.&quot; Type-1 problems, by contrast, present tractable problems of search insofar as the relevant regularities can be found by sampling the input data as originally coded. Type-2 problems, we suggest, present neither rare nor pathological cases. They are rife in biologically realistic settings and in domains ranging from simple animat (simulated animal or autonomous robot) behaviors to language acquisition. Not only are such problems rife--they are standardly solved! This presents a puzzle. How, given the statistical intractability of these type-2 cases, does nature turn the trick? One answer, which we do not pursue, is to suppose that evolution gifts us with exactly the right set of recording biases so as to reduce specific type-2 problems to (tractable) type-1 mappings. Such a heavy-duty nativism is no doubt sometimes plausible. But we believe there are other, more general mechanisms also at work. Such mechanisms provide general (not task-specific) strategies for managing problems of type-2 complexity. Several such mechanisms are investigated. At the heart of each is a fundamental poly--namely, the maximal exploitation of states of representation already achieved by prior, simpler (type-1) learning so as to reduce the amount of subsequent computational search. Such exploitation both characterizes and helps make unitary sense of a diverse range of mechanisms. These include simple incremental learning (Elman 1993), modular connectionism (Jacobs et al. 1991), and the developmental hypothesis of &quot;representational redescription&quot; (Karmiloff-Smith 1979; 1992). In addition, the most distinctive features of human cognition--language and culture--may themselves be viewed as adaptations enabling this representation/computation trade-off to be pursued on an even grander scale.
We reported that a 33-amino-acid deletion (from tyrosine-715 to glycine-747) in a putative extracellular loop of GluR3 produced a mutant that exhibited dominant negative effects upon the functional expression of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors [Sekiguchi et al. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 14559-14565]. In this study, we searched for a key residue in the dominant negative effects to explore the mechanism and examined the role of the residue in the function of the AMPA receptor. We prepared 20 GluR3 mutants with amino acid substitutions within the 33-amino-acid-region, and dominant negative effects were tested electrophysiologically in Xenopus oocytes co-expressing the mutant and normal subunits. Among the mutants, only a GluR3 mutant in which an original cysteine (Cys)-722 was replaced by alanine exhibited a dominant negative effect comparable with that of the original mutant in which the entire 33-amino-acid segment is deleted. The co-expression of the Cys-722 mutant did not inhibit the translation of normal subunits in oocytes. The Cys-722 mutant formed a functional homomeric receptor with significantly higher affinity for glutamate or kainate than a homomeric GluR3 receptor. The Cys-722 mutation greatly enhanced the sensitivity of GluR3 for aniracetam, which alters kinetic properties of AMPA receptors. The kainate-induced currents in oocytes expressing the Cys-722 mutant alone showed strong inward rectification. These results suggest that the Cys-722 in GluR3 is important for dominant negative effects and plays a crucial role in the determination of pharmacological properties in AMPA receptor function.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) children and normal controls (7-13 yrs old) performed an auditory and visual selective attention task. Subjects were instructed to respond to the infrequent (10%) stimuli in the relevant channel. Processing negativity (PN) and several other ERP peaks were scored at the midline electrodes. In the auditory task, controls had more correct detections (hits), less false alarms, larger P3b amplitudes to nontarget stimuli (but not to hits), a larger central PN and larger early frontal positivity (100-250 ms) to target stimuli than ADHD subjects. In the visual modality, controls had more correct detections, less false alarms, larger P3b amplitudes to nontarget stimuli (but not to hits), and larger frontal P3(1) amplitudes to infrequent than to frequent stimuli. It was hypothesized that in ADHD children in both the auditory and the visual task, there is a deficit in the activation of the P3b process. Incorrect triggering of the P3b process might be caused by disturbances in other aspects of the attention process, preceding the P3b.
1. Hypothalamic peptidergic neurones possess an uptake process for amines (transport-P), for which prazosin is a substrate. It is characterized by a paradoxical increase in the accumulation of [3H]-prazosin when the concentration of unlabelled prazosin is increased above 10(-7) M. This increase is due to activation of a proton-dependent, vacuolar-type ATPase-linked pump that is blocked by tricyclic antidepressants. This study utilized a fluorescence method to detect amine uptake in individual cells. 2. Prazosin is fluorescent but most of its emission spectrum is in the ultraviolet range. We therefore used an analogue of prazosin in which the furan ring had been substituted with a fluorescent group, BODIPY FL. This compound's emission maximum is in the green part of the visible spectrum. 3. BODIPY FL prazosin accumulated in immortalised peptidergic neurones and the characteristic emission spectrum of the compound was evident in these cells. Accumulation of BODIPY FL prazosin was saturable and was inhibited by the tricyclic antidepressant desipramine and by unlabelled prazosin. As previously described for prazosin, uptake of BODIPY FL prazosin was blocked by cold temperature and by the organic base chloroquine. Thus, prazosin and BODIPY FL prazosin were accumulated by the same uptake process. 4. BODIPY FL prazosin accumulated in a granular distribution, which is compatible with storage in intracellular vesicles. 5. Hypothalamic cells from foetal rats in primary culture also accumulated BODIPY FL prazosin by a desipramine-sensitive process. Uptake was predominantly in neurones and glial cells did not accumulate the amine. 6. Fluorescent detection provides visual evidence for amine uptake in peptidergic neurones and should enable detailed study of the distribution of this process in the brain.
1. Recent studies have identified the [3H]-gabapentin-binding protein, purified from porcine cerebral cortical membranes, as the alpha 2 delta subunit of voltage-sensitive calcium channels (Gee et al., 1996). The present study investigates the influence of the polyamine spermine on specific [3H]-gabapentin binding to detergent-solubilized porcine cerebral cortical membranes. 2. Spermine, spermidine, 1,10 diaminodecane, Mg2+ and Zn2+, all divalent cations, displaced [3H]-gabapentin binding to detergent-solubilized membranes in a concentration-dependent manner with a maximal inhibition of 65-75%. Radioligand binding studies showed that spermine did not directly interact with the [3H]-gabapentin-binding site. Spermine inhibited [3H]-gabapentin binding by interacting with a polyamine-sensitive allosteric site on the membrane protein. The steep concentration-dependence of spermine inhibition of [3H]-gabapentin binding may suggest multi-site co-operativity. 3. Prolonged dialysis of cerebral cortical membranes and Tween 20-solubilized membranes resulted in a &gt; 2.0 fold increase in [3H]-gabapentin binding. The increase in binding was due to the removal of a heat stable, low molecular weight (&lt; 12,000Da) endogenous molecule which influences [3H]-gabapentin binding competitively. 4. Dialysis of detergent-solubilized cerebral cortical membranes also resulted in a decrease in the maximum inhibition of [3H]-gabapentin binding by spermine. Since the rates of the increase in [3H]-gabapentin binding and the loss of the ability of spermine to inhibit [3H]-gabapentin binding on dialysis were different it was inferred that a second endogenous ligand was removed during dialysis. 5. During initial steps of purification of the [3H]-gabapentin-binding protein there was a decrease in the maximum inhibition of [3H]-gabapentin binding by spermine. The loss of the second endogenous molecule during initial purification would reasonably explain the reduction in inhibition of binding by spermine. However, spermine stimulation of [3H]-gabapentin binding to material that eluted from the gel-filtration column later in the purification scheme does not appear to be due to removal of a dialysable endogenous factor or to the dissociation of other calcium channel subunit(s). 6. Adding back dialysate, before or after boiling, to detergent solubilized membranes resulted in a dose-dependent restoration of the inhibition of [3H]-gabapentin binding and of the maximal inhibition [3H]-gabapentin binding by spermine. This result is consistent with the re-addition of two endogenous heat stable ligands. 7. The findings that [3H]-gabapentin binding to the pure alpha 2 delta subunit was stimulated by spermine indicates that the alpha 2 delta subunit of voltage-sensitive calcium channels bears a modulatory spermine site. Such a spermine site has not been identified before. Spermine stimulation of [3H]-gabapentin binding to the purified protein was reversed to inhibition after adding back dialysate. Thus the inhibitory spermine effect in membranes is also probably due to one or more modulatory sites on the alpha 2 delta subunit.

PET and: markers for the pre- and postsynaptic neurons were used to study the dopamine system in vivo in Huntington's disease. The radioligands used were [11C]SCH 23390 for D1-receptors, [11C]raclopride for D2-receptors and [11C]beta-CIT for dopamine transporters. Five patients with Huntington's disease and five matched controls were recruited. Brain anatomy was examined by MRI. The findings in patients were as follows. Postsynaptic D1- and D2-receptor densities were similarly reduced in the striatum. A reduction in D1-receptor density was shown in the temporal cortex; it draws attention to the cortical degeneration in relation to the cognitive deficits observed in Huntington's disease. The reduction of D1- and D2-receptor binding potentials in the striatum correlated significantly with increasing duration of illness. The correlation between the duration of illness and decline of D1- and D2-receptors make these receptors valuable as quantitative markers for the Huntington's disease degenerative process. Besides postsynaptic changes, a significant 50% decrease of [11C]beta-CIT binding to the dopamine transporter was found in the striatum. A reduced striatal blood flow in Huntington's disease cannot be excluded and could account for a small part of the decrease in [11C]beta-CIT binding. We suggest that the finding reflects a loss of presynaptic terminals or a reduced expression of dopamine transporter in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system in Huntington's disease.
Variations of plasma ACTH and corticosterone, as well as splenic macrophage activity and mitogen-induced cell proliferation, were determined in rats following 15 min of either the neurogenic stressor of restraint or by a purely psychogenic stressor consisting of exposure to a ferret. The effects of these stressors were assessed in two strains of rats that were selectively bred for either Fast or Slow kindling epileptogenesis triggered in response to amygdala stimulation. The stressors differentially influenced behavioral responses, endocrine activity, and immune functioning, and these effects varied with the strain of rat. In response to restraint the Fast rats exhibited protracted struggling, while the Slow rats tended to be immobile. In contrast, upon ferret exposure the Fast rats showed greater immobility than the Slow rats. The stressors also induced marked elevations of plasma ACTH and corticosterone. Whereas the ACTH and corticosterone increases were more pronounced in response to the ferret in the Slow rats, restraint resulted in a markedly greater rise of plasma ACTH in the Fast strain. Proliferation of splenic lymphocytes in response to Con A and LPS were elevated in Fast seizing rats, while macrophage activity, as determined by oxygen burst following addition of PMA and luminol to splenic mononuclear cells, was greater in the Slow seizing strain. While neither stressor influenced cell proliferation in either the Fast or Slow rats, macrophage activity was greatly suppressed by ferret exposure only in the Slow rats. Taken together, it appears that while stressors influence behavior and immune and endocrine functioning, these effects may vary as a function of the interaction of the strain of rat and the specific type of stressor employed.
The developmental changes in N-acetyl-L-aspartic acid (NAA) were assessed in human fetal and child brains by means of high resolution proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS). NAA was detected in the cerebral cortex and white matter of fetuses of 16 weeks' gestation. NAA increased gradually from 24 weeks' gestation and remarkably from 40 weeks' gestation to 1 year of age. The developmental changes in tissue NAA in postnatal brains were found to be similar to those of NAA/Cr on clinical proton MRS. As the neuronal cell density in the cerebral cortex decreases with dendritic maturation, an increase in NAA with age may reflect the normal and abnormal development of axons, dendrites and synapses as well as neuronal soma.
In this study we compared viewer-centered (VC) with object-centered (OC) mental exploration of an imagined clock drawn on the ground. An upper case F portrayed on a computer screen was to be imagined standing up in the center of the clock. In Expt. 1, an adjustment task was used to verify that the discrimination of clock directions rendered by this perspective drawing was quite accurate. Precision was not affected by the imaginary size of the clock. In Expt. 2, subjects either (1) indicated the clock location pointed by the F given their viewing position (VC condition), or (2) their location at the periphery of the clock given the location pointed by the F (OC condition). Response latencies were proportional to the explored imaginary distance and increased with the size of the imagined environment. We found an additional mean processing time of at least 2 s in the OC condition with respect to the VC condition. Results are interpreted within Kosslyn's (Kosslyn, S.M., A cognitive neuroscience of visual cognition: further developments. In: R.H. Logie and M. Denis (Eds.), Mental Images in Human Cognition, Elsevier Science Publishers, Amsterdam, 1991, pp. 351-381 [17]) framework of cognitive neuroscience.
The question of whether mental simulation of an action has an effect on the spinal reflex circuits was examined in normal humans. Subjects were instructed either to exert or to mentally simulate a strong or a weak pressure on a pedal with the left or the right foot. Changes in the H- and T-reflexes activated by electrical and mechanical stimuli were measured on both legs during motor performance as well as during mental simulation of the same task. Asynchronous EMG activity of the soleus muscles was simultaneously recorded. Reflex excitability increased during performance of the pressure. It was larger when the H-reflex was triggered in the muscle involved in the task as compared to the contralateral side. Because actual performance modified the tension of the tendon and the location of the stimulus, ipsilateral changes of T-reflex amplitude could not be evaluated. Mental simulation of foot pressure in this condition resulted in a large increase of spinal reflex excitability, which was only slightly weaker than the reflex facilitation associated with the actual performance. Changes in T-reflex amplitude, but not in H-reflex amplitude, depended upon the lateralization and force of the simulated pressure, being larger in the leg involved in the simulation than in the contralateral leg, and larger for a strong than for a weak simulated movement. EMG activity was found to be weakly increased during mental imagery. This increase was significantly, although slightly, modulated by the lateralization and intensity of the imagined movement. However, no correlation was found across subjects between reflex amplitude and the amplitude of EMG activity.
In order to investigate the preparatory modulations of cortico-spinal excitability, reaction time (RT) methods were combined with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex. We analyzed the variations in the amplitude of motor potentials evoked in a prime mover (flexor digitorum sublimis) by TMS delivered during the foreperiod of a visual choice RT task. In experiment 1 (n = 10), the TMS was delivered either simultaneously with the warning signal or simultaneously with the response signal in two conditions of foreperiod duration: short (500 ms) and long (2500 ms). The peak amplitude of the motor evoked potentials diminished during the short foreperiod but not during the long foreperiod. Since RT was shorter when the foreperiod lasted 500 ms than when it lasted 2500 ms, this result suggests that the excitability of the cortico-spinal structures is minimal when the subject is optimally ready to react. In experiment 2 (n = 10), the time-course of this decrement was further explored. With this aim, only the short foreperiod was used and the TMS was delivered either 500 ms, 333 ms, 167 ms or 0 ms before the response signal. Cortico-spinal excitability decreased during the first 333 ms and then remained stable until the occurrence of the response signal. In light of previous studies, the present results suggest that the decrement of cortico-spinal excitability during the short foreperiod reflects an adaptative mechanism which increases the sensitivity of the motor structures to the forthcoming voluntary command.
Previous studies have shown GM1 ganglioside to play a crucial role in regulating excitatory opioid receptor function, which may underlie some aspects of opioid dependence, tolerance, and supersensitivity. To study the mechanism of this receptor modulation we have employed CHO cells containing a single, transfected opioid receptor of the delta-type. When forskolin was employed to elevate cAMP the reduction affected by 10 microM DADLE was counteracted by preincubation of the cells with GM1. No effect was observed with GD1a, GD1b, GT1b GM3, or the GM1 derivative, GM1-OH. In pertussis toxin-treated cells 10 nM DADLE increased basal levels of cAMP after preincubation with as little as 10 nM GM1. The results suggest conformational alteration of the opioid receptor from a form coupled primarily to G(i)/G(o) to one also capable of interacting with G(s).
Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT, EC 2.3.1.6) is the biosynthetic enzyme for acetylcholine. We have previously shown that multiple ChAT mRNA species with different 5'-noncoding regions are expressed in the rat and mouse. However, the diversity of ChAT mRNA species in human has not completely been elucidated. In this work N1- and N2-type ChAT cDNAs were cloned from a human brain cDNA library and the N-exon located in the human ChAT gene. Polymerase chain reaction analysis indicates that four species of ChAT mRNAs (R-, N1-, N2- and M-types) are produced in human brain and spinal cord. In all human transcripts, the ATG initiation codon in the rat, mouse and pig was replaced by ACG, which does not serve as an initiation codon for translation. In vitro translation and mammalian expression analyses revealed that N1-, N2- and R-type mRNAs give rise to a single 69 kDa enzyme, while M-type mRNA produces both 82 and 69 kDa enzymes. The translation efficiency of M-type mRNA was lower than that of the other mRNA species. Moreover, the translation efficiency of human ChAT mRNAs was considerably lower than that of rat ChAT mRNA, suggesting that the ATG codons for human ChAT are unfavorable for translation initiation compared with the initiation codon for rat ChAT. These results provide rational explanations for the previous reports that human ChAT protein purified from the brain and placenta had 66-70 kDa molecular mass, and that ChAT activity in a single motor neuron of human was far lower than that of other vertebrates. Sequencing of monkey ChAT gene showed that the initiation ATG in rodent ChAT was also replaced by ACA in the monkey.
The present study evaluates the consequences of high frequency (25 hz) trans-cranial magnetic stimulation on the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in the murine CNS. Trains of transcranial magnetic stimulation (1-30 trains at 25 Hz, 10 s duration) were delivered to mice via 5-cm diameter round coils. The stimulation produced stimulus-locked motor responses but did not elicit behavioral seizures. GFAP mRNA levels were evaluated 12, 24, 36, 48 h, 4 days, and 8 days following stimulation by in situ hybridization. Following multiple 25 Hz trains, there were dramatic increases in the levels of GFAP mRNA in the hippocampal dentate gyrus; more modest increases were observed in the cerebral cortex. The selective increases in GFAP mRNA in the dentate gyrus were similar to those observed following single electroconvulsive seizures (ECS). These results indicate that trans-cranial magnetic stimulation can be used to modulate astroglial gene expression, inducing the first stage of a reactive response that is similar to what occurs following nervous system injury.
We studied the cellular localization and osmotic regulation of taurine transporter (TauT) mRNA in the rat eyes using in situ hybridization. TauT mRNA signals were expressed in the ciliary body, and the outer part of the inner nuclear layer (INL), the outer nuclear layer (ONL) and the inner segment (IS) of the adult rat retina. Chronic hypernatrema, induced by gavaging with 1 ml/100 g body weight of 5% NaCl every other day for 7 days, markedly increased in TauT mRNA in the retina compared with control rats. However, there was little change in TauT mRNA in the eyes in acute hypernatremic state that is induced by single injection of high concentration of NaCl. On the contrary, acute hypernatremic rats displayed markedly elevated Na+/myo-inositol cotransporter (SMIT) mRNA in the retina and the iris-ciliary body and the lens epithelium. Under chronic hypernatremic conditions, there was no significant increase in SMIT mRNA in rat eyes. These findings suggest that TauT mRNA is osmotically regulated in vivo to protect retinal neuronal function, especially against chronic hypernatremic conditions, in contrast to rapid up-regulation of SMIT mRNA in acute hypernatremic rats.
The mRNA expression of GABA transporter 1 (GAT1) was investigated in the rat brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry using an oligonucleotide probe specific to the mRNA. The pattern of GABA transporter 1 mRNA expression was well coincident with that of GABAergic terminals detected by using glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) as a marker. In addition, we compared the GAT1 mRNA expression with that of glutamic acid decarboxylase67 (GAD67) mRNA positive neurons. Although the expression patterns of both mRNAs were similar in most nuclei, the number of GABA transporter 1 mRNA positive cells were higher than that of GAD67 mRNA positive cells in some nuclei, such as the inferior colliculus, cerebellar nuclei and cerebral cortex. Furthermore the subthalamic nucleus and inferior olive nucleus, which lacked GAD67 mRNA expression, showed intense GABA transporter 1 mRNA expression. These data suggest that GABA transporter 1 mRNA is expressed not only in GABAergic neurons but also in non-GABAergic neurons and/or glial cells which are involved in GABAergic neurotransmission.


The inability to determine the precise intracellular location of non-fluorescent organic calcium chelators such as BAPTA is a persistent problem which has precluded much detailed analysis of the chelators' spatial or temporal dynamics in live cells. Similarly, following physiological experiments with fluorescent indicators like Fura-2, it has often been desirable to maintain the dye within the cell for later analysis by additional histological techniques. Based on chemical considerations, and its prior use in tissue fixation, we examined the water soluble reagent 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide (EDC) as a potential fixative for diverse calcium chelators. The utility of EDC, but not other common fixatives, was confirmed through electrophysiological means, through a novel ELISA, which exploits anti-BAPTA antibodies to assess the extent and kinetics of fixation; by autoradiography of neurons loaded with [14C]-BAPTA, and by immunocytochemistry and imaging of intracellular BAPTA or Calcium Green in neurons. At concentrations &gt; 0.1 mg/ml, EDC caused virtually instantaneous, irreversible, fixation of &gt; 95% of BAPTA free acid. Fixation of intracellular BAPTA was confirmed in hippocampal brain slices loaded with BAPTA/AM ester, and showed biphasic kinetics consistent with rapid loading and subsequent extrusion of the chelator. Immunocytochemistry on neurons microinjected with BAPTA free acid and the dye Lucifer Yellow showed BAPTA-specific staining which was distributed in the cell similarly to that of the accompanying marker dye. Application of EDC also efficiently fixed in situ analogs of BAPTA such as Calcium Green (a fluorescent Ca2+ indicator) as shown by confocal imaging of EDC-fixed brain slices loaded with this indicator. Taken together, these data show that EDC is an effective, inexpensive and versatile fixative for calcium chelators in diverse cells. The availability of a suitable fixative now makes it possible to determine the distributions of such chelators at both the light and, possibly, the electron microscope level. Two important features of EDC, arise from its specificity for free carboxyl groups. First, the ability to fix, selectively, the chelators but not their AM esters; and, second, its enormous potential as a fixative for the numerous other carboxyl-containing chelators, dyes and pH indicators currently available.

The distribution of the immediate early gene c-fos expression in the mouse central nervous system after subcutaneous injection of Bay K 8644 was observed immunohistochemically. Half an hour after injection, c-fos protein (FOS) was expressed in the piriform cortex, sensorimotor cortex, caudate putamen, thalamic paraventricular nucleus and striate cortex, etc. Intense FOS immunoreactive (FOS-ir) cells were seen during 2-4 h after injection. The results suggested that the distribution of FOS-ir cells after subcutaneous injection of Bay K 8644 was coincident with that of L-type calcium channels in the different areas of the CNS. After Bay K 8644 injection, mice appeared seizure-like behavior. The percentage of cells double-labelled by FOS and CaBP immunoreactivities in the observed regions was about 60.2-72.8% in CaBP-ir cells. It suggested that most CaBP-ir cells may have L-type calcium channels.
Aneurysm of the ductus arteriosus has been reported in children more frequently than in adults [1-4]. The rarity of the lesion explains the low rate of recognition by the radiologist, especially because symptoms are non-specific in most cases. Clinically and radiologically, aneurysm of the ductal diverticulum can be confused with other mass lesions in the aorticopulmonary window. We report CT features of two ductal aneurysm in the adult with atypical presentation.
Philosophers concerned with issues of mind have been turning to the neurosciences, especially neuropsychology, for empirical guidance. While I endorse this emphasis, I find that one important neuropsychological phenomenon, blindsight appears to have been misused by some prominent philosophers. In this paper, I examine this alleged misuse by spelling out the accounts of blindsight given by Daniel Dennett and Ned Block. I attempt to show that both Dennett and Block have ignored many complications surrounding blindsight including subjects' reports of visual sensations. This neglect has serious ramifications for their respective models of human consciousness which I also try to explicate. Further, by misrepresenting blindsight, these accounts serve to hamper scientific and philosophical understanding of the phenomenon and of consciousness. I conclude by sketching a model of blindsight that acknowledges these neglected details.
The present study focuses on semantic deficits in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We distinguish three different levels of semantic knowledge: (1) lexical, (2) semantic-conceptual, (3) conscious understanding. We devised methods that tap levels (2) and (3). Our aim was to determine how much guidance AD patients need to consciously access a given semantic-conceptual field and how well they can understand the meanings of concepts and semantic relations. Four different tasks were used to tap different kinds of concepts, the relationships between concepts and their attributes, and the hierarchical structure among different concepts. The retrieval demands of the tasks were eased by presenting guiding questions. The results revealed that AD patients have deficient voluntary access to semantic-conceptual representations. The deficits persist even in passive recognition and forced-choice tasks. We conclude that AD patients have a generalized access deficit, although some aspects of the results are suggestive of storage deficit.
Functional imaging techniques offer new possibilities for further understanding of changes in functional correlates of structural and biological changes in dementia disorders like Alzheimer's disease (AD). Regional disturbances in glucose metabolism and cerebral blood flow are known to occur in AD brains and probably roughly correlate to changes in neurotransmitter activities. A proper estimate would be to visualize the neuroreceptors themselves. In this study the cholinergic nicotinic and muscarinic receptors were studied in brain by positron emission tomography (PET). The rate constant k2* (s) (-)11C-nicotine was significantly higher (+43%) in temporal cortex of AD patients compared to controls (p &lt; 0.017) indicating a lower binding of 11C-nicotine in AD brains compared to controls. Treatment with the cholinesterase inhibitor tacrine (80 mg daily) during 3 months to AD patients resulted in a mean plasma concentration of 7.7 +/- 0.8 ng/ml and a corresponding inhibition of the cholinesterase activity in plasma by 34 +/- 5%. A significantly lower k2* (increased binding) for 11C-nicotine binding (-15%; p &lt; 0.006) was obtained in the temporal cortex after 3 months of treatment compared to prior treatment. The muscarinic antagonist 11C-benztropine was used to visualize muscarinic receptors and the binding capacity of 11C-benztropine (KR) was found to be decreased in the temporal cortex after 3 months of tacrine treatment.
In larvae of the hawkmoth, Manduca sexta, accessory planta retractor (APR) motoneurons undergo a segment-specific pattern of programmed cell death at pupation. APR death is triggered hormonally by the prepupal peak of the ecdysteroid, 20-hydroxyecdysone (20-HE). Previous studies found no evidence that cellular interactions regulate the segmental pattern of APR death in vivo. To test the hypothesis that 20-HE acts directly on APRs to trigger a cell-autonomous, segment-specific pattern of death, APRs were labeled with the fluorescent dyes DiI or DiA, removed from the nervous system before the prepupal peak, and placed in low-density cell culture. Physiological levels of 20-HE triggered the same segment-specific pattern of APR death in vitro as seen in vivo, both in cultures containing a single APR and in cultures containing two APRs removed from the same donor animal. The presence or absence of contact with other cells did not influence the APRs' responses to 20-HE. The death of APRs in culture was characterized by fragmentation or rounding up of the cell body and fragmentation of the neurites. These findings suggest that intrinsic segmental identity regulates whether these motoneurons live or die when exposed to a steroid hormone during development.
Although it had long been believed that embryonic taste buds in vertebrates were induced to differentiate by ingrowing nerve fibers, we and others have recently shown that embryonic taste buds can develop normally in the complete absence of innervation. This leads to the question of which tissues, if any, induce the formation of taste buds in oropharyngeal endoderm. We proposed that taste buds, like many specialized epithelial cells, might arise via an inductive interaction between the endodermal epithelial cells that line the oropharynx and the adjacent mesenchyme that is derived from both cephalic neural crest and paraxial mesoderm. Using complementary grafting and explant culture techniques, however, we have now found that well-differentiated taste buds will develop in tissue completely devoid of neural crest and paraxial mesoderm derivatives. When the presumptive oropharyngeal region was removed from salamander embryos prior to the onset of cephalic neural crest migration, taste buds developed in grafts and explants coincident with their appearance in intact control embryos. Similarly, explants from neurulae in which movement of paraxial mesoderm had not yet begun also developed taste buds after 9-12 days in vitro. We conclude that neither cranial neural crest nor paraxial mesoderm is responsible for the induction of embryonic taste buds. Surprisingly, the ability to develop taste buds late in embryonic development seems to be an intrinsic feature of the oropharyngeal endoderm that is determined by the completion of gastrulation.
Voltage-gated Na+ channels generate the depolarizing inward current that is critical for the initiation and conduction of action potentials. To study the roles of Na+ channels in neuronal signaling, we have begun the molecular analysis of Na+ channels in Aplysia californica. We have isolated cDNAs that encode a neuronal Na+ channel alpha-subunit, which we have named SCAP1. DNA sequence analysis of the SCAP1 cDNA revealed an open reading frame that predicts a protein of 1,993 amino acids, which is highly similar to other members of the Na+ channel alpha-subunit gene family. RNase protection assays carried out on various Aplysia tissues indicated that SCAP1 is expressed predominantly in the nervous system. All of the nonneuronal tissues tested were negative with the exceptions that low levels of expression were observed in ovotestis and parapodium, probably due to the presence of small numbers of neurons within these tissue preparations. Southern blot hybridization at reduced stringency indicated that the genome of Aplysia contains more than one Na+ channel alpha-subunit gene.
MANOVA and repeated measures ANOVA approaches have provided evidence of a number of limitations in several event-related potential (ERP) studies due to violations of their statistical assumptions and the typically moderate size of the available sample. Alternative, computer-intensive methods based on permutation principles have recently been developed. Up to now this methodology has focused mostly on magnitude differences between scalp distributions as measured by t statistics. In this paper the scope of permutation techniques in ERP analysis was widened. A new statistic (D statistic) is introduced to compare the shapes of scalp distributions of ERPs. Additionally a general non-parametric combinatory technique is introduced to evaluate, by means of multivariate permutation tests, several time points and/or recording sites in ERP data. The methodology described here was used to test if two ERP components elicited during word-pair matching tasks to semantic or phonological incongruences had different scalp distributions.
Sensitization in the neuroscience and pharmacology literatures is defined as progressive increase in the size of a response over repeated presentations of a stimulus. Types of sensitization include stimulant drug-induced time-dependent sensitization (TDS), an animal model related to substance abuse, and limbic kindling, an animal model for temporal lobe epilepsy. Neural sensitization (primarily nonconvulsive or subconvulsive) to the adverse properties of substances has been hypothesized to underlie the initiation and subsequent elicitation of heightened sensitivity to low levels of environmental chemicals. A corollary of the sensitization model is that individuals with illness from low-level chemicals are among the more sensitizable members of the population. The Working Group on Sensitization and Kindling identified two primary goals for a research approach to this problem: to perform controlled experiments to determine whether or not sensitization to low-level chemical exposures occurs in multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS) patients; and to use animal preparations for kindling and TDS as nonhomologous models for the initiation and elicitation of MCS.
This paper summarizes the clinical phenomenology of multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS), outlines the concepts and evidence for the olfactory-limbic, neural sensitization model for MCS, and discusses experimental design implications of the model for exposure-related research. Neural sensitization is the progressive amplification of responsivity by the passage of time between repeated, intermittent exposures. Initiation of sensitization may require single toxic or multiple subtoxic exposures, but subsequent elicitation of sensitized responses can involve low or nontoxic levels. Thus, neural sensitization could account for the ability of low levels of environmental chemicals to elicit clinically severe, adverse reactions in MCS. Different forms of sensitization include limbic kindling of seizures (compare temporal lobe epilepsy and simple partial seizures) and time-dependent sensitization of behavioral, neurochemical, immunological, and endocrinological variables. Sensitized dysfunction of the limbic and mesolimbic systems could account in part for many of the cognitive, affective, and somatic symptoms in MCS. Derealization (an alteration in perception making familiar objects or people seem unfamiliar or unreal) is a common MCS symptom and has been linked with limbic dysfunction in clinical neuroscience research. Sensitization is distinct from, but interactive with, other neurobiological learning and memory processes such as conditioning and habituation (compare adaptation or tolerance). In previous studies, hypotheses for MCS involving sensitization, conditioning, and habituation (adaptation) have often been considered in isolation from one another. To design more appropriate chemical exposure studies, it may be important to integrate the various theoretical models and empirical approaches to MCS with the larger scientific literature on individual differences in these potentially interactive phenomena.
This article provides an overview of the scientific literature in which chemically sensitive patients have been directly evaluated. For that purpose, consideration of various case definitions is offered along with summaries of subjects' demographic profiles, exposure characteristics, and symptom profiles across studies. Controlled investigations of chemically sensitive subjects without other organic illnesses are reviewed. To date, psychiatric, personality, cognitive/neurologic, immunologic, and olfactory studies have been conducted comparing subjects with primary chemical sensitivity to various control groups. Thus far, the most consistent finding is that chemically sensitive patients have a higher rate of psychiatric disorders across studies and relative to diverse comparison groups. However, since these studies are cross-sectional, causality cannot be implied. Demonstrating the role of low-level chemical exposure in a controlled environment has yet to be undertaken with this patient group and is crucial to the understanding of this phenomenon.



The field of neurology is undergoing significant changes to which curricular reform is both responding and contributing. We reflect on a decade of experience at Harvard Medical School with integration of neuroscience, behaviour, pathophysiology and introductory clinical skills. As part of Harvard's &quot;New Pathway&quot; curriculum, this coordinated, pre-clerkship program embraces a &quot;hybrid&quot; form of problem-based learning. A variety of methods are employed synergistically to meet the two broad goals of preparing for competency in neurologic clerkships and for career-long learning in clinically relevant neuroscience. We articulate specific ways of elevating the level of intellectual inquiry, involving multi-disciplinary faculty more productively, and vertically integrating the learning experience through the years of medical school.
Interneurons in the dentate area were characterized physiologically and filled with biocytin in urethane-anaesthetized rats. On the basis of axonal targets the following groups could be distinguished. (i) Large multipolar interneurons with spiny dendrites in the deep hilar region densely innervated the outer molecular layer and contacted both granule cells and parvalbumin-positive neurons (hilar interneuron with perforant pathway-associated axon terminals; HIPP cells). (ii) A pyramidal-shaped neuron with a cell body located in the subgranular layer innervated mostly the inner molecular layer and the granule cell layer (hilar interneuron with commissural-associational pathway-associated axon terminals; HICAP cell). It contacted both granule cells and interneurons. Axon collaterals of HIPP and HICAP neurons covered virtually the entire septo-temporal extent of the dorsal dentate gyrus. (iii) Calbindin-immunoreactive neurons with horizontal dendrites in stratum oriens of the CA3c region gave rise to a rich axon arbor in strata oriens, pyramidale and radiatum and innervated almost the entire extent of the dorsal hippocampus, with some collaterals entering the subicular area (putative trilaminar cell). (iv) Hilar basket cells innervated mostly the granule cell layer and to some extent the inner molecular layer and the CA3c pyramidal layer. HIPP and trilaminar interneurons could be antidromically activated by stimulation of the fimbria. Only the HICAP cells could be monosynaptically discharged by the perforant path input. All interneurons examined showed phase-locked activity to the extracellularly recorded theta/gamma oscillations or to irregular dentate electroencephalogram spikes. These observations indicate that the interconnected interneuronal system plays a critical role in coordinating population of the dentate gyrus and Ammon's hom.
In the lumbar ventral horn of pentobarbitone-anaesthetised cats, (-)-baclofen reduces both the synaptic release of excitatory transmitter from muscle group Ia afferent terminations and the duration of the presynaptic action potentials of these terminations, presumably by interfering with the influx of calcium ions through voltage-activated channels. Baclofen, however, has little or no effect on cholinergic excitation at motor axon collateral synapses on spinal Renshaw cells and, in the present study, was found not to reduce the duration of the action potential of axon collateral terminations located in the vicinity of Renshaw cells in pentobarbitone-anaesthetised cats. Furthermore, in contrast to group Ia terminations, a 4-aminopyridine-sensitive potassium conductance could not be detected as contributing to axon collateral termination action potentials. These results suggest that there may be differences in presynaptic ion fluxes associated with transmitter release at the intraspinal terminations of group Ia afferent fibres and motor axon collaterals in the cat spinal cord.
In the ventral horn of the lumbar spinal cord of cats anaesthetised with pentobarbitone sodium, micro-electrophoretically administered (-)-baclofen, but not (+)-baclofen, reversibly reduced the duration of the orthodromic action potential of muscle group Ia afferent terminations, but not those of muscle group I afferent myelinated fibres. The presumably submicromolar concentrations are already known to reversibly reduce excitatory transmitter release from muscle group Ia afferent terminations. Action potential durations were estimated from threshold recovery curves after an orthodromic impulse using an extracellular microstimulation technique. Both of these presynaptic effects of (-)-baclofen were blocked by baclofen antagonists, and neither appeared to be reduced by the potassium channel blocking agents tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine. Tetraethylammonium and 4-aminopyridine also did not significantly modify the reduction by (-)-baclofen of monosynaptic field potentials in the lumbar cord of rats anaesthetised with pentobarbitone sodium. In the cat the maximum reduction by (-)-baclofen of termination action potentials was considerably less than that produced by cadmium ions, which, unlike (-)-baclofen, also reduced the action potential duration of group I myelinated fibres. These findings are consistent with a reduction by (-)-baclofen of the influx of calcium through voltage-activated channels in the membrane of group Ia terminations, a proposal which also accounts for the reduction by (-)-baclofen of the release of GABA at axo-axonic depolarizing synapses on these terminations. The results are discussed in relation to the mode of action of (-)-baclofen and the different sensitivities of transmitter release at various central synapses.
The present study examines the ability of muscarinic receptor activation to modulate glutamatergic responses in the in vitro rat auditory cortex. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from layer II-III pyramidal neurons and responses elicited by either stimulation of deep gray matter or iontophoretic application of glutamate receptor agonists. Iontophoresis of the muscarinic agonist acetyl-beta-methylcholine (MCh) produced an atropine-sensitive reduction in the amplitude of glutamate-induced membrane depolarizations that was followed by a long-lasting (at least 20 min) response enhancement. Glutamate depolarizations were enhanced by MCh when elicited in the presence of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)/kainate receptor antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) or 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl, benzo(F)quinoxaline (NBQX) but not the NMDA antagonists D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) or MK-801 hydrogen maleate. The magnitude of enhancement was voltage-dependent with the percentage increase greater at more depolarized membrane potentials. An involvement of NMDA receptors in these MCh-mediated effects was tested by using AMPA/kainate receptor antagonists to isolate the NMDA-mediated slow excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) from other synaptic potentials. The slow EPSP and iontophoretic responses to NMDA were similarly modified by MCh, i.e., both being reduced during and enhanced (15-55 min) following MCh application. Cholinergic modulation of NMDA responses involves the engagement of G proteins, as enhancement was prevented by intracellular infusion with the nonhydrolyzable GDP analog guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) trilithium salt (GDPbetaS). GDPbetaS was without effect on the early MCh-induced response suppression. Our results suggest that acetylcholine, acting at muscarinic receptors, produces a long-lasting enhancement of NMDA-mediated neurotransmission in auditory cortex, and that this modulatory effect is dependent upon a G protein-mediated event.
Light touch contact of a fingertip with a stationary surface can provide orientation information that enhances control of upright stance. Slight changes in contact force at the fingertip provide sensory cues about the direction of body sway, allowing attenuation of sway. In the present study, we asked to which extent somatosensory cues are part of the postural control system, that is, which sensory signal supports this coupling? We investigated postural control not only when the contact surface was stationary, but also when it was moving rhythmically (from 0.1 to 0.5 Hz). In doing so, we brought somatosensory cues from the hand into conflict with other parts of the postural control system. Our focus was the temporal relationship between body sway and the contact surface. Postural sway was highly coherent with contact surface motion. Head and body sway assumed the frequency of the moving contact surface at all test frequencies. To account for these results, a simple model was formulated by approximating the postural control system as a second-order linear dynamical system. The influence of the touch stimulus was captured as the difference between the velocity of the contact surface and the velocity of body sway, multiplied by a coupling constant. Comparison of empirical results (relative phase, coherence, and gain) with model predictions supports the hypothesis of coupling between body sway and touch cues through the velocity of the somatosensory stimulus at the fingertip. One subject, who perceived movement of the touch surface, demonstrated weaker coupling than other subjects, suggesting that cognitive mechanisms introduce flexibility into the postural control scheme.
This study was primarily aimed at investigating the selectivity of the cortico-spinal actions exerted on the pathways mediating primary afferent depolarization (PAD) of muscle spindle and tendon organ afferents ending within the intermediate nucleus at the L6-L7 segmental level. To this end we analyzed, in the anesthetized cat, the effects produced by electrical stimulation of sensory nerves and of the cerebral cortex on (a) the intraspinal threshold of pairs of single group I afferent fibers belonging to the same or to different hindlimb muscles and (b) the intraspinal threshold of two collaterals of the same muscle afferent fiber. Afferent fibers were classified in three categories, according to the effects produced by stimulation of segmental nerves and of the cerebral cortex. Twenty-five of 40 fibers (62.5%) were depolarized by stimulation of group I posterior biceps and semitendinosus (PBSt) or tibialis (Tib) fibers, but not by stimulation of the cerebral cortex or of cutaneous and joint nerves, which instead inhibited the PBSt- or Tib-induced PAD (type A PAD pattern, usually seen in Ia fibers). The remaining 15 fibers (37.5%) were all depolarized by stimulation of the PBSt or Tib nerves and the cerebral cortex. Stimulation of cutaneous and joint nerves produced PAD in 10 of those 15 fibers (type B PAD pattern) and inhibited the PBSt- or Tib-induced PAD in the 5 remaining fibers (type C PAD pattern). Fibers with a type B or C PAD pattern are likely to be Ib. Not all sites in the cerebral cortex inhibited with the same effectiveness the segmentally induced PAD of group I fibers with a type A PAD pattern. With the weakest stimulation of the cortical surface, the most effective sites that inhibited the PAD of individual fibers were surrounded by less effective sites, scattered all along the motor cortex (area 4gamma and 6) and sensory cortex (areas 3, 2 and 1), far beyond the area of projection of group I fibers from the hindlimb. With higher strengths of cortical stimulation, the magnitude of the inhibition was also increased, and previously ineffective or weakly effective sites became more effective. Maps obtained when using the weakest cortical stimuli have indicated that the most effective regions that produced PAD of group I fibers with a type B or type C PAD pattern were also scattered throughout the sensory-motor cortex, in the same general area as those that inhibited the PAD of group I afferents with a type A PAD pattern. In eight fibers with a type A PAD pattern it was possible to examine the intraspinal threshold of two collaterals of the same single afferent fiber ending within the intermediate nucleus at the L7 segmental level. In six fibers, stimulation of the PBSt nerve with trains of pulses between 1.5 and 1.86 times threshold (xT) produced a larger PAD in one collateral than in the other. In seven fibers, stimulation of the sensory-motor cortex and of cutaneous nerves produced a larger inhibition of the PBSt-induced PAD in one collateral than in the other. The ratio of the cortically induced inhibition of the PAD elicited in the two collaterals could be modified by changing the strength of cortical and of PBSt stimulation. In three fibers it was possible to inhibit almost completely the background PAD elicited in one collateral while having little or no effect on the PAD in the other collateral. Changes in the intraspinal threshold of pairs of collaterals following electrical stimulation of segmental nerves and of the somato-sensory cortex were examined in three fibers with a type B and two fibers with a type C PAD pattern. In four fibers the PAD elicited by stimulation of cutaneous (4-20xT) and muscle nerves (1.54-3.7xT), or by stimulation of the sensory-motor cortex, was of different magnitude in the two collaterals. In two experiments it was possible to find cortical sites in which weak surface stimulation produced PAD in one collateral only. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)
The discovery of the novel neurotrophic factor glial cell-line derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in 1993 sparked the interest of basic neuroscientists and clinicians alike. Since that time, many aspects of GDNF's physiology and pharmacology have been studied in great detail. GDNF has been shown to be a potent survival factor for dopaminergic neurons during development. GDNF also has been shown to be a survival factor and neurotrophic factor for nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons in the adult. The factor also reverses behavioral deficits in a rodent and primate model of Parkinson's disease. The overall goal will be to discuss the pharmacology of GDNF in the context of a potential therapeutic use to treat Parkinson's disease. Thus, the following report presents a comprehensive review of the development of GDNF's pharmacology and evidence which supports the clinical use of GDNF to treat dopaminergic deficits and motor dysfunctions in Parkinson's disease.
In mixed glial cell cultures from cerebral cortices of newborn rats, endotoxin induces inducible nitric oxide (iNOS), nitric oxide (NO), and interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) production in microglial cells. Earlier we demonstrated that endotoxin induced iNOS but not IL-1 beta expression in microglial cells is inhibited by the presence of astroglial cells. In the present paper we describe studies on the mechanism by which astroglial cells exert selective suppressive action on iNOS expression by microglial cells. Expression of iNOS and IL-1 beta was studied by single or double label immunocytochemical techniques and cell identification was performed with GSA-I-B4-isolectin and an antibody against GFAP. Production of IL-1 beta and NO was determined by measurement of IL-1 beta and nitrite concentrations in cell lysates and the culture medium, respectively. TGF beta, a cytokine known to inhibit NO production by endotoxin challenged macrophages, was measured in culture medium of mixed glial cell cultures using a bioassay. Microglial, astroglial, and mixed glial cell cultures produced similar concentrations of TGF beta. The potential effect of TGF beta was studied by using immunoneutralizing antibodies against TGF beta 1 and TGF beta 2 on the induction of iNOS in microglial cells in the presence of astroglial cells. Incubation of the mixed glial cell culture with these TGF beta antibodies (3 micrograms/ml) markedly increased endotoxin-induced NO production and iNOS expression in microglial cells, whereas the production of IL-1 beta was not affected. The antibodies against TGF beta 1 and TGF beta 2 marginally increased NO production in pure microglial cell cultures, nonetheless in cultures of purified microglial cells recombinant TGF beta 1 and TGF beta 2 together with endotoxin inhibited NO production. We conclude that the presence of astroglial cells is essential for the inhibitory effect of TGF beta on NO production by microglial cells (possibly) by activation of TGF beta or by increasing the sensitivity of microglial cells for TGF beta.

There is increasing evidence that alterations of glutamatergic function are implicated in the pathogenesis of central nervous system consequences of acute liver failure. The aim of the study was to assess the integrity of glutamate receptors in the brain in experimental ischemic liver failure using quantitative receptor autoradiography and the selective ligands [3H]MK801 (for N-methyl-D-aspartate [NMDA] sites), [3H]5-fluorowillardiine (for non-NMDA, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid [AMPA] subclass sites), and [3H]kainate (for non-NMDA, kainate subclass sites). At coma stages of encephalopathy, a selective loss of up to 60% of binding sites for the kainate- and AMPA-receptor ligands was observed in cerebral cortical and hippocampal structures as well as in the hypothalamus and cerebellum. The finding of a selective loss of AMPA sites at coma stages of encephalopathy in this model of acute liver failure is consistent with previous electrophysiological reports of inhibition of AMPA-mediated neuronal depolarization resulting from exposure of hippocampal neurons to millimolar concentrations of ammonia. On the other hand, the present study showed that binding sites for the NMDA-receptor ligand [3H]MK801 at coma stages of encephalopathy in acute liver failure were within normal limits in all brain structures examined. NMDA sites are uniquely neuronal, whereas kainate and AMPA sites are localized on both neurons and astrocytes. Therefore, the selective loss of non-NMDA sites in acute liver failure may also reflect astrocytic changes in this condition. Because astrocytic glutamate receptors are implicated in K+ and neurotransmitter reuptake, alterations in their density could result in altered neuronal excitability and thus be responsible for the neurological dysfunction characteristic of hepatic encephalopathy in acute liver failure.
L-carnitine administration prevents the neurological symptoms of acute ammonia toxicity. To further evaluate its efficacy in the prevention of hepatic encephalopathy in hyperammonemic conditions, L-carnitine (16 mmol/kg, intraperitoneally [i.p.] was administered 1 hour before ammonium acetate (NH4OAc) (8.5 mmol/kg, subcutaneously) to portacaval shunted (PCS) rats. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) ammonia, lactate, and amino acid levels were measured in relation to deteriorating neurological status in these animals. None of 35 L-carnitine-treated animals showed neurological deterioration after NH4OAC administration compared with saline-treated controls; the latter manifested severe encephalopathy progressing through loss of righting reflex to coma. Survival rate was 100% in the L-carnitine-treated group compared with 5% in saline-treated controls. Following NH4OAC administration to PCS rats, CSF ammonia increased to 0.93 +/- 0.15 mmol/L and 1.24 +/- 0.15 mmol/L at precoma and coma stages of encephalopathy (P &lt; .01) respectively. Treatment with L-carnitine reduced CSF ammonia at both precoma and coma stages; the time-course of this protective effect paralleled blood and CSF L-carnitine accumulation. CSF alanine and lactate increases following NH4OAC administration to PCS rats were significantly attenuated following L-carnitine treatment. However, L-carnitine treatment did not lead to significant reductions in plasma ammonia nor CSF or brain glutamine in these animals. These findings show the therapeutic efficacy of L-carnitine in ammonia-precipitated coma in PCS rats and suggest that this protective effect is centrally mediated involving improved mitochondrial respiration. L-carnitine could be of therapeutic benefit in the prevention of hepatic encephalopathy precipitated by ammoniagenic conditions in humans with chronic liver disease.
Previously we reported suggestive evidence for linkage of schizophrenia to markers on chromosome 13q14.1-q32. We have now studied an additional independent sample of 44 pedigrees consisting of 34 Taiwanese, 9 English and 1 Welsh family in an attempt to replicate this finding. Narrow and broad models based on Research Diagnostic Criteria or the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, third edition, revised, were used to define the schizophrenia phenotype. Under a dominant genetic model, two-point lod scores obtained for most of the markers were negative except that marker D13S122 gave a total lod score of 1.06 (theta = 0.2, broad model). As combining pedigrees from different ethnic origins may be inappropriate, we combined this replication sample and our original sample, and then divided the total sample into Caucasian (English and Welsh pedigrees) and Oriental (Taiwanese and Japanese pedigrees) groups. The Caucasian pedigrees produced maximized admixture two-point lod scores (A-lod) of 1.41 for the marker D13S119 (theta = 0.2, alpha = 1.0) and 1.54 for D13S128 (theta = 0, alpha = 0.3) with nearby markers also producing positive A-lod scores. When five-point model-free linkage analysis was applied to the Caucasian sample, a maximum lod score of 2.58 was obtained around the markers D13S122 and D13S128, which are located on chromosome 13q32. The linkage results for the Oriental group were less positive than the Caucasian group. Our results again suggest that there is a potential susceptibility locus for schizophrenia on chromosome 13q14.1-q32, especially in the Caucasian population.
T-cell clonal anergy induced by peptide analogs in the presence of live APC in murine systems was reported to be associated with incomplete tyrosine phosphorylation of the CD3 zeta chain followed by a lack of subsequent ZAP-70 recruitment. Furthermore, protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP-1 was associated with ZAP-70 upon T-cell activation, leading to a dominant negative signaling. In this study, we used nonself BCGa-specific human ThO clones and investigated the antagonistic/partial agonistic activities of one-residue-substituted analog peptides. The results showed that (a) certain one-residue-substituted analogs can partially activate T cells to produce lymphokines, without proliferation; (b) a peptide with a conservative one-residue substitution can induce T-cell anergy in the presence of live APC, but T cells are capable of responding to exogenously added IL-2; and (c) the induction of anergy is accompanied by marked dephosphorylation of a 110-kDa protein, without either upregulation of CD25 or any changes in CD3 zeta phosphorylation patterns, suggesting that TCR-mediated dominant negative signaling through phosphatase(s) in another mechanism that may lead to the induction of T-cell clonal anergy by altered TCR ligands.
As age related changes in the brain have not been systematically studied in the Indian population though there is an impression that they are less frequent, we studied 52 brains collected at autopsy from individuals above the age of 60 yr. The incidence of senile plaques (SPs) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) together were found to increase with age from 21 per cent in the seventh decade to 33 per cent in the eighth decade and 54 per cent in the ninth decade, the increasing incidence of NFTs being statistically significant. The SPs were found both in the hippocampus and frontal cortex while NFTs were seen only in the hippocampus in non-demented aged individuals. In contrast, in the three cases of Alzheimer's disease (symbol: see text) AD studied, the NFTs and SPs were found in high density in both hippocampus and frontal cortex. By immunohistochemistry, various morphological forms of SPs were found to have beta amyloid protein consistently, while ubiquitin and phosphorylated neurofilament occurred variably. More number of SPs could be labelled by amyloid immunostaining than by conventional silver stains. The NFTs contained ubiquitin and phosphorylated neurofilament protein as the antigenic components, both in AD and normal ageing. The incidence of age related changes and their antigenic character in the limited sample studied from south India appears to be comparable to findings from the West. Multicentric studies on a large sample derived from different ethnic groups in India are needed to further evaluate these features.
This propsective study analyses the role of blink reflex (BR) in 75 patients with Cerebellopontine Angle (CPA) tumours. The aim was to find out the subclinical involvement from the blink reflex findings. Fifth nerve was clinically involved in 82.7% patients while, BR was able to detect afferent abnormality only in 54% patients. The seventh nerve was clinically involved in 74.7% and blink reflex could detect the efferent abnormality is 72% patients. Thus, clinicoelectrophysiological correlation was 56.4% and 72% for V and VII nerve respectively. In the patients in whom there was no V or VII nerve involvement BR showed VII nerve involvement in 12% patients. The subclinical involvement of the V nerve and the brainstem were detected by BR in 4% patients each. In conclusion BR is good test for the assessment of VII nerve function as compared to V nerve function. BR could pick of subclinical involvement in 20% patients.
Hyperargininemia due to arginase deficiency is a rare, inherited, urea cycle disorder. We report a case of arginase deficiency in a 5-year old boy presenting with mild hyperammonemia, hyperargininemia, and dibasic aminoaciduria.
Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an accepted animal model for the human demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis. The continuously propagated line of Lewis rat T helper lymphocytes (GP1 T cells), specific for the encephalitogenic 68-86 sequence of guinea pig myelin basic protein (GPMBP), mediates the adoptive transfer of EAE into normal syngeneic Lewis rats. Because mitogenic activation of T cells can increase K(+) conductance, this study investigated changes in the outwardly rectifying K(+) conductance in GP1 T cells following activation with the encephalitogen, GPMBP. Using the gigohm.seal whole-cell variation of the patch clamp technique, GP1 T cells were studied during a 3-day culture with GPMBP and throughout the subsequent 10 days, as cells progressed through both GPMBP-induced activation (EAE transfer activity) and proliferation responses, finally reverting to the resting state. Resting GP1 T cells exhibited peak K(+) conductances around 2 nS, while GPMBP-induced activation resulted in 5- to 10-fold increases in peak K(+) conductance, which temporally coincided with the optimal period for EAE transfer activity. During and immediately after the optimal period for EAE transfer, 20-mV depolarizing shifts in the voltage dependence of both activation and inactivation developed, abruptly reversing to resting values as cells reverted to the resting state. Accompanying the depolarizing shifts were a slowing of the K(+) current activation kinetics and an acceleration of the deactivation kinetics. These results indicate that the K(+) conductance in GP1 rat T helper cells is modulated over the full time course of GPMBP-induced cellular responses and that K(+) channels should be optimally available during the period of adoptive EAE transfer, preceding disease manifestation. Copyright 1997 S. Karger AG, Basel
We have previously reported the existence of separate hormone-responsive and -unresponsive pools of inositol phospholipids in WRK-1 cells. In order to further explore this concept, we have performed experiments to examine the relationship between the plasma membrane receptor and the pool of phosphatidylinositol (Ptdlns) that is metabolized in response to hormonal stimulation. The results support the following conclusions. 1) The amount of Ptdlns metabolized in WRK-1 cells in response to vasopressin is proportional to the number of receptors occupied; neither prolonged activation with nor readdition of submaximal concentration of vasopressin induced the same degree of Ptdlns metabolism as maximal concentration of vasopressin. 2) Dissociation of cytoskeletal structures by incubation with cytochalasin D did not alter the amount of Ptdlns accessed during hormonal stimulation. 3) Accession of Ptdlns from internal membranes does not depend on internalization and recycling of the receptor; cells incubated in potassium-free medium failed to internalize receptor-ligand complexes, yet they accessed the same amount of Ptdlns in response to vasopressin as did control cells. 4) Golgi-mediated phosphatidylinositol transport is not involved in hormone-stimulated phosphoinositide turnover, since brefeldin A, which interferes with Golgi-mediated transport processes, had no effect on the amount of Ptdlns accessed during vasopressin stimulation. 5) Phosphoinositide breakdown and compensatory resynthesis is not a closed process; newly synthesized Ptdlns is not preferentially localized to a hormone-responsive pool but is generally redistributed between responsive and unresponsive pools.
The inferior olivary complex is the sole source of climbing fibers to the cerebellar cortex. Physiologically these afferents have been shown to have a powerful excitatory effect on their target neurons, namely Purkinje cells. Thus, any modulation of olivary firing rate or responsiveness will alter Purkinje cell firing and ultimately cerebellar function. Neuropeptides have been shown to modulate neuronal activity in several systems. The intent of the present study is to determine the olivary distribution of five peptides previously shown to be present and functional in cerebellar circuitry including cholecystokinin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, corticotropin releasing factor, enkephalin and substance P. These studies were carried out in the adult C57BL/6J mouse using the peroxidase anti-peroxidase immunohistochemical technique. All five peptides labeled varicosities of varying sizes. Varicosities labeled for cholecystokinin, calcitonin gene-related peptide and corticotropin releasing factor were densely distributed throughout the inferior olive. In contrast, varicosities immunostained for substance P and enkephalin, were more restricted in their distribution. The overlap in the distribution of these peptides suggests that they may be colocalized with each other as well as with excitatory or inhibitory amino acids known to be present in afferents to the inferior olive. Because of the extensive distribution of the peptides, it is likely that they are derived from multiple brainstem sources. These findings serve as baseline data for future physiological studies designed to address the functional role of peptides in olivary circuitry.
The social behaviour of low-functioning children with a Pervasive Development Disorder (PDD), high-functioning children with a PDD, children with a Language Disorder (LD) and normally developing children (ND) was investigated in a playroom session while they were interacting with one of their parents. High-functioning children with a PDD were found to differ from the other groups in social responsivity. Low-functioning children with a PDD differed from high-functioning children with a PDD in the total number of social bids, type of social bids, number of looks at parent and social responsivity. When parents structured the behaviour of their children, this resulted in an increase in number of social bids and looks in the low-functioning children with PDD.

Islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) is a beta cell hormone, which forms islet amyloid in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and may oppose insulin action and release. Therefore, the previously observed relative overexpression of IAPP compared with insulin in streptozotocin-treated rats could be unfavourable if it occurs in diabetes. Using quantitative in situ hybridization, we examined whether insulin treatment affected IAPP and insulin gene expression and their ratio at day 8 and 20 after induction of streptozotocin diabetes (plasma glucose approximately 30 mM). Total islet IAPP mRNA levels were less reduced than those of insulin at both time points. Differential regulation of the two hormones was further reflected by mean IAPP mRNA levels in the remaining islet cells being unaffected by streptozotocin treatment, whereas those of insulin were reduced. At both time points, insulin treatment decreased total islet levels of IAPP and insulin mRNA even more, IAPP mRNA levels being less reduced. Mean insulin mRNA levels, but not IAPP mRNA levels, in the remaining islet cells were reduced by insulin treatment. Between time points, total islet mRNA levels were higher at day 20, while mean mRNA levels in the remaining islet cells were unchanged, suggesting that regeneration of beta cells had occurred. In contrast, insulin gene expression was the same at both time points in insulin-treated rats, suggesting that insulin impaired insulin expression. To summarize, we found that IAPP and insulin were differentially expressed in experimental diabetes and that insulin treatment inhibited insulin, but not IAPP, gene expression. It is therefore unlikely that insulin will protect against amyloid formation and metabolic perturbations which may arise as a consequence of IAPP overexpression.

The central focus of this essay is whether the effect of reinforcement is best viewed as the strengthenng of responding or the strengthening of the environmental control of responding. We make the argument that adherence to Skinner's goal of achieving a moment-to-moment analysis of behavior compels acceptance of the latter view. Moreover, a thoroughgoing commitment to a moment-to-moment analysis undermines the fundamental distinction between the conditioning process instantiated by operant and respondent contingencies while buttressing the crucially important differences in their cumulative outcomes. Computer simulations informed by experimental analyses of behavior and neuroscience are used to illustrate these points.
This article explores the nature of embodied soul as a phenomenon of concern to nursing. Examples of the body/soul debate from early Greek philosophers to the present day are examined. Early writings on the subject echo in medieval writings and in present-day knowledge of neuroscience and physics, as well as in the writings of Merleau-Ponty. The author proposes that nursing embrace the concept as it relates to Berry's patterns of differentiation, subjectivity, and communion in the universe. These patterns exist from the cellular to the cosmic level. It is through the embodied soul that one engages in this process. The works of selected nurse theorists are examined as they relate to the topic. Both the subject of the client and of the nurse as embodied souls are addressed.
Awake adult rats were given a solution of [9,10-3H]palmitate ([3H]PAM) by gavage. The appearance of radiolabel in plasma lipid fractions was monitored by thin-layer chromatography at fixed intervals thereafter. At 2 h, the rats were killed by microwave irradiation and radioactivity in whole brain and individual brain phospholipids was determined. In plasma, esterified [3H]PAM was mainly associated with triglyceride, phospholipid, and cholesterol ester. Radioactivity appeared to a larger extent in triglyceride than in unesterified fatty acid, suggesting that unesterified [3H]PAM in plasma was largely due to release from esterified [3H]PAM by lipoprotein lipase hydrolysis. Brain radioactivity could be accounted for entirely by incorporation of unesterified plasma [3H]PAM. Esterified [3H]PAM in chylomicrons or lipoproteins was calculated to make no measurable contribution using a published value for the incorporation coefficient of [3H]PAM into brain in the evaluation. These results suggest that ingested palmitic acid (PAM) in adult rats enters blood as esterified triglyceride within chylomicrons and lipoproteins and, in part, eventually is converted to circulating unesterified PAM. It is the circulating unesterified PAM that is incorporated into brain from blood, whereas esterified PAM within plasma chlomicrons and lipoproteins makes no measurable direct contribution.
The reports of a person suffering from loose associations and disordered behavior serve as the basis for a phenomenology of some central components of psychotic experience. Especially salient are &quot;the expansion of the horizon of meanings,&quot; &quot;the emergence of explicit experiences from implicit ones,&quot; and &quot;the reduction of complexity.&quot; The phenomenological concepts thus developed supplement recent discoveries in neuroscience and experimental psychopathology. Cognitive neuroscientists have depicted the surface of the brain as a repository of self-organizing cortical maps of mental life. Furthermore, experimental psychopathologists have characterized semantic associative networks in normal experience and in psychosis. The authors conclude by joining the phenomenology of psychotic consciousness with the findings of these neuroscientists and experimental psychopathologists.
Glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) stimulates the survival of dopaminergic neurons. Little is known, however, about the possible immune sequelae of GDNF exposure or of exposure to other putative trophic factors. To address these questions, pieces of mesencephalic tissue, substantia nigra, from 15-day-old donor embryos were transplanted into the anterior chamber of the eye of adult male Sprague-Dawley recipient rats. At 5-day intervals, an aliquot (0.5 microgram) of GDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), or cytochrome-C (CC) was injected into the anterior chamber of the eye of the recipients, and the sizes of the transplants were measured. GDNF increased transplant survival and growth. On day 42, all rats were sacrificed, and the grafts were evaluated by cresyl-violet staining and by immunohistochemistry using antibodies raised against neurofilament (NF), tyrosine hydroxylase, or glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), as well as the following monoclonal antibodies: OX-38 anti-CD4, OX-8 anti-CD8, OX-18 anti-MHC class I, OX-6 anti-MHC class II, OX-42 anti-CD11b, R-73 anti-alpha and anti-beta T-cell receptor, and ED1 raised against monocytes/macrophages. BDNF-treated grafts showed only weak immunoreactivity, and even weaker reactions were seen in grafts treated with NT-3, GDNF, or CC. No single immune system marker was significantly elevated in grafts from any treatment group. We used OX-42 and ED1 to study possible alterations of microglial components. Ramified microglial cells were found in GDNF-treated grafts and to a lesser extent in NT-3 and BDNF-treated grafts. ED1-labeled reactive microglial components were found in NT-3- and BDNF-treated grafts. Additionally, large and rounded OX-42-positive phagocytic cells were found in NT-3-treated grafts. Together with our previous finding that GDNF treatment of spinal cord transplants activates immune responses and leads to microglial activation, our data demonstrate that although treatment with GDNF and to some degree with BDNF can enhance immune responses to immunogenic grafts, such as fetal spinal cord grafts, but the trophic factors per se do not elicit any marked response in non-immunogenic grafts like substantia nigra.
The expression patterns of three clustered neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAchR) subunit genes ordered beta 4, alpha 3, and alpha 5 overlap extensively in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) but only partially in the central nervous system (CNS). We have begun to investigate cell type-specific cis elements regulating these genes by analyzing in both cell culture and transgenic mice, a 2.8-kb fragment (-2732/+47) containing the alpha 3 promoter region, the beta 4/alpha 3 intergenic region, and a portion of the beta 4 3'-untranslated exon. The -2732/+47 fragment is preferentially active in PC12 cells relative to nonneural cell lines. Deletion analysis revealed a cell type-specific positive transcriptional element positioned in the beta 4 3'-untranslated exon. The positive element is likely to be an enhancer and not a second alpha 3 promoter, because no alpha 3 exons are present in this region. Having shown in cell culture that cell-type specific cis elements are positioned between the beta 4 and alpha 3 coding regions, we investigated the activity of -2732/+47 in vivo. Transgenic mice were generated, which carry the lacZ gene fused downstream of -2732/+47. Expression of the lacZ transgene is restricted to neurons of the CNS; no expression was detected in the PNS or in nonneural tissues. LacZ-positive cells were detected virtually exclusively in a subset of CNS nuclei that transcribe the endogenous alpha 3 gene. Some overlap was seen with the beta 4 gene, but nearly none with the alpha 5 gene. Our results demonstrate that cis elements positioned between the alpha 3 and beta 4 coding regions are important for establishing part of the restricted CNS patterns of beta 4, alpha 3, and alpha 5 gene transcription.
Altered biogenic amine metabolism and function are believed to underlie certain of the neuropsychiatric symptoms, e.g., depression, mania, and anxiety, encountered in clinical hepatic encephalopathy (HE). We therefore investigated the activity of the degradative enzyme monoamine oxidase (MAO) and its binding parameters using [3H]Ro 41-1049 (defining MAO-A) and [3H]Ro 19-6327 (Lazabemide; defining MAO-B) in autopsied brain tissue from male cirrhotic patients with HE. The MAO-B parameters in HE patient tissue were not significantly different from those determined for control tissue. In contrast, increases in MAO-A activities in HE patient frontocortical (by approximately 50%) and cerebellar (by approximately 145%) tissues were observed, confirming our previous findings using comparable tissues. Increases in the abundance of the active MAO-A protein were of the same order of magnitude, e.g., in frontal cortex by approximately 85% and in cerebellum by approximately 225%. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction indicated an increase in the level of gene expression (by approximately 155%) and thus offers some of the first evidence of a transcriptional event potentially mediating MAO-A function in human brain tissue. The levels of biogenic amine acid metabolites were increased as expected. As HE patients are most often treated for their hepatic symptoms rather than their neuropsychiatric manifestations, they represent an important &quot;untreated&quot; psychiatric population. The present findings are therefore not only important for our understanding of the pathophysiology of HE but also extremely relevant to our understanding of the pharmacotherapy of other neuropsychiatric disorders in which biogenic amine and MAO-A dysfunction is indicated.
We have found that the early response of axotomized rat retinal ganglion cells is characterized by the differential regulation of a number of fast axonally transported proteins. The abundance of 23 radiolabeled fast transported proteins was analyzed at 2 and 5 days after axotomy using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Corresponding changes in retinal GAP-43 mRNA were measured using northern analysis. Within 2 days of injury, &gt; 40% of the transported proteins analyzed, including GAP-43, showed increased labeling above control levels. Approximately 13% of transported proteins decreased below control levels, whereas the remainder did not change. Five days after axotomy, only GAP-43 and another fast transported protein, C3, continued to sustain measurable increased labeling above control levels; all previously elevated proteins appeared to have been down-regulated by this time, which corresponds to the onset of cell death. These differential changes were accompanied by parallel increases in GAP-43 mRNA. These results suggest that the molecular changes within rat retinal ganglion cells are differentially regulated within two stages subsequent to damage, initial regenerative growth followed by cell death.
Using iodinated human galanin and autoradiography, galanin binding sites were studied in cortical and hippocampal areas and in some brainstem nuclei in the brains of eight patients with senile dementia of the Alzheimer type (SDAT) and of nine matched control cases. The highest density of binding sites was found in the substantia nigra with a less intense labeling in the hippocampus and cortical regions. In the SDAT cases a significant increase in number of galanin binding sites was found in some hippocampal areas, a decrease in the caudate nucleus, and no significant changes in frontal and entorhinal cortices. These findings suggest that some central galanin systems may be deranged in SDAT.
Intracerebroventricular administration of N6, 2'-O-dibutyryladenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (db-cyclic AMP) to mice increased high-affinity choline transport (HAChT) into synaptosomal preparations from the hippocampus, striatum, and frontal cortex in a time- dose-, and brain region-dependent manner. Similar observations were made when the cyclic AMP analogue 8-bromo-cyclic AMP, the adenylyl cyclase activator forskolin, and the phosphodiesterase inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine were administered. Inhibition of phosphatase 1 and 2A, with okadaic acid, increased basal choline transport and enhanced the response to db-cyclic AMP. The early increase of HAChT activity induced by db-cyclic AMP was blocked by H-7 and H-89, protein kinase A inhibitors, but not by cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor. Kinetic analysis of the early changes of HAChT revealed an increase in the apparent Vmax without a change of the Km for choline. Hemicholinium-3 (HC-3) binding was not altered when studied 1 h after db-cyclic AMP administration. In contrast, HC-3 binding and HAChT activity were both elevated when estimated 3 h after the treatment, and pretreatment with cycloheximide partially prevented the db-cyclic AMP-induced HAChT rise. As evidence that enhanced HAChT is associated with a direct action of cyclic AMP-dependent pathways on the cholinergic nerve terminals, addition of 8-bromocyclic AMP to isolated hippocampal synaptosomes induced an increase of HAChT that was prevented by H-89. Choline acetyltransferase activity was not affected at any time during the studies. The synthesis of acetylcholine, however, was enhanced 1 h after db-cyclic AMP addition. Our studies show that cyclic AMP-mimetic compounds appear to modulate the choline carrier by a dual mode: an early increase of the maximal velocity without a change of the number of HC-3 binding sites and a late rise of transport that is accompanied by an increase of HC-3 binding. We postulate that HAChT and consequently acetylcholine synthesis in vivo is modulated, in part, by protein kinase A.
Recently, preinduction of the heat shock response has been shown to protect CNS neurons undergoing various stressful insults, e.g., heat, ischemia, or exposure to excitotoxins. However, it is not known which of the proteins induced by the heat shock response mediate the protective effects. Previous correlative evidence points to a role for the highly stress-induced 72-kDa heat shock protein (hsp72). However, it is not known whether hsp72 expression alone can protect against a range of acute neuronal insults. We constructed a herpes simplex virus-1 vector carrying the rat brain stress-inducible hsp72 gene and the Escherichia coli lacZ (marker) gene. Infection with the vector caused hippocampal neurons to coexpress hsp72 and beta-galactosidase. Infection with a control vector led to marker gene expression only. Overexpression of hsp72 protected cultured hippocampal neurons against a heat shock but not against the metabolic toxin 3-nitropropionic acid or the excitotoxin glutamate. This is the first published report of protection following heat shock protein transfection in CNS neurons.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an inflammatory disease of the central nervous system that can be induced by immunization with myelin basic protein (MBP)/complete Freund's adjuvant and serves as a model for multiple sclerosis. Recent studies have suggested that cytokines play a crucial role in the clinical course of EAE. To clarify the roles of cytokines in EAE, we examined levels of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) and interleukin-10 (IL-10) mRNA in isolates from infiltrating inflammatory cells in EAE lesions induced in Lewis rats. The non-radioactive and sensitive competitive PCR method was employed to quantify the relative amounts of cytokine mRNA. Levels of both IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha mRNA were increased at the early stage of EAE and rapidly decreased at the peak stage. On the other hand, TGF-beta1 mRNA was demonstrated throughout the course of EAE as well as under normal conditions and its amount paralleled the severity of EAE. IL-10 mRNA was detected by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) under normal conditions, but was below the level of detection of competitive PCR. IL-10 mRNA expression peaked at the early stage of EAE and declined gradually thereafter. Taken together, these results suggest that IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha might play a crucial role in the development of EAE. Furthermore, it appears that the peak expression of IL-10 mRNA at the early stage and the following marked TGF-beta1 expression at the peak stage might represent an important endogenous mechanism to limit the extent of inflammation and to prevent relapse in the course of acute monophasic EAE.
We present a review of the literature on multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN), a rare neurological disorder which has features in common with both chronic inflammatory demyelinating neuropathy and lower motor neuron disease. Clinically, MMN is characterised by slowly progressive asymmetrical limb weakness, usually most prominent in the forearms. Weakness may be associated with muscle wasting, fasciculations and decreased tendon reflexes. Serum anti-GM1 ganglioside antibody titres may be increased. The diagnostic hallmark of MMN is the electrophysiological demonstration of persistent localised motor conduction blocks, with otherwise normal or near-normal motor and sensory conduction velocities. The pathogenesis of MMN has not been elucidated completely. There is, however, substantial evidence for an autoimmune mechanism. Based on the possible involvement of the immune system in the pathogenesis of MMN the therapeutic efficacy of several immunomodulatory drugs has been tested. Treatment of MMN patients with human immunoglobulin or cyclophosphamide is usually followed by a marked improvement of strength. The finding that MMN is a potentially treatable disorder underscores the importance of distinguishing MMN from lower motor neuron disease, for which no effective therapy is currently available.
We studied the electrophysiological properties of cells from human glioblastomas obtained after surgery. The membrane currents were compared in cells of acute tissue slices and primary cultures using the whole cell mode of the patch-clamp technique. Very strikingly, in about a third of the tumor cells in situ and in vitro, depolarizing voltage steps elicited large, tetrodotoxin-sensitive inward currents with a threshold of about -30 mV, indicating the presence of voltage-gated sodium channels. In addition, three types of potassium currents, a delayed rectifying, an A-type, and an inward rectifying, were observed. Such a set of voltage-gated channels is characteristic for neurons. Indeed, in these glioblastoma cells, depolarizing current pulses in the current clamp mode were able to generate action potentials with properties similar to those observed in neurons. We interpret this finding as the ability of glioblastoma cells to acquire neuronlike properties but retain some glial features, since they still express markers typical for astrocytes and their precursors. The role of sodium channels in glioblastoma cells is unclear at this moment and needs further investigation. Our findings, however, imply that the tumor tissue can be intrinsically excitable and that neoplastic glial cells themselves may be an etiologic factor for epileptic seizures.
Homosynaptic long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic efficacy was induced in field excitatory postsynaptic potentials by administration of 900 pulses at either 1 or 3 Hz in 2- to 3-wk-old Sprague-Dawley rats. The stimulation was administered via a bipolar stimulating electrode placed immediately adjacent to the recording electrode in the stratum radiatum region of the hippocampal CA1 subfield. Equivalent LTD induction occurred whether the slices were maintained at room temperature or at 32 degrees C. Lowering bath Ca2+ to 0 mM, or increasing it to 4 mM, prevented the induction of the depression. The NMDA receptor antagonist D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (50 microM) reversibly blocked the induction of homosynaptic LTD. In addition, the L-type voltage-gated calcium channel (VGCC) antagonist nimodipine (10 microM) and the R- and T-type VGCC antagonist NiCl2 (25 microM) also prevented homosynaptic LTD induction. These results indicate that in addition to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activity, Ca2+ influx via VGCCs can play an important role in the induction and expression of LTD induced by low-frequency stimulation in the hippocampal formation.
Ligand-gated nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and purinergic ATP receptors are often expressed in the same peripheral and central neurons, and ATP and acetylcholine (ACh) are stored together in some synaptic vesicles. Evidence has suggested that nAChRs and ATP receptors are not independent and that some agonists strongly cross-activate and desensitize both receptor types. Rat sympathetic neurons and nAChRs expressed in Xenopus oocytes were studied to determine the significance of the interactions caused by the two agonist types. Current amplitudes included with separate or combined applications of ATP and nicotine are &gt; 90% additive and independent. Half of all neurons tested responded to either ATP or nicotine but not to both, indicating differences in the expression of the two receptors. In neurons that expressed both receptors types, the nAChRs were inhibited by the activity-dependent open-channel blocker chlorisondamine. If the purinergic and nicotinic receptors were significantly dependent and coactivated, then blocking the ion channels opened by a nicotinic agonist should diminish the current activated by a purinergic agonist. That result was not seen; rather, complete open-channel block of nAChRS with chlorisondamine did not significantly alter the amplitude or kinetics of ATP-induced currents in the same neurons. Finally, when cloned nAChR subunits were expressed in oocytes, ATP activated only very small currents compared with the current activated by Ach. For the 13 different nAChR subunit combinations that were studied, ATP (50-500 microM) activated a current that ranged from 0 to 4% of the size of the current activated by 100 microM ACh. In summary, we find that there is little cross reactivity, and nAChRs and purinergic ATP receptors are predominantly independent, acting with separable physiological characteristics. Therefore the quantitative Ca2+ flux could be separately determined for nAChRs and ATP receptors. The fraction of total current that is carried by Ca2+ was quantitatively determined by simultaneously measuring the whole cell current and the associated change in intracellular Ca2+ with fura-2. For sympathetic neurons bathed in 2.5 mM Ca2+ at a holding potential of -50 mV, Ca2+ carries 4.8 +/- 0.3% (mean +/- SE) of the inward current through neuronal nAChRs and 6.5 +/- 0.1% of the current through purinergic ATP receptors. In conclusion, activity-dependent Ca2+ influx through predominately independent populations of nAChRS and ATP neurons can produce different intracellular signals at purinergic and cholinergic synapses.
Under normal physiological conditions, whole field visual motion generally occurs in response to either active or passive self-motion. In the laboratory, selective movement of the visual surround produces an optokinetic response (OKR) that acts primarily to support the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR). During visual world motion, however, the OKR can be viewed as operating independently over frequency and amplitude ranges insufficient for vestibular activation. The goal of the present study was to characterize this isolated behavior of the OKR in goldfish as an essential step for studying central neuronal correlates of visual-vestibular interactions and the mechanisms underlying oculomotor adaptation. After presentation of either binocular sinusoidal or step visual stimuli, conjugate eye movements were elicited with an amplitude and phase profile similar to that of other vertebrates. An early and a delayed component were measured with different dynamics that could be altered independently by visual training. The ensuing visuomotor plasticity was robust and exhibited five major characteristics. First, the gain of both early and delayed components of the OKR increased &gt; 100%. Second, eye velocity decreased 0.5-2.0 s before the change in direction of stimulus velocity. Third, on lengthening the duration of a constant velocity visual stimulus (e.g., from 8 to 16 s), eye velocity decreased toward 0 degrees/s. This behavior was correlated with the direction and period as opposed to the frequency of the visual stimulus (&quot;period tuning&quot;). Fourth, visual stimulus training increased VOR eye velocity with a ratio of 0.6 to 1 to that measured for the OKR. Fifth, the OKR adaptation, eye velocity consistently oscillated in a conjugate, symmetrical fashion at 2.4 Hz in the light, whereas in the dark, a rhythmical low-amplitude eye velocity occurred at the visual training frequency. We conclude that the frequency and amplitude of visual stimuli for eliciting the goldfish OKR are well suited for complementing the VOR. Unlike most mammals, OKR adaptive modifications significantly alter VOR gain, whereas the effects of VOR training are much less on OKR gain. These observations suggest that both distributed circuits and discrete neuronal populations control visuo- and vestibulomotor performance. Finally, the existence of a rhythmic, &quot;period tuned&quot; visuomotor behavior provides a unique opportunity to examine the neuronal mechanisms of adaptive plasticity.
Neonatal (P0) gamma-irradiation was used to lesion selectively the mossy fiber (MF) synaptic input to CA3 pyramidal cells. This lesion caused a &gt; 85% reduction in the MF input as determined by quantitative assessment of the number of dynorphin immunoreactive MF boutons. The gamma-irradiation lesion caused a reduction in the mean number of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) recorded from CA3 pyramidal cells (2,292 vs. 1,429/3-min period; n = 10). The lesion also caused a reduction in the mean mEPSC peak amplitude from 19.1 +/- 0.45 to 14.6 +/- 0.49 pA (mean +/- SE; peak conductance 238.8 +/- 5.6 to 182.0 +/- 6.1 pS). Similarly, there was a reduction in the mean 10-85% rise time from 1.72 +/- 0.02 ms to 1.42 +/- 0.04 ms. The effects of the gamma-irradiation on both mEPSC amplitude and 10-85% rise time were significant at P &lt; 0.002 and P &lt; 0.005 (2-tailed Kolmogorov-Smirnov test). Based on the selectively of the gamma-irradiation, MF and non-MF mEPSC amplitude and 10-85% rise-time distributions were calculated. Both the amplitude and 10-85% rise-time distributions showed extensive overlap between the MF and non-MF mediated mEPSCs. The MF mEPSC distributions had a mean peak amplitude of 24.6 pA (307.5 pS) and a mean 10-85% rise time of 2.16 ms. THe non-MF mEPSC distributions had a mean peak amplitude of 12.2 pA (152.5 pS) and 10-85% rise time of 1.26 ms. The modes of the amplitude distributions were the same at 5 pA (62 pS). The MF and non-MF mEPSC amplitude and 10-85% rise-time distributions were significantly different at P &lt; 0.001 (1-tailed, large sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov test). The data demonstrate that the removal of the MF synaptic input to CA3 pyramidal cells leads to the absence of the large amplitude mEPSCs that are present in control recordings.
In the lamprey spinal cord, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) immunoreactivity (ir) is present in the ventromedial plexus originating from intraspinal neurons, ventrolateral column arising from the brainstem, and dorsal column. The latter 5-HT system originates from small dorsal root ganglion neurons. Combined Lucifer yellow intracellular labeling of the intraspinal sensory neurons, dorsal cells, and 5-HT immunohistochemistry showed close appositions between 5-HT-ir fibers and dorsal cell axons. Application of 5-HT depressed monosynaptic EPSPs evoked in giant interneurons by stimulation of single dorsal cells, dorsal roots, or dorsal column without any detectable change in the input resistance of postsynaptic neurons. Furthermore, the amplitude of AMPA-evoked depolarizations in giant interneurons was unaffected by 5-HT. The lack of postsynaptic effects of 5-HT indicates that the decrease of the amplitude of sensory monosynaptic EPSPs by 5-HT is mediated by presynaptic mechanisms. The inhibition of monosynaptic EPSPs by 5-HT was not counteracted by an antagonist of 5-HT1A receptors. 5-HT also reduced the amplitude of the calcium current recorded in isolated dorsal cells and slowed down its kinetics. The inhibition of calcium channels could represent the mechanism mediating the depression of synaptic transmission at the axonal level. These results show that activation of 5-HT receptors on dorsal cell axons as well as on other sensory neurons mediates inhibition of sensory synaptic transmission to giant interneurons. In intact animals, 5-HT could be released from small 5-HT neurons in dorsal root ganglia, which thus may underlie direct sensory-sensory interactions.
The involvement of cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB) signaling in tissue injury-induced inflammation and hyperalgesia has been characterized by measuring phosphorylation of CREB at serine-133 (CREB Ser133) using a specific antibody. In the unstimulated state, unphosphorylated CREB was observed in most nuclei of spinal neurons except for motor neurons, where only a small portion of neurons were stained. A few dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were also CREB-positive. After a unilateral injection of formalin into the hindpaw, a strong and bilateral phosphorylation of CREB Ser133 was induced, as assessed by both immunohistochemistry and Western blot. PhosphoCREB (pCREB)-positive neurons were found in laminae I, II, V, and X of spinal cord on both sides. CREB phosphorylation was very rapid and reached peak levels within 10 min of formalin treatment, whereas few pCREB-positive neurons were seen in unstimulated spinal cord. The induction of pCREB was predominantly postsynaptic, because only 5% of DRG neurons were labeled after inflammation. In contrast to CREB phosphorylation, the induction of c-Fos expression reached peak levels 2 hr after formalin treatment and c-Fos induction was mainly ipsilateral. Both formalin-evoked CREB phosphorylation and c-Fos expression in the spinal cord were suppressed by pretreatment with the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (3.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or halothane anesthesia. These results suggest that CREB signaling may play a role in the long-term facilitation of spinal cord neurons after hyperalgesia. Furthermore, our results indicate that CREB phosphorylation may be necessary but not sufficient for c-fos induction.
When a bat approaches a target, it continuously modifies its echolocation sounds and relies on incoming echo information to shape the characteristics of its subsequent sonar cries. In addition, acoustic information about the azimuth and elevation of a sonar target elicits orienting movements of the head and pinnae toward the sound source. This requires a common sensorimotor interface, where echo information is used to guide motor behaviors. Using single-unit neurophysiological methods and free-field auditory stimulation, we present data on biologically relevant specializations in the superior colliculus (SC) of the bat for orientation by sonar. In the bat's SC, two classes of spatially tuned neurons are distinguished by their sensitivity to echoes. One population shows facilitated, delay-tuned responses to pairs of sounds, simulating sonar emissions and echoes. Delay tuning, related to encoding target range, may play a role in guiding motor responses in echolocation, because the bat adjusts its emissions with changes in target distance. The delay-facilitated response depends on the direction of stimulation and on the temporal relationship between the simulated emission and echo in the sound pair, suggesting that this class of neurons represents the location of a target in three dimensions. A second population encodes the target in two dimensions, azimuth and elevation, and does not show a facilitated response to echoes delivered from any locus. Encoding of azimuth and elevation may be important for directing head aim, and this class may function in transforming auditory spatial information into signals used to guide acoustic orientation.
D-Serine is localized in mammalian brain to a discrete population of glial cells near NMDA receptors, suggesting that D-serine is an endogenous agonist of the receptor-associated glycine site. To explore this possibility, we have compared the immunohistochemical localizations of D-serine, glycine, and NMDA receptors in rat brain. In the telencephalon, D-serine is concentrated in protoplasmic astrocytes, which are abundant in neuropil in close vicinity to NMDA receptor 2A/B subunits. Ultrastructural examination of the CA1 region of hippocampus reveals D-serine in the cytosolic matrix of astrocytes that ensheath neurons and blood vessels, whereas NR2A/B is concentrated in dendritic spines. By contrast, glycine immunoreactivity in telencephalon is the lowest in brain. During postnatal week 2, D-serine levels in cerebellum are comparable to those in adult cerebral cortex but fall to undetectable levels by day 26. During week 2, we observe parallel ontogeny of D-serine in Bergmann glia and NR2A/B in Purkinje cells, suggesting a role for astrocytic D-serine in NMDA receptor-mediated synaptogenesis. D-Serine in the radial processes of Bergmann glia is also well positioned to regulate NMDA receptor-dependent granule cell migration. In the inner granule layer, D-serine is found transiently in protoplasmic astrocytes surrounding glomeruli, where it could regulate development of the mossy fiber/granule cell synapse. D-Serine seems to be the endogenous ligand of glycine sites in the telencephalon and developing cerebellum, whereas glycine predominates in the adult cerebellum, olfactory bulb, and hindbrain.
The functional properties of AMPA-type glutamate receptors are determined by their subunit composition. We detected the expression of the AMPA receptor subunits (GluR1-GluR4) in neurons in the somatosensory cortex of adult rats by combining nonradioactive in situ hybridization using digoxigenin-labeled RNA probes of GluR1 and GluR2 with immunocytochemistry using specific antibodies against GluR1, GluR2/3, and GluR4. On the basis of differential expression of the GluR1 and GluR2 subunits, we classified the cortical neurons into four categories. To correlate the differential expression of AMPA receptor subunits in each neuron with that of two calcium-binding proteins, parvalbumin and calbindin-D28k, we used a triple-labeling method. The majority of cortical neurons ( approximately 2/3) showed expression of GluR2 and undetectable expression of GluR1. GluR1-/GluR2-expressing neurons and GluR1-expressing/GluR2-undetectable neurons comprised approximately 1/10 each. Regarding the morphology, most GluR1-undetectable/GluR2-expressing neurons were pyramidal cells in layers II/III, V, and VI, whereas most GluR1-expressing/GluR2-undetectable neurons were nonpyramidal cells in layers II-VI. The GluR1-/GluR2-expressing neurons were either pyramidal or nonpyramidal. The majority of GluR1-/GluR2-expressing nonpyramidal cells was intensely stained with monoclonal antibody against calbindin-D28k, and one-half of the GluR1-undetectable/GluR2-expressing pyramidal neurons in layer II/III were lightly stained with this antibody. Most of GluR1-expressing/GluR2-undetectable neurons possessed parvalbumin immunoreactivity. These results indicate that neurons in the rat somatosensory cortex express differential combinations of GluR subunits, which correlate with the specific expression of the calcium-binding proteins.
A method of using neurobiotin to stain both the dendrites and the soma mosaics of retinal ganglion cells in fresh retinae is described. This method is simple to use and efficient in revealing morphological details for a large number of retinal ganglion cells. It has five advantages over currently available staining methods. (1) It stains all ganglion cells in the whole retina or in a selected retinal area, permitting ganglion cell distributions across the retina to be obtained. (2) It reveals cell dendrites in great detail, especially in regions outside the area centralis. The dendritic field mosaics and, therefore the dendritic field coverage factors, of different ganglion cell types across the whole retina can be obtained easily. (3) It works reliably, efficiently, and does not require the expensive set-up or the pains-taking work needed when staining cells through intracellular injection. (4) It works under both in vivo and in vitro settings, permitting the use of retinae from animals sacrificed for other purposes and the use of postmortem human retinae. (5) The end product of the visualization process is optically dark and electron dense, permitting specimens to be examined under both light and electron microscopes.
Proinflammatory cytokines mediate brain injury in experimental studies. This study was undertaken to analyze the production of proinflammatory cytokines in experimental contusion. A brain contusion causing delayed edema was mimicked experimentally in rats using a weight-drop model. Intracerebral expression of the cytokines interleukin (IL)-1 beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha), IL-6, and interferon-gamma (IFN gamma) was studied by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The animals were killed at 6 hours or 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, or 16 days postinjury. In the injured area, no messenger (m)RNA expression was seen during the first 2 days after the trauma. On Days 4 to 6 posttrauma, however, strong IL-1 beta, TNF alpha, and IL-6 mRNA expression was detected in mononuclear cells surrounding the contusion. Expression of IFN gamma was not detected. Immunohistochemical double labeling confirmed the in situ hybridization results and demonstrated that mononuclear phagocytes and astrocytes produced IL-1 beta and that mainly astrocytes produced TNF alpha. The findings showed, somewhat unexpectedly, a late peak of intracerebral cytokine production in the injured area and in the contralateral corpus callosum, allowing for both local and global effects on the brain. An unexpected difference in the cellular sources of TNF alpha and IL-1 beta was detected. The cytokine pattern differs from that seen in other central nervous system inflammatory diseases and trauma models, suggesting that the intracerebral immune response is not a uniform event. The dominance of late cytokine production indicates that many cytokine effects are late events in an experimental contusion: Different pathogenic mechanisms may thus be operative at different times after brain injury.
The anatomical and histological structure of Corpus callosum is analysed, mainly in relation with cell composition and fibre distribution. The vascularization of Corpus callosum is analyzed in relation with the distribution of the supplying arteries and the fine organization of small vessels. The first part of the presentation deals with damages of corpus callosum as a consequence of hemorrhagic and ischemic vasculopathies. The lesions may be direct or indirect; the latter follow the distruction of hemispheric areas interconnecting through the corpus callosum or occur as the product of reduced flow in the territories of carotid and vertebral arteries. A special mention is dedicated to the anatomoclinical syndromes developing after damages to the anterior or posterior section of Corpus callosum. The second part deals with specific diseases such as Marchiafava-Bignami's disease, which is treated as an example of glial cell pathology and chronic edema. The third part deals with tumors. Besides lymphomas which need a separate consideration for their modality of growth, neuroepithelial tumors are discussed. The most important problem is that of invasion through the Corpus callosum. The cell traffic in this structure with all the connected questions about cell migration, adhesiveness and motility are presented. Pathology of Corpus callosum is extended also to anatomically related median structures such as fornix and septum pellucidum. The latter is one of the principal pathways of diffusion in gliomas.
The potassium (K+) channel-blocking agent 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) is currently being investigated for its potential therapeutic value in patients with spinal cord injury (SCI). The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that 4-AP ameliorates central motor conduction deficits in individuals with SCI. Oral 4-AP (10 mg) was administered to 19 (n = 19) SCI subjects with stable neurological deficits. Their response to the drug was monitored using motor evoked potentials (MEPs) following transcranial magnetic stimulation of motor cortex and various measures of segmental or peripheral reflex activity (F-waves, H-reflex, and M-response) recorded from lower limb muscles. The mean MEP amplitude in the extensor digitorum brevis muscle (left) was significantly (p &lt; .05) increased from x = .25 +/- .42 mV to x = .59 +/- 1.04 mV at 2 h after drug administration, and the cortical stimulation threshold was reduced (p &lt; .05) by 5.8%. Similar results were obtained in all subjects exhibiting MEPs (n = 13) and in all muscles (n = 6) studied. These changes were maintained at 4 h postdrug. MEP latencies were reduced in all subjects who initially exhibited abnormally prolonged MEP latencies relative to control group (n = 13) values. F-wave, H-reflex, and M-response values (latency and amplitude) were not systematically altered by 4-AP, leading to the conclusion that it was central motor conduction that was enhanced. This interpretation was supported by observed reductions in central motor conduction time (CMCT) in the majority of SCI subjects from whom CMCT measurements were obtained, two of whom anecdotally reported improved motor control after 4-AP, and by increased MEP:M-wave amplitude ratios. The MEP:M-wave ratios indicated that the magnitude of the effect of 4-AP on motoneuron recruitment was not large, in absolute terms (&lt;4% motoneuron pool), but was appreciable relative to the initial level of motoneuron recruitment. These results provide the first statistically significant, objective evidence of improved functioning of the neuromuscular system in chronically injured SCI subjects receiving 4-AP and suggest that the improvements are mediated through enhanced central conduction. The results further support the emerging view that pharmaceutical management of central conduction deficits may prove to be a useful therapeutic strategy for some patients with long-standing SCI.
1. Spontaneous and evoked synaptic inputs were recorded in vitro in the axons of lamprey reticulospinal neurones. After isolation of the axon from its somata, synaptic inputs were recorded using microelectrode and whole-cell patch clamp recording techniques. 2. Single stimuli applied to the spinal cord elicited Ca(2+)-dependent synaptic potentials with short latencies in reticulospinal axons. These synaptic inputs are capable of summation and generate sufficient depolarization to raise the membrane potential beyond threshold to initiate action potentials. Action potential initiation in the absence of the cell body indicates that these axons show synaptic integration. 3. Both evoked and spontaneous responses comprise at least two components of synaptic drive: a slow component (rise time of 9.6 +/- 2.1 ms) with a reversal potential of -53 +/- 19 mV and a fast component (rise time as fast as 0.85 ms) with a reversal potential of 0.3 +/- 9.1 mV. The responses are Ca2+ dependent, and are blocked by the substitution of Ba2+ for Ca2+ in the saline solution. 4. The slow component of synaptic input was blocked by the gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptor antagonist bicuculline (5 microM). The fast component was blocked by the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroqinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX; 10 microM) in Ringer solution containing physiological concentrations of Mg2+. Following removal of Mg2+ from the superfusate a further excitatory component was identified that was blocked by application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (AP5; 100 microM). 5. Comparison of the kinetic properties and the voltage sensitivity of the isolated components of evoked and spontaneous synaptic activity indicate that these responses are mediated by similar synaptic inputs. 6. These results suggest that axons and presynaptic terminals receive excitatory and inhibitory ionotropic receptor-mediated inputs. Summation of these inputs is possible indicating that the axons act as sites of synaptic integration similar to the role previously attributed only to neuronal dendrites and somata.
1. The delayed rectifier (DR) K+ channel pore was probed using different permeant and blocking ions applied intra- and extracellularly. Currents were recorded from bullfrog sympathetic neurons using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. 2. With intra- and extracellular Cs+ (0 K+), there were large, tetraethylammonium (TEA)-sensitive currents. Adding K+ back to the extracellular solution revealed that the current with Cs+i was K+ selective (permeability ratio PCs/PK = 0.17 +/- 0.02, n = 4) and showed a strong anomalous mole fraction effect. 3. There were also large non-inactivating currents with Na+i and Na+o (0 K+). The current with Na+i was K+ selective (Na+o vs. K+o: PNa/PK = 0.022 +/- 0.005, n = 5), and was TEA sensitive with K+o but not with Na+o. 4. Permeant ions affected gating kinetics. DR currents activated faster in K+ than in Cs+, and activated faster with increasing concentrations of either K+ or Cs+. Deactivation was slowed by increased K+ or Cs+ concentration, with no difference between K+ and Cs+. 5. The pore was also characterized using intracellular blocking ions. A wide variety of monovalent cations (TEA, N-methyl-D-glucamine, arginine, choline, CH3NH3+, Li+, Cs+ and Na+) blocked DR channels from the inside in a voltage-dependent manner: KD at 0 mV was 2.9 mM for TEA and 134-487 mM for the others, at apparent electrical distances (delta) of 0.33-0.79. There was no detectable block by 10 mM Mgi2+. Apart from TEA, the organic cations did not block from the outside. 6. The permeability to Na+ in the absence of K+, and the strong anomalous mole fraction effects observed for Cs+o + K+o mixtures, suggest that DR channels select for K+ using ion-ion competition. The block by large intracellular cations shows that the pore is asymmetrical. The loss of high affinity TEAo block with Na+i and Na+o, and the effects of permeant ions on gating, suggest that channel conformation may be affected by ions in the pore.
Current hypotheses concerning the etiology of schizophrenia often invoke both an abnormal gene(s) and an environmental disturbance as necessary components to the vulnerability for this disorder. According to one model of schizophrenia presented here, the putative environmental factor may consist of stress and require both pre- and post-natal exposure for a &quot;mis-wiring&quot; of dopaminergic inputs to GABAergic neurons of the cortex to occur. Since the cortical dopamine system continues to mature until the start of the early adult period, the normal ingrowth of dopamine fibers during late adolescence and their formation of aberrant connections with abnormal intrinsic corticolimbic circuits could &quot;trigger&quot; the onset of symptoms in those who carry the constitutional vulnerability for schizophrenia.
Limbic cortical regions, including anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), prefrontal cortex (PFC) and entorhinal cortex (ERC), have been implicated in the neuropathology of schizophrenia. Glutamate projection neurons connect these limbic cortical regions to each other, as well as to the terminal fields of the striatal/accumbens dopamine neurons. Subsets of these glutamate projection neurons, and of the GABA interneurons in cortex, contain the neuropeptide cholecystokinin (CCK). In an effort to study the limbic cortical glutamate projection neurons and GABA interneurons in schizophrenia, we have measured CCK mRNA with in situ hybridization histochemistry in postmortem samples of dorsolateral (DL)PFC, ACC and ERC of seven schizophrenics, nine non-psychotic suicides and seven normal controls. CCK mRNA is decreased in ERC (especially layers iii vi) and subiculum in schizophrenics relative to controls. Cellular analysis indicates that there is a decrease in density of CCK mRNA in labelled neurons. In so far as ERC CCK mRNA is not reduced in rats treated chronically with haloperidol, this decrease in schizophrenics does not appear to be related to neuroleptic treatment. In contrast, in DLPFC, where schizophrenics do not differ from normals, the suicide victims have elevated CCK mRNA (especially in layers v and vi), and increased cellular density of CCK mRNA, relative to both normals and schizophrenics. These results lend further support for the involvement of ERC and hippocampus in schizophrenia, suggesting that neurons that utilize CCK may be particularly important. Similarly, an increase in CCK mRNA levels in the PFC of suicides adds to a growing body of evidence implicating this structure in this pathological state. In so far as CCK is co-localized with GABA or glutamate in cortical neurons, both of these neuronal populations need to be studied further in schizophrenia and suicide.
Many of the symptoms of schizophrenia appear to involve dysfunction of the cognitive processes mediated by the neural circuitry of the cerebral cortex. The application of modern neuroscience techniques to the study of postmortem human brain specimens provides a powerful approach for exploring the manner in which cortical circuitry may be disrupted in schizophrenia. In this paper, we describe a strategy for the conduct of postmortem investigations of schizophrenia that involves (1) the use of a nonhuman primate model to guide the design and interpretation of studies in humans; (2) the detailed characterization of the normal organization of neural systems in the human cerebral cortex, and the range of inter-individual variations in that organization; and (3) the testing of specific hypotheses about the disruption of that organization in schizophrenia. The application of this strategy, and its value in overcoming some of the potential pitfalls of postmortem studies, is demonstrated in a series of investigations designed to test the hypothesis that dopamine neurotransmission is impaired in the entorhinal cortex in schizophrenia.
The addition of the growth stimulator fetal calf serum (FCS, 10%) to rings of rat tail artery causes an increase in [Ca2+]i, accompanied by contraction. This response was inhibited by the calcium entry blocker verapamil (1 microM). To investigate the effect of Ca2+ entry blockade on growth and contractility, rings of rat tail artery were cultured for 4 days in medium with or without FCS and then mounted for tension registration and stimulated with noradrenaline (NA) or high-K+ solution. In cultured rings growth was quantitated by [3H]-thymidine incorporation and increase in protein contents. FCS in the medium stimulated DNA synthesis by about 2-fold and increased protein contents by about 70%. The growth-stimulated cultured rings developed less force than freshly prepared rings (2.2 +/- 0.3 vs. 8.3 +/- 1.0 mN/mm). The addition of 1 microM verapamil to the medium during culture increased maximal NA-evoked force to 5.0 +/- 0.4 mN/mm but had no effect on the increases in DNA synthesis and protein contents. Force developed by growth-arrested rings, cultured in the absence of FCS, was not different from that of freshly prepared rings (7.2 +/- 0.6 mM/mm). Verapamil did not affect maximal force in these rings. Similar responses were seen when contraction was elicited by high-K+ solution. We conclude that verapamil, present during culture, preserves contractility of arterial smooth muscle, and that this effect is not parallel to inhibition of growth.
We present a review of converging sources of evidence which suggest that the differences between loading histories experienced in 1-g and weightlessness are sufficient to stimulate adaptation in mechanical impedance of the musculoskeletal system. As a consequence of this adaptive change we argue that we should observe changes in the ability to attenuate force transmission through the musculoskeletal system both during and after space flight. By focusing attention on the relation between human sensorimotor activity and support surfaces, the importance of controlling mechanical energy flow through the musculoskeletal system is demonstrated. The implications of such control are discussed in light of visual-vestibular function in the specific context of head and gaze control during postflight locomotion. Evidence from locomotory biomechanics, visual-vestibular function, ergonomic evaluations of human vibration, and specific investigations of locomotion and head and gaze control after space flight, is considered.
During locomotion, angular head movements act in a compensatory fashion to oppose the vertical trunk translation that occurs during each step in the gait cycle. This coordinated strategy between head and trunk motion serves to aid gaze stabilization and perhaps simplifies the sensory coordinate transformation between the head and trunk, allowing efficient descending motor control during locomotion. Following space flight, astronauts often experience oscillopsia during locomotion in addition to postural and gait instabilities, suggesting a possible breakdown in head-trunk coordination. The goal of the present investigation was to determine if exposure to the microgravity environment of space flight induces alteration in head-trunk coordination during locomotion. Astronaut subjects were asked to walk (6.4 km/h, 20 s trials) on a motorized treadmill while visually fixating on a centrally located earthfixed target positioned either 2 m (FAR) or 30 cm (NEAR) from the eyes. In addition, some trials were also performed during periodic visual occlusion. Head and trunk kinematics during locomotion were determined with the aid of a video-based motion analyzing system. We report data collected preflight (10 days prior to launch) and postflight (2 to 4 hours after landing). The coherence between pitch head and vertical trunk movements during gaze fixation of both FAR and NEAR targets was significantly reduced following space flight indicating decreased coordination between the head and trunk during postflight locomotion. Astronauts flying on their first mission showed greater alterations in the frequency spectra of pitch head movements as compared to their more experienced counterparts. These modifications in the efficacy of head movement control may account for the reported disruption in gaze performance during locomotion and may contribute to postflight postural and gait dysfunction.
The neural &quot;learning rules&quot; governing the induction of plasticity in the cerebellum were analyzed by recording the patterns of neural activity in awake, behaving animals during stimuli that induce a form of cerebellum-dependent learning. We recorded the simple- and complex-spike responses of a broad sample of Purkinje cells in the floccular complex during a number of stimulus conditions that induce motor learning in the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR). Each subclass of Purkinje cells carried essentially the same information about required changes in the gain of the VOR. The correlation of simple-spike activity in Purkinje cells with activity in vestibular pathways could guide learning during low-frequency but not high-frequency stimuli. Climbing fiber activity could guide learning during all stimuli tested but only if compared with the activity present approximately 100 msec earlier in either vestibular pathways or Purkinje cells.
Numerous studies from several laboratories report that temporary inactivation of the cerebellar interpositus nucleus and regions of overlying cortex during eye-blink conditioning completely prevents acquisition of the conditioned eye-blink response (CR) without affecting the ability to learn the CR in subsequent training without inactivation. Recently, these results have been challenged by the suggestion that learning was not completely blocked in these studies. Instead, it has been suggested that low levels of responses on test sessions might represent a retarded form of learning caused by drug effects on cerebellar cortex. The present study was designed to address this issue directly. Very low doses of muscimol were used to selectively inactivate the interpositus nucleus of rabbits during five conditioning sessions. Animals performed no significant levels of CRs during those sessions. Training was continued four more sessions without any inactivations to test whether any learning had occurred during the previous five sessions. Detailed analysis of responses during session six revealed that learning was completely blocked by the low doses of muscimol infused into the interpositus during the first five sessions. Animals subsequently acquired the CR normally. These results confirm and extend the original findings that appropriate lesions (either temporary or permanent) of the interpositus nucleus completely prevent acquisition of the conditioned eye-blink response. Other issues regarding reversible inactivation studies are also discussed.

We examined the changes in phospholipid metabolisms in sodium butyrate-treated C6 glioma cells. Treatment of 2.5 mM sodium butyrate for 24 h induced an increase in the activity of glutamine synthetase, suggesting that these cells were under differentiation. Similar treatment was associated with (i) increased arachidonic acid incorporation into phosphatidylcholine, and (ii) decreased arachidonic acid incorporation into phosphatidylinositol and (iii) phosphatidylethanolamine. These effects were subsequently investigated by examining the acylation process, de novo biosynthesis, and the agonist-stimulated phosphoinositides hydrolysis in these cells. Our results indicated that sodium butyrate stimulated the acylation of arachidonic acid into lysophosphatidylcholine, lysophosphatidylethanolamine, and lysophosphatidylinositol. The glycerol incorporation into these lipids was not affected, but the inositol incorporation into total chloroform extracts and Pl and phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate was decreased in the sodium butyrate-treated cells. Moreover, the accumulation of the rapid histamine-stimulated phosphoinositide metabolites, i.e., inositol monophosphate, inositol diphosphate, and inositol triphosphate (IP3) was decreased in these cells. To elucidate whether the decreased inositol phosphates were due to a decrease in the phosphoinositides hydrolysis, we measured the transient IP3 production directly by a receptor-binding assay. Our results indicated that histamine-stimulated transient IP3 formations were decreased. Taken together, these results indicated that multiple changes by multiple mechanisms of phospholipid metabolisms were found in sodium butyrate-treated C6 glioma cells. The decreased IP3 formation and its subsequent action, i.e., Ca2+ mobilization, may play an early but pivotal role by which sodium butyrate induces C6 glioma cell differentiation.
The three mouse Gli genes are putative transcription factors which are the homologs of cubitus interruptus (ci) in Drosophila. Along with the gene patched (Ptc), ci has been implicated in the hedgehog (Hh) signal transduction pathway. To assess the role of Gli in embryogenesis, we compared its expression with that of Ptc and Hh family members in mouse. We found that Gli and Ptc are expressed in similar domains in diverse regions of the developing mouse embryo and these regions are adjacent to Hh signals. We also show that Gli is expressed ectopically along with Ptc and Shh in Strong's luxoid mutant mice. These results are consistent with conservation of the Hh signal transduction pathway in mice with Gli potentially mediating Hh signaling in multiple regions of the developing embryo.
Given the putative role of inositol monophosphatase (IMPase) as the molecular target for the therapeutic effects of lithium, inhibitors of this enzyme have been proposed to be lithium-mimetics. Although cation and natural product inhibitors of IMPase have been described, these have not proved suitable for cell culture studies due to a lack of specificity. On the other hand, substrate (inositol 1-phosphate)-based inhibitors have proved useful for showing that this class of compounds mimic lithium with respect to effects on the phosphatidylinositol (PI) cell-signaling pathway. However, since these compounds are highly charged, their polarity means they are not suitable for in vivo use. Finally, the recent elucidation of the structure and mechanism of IMPase may provide the opportunity to develop compounds which specifically interact with key structural and mechanistic features of the enzyme and would represent novel structure- or mechanism-based inhibitors.


Cytokines are widely considered to function as major mediators of neuropathogenesis of HIV-1 infection. This view is based on a large amount of data obtained in vitro, in animal models and in human brain tissue obtained postmortem. Evidence for the involvement of interleukin-1 and transforming growth factor-beta 1, summarized here, indicates that these cytokines likely control HIV-1 expression in the brain and astrocytosis, the two hallmarks of brain in AIDS patients. Although the data do not reveal the precise time course of molecular and cellular changes in vivo, they strongly suggest a complex pattern of interactions whose ordering in time determines when and where HIV-1 is expressed in the brain. Further kinetic data are therefore urgently needed to shed light on the heterogeneity of HIV-1 expression in the brain.
Progression of Parkinson's disease (PD) can be detected through changes in clinical ratings or disability assessments. A clinical trial, Deprenyl and Alpha-Tocopherol Antioxidative Therapy of Parkinsonism (DATATOP), used a novel study end point: increase in parkinsonian disability to the extent that investigators determined the need for treatment with levodopa. We analyzed DATATOP results to learn if this operationally defined end point could be reproduced from elements of the Unified PD Rating Scale (UPDRS) and other conventional clinical scales. Our analysis involved UPDRS, Schwab and England Activities of Daily Living (S-E ADL), and Hoehn and Yahr (H-Y) scores when DATATOP subjects reached the study end point. Various UPDRS components were examined, including subscores measuring severity of impaired ADL, bradykinesia, postural instability and gait difficulty, tremor, and rigidity. Data from subjects reaching the end point were compared with assessments of those DATATOP subjects who did not, matched for the same duration of enrollment. All measures showed subjects who reached the end point had significantly greater mean impairment than did controls, although the two groups had substantial overlap. Multivariate analysis by using conditional logistic regression suggested that the end point was determined more by functional (S-E ADL and the UPDRS ADL scores) than by clinical examination criteria. The method of classification and regression trees suggested a simple decision tree splitting, respectively, on S-E ADL, UPDRS ADL, H-Y score, and UPDRS ADL again, with an estimated overall misclassification probability of 18%. We conclude that the DATATOP end point cannot be fully reproduced from the traditional clinical measures, although it can give results that are consistent with these scales in a well-designed clinical trial.

Progressive myoclonus epilepsy type 1 (EPM1, also known as Unverricht-Lundborg disease) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by progressively worsening myoclonic jerks, frequent generalized tonic-clonic seizures, and a slowly progressive decline in cognition. Recently, two mutations in the cystatin B gene (also known as stefin B, STFB) mapping to 21q22.3 have been implicated in the EPM1 phenotype: a G--&gt;C substitution in the last nucleotide of intron 1 that was predicted to cause a splicing defect in one family, and a C--&gt;T substitution that would change an Arg codon (CGA) to a stop codon (TGA) at amino acid position 68, resulting in a truncated cystatin B protein in two other families. A fourth family showed undetectable amounts of STFB mRNA by northern blot analysis in an affected individual. We present haplotype and mutational analyses of our collection of 20 unrelated EPM1 patients and families from different ethnic groups. We identify four different mutations, the most common of which consists of an unstable approximately 600-900 bp insertion which is resistant to PCR amplification. This insertion maps to a 12-bp polymorphic tandem repeat located in the 5' flanking region of the STFB gene, in the region of the promoter. The size of the insertion varies between different EPM1 chromosomes sharing a common haplotype and a common origin, suggesting some level of meiotic instability over the course of many generations. This dynamic mutation, which appears distinct from conventional trinucleotide repeat expansions, may arise via a novel mechanism related to the instability of tandemly repeated sequences.
We have identified subtype selective agonists, partial agonists and antagonists, which distinguish the human recombinant Mel1a and Mel1b melatonin receptors expressed in COS-7 cells. Melatonin receptor agonists showed higher affinity for competition of 2-[125I]-iodomelatonin binding for the Mel1b than the Mel1a melatonin receptor. The dissociation constants (Ki) of 16 agonists determined on the recombinant human Mel1a and Mel1b melatonin receptor subtypes showed a significant correlation (r2 = 0.85, slope = 0.97, P &lt; 0.0001, n = 16). However, six agonists showed 10 to 60 fold higher affinity for the Mel1b melatonin receptor as indicated by the affinity selectivity ratios (Mel1a/Mel1b) [8-methoxy-2-acetamidotetraline (11); S20098 (14); 8-methoxy-2-propionamidotetraline (20); 6, 7 di-chloro-2-methylmelatonin (21); 6-chloromelatonin (57); 6-methoxymelatonin (59)]. Dissociation constants for competition of 11 partial agonists and antagonist for 2-[125I]-iodomelatonin binding were between 15.5 (luzindole, pKi: 7.7) to 362 (4-phenyl-2-chloroacetamidotetraline, pKi: 9.1) fold higher for the Mel1b than for the Mel1a melatonin receptor. The lack of correlation between the pKi values (r2 = 0.23, P &gt; 0.1, n = 11) strongly suggest that the two human melatonin receptor subtypes can be distinguished pharmacologically. The partial agonist: 5-methoxyluzindole (pKi: 9.6) and the competitive melatonin receptor antagonists: GR128107 (pKi: 9.6), 4-phenyl-2-chloroacetamidotetraline (pKi: 9.1), 4-phenyl-2-acetamidotetraline (pKi: 8.9) and 4-phenyl-2-propionamidotetraline (pKi: 8.8) are selective Mel1b melatonin receptor analogues as their affinity selectivity ratios (Mel1a/Mel1b) are bigger than 100. We conclude that the 40% overall amino acid difference in the sequence of the human recombinant Mel1a and Mel1b melatonin receptors is reflected in distinct pharmacological profiles for the subtypes. We compared the pharmacological profile of the presynaptic ML1 melatonin heteroreceptor of rabbit retina mediating inhibition of the calcium-dependent release of dopamine to that of the recombinant Mel1a and Mel1b melatonin receptors. Melatonin inhibited [3H]dopamine release by 50% (1C50) at 20 pM with a maximal inhibitory effect (80%) at 1 nM. The partial agonists, i.e., N-acetyltryptamine (1C50 5.6, maximal inhibition 55%) and 5-methoxyluzindole (1C50: 1.3, maximal inhibition 40%) showed various degrees of efficacy while none of the competitive melatonin receptor antagonists did inhibit [3H]dopamine release on their own. The potency (1C50) of full melatonin receptor agonists significantly correlated with their affinity to compete for 2-[125I]-iodomelatonin binding to either the Mel1a (r2 = 0.76, slope = 0.77, P &lt; 0.0001, n = 17) or Mel1b (r2 = 0.63, slope = 0.75, P &lt; 0.001, n = 17) human melatonin receptors. By contrast, the apparent dissociation constants (KB) for partial agonists and antagonists to antagonize the inhibition of [3H]dopamine release mediated by activation of the ML1 heteroreceptor by melatonin, significantly correlated with the affinity constants (Ki) for 2-[125I]-iodomelatonin binding determined of the Mel1b (r2 = 0.77, slope = 0.55, P &lt; 0.001; n = 11) but not the Mel1a (r2 = 0.27, P &lt; 0.1, n = 11) subtype. Together these results demonstrate that the pharmacological profile of the human recombinant Mel1b melatonin receptor is similar to that of the functional presynaptic melatonin heteroreceptor of rabbit retina, which we referred as an ML1B subtype. We conclude that the selective Mel1b melatonin partial agonists and antagonists described here can be used to identify melatonin receptor subtypes in native tissues and to search for subtype selective analogues with therapeutic potential.
The present study examined sex differences in the area and age-related atrophy of the corpus callosum (CC) of 76 healthy elderly subjects using magnetic resonance imaging. The cerebellum and pons served as noncortical control structures. CC area and its subregions were also related to cognitive performance. Women had a slightly larger posterior sector of the CC than men. Women but not men showed age-related atrophy of the anterior and middle sectors of the CC but not the posterior sector. Cerebellum and pons size was similar in men and women, and neither showed age-related atrophy. CC area was related to visual memory in women but not men; no other significant cognitive to structure area relationships were found. These findings show that selective age related atrophy of the CC differs in men and women late in life.
CSF levels of tau protein are increased in many patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Studies disagree on whether the increase is found in moderate or severe AD to a greater extent than in mild AD, and in two reports there was an inverse correlation between tau levels and cognitive scores. To readdress this question, we measured CSF tau in a group of mildly impaired patients with AD (Mini-Mental State Examination [MMSE] scores &gt; or =20/30) and compared their tau levels with those in age-comparable normal and neurologic controls. We found that the mean level of CSF tau was significantly increased in the AD group compared with the controls, and 29 of 36 patients with AD had levels that exceeded a cutoff determined in a previous study. CSF tau levels did not correlate with MMSE scores. These findings and those of previous studies show that elevated CSF tau levels are found in most patients with AD, occur early in the course of dementia, and may be useful in supporting the diagnosis of AD.
Sixty patients with trigeminal neuralgia who did not have a response to pharmacologic treatment (including 22 who had no response to conventional surgical treatment) underwent stereotactic radiosurgical treatment with the Leksell Gamma Knife. A radiosurgical maximum dose of 70 Gy was delivered to the trigeminal nerve root adjacent to the pons via a 4-mm collimator helmet in 51 patients who presented with trigeminal neuralgia unrelated to tumors. In these patients, the root was localized by stereotactic MRI. Follow-up assessment of pain relief was accomplished by a third party not involved in the patients' clinical care. Within a latency period of 1 day to 4 months following the treatment, 38 of 51 patients (74.5%) were completely free of pain and eventually all medications were tapered off. An additional seven patients (13.7%) experienced reductions in pain from 50 to 90% and utilized little or no medications. Patients who had no prior surgical intervention fared much better than those who had previous surgery to relieve their facial pains. At last follow-up, a mean of 16.3 months (range 6-36 months) after treatment, 41 patients (80.4%) remained pain-free or had marked pain reduction. There were four patients with recurrent pain. All 26 patients with classical symptoms of trigeminal neuralgia with no atypical features who had no prior surgery, had complete or nearly complete pain relief, and none of these patients had recurrent pain. Nine patients with trigeminal neuralgia due to tumors received standard radiosurgical treatment directed at their tumors, and eight of nine (88.8%) had pain relief. Of the total of 60 patients treated for trigeminal neuralgia, 49 (81.7%) experienced complete or nearly complete relief of pain at last follow-up. Only one patient with pre-existing facial sensory loss due to a tumor had a mild increase in facial numbness. No other patient experienced either loss of facial sensation or any other complication. Gamma Knife radiosurgery appears to be a minimally invasive, safe, and effective therapy of trigeminal neuralgia.
DOC2 proteins constitute a novel protein family that may function in secretion and contain a double C2 domain. We have cloned and characterized two DOC2 isoforms in rat brain and studied their interactions with other proteins implicated in secretion. DOC2A was virtually brain specific, DOC2B ubiquitous. Within brain, the isoforms were expressed nonuniformly and complementary within neurons, not astroglia, and copurified with synaptic vesicles. Affinity purification, yeast two-hybrid analysis, and coimmunoprecipitation revealed that DOC2 binds munc18, a protein also implicated in secretion. The first DOC2 C2 domain and most of munc18 are involved in direct interactions. Munc18 may regulate formation of 'core complexes' during vesicle docking, by interacting with syntaxin. We show that DOC2 and syntaxin compete for munc18. Other core complex components shifted the equilibrium between syntaxin-munc18 versus DOC2-munc18. These data suggest that DOC2 proteins are vesicular adapter proteins regulating munc18-syntaxin complexes and herewith synaptic vesicle docking.

Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) have the potential to be a powerful tool for regulating gene expression and mRNA translation in spatially and temporally restricted domains. Prior to investigating the effects of antisense ODNs on hippocampal long-term potentiation, we investigated whether there are any non-specific effects of ODNs on perforant path synaptic transmission in the dentate gyrus of both pentobarbital-anaesthetized and awake, freely moving rats. Single injections of phosphorothioated antisense ODNs (4 nmol) to the immediate early gene zif/268 caused a rapid (within minutes) and long-lasting (&gt;24 hr) profound depression of the perforant path evoked field potentials. This depressive effect was due to the phosphorothioate modification since a depression was not seen with unmodified antisense ODNs, relative to saline controls. Furthermore, the effect was not sequence-specific since modified sense ODNs caused the same degree of depression. The depression caused by the modified antisense ODNs was dose-dependent and specific to synaptic transmission, since antidromic population spikes elicited by mossy fibre stimulation were relatively unaffected compared to the orthodromic responses. A second unexpected side-effect of the modified ODNs was cellular hyperexcitability, such that bursts of epileptiform spikes in the EEG occurred both spontaneously and as a result of synaptic stimulation. While the mechanism of the synaptic depression remains unknown, these results indicate that phosphorothioate-modified ODNs exert profound non-specific effects on synaptic transmission in the hippocampus, that have the potential to seriously compromise any corresponding behavioural or electrophysiological studies.
Simultaneous attention in the two visual fields was studied in 20-, 24- and 26-month-old infants. The stimuli were pairs of simple geometrical elements. The two elements were presented simultaneously either to one visual hemifield (unilateral presentation), on the right or left side of a central fixation point, or across the two visual fields (bilateral presentation), with one component on each side of the fixation point. The task was an operant conditioning task with two conditions. In the Position condition, subjects had to decide whether the two components were horizontally aligned or not. In the Shape condition, they had to decide whether the shapes of the two components were identical or not. The results show that even the youngest group of subjects was able to reach the learning criterion in the unilateral presentation condition, whereas reaching the learning criterion in the bilateral condition becomes possible only at the age of about 24 months. No differences in the subjects' performances were found to exist between the Position and Shape conditions. It is concluded that simultaneous attention to the two visual fields and the production of a unified response emerge very late in development at about the age of 24 months.
Thirty-eight 3- to 5-year-old children with unilateral lesions sustained pre- or peri-natally were studied longitudinally over a 2-year period, and their IQ scores compared with those of 20 &quot;medical' controls. The failure to discover laterality effects following early unilateral injury supports the hypothesis of at least broad functional equipotentiality. There were few decrements in intellectual functioning provided the injury was not accompanied by seizures. The presence of seizures in contrast had a deleterious effect on both verbal and nonverbal aspects of cognitive functioning. While the IQs of the hemiplegic groups showed considerable stability over the 2-year span of the study, there was evidence that performance IQ, even in seizure-free patients, might be selectively impaired because of competition within the intact neural space for the sparing of verbal IQ.
Alpha-ethyltryptamine (AET), a monoamine oxidase inhibitor and potent monoamine releasing agent, has been sold illicitly as a substitute for the entactogen 3,4-methylenedioxy-N-methylamphetamine (MDMA), and is the first example of an indolealkylamine analog demonstrated to substitute in MDMA-trained animals. Previous studies have demonstrated that MDMA and AET have similar effects on unconditioned motor behavior in rats. Furthermore, the locomotor-activating effects of both MDMA and AET are blocked by pretreatment with fluoxetine, a selective serotonin (5-HT) uptake inhibitor, suggesting that the two compounds may share a presynaptic mechanism of action. This study examined the effects of AET using measures of startle plasticity, specifically prepulse inhibition (PPI), and habituation. PPI, a measure of sensorimotor gating, is reduced in rats treated with hallucinogens, 5-HT releasers, and dopamine agonists. In contrast, startle habituation is reduced in rats treated with hallucinogens and 5-HT releasers. AET (1.25, 2.5, 5, and 10 mg/kg) decreased PPI of acoustic startle and reduced the habituation of tactile startle. To determine whether AET produces these effects via pre- or postsynaptic actions, fluoxetine (10 mg/kg) was used as a pretreatment. By itself, fluoxetine did not disrupt PPI, but did reduce startle habituation. Fluoxetine pretreatment prevented the AET-induced disruption of PPI and reduced the AET-induced disruption of startle habituation. Combined with previous findings, these results confirm that AET produces behavioral effects that mimic those of other indirect 5-HT agonists and that the effects of AET on startle plasticity are due to the release of presynaptic 5-HT.
Valproic acid (VPA), a simple branched fatty acid anticonvulsant, has been demonstrated to have clinical efficacy in the treatment of manic-depressive illness (Bowden et al., 1994), but the mechanism(s) by which VPA produces its therapeutic effects remain to be elucidated. VPA's clinical antimanic action require a lag period for onset and are not immediately reversed upon discontinuation of treatment, effects that suggest alterations at the genomic level; we therefore investigated the effects of VPA on the modulation of the DNA binding activity of key transcription factors. DNA binding activities of activator protein 1 (AP-1) and cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) were studied in acute (hours) and chronic (days) VPA-treated rat C6 glioma cells. VPA did not affect CREB DNA binding activity, but concentration- and time-dependently increased AP-1 DNA binding activity. The activity was raised at 2 hours (the shortest time examined) and remained high after 6 days (the longest time used) of continuing VPA treatment. VPA also enhanced AP-1 DNA binding activity in human neuroblastoma (SH-SY5Y) cells. Because the effects of VPA were markedly inhibited by cycloheximide, they appear to require new protein synthesis. Taken together, the data suggest that antimanic agents may affect gene expression by modulation of the activity of major transcription factors; in view of the key roles of these nuclear transcription regulatory factors in long-term neuronal plasticity and cellular responsiveness, these effects may play a major role in VPA's therapeutic efficacy and are worthy of further study.
Metabolites released during fatiguing muscle contractions excite group III IV muscle afferents which might inhibit skeleto-motoneuron firing, hypothetically via Renshaw cells. This was tested, in decerebrated, spinalized cats, by recording changes in Renshaw cell spontaneous discharges and responses to antidromic electrical stimulation of motor axons when small-diameter calf muscle afferents were excited by intra-arterially injected bradykinin, serotonin, lactic acid and KCI. Whenever such injections had an effect, it transiently raised or lowered the spontaneous firing rate and almost always decreased the antidromic response to motor axon stimulation. Injection of bradykinin and serotonin commonly decreased the blood pressure and concomitantly the spinal blood flow (as measured using laser Doppler flowmetry), which could have indirectly influenced Renshaw cell firing. But in general, blood pressure and flow changed after the Renshaw cell discharge did, which thus, appears to be modulated independently by group III-IV afferents. These results suggest that the Renshaw cell-mediated effects of neurochemically excited afferents would predominantly disinhibit rather than inhibit motoneurons.
To address the importance of antigen-presenting cells for the survival of intracerebral neural allografts, allogeneic spleen cells were added to the graft tissue before transplantation. Dissociated embryonic, dopamine-rich mesencephalic and adult spleen tissues were prepared from either inbred Lewis or Sprague-Dawley rats. A mixture of neural and spleen cells was sterotaxically transplanted into the right striatum of adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Controls were neural allografts without addition of allogeneic spleen cells and syngeneic neural grafts with or without the addition of syngeneic spleen cells. Six weeks after transplantation, brain sections were processed immunocytochemically for tyrosine hydroxylase, specific for grafted dopamine neurons, and a bank of markers for various components in the immune and inflammatory responses. The neural allografts which were mixed with allogeneic spleen cells were rejected. In these rats, there were high levels of expression of major histocompatibility complex class I and II antigens, intense cellular infiltration including macrophages and activated microglial cells, and a presence of cluster of differentiation 4- and 8-immunoreactive cells in the graft sites. Moreover, there were increased levels of intercellular adhesion molecule-1, tumour necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-6 in and around the grafts which were undergoing rejection. In contrast, syngeneic neural grafts survived well regardless of whether they were mixed with syngeneic spleen cells or not, and control neural allografts also exhibited unimpaired survival. No significant difference was observed in the number of grafted dopamine neurons among these three latter groups. The levels of expression of the different markers for inflammation and rejection were generally lower in these grafts than in implants of combined allogeneic neural and spleen cells. In summary, intrastriatal neural allografts, which normally survive well in our animal model, were rejected if allogeneic spleen cells from the same donor were added to the graft tissue. The added spleen cells caused strong host immune and inflammatory responses. The study gave support to the notion that immunological privilege of the brain does not provide absolute protection to immunogenetically histoincompatible neural grafts.
The nervus terminalis of teleosts, a cranial nerve anatomically associated with the olfactory system, projects to visual system targets including retina and optic tectum. It is known to contain gonadotropin-releasing hormone and RFamide-like peptides, but its function remains unknown. We have probed nervus terminalis function in goldfish by measuring peptide content in retina and tectum with a radioimmunoassay for A18Famide (neuropeptide AF; bovine morphine-modulating peptide). We found that retinal peptide content increased in the dark and decreased in the light, whereas tectal peptide content decreased in the dark and increased in the light. In addition, RFamide-like peptide content in the retina was transiently decreased by severing both olfactory tracts, increased in light-adapted eyes treated with a GABAergic agonist (isoguvacine), and decreased in dark-adapted eyes treated with GABAergic antagonists (bicuculline and picrotoxin). We also found that RFamide-like peptide release could be induced in dark-adapted isolated-superfused retinas by exposure to light or a high concentration (102.5 mM) of potassium ions. We interpret the increase and decrease in peptide content as reflecting a decrease and increase, respectively, in rate of peptide release. We propose that the release and accumulation of RFamide-like peptides in axon terminals of nervus terminalis processes in the retina are modulated primarily by neurons intrinsic to the retina and regulated by light. Peptide release appears to be inhibited tonically in the dark by GABA acting through GABAA receptors; light facilitates peptide release by disinhibition due to a reduction in GABA release. In addition, we propose that electrical signals originating outside the retina can override these intrinsic release-modulating influences.
Serotonin potentiates pain induced by intraplantar injection of other inflammatory mediators through the 5-hydroxytryptamine2A receptor, and 5-hydroxytryptamine2A antagonists dose-dependently block pain induced by formalin. The present study examined the temporal characteristics of 5-hydroxytryptamine-mediated potentiation of pain in the rat. Simultaneous injection of the 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptor agonist alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine (10 micrograms) plus prostaglandin E2 (0.1 microgram) produced 10 min of lifting and licking of the injected paw. When alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine was injected before prostaglandin E2, the response decreased as the interval increased, and by 1 h, it was not different from injection of prostaglandin E2 alone. When prostaglandin E2 was injected prior to alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine, sensitization to the latter persisted for more than 3 h. It was blocked by the 5-hydroxytryptamine2 antagonist ketanserin (5 micrograms), injected locally 5 min before alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine. Ketanserin (5 micrograms) or the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A/2A antagonist spiperone (0.3 microgram), injected locally 5 min before alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine and prostaglandin E2, reduced pain by 80-90%, but only by 40-50% when injected 2 min after. Formalin produced a biphasic pain response. The 5-hydroxytryptamine2 antagonists, ketanserin (50 micrograms), spiperone (3 micrograms) and ritanserin (50 micrograms) injected 5 min before formalin reduced the pain response by 70, 90 and 74%, respectively, but only by 40, 30 and 24% when injected at the beginning of the second phase. Pretreatment of the paw with 2 micrograms indomethacin did not alter the response to alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine plus prostagladin E2, indicating that the sensitization was not due to prostaglandin synthesis. These data show that 5-hydroxytryptamine sensitizes tissue to the pain-producing actions of other inflammatory mediators, and that the sensitization produces a persisting change in tissue that can be blocked by pretreatment with an antagonist, but not reversed after it has occurred. The data imply that 5-hydroxytryptamine2A antagonists may act prophylactically to prevent the evolution of pain in injured tissue, but do not reduce already-present pain.
The effects of nitric oxide-containing solution and different nitric oxide donors were investigated on spontaneously active neurons using extracellular recording technique in areas of rat spinal cord slices where high levels of nitric oxide synthase are present. In lamina X, 93% of all neurons investigated (n = 84) increased their firing rate and 2% decreased it by superfusion with the nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside. In contrast, 49% of all neurons in laminae I and II (n = 90) were inhibited and only 28% were activated. Both effects were due to the postsynaptic action of sodium nitroprusside, because they could still be observed in medium containing 0.3 mM Ca2+ and 9 mM Mg2+, known to block synaptic transmission. Application of 8-bromo-cyclic-GMP caused an excitation of every neuron which was excited by sodium nitroprusside and an inhibition of every cell which was inhibited by sodium nitroprusside (n = 25). This effect was different from the effect of 8-bromo-cyclic-AMP, which mimicked only the excitatory, but not the inhibitory response of sodium nitroprusside. These results provide evidence that nitric oxide in the spinal cord can directly cause an excitation or an inhibition of the electrical activity of spinal neurons. Another, more general conclusion from our results is that the nitric oxide-induced production of cyclic-GMP alone does not allow any prediction about an excitatory or inhibitory effect on the neuronal activity, which has to be determined separately.
Blockade of potassium channels with the drug 4-aminopyridine has been shown to effect recovery of action potential conduction in myelinated axons under a variety of pathological conditions, but the mechanism and significance of this phenomenon are not completely understood. This study examined the effects of a range of 4-aminopyridine concentrations on conduction in an experimental model of chronic spinal cord injury in guinea-pigs, using sucrose-gap recording from isolated spinal cord strips. The amplitude of the compound action potential increased in response to bath application of 4-aminopyridine, with a threshold between 0.5 and 1 microM and the peak response between 10 and 100 microns. Conduction was suppressed at concentrations of 1 and 10 mM. Uninjured white matter showed no effect on the compound potential of 4-aminopyridine below 1 mM, but there was a similar suppression at concentrations above 1 mM, accompanied by marked membrane depolarization. Peripheral nerve showed only slight action potential suppression and depolarization in the presence of 10 mM 4-aminopyridine. The sensitivity of injured axons to 1 microM 4-aminopyridine is consistent with the hypothesis that some beneficial effects of the drug seen in patients with spinal cord injury are related to improved conduction in myelinated axons, since cerebrospinal fluid levels of 4-aminopyridine should approach this concentration following clinical systemic doses, although it remains likely that synaptic effects also play a role. The blockade of action potential conduction produced by much higher levels of 4-aminopyridine in vitro is possibly a consequence of interference with the resting potential mechanism of the axon membrane, which appears to differ between central and peripheral nerve fibers.
The glycine transporter GLYT2 is present in axonal boutons throughout the spinal cord, and its laminar distribution matches that of glycine-enriched axons, which are presumed to be glycinergic. In order to determine whether boutons which possess GLYT2 are glycine-enriched, we have carried out pre-embedding immunocytochemistry with antibody raised against GLYT2, and combined this with post-embedding detection of glycine, in the rat. GLYT2 immunoreactivity was present in boutons which formed symmetrical axodendritic, axosomatic or axoaxonic synapses, and was often seen in peripheral axons of type II synaptic glomeruli. One hundred and fifty GLYT2-immunoreactive boutons were analysed quantitatively, and in 142 (94.6%) of these the density of gold particles representing glycine-like immunoreactivity exceeded the background level (over presumed glutamatergic boutons) by at least a factor of two. Within immunoreactive boutons, the GLYT2 reaction product was associated with the plasma membrane, but often appeared as discrete clumps and was generally excluded from the region of the active sites of synapses. These results confirm that GLYT2 is associated with glycine-enriched axonal boutons in the superficial dorsal horn. They also suggest that GLYT2 is unevenly distributed on the plasma membrane of these boutons, and raise the possibility that it may be excluded from synaptic clefts.
Substance P, a putative peptide neurotransmitter contained in primary sensory neurons, is suggested to play a major role in nociceptive transmission. In the present study, the existence of substance P autoreceptor in dorsal root ganglion neurons was identified with a method we developed recently and substance P-activated inward current in the dorsal root ganglion neurons and its ionic mechanism were also explored preliminarily. The majority of the cells examined (68/76, 89.5%) were sensitive to external application of substance P (0.01-10 microM) with a concentration-dependent inward current. This current was found to result from the opening of nonselective ion channel, preferring the Na+ channel. The substance P-activated current can be suppressed by Cd2+ (0.05 microM), which suggested Ca2+ may also be involved. Soon after the neurons had been identified to be endowed with substance P receptor with whole-cell patch-clamp technique, 17 cells were chosen for immunocytochemical staining to detect substance P-immunoreactivity. Seven neurons which were classified into small and intermediate size were found to reveal substance P-immunoreactivity. Using this method we have identified the existence of substance P autoreceptor in rat DRG neurons.
To ascertain whether the dorsal medulla, a well-established vasopressor structure, would project directly to the sympathetic intermediolateral cell column of the spinal cord, we have carried out both anterograde and retrograde tracing studies in cats. For anterograde tracing, biotin-dextran was iontophoretically delivered into the cardiovascular-reactive dorsal medulla following its functional identification by electrical stimulation. The anterogradely transported biotin-dextran was then visualized using the avidin-biotin-horseradish peroxidase complex method. By light microscopy, dextran-labelled varicose axons were observed bilaterally in the intermediolateral nucleus extending from segments T1 to L3, but concentrated in segments T1-T5, notably at levels T2-T4. Electron microscopic examination revealed the localization of biotin-dextran reaction product in some small myelinated axons and axon terminals in the intermediolateral cell column. The majority of tracer-labelled axonal boutons contained spherical synaptic vesicles and made asymmetric synaptic contacts primarily with small dendrites. A few boutons contained polymorphic synaptic vesicles and tended to form symmetric axodendritic synapses. Spinally projecting neurons of the dorsal medulla were identified using the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase injected into the electrically cardiovascular-reactive intermediolateral nucleus. The labelled neurons were localized in the medullary dorsomedial reticular formation ventromedial to the nucleus of the solitary tract, approximately 0.5-5 mm rostral to the obex. The projection was bilateral, but was relatively denser in the rostral portion of the contralateral dorsal medulla. The present findings support the hypothesis that the dorsal medulla, through its direct pathway innervating the intermediolateral nucleus, may serve as a sympathetic premotor structure for regulation of arterial pressure.
We have previously shown [Li and Dampney (1994) Neuroscience 61, 613-634] that periods of sustained hypertension and hypotension each induces a distinctive and reproducible pattern of neuronal expression of Fos (a marker of neuronal activation) in specific regions of the brainstem and forebrain of conscious rabbits. The aim of this study was to determine the contribution of afferent inputs from arterial baroreceptors to the activation of neurons in these various brain regions that is caused by a sustained change in arterial pressure. Experiments were carried out on rabbits in which the carotid sinus and aortic depressor nerves were cut in a preliminary operation. Following a recovery period of seven to 10 days, a moderate hypertension or hypotension (increase or decrease in arterial pressure of 20-30 mmHg) was induced in conscious barodenervated rabbits for 60 min by the continuous infusion of phenylephrine or sodium nitroprusside, respectively. In control experiments, barodenervated rabbits were subjected to the identical procedures except that they were infused with the vehicle solution alone. Compared with the effects seen in barointact rabbits, [Li and Dampney (1994) Neuroscience 61, 613-634] the number of neurons that expressed Fos in response to hypertension was reduced by approximately 90% in the nucleus of the solitary tract and in the caudal and intermediate parts of the ventrolateral medulla. In supramedullary regions, baroreceptor denervation resulted in a reduction of approximately 60% in hypertension-induced Fos expression in the central nucleus of the amygdala and in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, but no significant reduction in the parabrachial complex in the pons. Following hypotension, the number of neurons that expressed Fos in barodenervated rabbits, compared with barointact rabbits, [Li and Dampney (1994) Neuroscience 61, 613-634] was reduced by approximately 90% in the nucleus of the solitary tract, area postrema, and caudal, intermediate and rostral parts of the ventrolateral medulla. Baroreceptor denervation also resulted in a similar large reduction in hypotension-induced Fos expression in many supramedullary regions (locus coeruleus, midbrain periaqueductal grey, hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, and in the central nucleus of the amygdala and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in the basal forebrain). In the supraoptic nucleus, hypotension-induced Fos expression in barodenervated rabbits was reduced by 75% compared to barointact animals, but was still significantly greater than in control animals. There was also a high level of Fos expression, much greater than in control animals, in the circumventricular organs surrounding the third ventricle (subfornical organ and organum vasculosum lamina terminalis). The results indicate that in conscious rabbits the activation of neurons that occurs in several discrete regions at all levels of the brain following a sustained change in arterial pressure is largely dependent upon inputs from arterial baroreceptors, with the exception of neurons in the circumventricular organs surrounding the third ventricle that are activated by sustained hypotension. The latter group of neurons are known to project to vasopressin-secreting neurons in the supraoptic nucleus, and may therefore via this pathway trigger the hypotension-induced release of vasopressin that occurs in the absence of baroreceptor inputs.
Phosphorylated microtubule-associated protein 1B isoforms are thought to be involved in the plastic events taking place in neurons during development. However, little is known about their expression and possible role in the mature nervous system. To gain insight into the mechanisms underlying neuronal plasticity in the adult, we studied the pattern of expression of three microtubule-associated protein 1B isoforms in the entire adult rat nervous system. Accordingly, we performed western blots and immunohistochemistries using the antibodies 125, 150 and 531, which specifically recognize phosphorylated and unphosphorylated microtubule-associated protein 1B epitopes. Two electrophoretically distinct microtubule-associated protein 1B isoforms, slow-migrating and fast-migrating, were detected with the antibodies. The pattern of expression of these isoforms in the adult rat nervous system was region specific. Phosphorylated slow-migrating microtubule-associated protein 1B was expressed at all cellular compartments of primary sensory neurons in the central and peripheral nervous systems. In addition to primary sensory axons, slow-migrating microtubule-associated protein 1B was encountered at some other axons within the central nervous system. We discuss the correlation between slow-migrating microtubule-associated protein 1B axonal content and the regenerative potential of neurons. Phosphorylated fast-migrating microtubule-associated protein 1B was exclusively found in central nervous system dendrites where synaptic plasticity with morphological changes occurs in the adult. Unphosphorylated fast-migrating microtubule-associated protein 1B was the only isoform present in the bodies and dendrites of all motor neurons, and in peripheral and central nervous system glial cells of myelinated tracts with slow-migrating microtubule-associated protein 1B-containing axons. In summary, this report describes the pattern of expression of microtubule-associated protein 1B isoforms in the entire adult rat nervous system. In addition, it provides some information about the possible functional implications of phosphorylated microtubule-associated protein 1B isoforms in the adult.
The distributions of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the rat vestibular nuclear complex were estimated by quantitative autoradiography of 5-[3H]6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione and (+)-3-[3H]dizocilpine maleate binding, respectively. The binding of 5-[3H]6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione in the vestibular nuclear complex was also compared with that in the cerebellar cortex and cochlear nucleus. Measurements were made in control rats and in rats with unilateral destruction of the inner ear and removal of the vestibular ganglion. Compared to the unlesioned side, 5-[3H]6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione binding in the lesioned-side vestibular nuclear complex was decreased significantly in all regions at two to four postoperative days. However, the bilateral asymmetry disappeared in most regions by 30 days. 5-[3H]6-Cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione binding increased in the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex at 30 days after lesion, although there were no clear changes at two to seven days. 5-[3H]6-Cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione binding in the cochlear nucleus decreased on the lesioned side, compared to the unlesioned side, in regions receiving significant auditory nerve innervation, but increased in the molecular layer of the dorsal cochlear nucleus. (+)-3-[3H]Dizocilpine maleate binding in regions of the vestibular nuclear complex was reduced on the lesioned side, compared to the unlesioned side, after deafferentation, with the largest reductions usually at 30 postoperative days. It is suggested that: (i) non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are involved in synaptic transmission for both vestibular and auditory nerve fibers, while the involvement of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors is less certain; (ii) unilateral deafferentation of the vestibular nuclear complex can result in bilateral asymmetries for non-N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, which are most prominent at earlier and later survival times, respectively; and (iii) vestibular compensation may involve regulation of both non-N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the vestibular nuclear complex and activation of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-related processes in cerebellar cortex.
In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nucleus is critical for the generation of circadian rhythms and their entrainment to environmental cues. In the rat, the ventrolateral aspect of the suprachiasmatic nucleus receives a robust retinal input. This region also exhibits the most intense immunolabeling for the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor in the forebrain. Our study was aimed at identifying the sources of this low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity using immunohistochemistry combined with retrograde tract-tracing, and orbital enucleation. To determine the origin of the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity from sources extrinsic to the suprachiasmatic nucleus, unilateral injections of the retrograde tracer, Fluorogold, were made into the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Retrogradely labeled neurons that were also immunopositive for the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor were found in both the basal forebrain and the retina. In the basal forebrain, such cells were found throughout its rostrocaudal extent, with the majority also being immunoreactive for the cholinergic marker, choline acetyltransferase. In the retina, cells retrogradely labeled with Fluorogold that were immunoreactive for low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor were located in the ganglion cell layer. Orbital enucleations were performed to confirm the findings observed following retrograde labeling in the retina. Unilateral orbital enucleations resulted in a significant reduction in low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactivity in the contralateral suprachiasmatic nucleus compared to that seen on the ipsilateral side when examined one week post-surgery. Bilateral enucleations resulted in an equal decrease on both sides of the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Similar low-affinity nerve growth factor-like immunoreactivity was seen in the suprachiasmatic nucleus even two to four weeks after bilateral enucleations. Taken together, these findings suggest that low-affinity nerve growth factor receptors in the suprachiasmatic nucleus derive from multiple sources. While some receptors may be intrinsic to suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons, most appear to be of extrinsic origin and are located on axon terminals of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and retinal ganglion cells.
In addition to providing a gateway to the hippocampus, the entorhinal cortex has significant projections to the amygdala. In the present investigation, the organization of the projections of the lateral entorhinal cortex to the amygdala was studied in the rat using the sensitive anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. Each of the three main subdivisions of the lateral entorhinal cortex provided a characteristic projection to the amygdala that mainly arose from the deep cortical layers. The projections from the dorsolateral and ventrolateral entorhinal areas were much stronger than those arising from the ventromedial entorhinal area. The primary targets of the dorsolateral and ventrolateral entorhinal areas were the basolateral amygdala, lateral capsular subdivision of the central nucleus and caudal portions of the cortical nuclear complex. The dorsolateral entorhinal area projects mainly to the lateral part of the basal nucleus, while the ventrolateral entorhinal area projects mainly to its medial part. A transitional region at the rostral pole of the ventrolateral entorhinal cortex has additional strong projections to the lateral subdivision of the central nucleus, medial amygdaloid nucleus and the intra-amygdaloid portion of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. The results of the present study indicate that the amygdala is one of the principal targets of the entorhinal cortex. The correspondence between the topography of entorhino-hippocampal connections and entorhino-amygdaloid connections suggests that the amygdaloid projection arising in each of the three main subdivisions of the entorhinal cortex conveys information processed in different septotemporal portions of the hippocampal formation. These entorhinal projections, which probably convey complex relational (including contextual) information to the amygdala, are in a position to produce different behavioral responses by activating different portions of the amygdaloid nuclear complex.
Among the pathological processes initiated by traumatic brain injury are excessive neuroexcitation and target cell deafferentation. The current study examines the contribution of these injury components, separately as well as their combined effect, on postinjury alterations in the capacity for long-term potentiation and the immunolocalization of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and GABA. Adult rats underwent central fluid percussion traumatic brain injury, electrolytic bilateral entorhinal cortex lesions, or a combined injury of both procedures separated by 24 h. At two or 15 days postinjury, the capacity for long-term potentiation of the Schaffer collateral-commissural input to CA1 was measured in acute electrophysiological recordings. Entorhinal cortical lesions resulted in time-dependent increases in the effectiveness of tetanic stimulation to elevate population postsynaptic potentials and population spike amplitudes. These lesions also resulted in a marked intensification in the density of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the CA1 stratum lacunosum-moleculare. All injury conditions that included fluid percussion as a component (alone or in combined injuries) produced a persistent impairment in long-term potentiation of the evoked population postsynaptic potentials. Thus, in combined injuries, the presence of concussion-induced neuroexcitation attenuated deafferentation-induced response increases. Both N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and GABA immunobinding following combined injuries were also reduced relative to those observed following entorhinal lesions alone. The present results suggest that a process of receptor plasticity, possibly involving reactive synaptogenesis, may contribute to postdeafferentation enhancements of long-term potentiation, and that a traumatic brain insult will attenuate these enhancements. This interaction of different injury components suggests that recovery of function following brain injury may be enhanced by pharmacological reduction of neuroexcitation during postinjury intervals of reactive receptor plasticity.
Striatal slices from the rat were preincubated with [3H]GABA and superfused in the presence of nipecotic acid and aminooxyacetic acid, inhibitors of high-affinity GABA transport and GABA aminotransferase, respectively. GABA efflux was estimated by monitoring tritium efflux, 98% of which was in the form of [3H]GABA. The following three major observations were made: (1) The overflow of GABA evoked by electrical field stimulation (8 Hz) was increased two-fold by SKF-38393 (10 microM), an agonist at the D1 family of dopamine receptors. This increase was completely blocked by the D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390 (10 microM). However, SCH-23390 had no effect on GABA overflow when given alone. Thus, dopamine agonists appear to exert an excitatory influence on GABA release; however, this effect was not elicited by endogenous dopamine under the conditions of this experiment. (2) Electrically evoked GABA overflow was reduced 50% by quinpirole (10 microM), an agonist at the D2 family of dopamine receptors, and this effect was blocked by the D2 antagonist sulpiride (10 microM). Moreover, exposure to sulpiride alone caused a 60% increase in GABA overflow, and this effect was abolished by 3-iodotyrosine (2 mM), a dopamine synthesis inhibitor. Thus, D2 agonists appear to exert an inhibitory influence on dopamine release, an effect that can be exerted by endogenous stores of dopamine. (3) The stimulatory effect of SKF-38393 was attenuated by quinpirole, whereas the sulpiride-induced increase in GABA efflux was attenuated by SCH-23390. Sulpiride also increased [3H]GABA efflux during KCl-induced depolarization, an effect that was antagonized by SCH-23390 as in the case of electrical stimulation. However, although tetrodotoxin did not alter the stimulatory effect of sulpiride, it did block the ability of SCH-23390 to antagonize the sulpiride-induced increase in GABA overflow. These latter results suggest that there is an interaction between D1 and D2 receptors whereby the effects of dopamine mediated via D1 sites are inhibited by an action on D2 sites. In conclusion, our results suggest that (i) dopamine agonists can exert an excitatory influence on depolarization-induced GABA release within neostriatum via D1 receptors and an inhibitory influence via D2 receptors; (ii) under the conditions of these experiments, endogenous dopamine fails to act on D1 sites but does exert an inhibitory influence via D2 sites; and (iii) there is an interaction between D1 and D2 receptors such that the actions of dopamine mediated via D1 sites are inhibited as a result of the concomitant actions exerted via D2 sites.
After a unilateral resection of the frontal cortex in fetal cats the volume of the caudate nucleus increases while the packing density of neuronal and glial cells does not change. In the present report we address the questions of whether a similar lesion sustained neonatally or a more extensive neodecortication sustained neonatally or in adulthood may have the same unusual effect. Stereological methods were used to determine bilaterally the volume of the caudate nucleus as well as to estimate the total number and packing density of neurons and glial cells in the caudate nucleus ipsilateral to the lesion. Comparisons between each of three experimental groups and intact animals were made at a time when all animals were young adults. In cats with a unilateral frontal cortical lesion performed between postnatal days 8 and 14, none of the measured parameters changed significantly compared to intact controls. In cats with removal of the entire left neocortex in adulthood, the ipsilateral caudate nucleus volume decreased by 18.1% and by 21.5% relative to intact and to neonatal hemidecorticated cats respectively (P &lt; 0.05), with no change in the contralateral caudate. In the ipsilateral caudate the total number of neurons decreased by 21.8% (P &lt; 0.05) compared to controls while the number of glial cells did not change significantly. In the same caudate the packing density of neurons did not change significantly (except for a 17.1% decrease, P &lt; 0.05, relative to frontal-lesioned cats) while that of glial cells increased by 19.9% and by 24.7% compared to intact and neonatal neodecorticated cats respectively (P &lt; 0.05). In adult cats in which a similar hemineodecortication was performed between postnatal days 8 and 13, the only significant changes were a 25.8% (P &lt; 0.05) and a 30.6% (P &lt; 0.05) decrease in neuron packing density compared to intact and frontal-lesioned cats, respectively. In summary, a restricted unilateral neocortical resection in neonatal cats did not induce any morphological changes in the caudate nucleus that we could detect with the methods employed. In contrast, an extensive neodecortication sustained in adulthood produced ipsilateral caudate shrinkage with substantial neuron loss and increase in packing density of glial cells, while a similar lesion but sustained neonatally only altered substantially the packing density of glial cells (decreased). Therefore, we concluded that (i) the caudate nucleus hypertrophy which we reported after a unilateral discrete cortical removal during the prenatal period is a unique phenomenon which is peculiar to the cat brain during the last third of gestation; (ii) the caudate nucleus changes seen in the cats with hemineodecortication in adulthood are degenerative in nature and closely resemble those which we reported for other subcortical nuclei following a similar lesion; and (iii) the animals with neonatal hemidecortication are relatively spared from these degenerative effects. Overall, these results indicate that, as for other structures, the morphological changes of the caudate nucleus following neocortical damage depend on the maturational state of the brain at the time of the injury and on the size of the lesion, and support the notion that the consequences of cerebral cortex lesions upon subcortical brain nuclei are of a different nature when sustained in prenatal as compared to postnatal cats.
This study examined the possibility that the excitotoxin-induced death of cultured cortical neurons might occur by apoptosis, specifically focusing on the slowly triggered death induced by low concentrations of excitotoxin. Cultured murine cortical neurons (days in vitro 10-12) were exposed continuously to N-methyl-D-aspartate (10-15 microM), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (3-100 microM) or kainate (30-60 microM) over 24 h. Within 2 h of exposure onset, neuronal cell body swelling was visible under phase-contrast optics. At this point, transmission electron microscopy revealed disruption of cell membranes and organelles, mitochondrial swelling and scattered chromatin condensation at the periphery of nuclei. By 8 h after exposure onset, many neurons were devoid of cytoplasmic structures, but nuclear membranes remained relatively intact. This excitotoxic degeneration was not blocked by the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide, or the growth factors, brain-derived neurotrophic factor or insulin-like growth factor-1, agents that did block serum deprivation-induced apoptosis death in other cultures. DNA agarose gel electrophoresis, however, revealed the transient occurrence of internucleosomal DNA fragmentation, appearing 4-8 h after exposure onset, but absent 24 h after exposure onset. The present results suggest that even slowly triggered excitotoxicity occurs by necrosis, and raise a cautionary note in interpreting internucleosomal DNA fragmentation in isolation as evidence for apoptosis.
We determined the distribution of Fos protein expression in a model of generalised epilepsy caused by excessive neuronal excitation. Fos immunoreactivity was mapped in forebrain in unrestrained rats, previously prepared with an indwelling venous catheter, after the intravenous administration of kainic acid (10 mg/kg). We determined cerebral activation following various periods of exposure to kainic acid by using intravenous administration of pentobarbitone to prevent further activation. Within a few minutes, kainic acid caused episodes of staring, sniffing, wet dog shakes, nodding and chewing. Fos induction occurred initially and simultaneously in hippocampus, subiculum, septum and entorhinal cortex as early as 9.5 min after kainate injection. After up to 40 min of staring, sniffing, wet dog shakes, nodding and chewing, Fos induction was not further increased above levels present within the first 9.5 min. After 56 +/- 6 min a motor convulsion occurred, initially affecting the jaw, head and tail and variably extending to the forelimbs, trunk or hindlimbs. Following the convulsive event, additional Fos was expressed in hippocampus, thalamus, caudate-putamen and other subcortical structures and in the cerebral cortex. Fos induction was sometimes asymmetric in entorhinal, visual, piriform, cingulum, parietal and frontal cortices and in amygdala and dorsal endopiriform area. Electroencephalographic recordings after a few minutes exposure to kainic acid revealed an increased amplitude of fast frequencies in hippocampus which appeared to correlate with Fos induction in this structure. The findings are generally consistent with the reported distribution and slow development of kainic acid-induced seizure activity using electrophysiological and deoxyglucose methods. However, the Fos distribution suggests that (i) hippocampal, possibly dentate, activation precedes significant activation elsewhere, (ii) extensive involvement of other cerebral structures and cerebral cortex occurs simultaneously and correlates with motor seizures and (iii) brain structures can be recruited asymmetrically.
Transduction mechanisms associated with ligand binding at diazepam-insensitive subtypes of GABAA receptors remain largely unknown, but unique behavioral effects of ligands binding at these sites have been reported in pigeons. The present study further evaluated the pharmacological characteristics of diazepam-insensitive GABAA receptors in pigeon brain, using [3H]Ro 15-4513. Autoradiography detected diazepam-insensitive benzodiazepine sites on GABAA receptors in a number of brain regions, with the highest densities present in the olfactory bulb, hippocampus, thalamic nuclei and cerebellar granule cell layers, with densities of approximately 10-20% of total benzodiazepine receptor binding. Saturation analysis revealed significant densities (approximately 10% of total benzodiazepine receptor binding) of extracerebellar diazepam-insensitive benzodiazepine receptors in optic lobe, hippocampus, and brainstem compared to 27% in cerebellum. As reported for mammalian diazepam-sensitive benzodiazepine receptors, GABA (50 microM) generally increased the affinities of agonists and partial agonists, had little effect on the affinities of antagonists, and decreased the affinity of an inverse agonist for pigeon cerebellar diazepam-sensitive benzodiazepine receptors. GABA modulation of ligand binding to diazepam-insensitive benzodiazepine receptors was less than that observed for diazepam-sensitive sites, and no positive modulation was observed. These results demonstrate the presence of cerebellar and extracerebellar diazepam-insensitive benzodiazepine receptors in pigeon brain, with distribution patterns and pharmacology similar to those reported in mammals. The comparable central localization and pharmacological properties of drugs at diazepam-sensitive and -insensitive benzodiazepine receptors in pigeons and rats attests to the evolutionary conservation of GABAA systems.
We have recently described two variants of the chicken GABAA receptor beta 2 subunit which arise by alternative splicing of the corresponding primary gene transcript. The long form of the beta 2 subunit (beta 2L) differs from the short form (beta 2S) by the insertion of an additional 17 amino acids, in the large presumed intracellular loop, between the third and fourth membrane-spanning domains. In this study, we have utilized in situ hybridization with transcript-specific oligonucleotide probes to determine the regional and cellular localizations of the beta 2S- and beta 2L-subunit messenger RNAs in the one-day-old chick brain. We show that the beta 2-subunit gene is expressed in many brain areas that also transcribe the GABAA receptor alpha 1- and gamma 2-polypeptide genes. We also demonstrate that while the beta 2S- and beta 2L-subunit messenger RNAs frequently co-localize in many brain areas, certain structures (e.g., the ectostriatum, the hippocampus, the nucleus solitarius, the nucleus isthmi, pars parvocellularis, the nucleus isthmi, pars magnocellularis, the paleostriatum primitivum, the Purkinje cell layer, and the deep cerebellar nuclei) exclusively or predominantly contain either the beta 2S- or the beta 2L-subunit transcript. The distributions of the beta 2S- and beta 2L-polypeptide messenger RNAs resemble those previously described for the chicken GABAA receptor gamma 2S- and gamma 2L-subunit transcripts, respectively, which are also generated by alternative splicing. Our results indicate that a major GABAA receptor subtype in the avian brain is comprised of alpha 1, beta 2 and gamma 2 subunits. In addition, the data obtained reveal that many neurons in the chicken CNS are capable of producing more than one alternatively spliced form of a given primary gene transcript. However, the avian brain also appears to contain two small populations of neurons that possess mechanisms that result in either the incorporation of alternate cassette exons into mature transcripts, or the exclusion of such exons from processed messenger RNAs.
Rapid eye movement sleep can be elicited in the rat by microinjection of the cholinergic agonist carbachol into the oral pontine reticular nucleus. Intracerebroventricular administration, during the light period, of vasoactive intestinal peptide enhances rapid eye movement sleep in several species. Since this peptide is co-localized with acetylcholine in many neurons in the central nervous system, it was assumed that the oral pontine tegmentum could also be one target for vasoactive intestinal peptide to induce rapid eye movement sleep. This hypothesis was tested by recording the sleep-wakefulness cycle in freely-moving rats injected with vasoactive intestinal peptide or its fragments (1-12 and 10-28) directly into the oral pontine reticular nucleus. when administered into the posterior part of this nucleus, vasoactive intestinal peptide at 1 and 10 ng (in 0.1 microliter of saline), but not its fragments, induced a 2-fold enhancement of rapid eye movement sleep during 4 h, at the expense of wakefulness. At the dose of 10 ng, a significant increase in rapid eye movement sleep persisted for up to 8 h. Moreover, when the peptide was injected into the centre of the positive zone, rapid eye movement sleep was enhanced during three to eight consecutive days. These data provide the first evidence that rapid eye movement sleep can be elicited at both short- and long-term by a single intracerebral microinjection of vasoactive intestinal peptide. Peptidergic mechanisms, possibly in association with cholinergic mechanisms, within the caudal part of the oral pontine reticular nucleus may play a critical role in the long-term regulation of rapid eye movement sleep in rats.
The transition from sleep to waking is associated with the abolition of spindle waves and the appearance of tonic activity in thalamocortical neurons and thalamic reticular/perigeniculate GABAergic cells. We tested the possibility that changes such as these may arise through modulation of the leak potassium current, IKL, by examining the effects of neurotransmitters known to modulate this current on spindle wave generation in the ferret geniculate slice maintained in vitro. Local application of agents that reduce IKL in thalamocortical neurons, including acetylcholine, DL-muscarine chloride and the glutamate metabotropic receptor agonist 1S,3R-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (1S,3R-ACPD), to spontaneously spindling thalamocortical neurons resulted in a 5-10 mV membrane depolarization and the abolition of spindle waves. Local application of 1S,3R-ACPD and cholecystokinin-8-sulfate, both of which reduce IKL, to GABAergic neurons of the perigeniculate nucleus resulted in a 10-20 mV membrane depolarization, appearance of tonic discharge and the abolition of spindle wave generation. Local application of 1S,3R-ACPD and cholecystokinin to the perigeniculate nucleus while recording from thalamocortical neurons resulted in the abolition of spindle wave-associated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials and the occurrence of a continuous barrage of smaller amplitude inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, presumably in response to depolarization and tonic discharge of perigeniculate neurons. These results indicate that modulation of IKL in thalamocortical neurons and perigeniculate neurons is capable of abolishing the generation of spindle waves in thalamic networks. Through the modulation of IKL, ascending and descending activating systems may control the state of the thalamus such that the transition from slow wave sleep to waking is associated with the abolition of slow, synchronized rhythms and the facilitation of a state that is conducive to sensory receptor field analysis, arousal and perception.
The cellular and subcellular localization of Rxt1 protein, an orphan Na+/Cl(-)-dependent transporter, was investigated in the central nervous system of rats and mice, with rabbit polyclonal antibodies specifically directed against its C-terminal region. At the light microscope level, the distribution of Rxt1, visualized by the immunoperoxidase method, was found to be similar in rats and mice. Labelled elements were present in numerous gray matter regions of the central nervous system, from the olfactory bulb to the spinal cord. In all labelled regions, immunoreactivity was confined to the neuropil where both a diffuse labelling of low intensity and an intense punctate staining were noted. To further identify the nature of the cellular elements bearing the punctate staining, possible changes in this labelling pattern were investigated: (i) in deep cerebellar nuclei and lateral vestibular nucleus of the Lurcher mutant mouse, in which all cerebellar Purkinje cells are missing and (ii) in the rat cervical spinal cord, 10 days after multiple resections of dorsal roots. The vast majority of the punctate structures, delineating the neuronal perikaryal and stem dendritic contours, had disappeared in the mutant mouse, providing evidence that they belong to Purkinje cell axon terminals. In rhizotomized rats, the intense labelling in laminae I and III had disappeared, demonstrating that it occurred in subclasses of axonal projections of primary afferent fibres. These results strongly suggest that Rxt1 is present in presynaptic axon terminals. The electron microscopic study was carried out in the hippocampus, cerebellum and lateral vestibular nucleus of control mice, where Rxt1-labelled punctate structures were found to be abundant. Immunostaining was confined to axon terminals, particularly in hippocampal and cerebellar mossy fibres and in Purkinje cell axonal terminations of the cerebellar deep nuclei and lateral vestibular nucleus. In the cerebellar cortex, axon terminals belonging to inhibitory local circuit neurons (basket and Golgi cells), were free of labelling. The observations reported in this study have shown that: (1) The Rxt1 transporter is neuron-specific, and is expressed by only some classes or even subclasses of neuronal systems. (2) This transporter can be encountered in excitatory axons using glutamate as neurotransmitter (hippocampal and cerebellar mossy fibres: primary afferent fibres), as well as in inhibitory axons known by their GABAergic nature (Purkinje cell axon terminals) where it might be involved in the re-uptake process of one or several molecules released from corresponding terminals.
The anatomical distribution and density of cannabinoid receptors in the human brain was studied in one fetal (33 weeks gestation), two neonatal (aged three to six months) and eight adult (aged 21-81 years) human cases using quantitative receptor autoradiography following in vitro labelling of sections with the synthetic cannabinoid agonist [3H]CP55,940. Cannabinoid receptors were distributed in a heterogeneous fashion throughout the adult human brain and spinal cord. The allocortex contained very high concentrations of cannabinoid receptor binding sites in the dentate gyrus, Ammons's horn and subiculum of the hippocampal formation; high concentrations of receptors were also present in the entorhinal cortex and amygdaloid complex. Cannabinoid receptor binding sites were also present throughout all regions of the neocortex, where they showed a marked variation in density between the primary, secondary and associational cortical regions: the greatest densities of receptors were present in the associational cortical regions of the frontal and limbic lobes, with moderate densities in the secondary sensory and motor cortical regions, and with the lowest densities of receptors in the primary sensory and motor cortical regions. Relatively high concentrations of cannabinoid receptors were consistently seen in cortical regions of the left (dominant) hemisphere, known to be associated with verbal language functions. In all of the cortical regions, the pattern and density of receptor labelling followed the neocortical laminar organization, with the greatest density of receptors localized in two discrete bands--a clearly delineated narrow superficial band which coincided with lamina I and a deeper broader, conspicuous band of labelling which corresponded to laminae V and VI. Labelling in the intervening cortical laminae (II-IV) showed lower densities, with a well delineated narrow band of label in the middle of laminae IV in the associational cortical regions. The thalamus showed a distinctive heterogeneous distribution of cannabinoid receptors, with the highest concentration of receptors localized in the mediodorsal nucleus, anterior nuclear complex, and in the midline and intralaminar complex of nuclei, i.e. in thalamic nuclei which have connectional affiliations with the associational cortical areas. The basal ganglia showed a distinctive heterogeneous pattern of receptor binding, with the very highest concentrations in the globus pallidus internus, moderate concentrations in the globus pallidus externus and ventral pallidum, and moderately low levels of binding throughout the striatal complex. In the midbrain, some of the highest levels of cannabinoid receptor binding sites in the human brain were present in the substantia nigra pars reticulata, with very low levels of labelling in all other midbrain areas. The highest densities of cannabinoid receptor binding in the hindbrain were localized in the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, with moderate densities of receptors in the nucleus of the solitary tract. The spinal cord showed very low levels of receptor binding. Studies on the distribution of cannabinoid receptors in the fetal and neonatal human brain showed similar patterns of receptor distribution to that observed in the adult human brain, except that the density of receptor binding was generally markedly higher, especially in the basal ganglia and substantia nigra. The pattern of cannabinoid receptor labelling in the striatum showed a striking patchy pattern of organization which was especially conspicuous in the fetal brain. These results show that cannabinoid receptor binding sites in the human brain are localized mainly in: forebrain areas associated with higher cognitive functions; forebrain, midbrain and hindbrain areas associated with the control of movement; and in hindbrain areas associated with the control of motor and sensory functions of the autonomic nervous system. (AB
There is wide agreement that catecholamine systems in the prefrontal cortex are activated by stressful stimuli. To date, however, the extent to which other stimuli can increase the activity of these systems has received little attention. In the present study, the effects of tail pinch stress and feeding on dopamine and noradrenaline release in the prefrontal cortex of rats were examined using in vivo brain microdialysis. Both stimuli increased dopamine release, with peak effects reaching 212% above baseline for tail pinch and 165% above baseline for feeding. The effects of the two stimuli on peak dopamine release were not significantly different. Both stimuli also significantly increased noradrenaline release, with peak effects reaching 128% above baseline for tail pinch and 98% above baseline for feeding. The effects of the two stimuli on peak noradrenaline release were not significantly different. These results indicate that activation of catecholaminergic afferents to the prefrontal cortex is not specific to stress, but also occurs in response to non-stressors with positive motivational valence.
A histochemical stain to detect cobalt in cells was used to investigate the ionic basis of heat transduction in mammalian primary afferent neurons. Cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons from the adult rat were exposed to 10-min heat stimuli in an extracellular solution containing cobalt ions. When accumulated intracellular cobalt was precipitated, a subpopulation of neurons was darkly stained. The number of neurons stained depended on the intensity of the heat stimulus, ranging from 1.9% at 22 degrees C to 24.0% at 45 degrees C, a range of temperatures transduced by primary afferent nerve endings in vivo. Results of Trypan Blue exclusion experiments demonstrate that the heat-induced stain is not due to membrane damage, suggesting that heat opens a divalent-permeable ion channel. Agents that block many multivalent cation-permeable channels (lanthanum, ruthenium red and amiloride) did not reduce the number of cells that exhibited heat-induced cobalt staining. Heat-evoked cobalt staining provides an in vitro model for the investigation of the ionic mechanisms of thermal transduction in sensory neurons.
Glutathione is able to protect membrane proteins from oxidative stress. In ischemia/reperfusion injury, free radicals cause synaptosomal membrane protein and lipid oxidation that is prevented by the free radical scavenger N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (Hall N. C. et al. (1995) Neuroscience 64, 81-89; 69, 591-600). We wondered if diminution of glutathione would lead to further membrane alterations. Accordingly, the effects of glutathione depletion, by intraperitoneal administration of 2-cyclohexene-1-one, on the physical state of cortical synaptosomal membrane proteins and lipids, with and without global ischemia/reperfusion, were studied in vivo and in vitro in adult and aged gerbils utilizing electron paramagnetic resonance spectrometry. 2-Cyclohexene-1-one (100 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered 30 min prior to 10-min ischemia followed by 1 or 14 h reperfusion. This glutathione reduction agent was also administered to gerbils under the same temporal schedule in the absence of ischemia and compared to untreated controls. Synaptosomal membranes were labeled with a protein-specific spin label, 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-maleimidopiperidine-1-oxyl, or a lipid-specific spin probe, 5-doxylstearic acid. There were no significant changes in the physical state of the lipid portion of synaptosomal membranes when comparing ischemia reperfusion and 2-cyclohexene-1-one-treated ischemia reperfusion in either the adult or aged gerbils. However, glutathione depletion without ischemia/reperfusion caused significant changes in the physical state of the protein portion of cortical synaptosomal membranes in both the adult and aged models. Glutathione depletion, without ischemia/reperfusion, in the adult model showed a maximum change at 3 h that returned to control values by 14 h. In contrast, the aged model showed significant changes at 1 h reperfusion, which did not return to control values by 14 h reperfusion. Glutathione depletion combined with ischemia/reperfusion caused initial protein change in both adult and aged models at 1 h reperfusion, which did not return toward control values by 14 h reperfusion. The results of this study suggest that glutathione depletion increases the severity of membrane protein damage associated with ischemia/reperfusion injury.
To establish which type of nerves (parasympathetic, sympathetic or sensory) produce nitric oxide in the rat lower urinary tract, chemical denervation of primary afferents and sympathetic nerves was carried out by systemic treatment with capsaicin and 6-hydroxydopamine, respectively, followed by identification of neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity. Functional in vitro studies were also performed to examine whether the synthesis and release of nitric oxide was affected following treatment with the respective neurotoxins. Nerve fibres immunoreactive for substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide were found in control tissue, but could not be detected following capsaicin treatment. In comparison, nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive fibres appeared to be unaffected by capsaicin treatment. Administration of 6-hydroxydopamine resulted in a complete disappearance of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive nerves, whereas nitric oxide synthase-containing nerve fibres did not appear to be affected by the treatment. In ultrastructural studies, nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity, as studied by colloidal gold particles, was found in the axoplasm and not in association with intraneuronal structures or synaptic vesicles. Gold particles representing substance P immunoreactivity were seen as clusters associated with large granular vesicles. In consecutive sections of nerve fibres, substance P and nitric oxide synthase were not found in the same axon profile. In functional studies on urethral tissue, application of capsaicin (1 microM) produced a long-lasting relaxation. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine (0.1 mM) had no effect on this response. Systemic treatment with capsaicin or 6-hydroxydopamine had no effect on nerve-evoked, nitric oxide-mediated relaxations. The data suggest that nitric oxide synthase-containing nerves in the rat lower urinary tract do not belong to nerve populations sensitive to either the sympathetic neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine, or the sensory neurotoxin, capsaicin.
Central administration of the preproglucagon-derived peptide glucagon-like peptide-1 significantly inhibits ingestion of food and water, and glucagon-like peptide-1 binding sites are present in a multitude of central areas involved in the regulation of ingestional behaviour. To evaluate further the neuroanatomical organization of central glucagon-like peptide-1 containing neuronal circuits with potential implications on ingestional behaviour, we carried out a series of experiments in the rat demonstrating the topographical sites of synthesis and processing of the preproglucagon precursor followed by a chromatographic analysis of the processed fragments. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that preproglucagon encoding messenger RNA was expressed in a single population of neurons in the caudal portion of the nucleus of the solitary tract. Gel chromatographic analysis of hypothalamic and brainstem tissue extracts revealed that the preproglucagon precursor is processed in a fashion similar to that seen in the small intestine, preferentially giving rise to glicentin, glucagon-like peptide-1 and glucagon-like peptide-2. This single brain site of glucagon-like peptide-1 synthesis was subsequently confirmed by immunohistochemical demonstration of glucagon-like peptide-1-immunoreactive perikarya in the central and caudal parts of the nucleus of the solitary tract. Numerous sites containing glucagon-like peptide-1 immunoreactive fibres were, however, discovered in the forebrain including hypothalamic, thalamic and cortical areas. The densest innervation by glucagon-like peptide-1 immunoreactive nerve fibres was seen in the hypothalamic dorsomedial and paraventricular nuclei, but numerous glucagon-like peptide-1 immunoreactive fibres were also seen throughout the periventricular strata of the third ventricle. Dual-labelling immunohistochemistry for tyrosine hydroxylase and glucagon-like peptide-1 gave no evidence for co-localization of catecholamines and glucagon-like peptide-1 in neurons of the lower brainstem. To identify neurons of the nucleus of the solitary tract that project to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, the retrograde tracer FluoroGold was injected into this hypothalamic target and dual immunocytochemical identification of glucagon-like peptide-1 and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons was performed on brainstem sections containing retrogradely labelled perikarya. From this experiment it was seen that many of the retrogradely labelled neurons in the central portion of the nucleus of the solitary tract are catecholaminergic, while none is glucagon-like peptide-1 immunoreactive. In contrast, most of the retrogradely labelled neurons of the caudal portion of the nucleus of the solitary tract contain glucagon-like peptide-1. These observations further substantiate that glucagon-like peptide-1 neurons of the solitary tract constitute a distinct non-catecholaminergic cell group which projects to many targets, one of which is the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus.
The distribution of the diadenosine tetraphosphate high-affinity binding sites has been studied in rat brain by an autoradiographic method using [3H]diadenosine tetraphosphate as the ligand. The binding characteristics are comparable to those described in studies performed on rat brain synaptosomes. White matter is devoid of specific binding. The range of binding site densities in gray matter varies from 3 to 15 fmol/mg of tissue, exhibiting a widespread but heterogeneous distribution. The highest densities correspond to the seventh cranial nerve, medial superior olive, pontine nuclei, glomerular and external plexiform layers of the olfactory bulb, and the granule cell layer of the cerebellar cortex. Intermediate density levels of binding correspond to different cortical areas, several nuclei of the amygdala, and the oriens and pyramidal layers of the hippocampal formation. The localization of diadenosine tetraphosphate binding sites in the brain may provide information on the places where diadenosine polyphosphate compounds can be expected to function in the central nervous system.
Ciliary neurotrophic factor is a pleiotropic molecule thought to have multiple functions in the developing and adult nervous system. To investigate the role of ciliary neurotrophic factor in the developing and mature brain by defining putative target cells the expression of the ligand-binding alpha-subunit of the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor was studied in neonatal and adult rat brains using a digoxygenin-labelled probe for in situ hybridization. Neuronal populations expressing ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor-alpha messenger RNA were found in many functionally diverse brain areas including the olfactory bulb (mitral cells and other neurons) neocortex (layer V) and other cortical areas (pyramidal cell layers in the piriform cortex and hippocampus, granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus) and distinct nuclei in the thalamus, hypothalamus and brainstem. In the latter, reticular nuclei and both cranial motor and sensory nerve nuclei showed intense hybridization signals in the neonatal brain. The nucleus ruber, substantia nigra pars reticularis, deep cerebellar nuclei and a subpopulation of cells in the internal granular layer of the cerebellum were also labelled. In many areas (e.g. in thalamic, midbrain and pontine nuclei) ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor-alpha expression became undetectable with maturation; however, there were other areas (e.g., olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex and hypothalamus) where expression was higher in the adult. The neuroepithelium of the neonatal rat displayed a highly selective expression of ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor-alpha in areas which are known to exhibit high rates of postnatal cell proliferation in the germinal zones. Generally, neurons which have been reported to respond to exogenous ciliary neurotrophic factor were labelled by the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor-alpha probe. This was not the case, however, for striatal and septal neurons. The results of this study suggest that ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor-alpha ligands have even broader functions than previously thought, acting on different neuronal populations in the developing and mature brain, respectively.
The effects of caloric vestibular stimulation on the central noradrenergic neurons system were examined in the rat. In urethane-anesthetized rats, caloric stimulation inhibited the spontaneous activity of noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons and increased systemic blood pressure. Electrical and chemical lesions in the ventrolateral medulla attenuated both the locus coeruleus inhibition and the blood pressure increase in response to caloric stimulation. Neither the neuronal inhibition nor the pressor effect was attenuated by any deafferentation of the forebrain or baroreceptors, or lesioning of the nucleus tractus solitarius. These findings indicate that the caloric stimulation-induced locus coeruleus inhibition is mediated by neurons in the ventrolateral medulla, and that these neurons also mediate the vestibulo-pressor responses. The locus coeruleus inhibition via the ventrolateral medulla is, however, considered to be independent of ventrolateral medulla-mediated systemic pressor effect. Collectively these findings suggest that the ventrolateral medulla is the major origin of inhibitory vestibular input to the noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus, and that the ventrolateral medulla plays an important role in the vestibulo-autonomic response.
Noradrenaline and adrenergic agonists were tested on pacemaker-like and silent neurons of the rat rostral ventrolateral medulla using intracellular recording in coronal brainstem slices as well as in punches containing only the rostral ventrolateral medullary region. Noradrenaline (1-100 microM) depolarized or increased the frequency of discharge of all cells tested in a dose-dependent manner. The noradrenaline-induced depolarization was associated with an apparent increase in cell input resistance at low concentrations and a decrease or no significant change at higher concentrations. Moreover, it was voltage dependent and its amplitude decreased with membrane potential hyperpolarization. Noradrenaline caused a dose-related increase in the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. The alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin (0.5 microM) abolished the noradrenaline depolarizing response as well as-the noradrenaline-evoked increase in synaptic activity and unmasked an underlying noradrenaline dose-dependent hyperpolarizing response associated with a decrease in cell input resistance and sensitive to the alpha 2-adrenoceptor/antagonist yohimbine (0.5 microM). The alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine (10 microM) mimicked the noradrenaline depolarizing response associated with an increase in membrane resistance as well as the noradrenaline-induced increase in synaptic activity. The alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonists UK-14,304 (1-3 microM) and clonidine (10-30 microM) produced only a small hyperpolarizing response, whereas the beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoproterenol (10-30 microM) had no effect. Baseline spontaneous postsynaptic potentials were abolished by strychnine (1 microM), bicuculline (30 microM) or both. However, only the strychnine-sensitive postsynaptic potentials had their frequency increased by noradrenaline or phenylephrine and they usually occurred with a regular pattern. Tetrodotoxin (1 microM) eliminated 80-95% of baseline spontaneous postsynaptic potentials and prevented the increase in synaptic activity evoked by noradrenaline and phenylephrine. Similar results were obtained in rostral ventrolateral medulla neurons impaled in both coronal slices and punches of the rostral ventrolateral medulla. It is concluded that noradrenaline could play an important inhibitory role in the rostral ventrolateral medulla via at least two mechanisms: an alpha 2-adrenoceptor-mediated hyperpolarization and an enhancement of inhibitory synaptic transmission through activation of alpha 1-adrenoceptors located on the somatic membrane of glycinergic interneurons. Some of these interneurons exhibit a regular discharge similar to the pacemaker-like neurons and might, at least in part, constitute a central inhibitory link in the baroreceptor-vasomotor reflex pathway.
Microiontophoresis was used to investigate the influence of morphine on the GABA- and glutamate-evoked responses of ventral pallidal neurons recorded extracellularly from chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats. Of the GABA-sensitive neurons (50 of 69 tested) in the ventral pallidum, all displayed a decreased firing rate when GABA was applied, whereas all of the glutamate-sensitive neurons (29 of 40 tested) increased neuronal activity in the presence of glutamate. The majority of ventral pallidal cells tested (65 of 83) were sensitive to iontophoretically applied morphine, and both increases and decreases in neuronal activity were observed. The ability of morphine to alter the ratio between amino acid-evoked activity (&quot;signal&quot;) and spontaneous firing (&quot;noise&quot;) was used as an indicator of morphine modulation. A morphine subthreshold ejection current, i.e. one that did not change spontaneous firing rate, and a morphine ejection current that produced approximately 50% of the maximum opioid-induced neuronal response were chosen for this evaluation. When morphine was co-iontophoresed with GABA or glutamate, attenuation of the amino acid signal-to-noise ratio was generally seen, though some potentiations were observed. These changes were independent of the direction of morphine-induced changes in spontaneous firing rate. Both sub- and suprathreshold ejection currents were capable of affecting GABA- and glutamate-evoked responses. These data suggest that morphine is a robust ventral pallidal neuromodulator. As ventral pallidal amino acid activity is important in the integration of sensorimotor information, opioid modulation of amino acid transmission in the ventral pallidum may have a profound effect on this integration.
Neuronal expression of Fos, the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos has been used as a high resolution metabolic marker for mapping polysynaptic pathways in the brain. We used Fos immunohistochemistry to reveal neuronal activation following self-stimulation of the ventral pallidum. Four groups of rats were allowed to self-stimulate for 30 min with 0.4 s trains of cathodal rectangular pulses of constant intensity (0.4 mA) and duration (0.1 ms). Each group was assigned a different pulse frequency, (3, 17, 24 and 50 pulses/stimulation train). Which was preselected from within each animal's rate-frequency function. The subjects that were assigned three pulses failed to self-stimulate and were considered as controls. The subjects that were assigned 17 pulses self-stimulated at half-maximal rate, whereas those that were assigned 24 and 50 pulses self-stimulated at maximal rates. The animals were sacrificed 90 min after the self-stimulation session and their brains were processed for Fos-like immunoreactivity. Fos-like immunoreactivity was found to increase as a function of pulse frequency in several brain regions known to be involved in drug and/or brain stimulation reward (medial prefrontal cortex, lateral septum, nucleus accumbens; lateral hypothalamus and ventral tegmental area), whereas it was not affected in structures devoid of such involvement (substantia nigra reticulata and dorsolateral striatum). The level of Fos expression induced by trains of 50 pulses was considerably higher than that produced by 24 pulses although both frequencies supported the same (maximal) self-stimulation rate. This finding indicates that Fos expression correlated with reward magnitude (known to increase between these frequencies), not with bar-pressing rate, thus suggesting the presence of a reward-specific effect. The finding of a frequency-dependent Fos expression in a behavioural paradigm can be considered analogous to a pharmacological dose-response curve and, as such, our results may open new avenues for the use of Fos immunohistochemistry in quantitative neurobehavioural studies.
The effect of ascorbic acid depletion on the 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+)-induced neurotoxicity in the dopaminergic system has been tested in guinea-pig striatal slices. Guinea-pigs were divided into three groups and fed on a control diet, ascorbic acid-free diet and ascorbic acid-supplemented diet, respectively. Diets were maintained during 30 days. Striatal slices from ascorbic acid-deficient animals showed the highest levels of dopamine following 25 microM MPP+ treatment; the results from animals under this treatment condition were statistically different from both control and ascorbic acid-supplemented animals under identical experimental conditions. In addition, neurochemical analysis demonstrated that the levels of ascorbic acid and dehydroascorbic acid were highly reduced in striatal tissue from ascorbic acid-deficient animals, thus proving scorbutic conditions in our experimental animals. In view of the higher resistance of the ascorbic acid-deficient animals to the neurotoxicity elicited by MPP+, additional dopaminergic parameters were also measured in striatal tissue from ascorbic acid-deficient animals in the absence of MPP+, including levels of dopamine and its metabolites, tyrosine hydroxylase activity and dopamine uptake, with the aim of finding an explanation for this unexpected result. While dopamine levels and tyrosine hydroxylase activity remained close to control levels, dopamine uptake was significantly reduced in striatal synaptosomes from ascorbic acid-deficient animals as compared with control animals. Since MPP+ is actively accumulated into dopaminergic nerve terminals via the high-affinity dopamine uptake system, this finding could explain the higher resistance of ascorbic acid-deficient animals to the dopamine-depleting effect induced by MPP+ toxicity assayed in striatal slices.
Neurons originating in the ventral tegmental area are thought to play a key role in the formation of addictive behaviors, particularly in response to drugs such as cocaine and opioids. In this study we identified different populations of ventral tegmental area neurons by the pharmacology of their evoked synaptic potentials and their response to dopamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine and opioids. Intracellular recordings were made from ventral tegmental area neurons in horizontal slices of guinea-pig brain and electrical stimulation was used to evoke synaptic potentials. The majority of cells (61.3%) hyperpolarized in response to dopamine, depolarized to 5-hydroxytryptamine, failed to respond to [Met]5enkephalin and exhibited a slow GABAB-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potential. A smaller proportion of cells (11.3%) hyperpolarized in response to [Met]5enkephalin, depolarized to 5-hydroxytryptamine, failed to respond to dopamine and did not exhibit a slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential. These two groups of cells corresponded to previously described &quot;principal&quot; and &quot;secondary&quot; cells, respectively. A further group of cells (27.4%) was identified that like the principal cells, hyperpolarized to dopamine. However, these &quot;tertiary cells&quot; also hyperpolarized to both 5-hydroxytryptamine and [Met]5enkephalin and exhibited a slow, cocaine-sensitive 5-hydroxytryptamine(1A)-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potential. When principal and tertiary cells were investigated immunohistochemically, 82% of the principal cells were positive for tyrosine hydroxylase compared with only 29% of the tertiary cells. The 5-hydroxytryptamine innervation of both these cell types was investigated and a similar density of putative contacts was observed near the somata and dendrites in both groups. This latter finding suggests that the existence of a 5-hydroxytryptamine-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potential in the tertiary cells may be determined by the selective expression of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors, rather than the distribution or density of the 5-hydroxytryptamine innervation. We conclude that tertiary cells are a distinct subset of ventral tegmental area neurons where cocaine and mu-opioids both mediate inhibition.
In the present study we examined whether depletion of dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex alters the neurochemical activity of mesoaccumbens dopamine neurons and/or their behavioral correlate, motor behavior. Infusion of 6-hydroxydopamine (1 microgram) into the medial prefrontal cortex of rats pretreated with a norepinephrine uptake blocker produced a 70% loss of tissue dopamine, with relative sparing of the norepinephrine content (-23%) in that region. Using in vivo microdialysis, we monitored basal and evoked extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens core and shell of control and lesioned rats. The concentration of basal extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens core was similar in control and lesioned rats; however, basal dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens shell was approximately 30% higher in lesioned rats than in controls. Lesions did not alter the ability of systemic D-amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg, i.p.) to increase extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens shell, in contrast, the dopamine depletion in the medial prefrontal cortex attenuated the amphetamine-induced increase in extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens core, as well as the amphetamine-induced increase in locomotor activity. Lesions did not significantly alter the effects of tail pressure (30 min) on extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens core. However, the depletion of dopamine in the medial prefrontal cortex potentiated the stress-induced increase in extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens shell. These data demonstrate that mesocortical dopamine neurons influence (i) amphetamine-induced dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens core and (ii) stress-evoked dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens shell. It has been proposed that a disruption in the interaction between cortical and subcortical dopamine neurons is involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. The present data raise the possibility that a disruption in the interaction between mesocortical dopamine neurons and dopamine neurons projecting to the nucleus accumbens shell is involved in those symptoms of schizophrenia that are influenced by stress.
Anticonvulsive and neuroprotective effects of (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-2-(2,3-dicarboxycyclopropyl) glycine (DCG-IV), a potent agonist for Group II metabotropic glutamate receptors, were examined in vivo against the excitotoxicity of kainic acid in the rat. Intraventricular injection of kainic acid (2 nmol) induced circling behavior and wet-dog shakes soon after injection, followed by episodes of limbic motor seizures at intervals of several minutes (sporadic limbic motor seizures). The frequency of sporadic limbic motor seizures gradually increased until seizures occurred incessantly (continuous limbic motor seizures). Intraventricular kainic acid also caused severe selective neuron damage in the hippocampal CA3 region, limbic lobe and medial geniculate body. Prolonged intraventricular infusion of DCG-IV (24-240 pmol/h) for 17 h before and 7 h after the application of kainic acid decreased the incidence of the continuous limbic motor seizures and the degree of neuronal damage in circumscribed brain areas. However, the behavioral changes observed immediately after the administration of kainic acid were unaffected by prolonged intraventricular infusion with DCG-IV (8-2400 pmol/h). Similarly, the occurrence of sporadic limbic motor seizures was only slightly reduced by the administration of DCG-IV (8-800 pmol/h). High doses of DCG-IV, greater than 800 pmol/h, afforded no protection against kainate-induced lesions; rather, the degradation of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons was increased under such conditions. Single injections of DCG-IV (10-300 pmol/rat) in the lateral ventricle did not affect kainate neurotoxicity. Thus, prolonged infusion of DCG-IV showed a bell-shaped doso-response relationship with regard to protection against kainate-induced neurotoxicity.
The pharmacological features of putative nicotinic acetylcholine receptor sites involved in the release of [3H]noradrenaline were assessed in rat hippocampus. The effect of nicotinic agonists to induce [3H]noradrenaline release was examined in superfused slices. The nicotinic agonists (-)-epibatidine, (+)-anatoxin-a, dimethylphenylpiperazinium, (-)-nicotine and (-)-lobeline released [3H]noradrenaline. The dose-response curves to nicotinic agonists were bell shaped, and indicated that their functional efficacies and potency vary across agonists. Maximal efficacy was seen with dimethyl-phenylpiperazinium and lobeline (Emax values two to three times higher than other agonists). The rank order of potency for the agonists to release [3H]noradrenaline was (-)-epibatidine &gt; (+)- anatoxin-a &gt; dimethylphenylpiperazinium &gt; cytisine &gt; nicotine &gt; (-)-lobeline. The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists (n-bungarotoxin &gt; mecamylamine &gt; (+)-tubocurarine &gt; hexamethonium &gt; alpha-bungarotoxin = dihydro-beta-erythroidine) and tetrodotoxin antagonized the effect of dimethylphenylpiperazinium to release [3H]noradrenaline. The results, based on these pharmacological profiles, suggest the possible involvement of alpha 3 and beta 2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits in the control of [3H]noradrenaline release from hippocampal slices. The absence of effect of alpha-bungarotoxin and alpha-conotoxin-IMI excludes the possible involvement of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors containing the alpha 7 subunit. The release of [3H]noradrenaline by dimethylphenylpiperazinium was Ca2+ dependent. Nifedipine failed to prevent the dimethylphenylpiperazinium-induced release of [3H]noradrenaline, but Cd2+, omega-conotoxin and Ca(2+)-free conditions significantly reduced the dimethylphenylpiperazinium-induced release, suggesting that N-type voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels are involved in the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor response. These voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels are activated by the local depolarization produced by sodium influx through the nicotinic channels activated by dimethylphenylpiperazinium. Thus, the observed tetrodotoxin sensitivity of dimethylphenylpiperazinium-induced release of [3H]noradrenaline can be explained either by local depolarization and subsequent generation of action potentials at the preterminal area or that these nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are located on interneurons rather than directly on noradrenergic terminals.
Following cholinergic denervation of the hippocampal formation, via medial septal lesions, peripheral noradrenergic fibers, originating from the superior cervical ganglion, grow into the hippocampus. In previous studies, we have found that hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth and cholinergic denervation alone (animals with concurrent medial septal lesions and superior cervical ganglionectomy) alter phosphoinositide turnover and muscarinic cholinergic receptors in such a way as to suggest an alteration in coupling between the muscarinic cholinergic receptors and phosphoinositol turnover. To test this hypothesis we examined the effect of hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth and cholinergic denervation on phospholipase C activity, G-protein function and the whole receptor complex by measuring the amount of phosphoinositide hydrolysed in hippocampal membranes of the rat. Neither hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth nor cholinergic denervation was found to alter phospholipase C activity when activated by increasing concentrations of Ca2+. In dorsal hippocampus, cholinergic denervation, when compared to hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth and controls, was found to decrease the amount of phosphoinositol hydrolysed when stimulated with the GTP analog, guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate). When guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) plus carbachol (1 mM) was utilized to stimulate the entire receptor complex, phosphoinositol hydrolysis was found to be decreased in the cholinergic denervation group as compared to both hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth and control groups. This effect was maximum at 3 microM guanosine-5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate). These results suggest that both hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth and cholinergic denervation affect the efficiency of coupling between the muscarinic cholinergic receptors and phosphoinositol turnover, with cholinergic denervation decreasing and hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth &quot;normalizing&quot; efficiency. Further, they suggest that the G-protein is the site at which hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth and cholinergic denervation mediate their effects. The results of these experiments are also discussed within the context of recent findings demonstrating G-protein abnormalities in Alzheimer's disease.
The functional relevance of presynaptic glutamate receptors in controlling presynaptic Ca2+ influx and thereby transmitter release is unknown. To test if presynaptic Ca2+ entry in the hippocampus is controlled by glutamate autoreceptors, we created a hippocampal slice preparation for investigation of presynaptic Ca2+ signals with Ca(2+)-sensitive microelectrodes after lesioning of neurons by glucose deprivation or kainate. Stratum radiatum and alveus stimulation-induced postsynaptic field potential components were irreversibly abolished in areas CA1 and CA3 of lesioned slices, whereas stratum radiatum stimulation still evoked afferent volleys. Repetitive stimulation of the stratum radiatum still induced decreases in extracellular Ca2+ concentration. Repetitive stimulation of the alveus no longer induced decreases in extracellular Ca2+ concentration, suggesting complete damage of pyramidal cells. The stratum radiatum stimulation-induced decreases in extracellular Ca2+ concentration in lesioned slices were comparable to those elicited during application of the glutamate antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and L-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. In lesioned slices the stimulus-induced presynaptic Ca2+ influx was reversibly reduced by kainate. RS-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA), N-methyl-D-aspartate and glutamate without effects on afferent volleys. The kainate and N-methyl-D-aspartate effects on presynaptic Ca2+ signals were partly sensitive to 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulphamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline and L-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, respectively, while the AMPA effects were not significantly affected by 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulphamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline, suggesting involvement of a novel glutamate receptor subtype. The involvement of a novel glutamate receptor subtype was supported by our findings that ionotropic glutamate receptor agonists also reduce presynaptic Ca2+ influx under conditions of blocked synaptic transmission by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and L-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. 1-Aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid had no significant effect on presynaptic Ca2+ entry. Also, the presynaptic Ca2+ influx was not influenced by the glutamate receptor antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulphamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline and L-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate when applied alone. Low kainate concentrations (5 microM) reduced presynaptic Ca2+ signals in area CA3 but not in area CA1, demonstrating the higher affinity of presynaptic kainate receptors on mossy fibre terminals.
The consequences of activation or inactivation of interneurons at the CA1 stratum oriens/ alveus border for signal transmission at the apical dendritic region of pyramidal cells were investigated in slices from mice submerged in a perfusion chamber. A characteristic subpopulation of interneurons with a horizontal dendritic tree in this region, which sends a GABAergic projection to the apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal cells is strongly excited by metabotropic glutamate receptor activation and receives GABAergic input from vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing interneurons. Pressure ejection of glutamate or the metabotropic agonist 1s,3r-aminocyclopentane dicarboxylic acid from micropipettes onto the stratum oriens/alveus border caused a long lasting (more than 90 min) decrease of field-excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the strata radiatum and lacunosum-moleculare. The GABAB antagonist CGP 35348 (100 microM in the perfusion fluid) partially and reversibly blocked this effect. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide- (0.1 microM in the bath) excited neurons with response and firing properties characteristic for interneurons at the oriens/alveus border. Local pressure application of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (10 microM) to the alveus region led, after a brief (2 min) and small (10%) increase, to a longer lasting (30-50 min) decrease (by 20-30%) in the slope of the field-excitatory postsynaptic potential in strata radiatum and lacunosum-moleculare. This action was completely blocked by bath application of CGP 35348. Local application of tetrodotoxin in the stratum oriens/alveus region markedly increased the slope of evoked dendritic excitatory postsynaptic potentials, and caused multiple firing of pyramidal cells. Thus, stratum oriens/alveus interneurons have a profound inhibitory effect on signal transmission in the apical dendritic area of CA1, which is, at least in part, mediated by GABAB receptors. It appears that the GABAB receptor-mediated effect in stratum lacunosum-moleculare is produced by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-sensitive interneurons.
The induction of homosynaptic long-term depression and depotentiation of previously established long-term potentiation was investigated in the CA1 hippocampal region of anaesthetized and awake adult rats following prolonged ipsilateral low-frequency stimulation of the Schaffer collateral/ commissural pathway. Prolonged low-frequency stimulation at 1-10 Hz failed to induce long-term depression of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the anaesthetized or awake adult rat. However, prolonged low-frequency stimulation at 5 and 10 Hz, although not at 1 or 2 Hz, did induce depotentiation of previously established long-term potentiation in anaesthetized animals. Thus, in the anaesthetized animals, 900 pulses at 10 Hz induced a depotentiation of 68%, 59% and 66% when given 10, 30 and 40 min following long-term potentiation induction. Depotentiation could also be induced at much longer times following the induction of long-term potentiation. Thus, in anaesthetized rats, depotentiation measuring 34% was induced by 10-Hz stimulation 4 h following long-term potentiation induction, and depotentiation measuring 60% was induced in two sets of experiments 24 h after long-term potentiation induction in awake animals. The results of the present study show that homosynaptic long-term depression was not induced in the adult hippocampus in vivo using stimulation protocols which are effective in hippocampal slices. However, erasure of long-term potentiation by the process of depotentiation has been shown to occur in the adult hippocampus in vivo, both at short times and at prolonged times after the induction of long-term potentiation.
Acute stress has been associated with activation of glutamate efflux in forebrain structures. The present study sought to characterize the extracellular dynamics of glutamate in response to acute and repeated stress in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus in rats. One-minute sampling of extracellular glutamate levels was performed during repeated tail-pinch stress. Animals were stressed three times, beginning at approximately 10.30 a.m. and continuing at 2.5-h intervals. In the prefrontal cortex, the initial 10-min tail pinch produced a robust increase in extracellular levels of glutamate. This increase was apparent immediately (i.e. 1 min) after the start of the stress procedure. The second tail pinch produced a smaller increase in glutamate levels while the third tail pinch did not significantly increase these levels. In the hippocampus, the initial stress response was smaller in magnitude than that observed in the prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, responses to subsequent tail pinches were similar to that seen following the first tail pinch. Treatment with diazepam (3 mg/kg/i.p.) 30 min before the first stress session abolished the stress response in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. However, in the prefrontal cortex, the second tail pinch (performed approximately 3 h after diazepam administration) produced a robust increase in glutamate efflux. In contrast, in the hippocampus of diazepam-treated rats, the second tail pinch produced a small delayed response. Pretreatment with saline resulted in non-significant responses to all three tail pinches in the prefrontal cortex. The present study suggests that: (i) stress produces a rapid increase in glutamate efflux in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus, (ii) repeated stress reveals tolerance in the glutamatergic response in the prefrontal cortex, (iii) saline and diazepam pretreatment reduce the stress-induced efflux of glutamate in the prefrontal cortex, and (iv) exposure to diazepam may prevent the prefrontal cortex from adapting its response to the subsequent stressor. These finding are consistent with the role of the prefrontal cortex as a region which may regulate reactions to aversive stimuli.
This study investigated the effects of isolation rearing from weaning in rats on extracellular noradrenaline in the dorsal hippocampus in vivo, measured using microdialysis. Male Lister hooded rats were obtained at weaning and reared in social isolation or in groups for six to eight weeks. Basal noradrenaline efflux did not differ between isolation- and group-reared rats. Local K+ stimulation (50 and 100 mM) increased noradrenaline efflux in the hippocampus of both groups of rats; however, this effect was greater in group-reared rats (50 mM K+). The alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist, clonidine (0.3 mg/kg, i.p.), reduced noradrenaline efflux in both groups of rats, but this decrease was greater in isolates. Systemic (1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) and local (via the probe; 100 microM) administration of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist, idazoxan, increased noradrenaline efflux, but these responses were also greater in isolation-reared rats. The magnitudes of the idazoxan-induced increases in noradrenaline efflux were similar for both systemic and local administration, indicating that presynaptic terminal alpha 2-adrenoceptors were predominantly involved. Furthermore, although tail pinch increased noradrenaline efflux in both isolation- and group-reared rats, there was a significant/attenuation in the response in the isolation- compared to group-reared rats. Taken together with previous findings, the present results provide evidence in favour of an isolation-induced enhancement in the function of the presynaptic terminal alpha 2-autoreceptor in the dorsal hippocampus in vivo, resulting in decreased functional responsiveness of hippocampal noradrenergic nerve terminals.
Whole-head neuromagnetic responses were recorded from seven subjects to pictures of faces and to various control stimuli. Four subjects displayed signals specific to faces. The combination of functional information from magnetoencephalography and anatomical data from magnetic resonance images suggests that the face-specific activity was generated in the inferior occipitotemporal cortex. All four subjects showed the face-specific response in the right hemisphere, one of them also in the left. Our results, together with recent position emission tomography and lesion studies, suggest a right-hemisphere preponderance of face processing in the inferior occipitotemporal cortex.
The hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system contains high levels of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and this increases further during times of neurohormone demand, such as that following osmotic stimulation. Using double in situ hybridization, we demonstrate here an increase in the expression of nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA by oxytocin neurons, but not vasopressin neurons, of the supraoptic nucleus at the time of lactation, when oxytocin is in demand due to another neuroendocrine stimulus, the milk-ejection reflex. In addition, using immunocytochemical retrograde tracing, we show that neurons of the subfornical organ, median preoptic nucleus and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, which project to the supraoptic nucleus, contain nitric oxide synthase. These three structures of the lamina terminalis, together with the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system, make up the forebrain osmoresponsive circuit that controls osmotically-stimulated release of oxytocin in the rat. The expression of nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA in the lamina terminalis was also shown to increase during lactation. The increases in nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA were not apparent during pregnancy. These results provide evidence for an integrated nitric oxide synthase-containing neural network involved in the regulation of the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial axis. The expression of nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA increases in this circuit during lactation and correlates with a reduction in the sensitivity of the circuit to osmotic stimuli also present in lactation but not pregnancy. As nitric oxide is believed to attenuate neurohormone release, it seems that the increased nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA expression detected here during lactation at a time of high oxytocin demand may be involved in reducing the sensitivity of the whole forebrain circuit to osmotic stimuli.
Cholecystokinin and neurotensin are present in fibres innervating the parabrachial nucleus and have previously been shown to modulate the flow of visceral afferent information through the parabrachial nucleus to the cortex in the rat. This study examined the effects of cholecystokinin and neurotensin on synaptic transmission in the parabrachial nucleus using a pontine slice preparation and the nystatin perforated-patch recording technique. Stimulation of the ventral, external lateral portion of the parabrachial nucleus elicited glutamate-mediated, excitatory postsynaptic currents in cells recorded in the parabrachial nucleus. Bath application of neurotensin dose-dependently and reversibly enhanced, while cholecystokinin attenuated, the evoked excitatory postsynaptic current. In addition, the frequency of spontaneous, miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents recorded in parabrachial nucleus cells was significantly increased by neurotensin and decreased by cholecystokinin application. Paired-pulse depression was also enhanced and decreased by neurotensin and cholecystokinin, respectively. These synaptic changes induced by neurotensin and cholecystokinin were not accompanied by changes in input resistance of parabrachial nucleus cells over a wide voltage range (although neurotensin reduced an outwardly rectifying conductance at potentials positive to -20 mV), nor did these peptides alter the inward current induced by a brief bath application of the glutamate agonist, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-methylisoxazole-4-propionate. The neurotensin antagonist, SR48692 (100 microM), completely and reversibly blocked the neurotensin-induced enhancement of the excitatory postsynaptic current. The non-selective cholecystokinin receptor antagonist, proglumide (100 microM), completely and reversibly blocked the cholecystokinin-induced attenuation of the excitatory postsynaptic current. In addition, the selective cholecystokinin-A receptor antagonist, L-364,718 (10 microM), but not the selective cholecystokinin-B receptor antagonist, L-365,260 (100 microM), blocked the effect of cholecystokinin on synaptic transmission. These results suggest that neurotensin and cholecystokinin act at presynaptic neurotensin and cholecystokinin-A receptors, respectively, to modulate excitatory synaptic transmission in the parabrachial nucleus.
To evaluate the potential for lipofectin-mediated central nervous system gene transfer, the plasmid coding for cholecystokinin was administered intracerebroventricularly to rats, which have congenital audiogenic seizures and high responses to peripheral electric stimulation-induced analgesia. Previous studies had shown that low brain cholecystokinin levels may be the neurochemical variable of rat's audiogenic seizure and high responses to the analgesia because cholecystokinin is an anticonvulsant and anti-opioid neuropeptide. Gene transfer of cholecystokinin corrected the increased susceptibility to audiogenic seizures and the high responses to analgesia for about one week. Similar administration of plasmid expressing beta-galactosidase indicated that the vector mainly transfected ependymal cells lining the ventricle and pia mater cells. The increased cholecystokinin messenger RNA and immunoreactivity in the hippocampus following stereotactic intrahippocampal administration of cholecystokinin plasmid was also demonstrated with in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry techniques. These results suggest that lipofectin-mediated gene transfer will be useful for studies of brain function, the modification of behavior and gene therapy for central nervous system disorders.
The cellular localization of a G-protein-coupled K+ channel, CIR, in the rat brain has been demonstrated using a CIR-specific antibody, in combination with in situ hybridization. The CIR protein and messenger RNA were found in the cerebellar cortex, hippocampal formation, olfactory system, cerebral cortex, basal ganglia, several nuclei of the lower brain stem and the choroid plexus. In contrast to the messenger RNA, which was concentrated in the cell soma, the CIR protein was found in a subset of nerve fibers and, in other cases, in axon terminals. In the cerebellar cortex and hippocampus, the CIR protein was concentrated in the axon terminals of basket cells which are known to be GABAergic interneurons. This discrepancy between the distribution of protein and messenger RNA was observed in the substantia nigra, the interpeduncular, trigeminal, hypoglossal, oculomotor and red nuclei of the lower brain stem, and the tufted and mitral cells of the olfactory bulb. These observations suggested the translocation of the CIR protein into the nerve fibers following synthesis in the cell soma. Furthermore, its specific neuronal localization, especially in GABAergic interneurons, suggested the importance of CIR in synaptic transmission in neuronal systems.
The axons of peripheral nerves have a high capacity for regeneration after injury, whereas injury to the axons in the adult central nervous system (CNS) of higher species does not generally result in regeneration. In recent years, significant developments in neuroscience research have resulted in an improved understanding of the processes involved in the axonal response to CNS trauma. Myelin-associated proteins in the CNS white matter play a crucial role as strong inhibitors of the growth of nerve fibers. Neutralization of these proteins by monoclonal antibody IN-1 directed against the inhibitory proteins led to pronounced axonal regeneration in the adult spinal cords of lesioned rats. The morphological findings were recently complemented by the demonstration of very significant functional improvements in rats with transection lesions of their spinal cords after treatment with the antibody IN-1 that neutralizes the myelin-associated nerve growth inhibitors. Moreover, several neurotrophic factors that promote axonal survival and sprouting in the peripheral nervous system and the CNS have been identified in recent years. The combined use of specific neurotrophic factors and the IN-1 antibody in different experimental procedures, including spinal cord injury, have significantly improved regenerative axonal growth. We briefly review these recent developments in CNS axonal regeneration research and discuss possible clinical applications.
Effects on monoaminergic and cholinergic transmitter systems as well as neurotrophins were characterized in developing Sprague-Dawley rats directly exposed to 5 ppm cadmium in the drinking water or indirectly via exposed dams. Cadmium was given to dams during the lactation period, from parturition to postnatal day 17, and/or to the offspring until postnatal day 42. Cresyl violet staining and glial fibrillary acidic protein immunohistochemistry did not reveal any obvious neuropathology after cadmium exposure. Following high-power microwave fixation, concentrations of acetylcholine (ACh) and monoamines were determined in cerebral cortex, striatum, and hippocampus using HPLC with electro-chemical detection. ACh, dopamine, and noradrenaline levels were not significantly affected after the different cadmium exposures. Cortical levels of serotonin were significantly reduced in rats exposed to cadmium during lactation as well as in rats exposed to cadmium during both lactation and postweaning. A major decrease in 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid was found in cortex and hippocampus in rats exposed to cadmium during lactation. The regional characteristics of cadmium toxicity as reflected in changes of neurotrophins were studied using in situ hybridization histochemistry with oligonucleotide probes and phosphoimaging evaluation. No significant changes in the mRNA expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3, and the high-affinity tyrosine kinase receptor of BDNF, trkB, were detected. The present results demonstrate that exposure to levels of cadmium as low as 5 ppm in the drinking water leads to neurochemical disturbances of the serotonergic system in the offspring during the lactational period.



As the most abundant cell type in the central nervous system (CNS), astrocytes play a major role in the host defense mechanism even in situations associated with ischemic cerebrovascular diseases. Cultured rat astrocytes exposed to hypoxia (pO2 = 8-10 torr) expressed a set of stress proteins whose Mrs are 28, 33, 78, 94, and 150 kDa. Northern/western blot analysis indicated that these stress proteins are identical to heme oxygenase-1 (33 kDa), 78-kDa glucose regulated protein (GRP78) and GRP94 (94 kDa), respectively. The amino acid sequence analysis of the 150-kDa protein revealed that it (ORP150: oxygen regulated protein) is a novel stress protein belonging to the heat shock protein family. The induction of this stress protein was seen in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and mainly regulated by the decline of atmospheric oxygen tension, not by other chemical stimuli. The abundant expression of these ER-localized stress proteins (ORP150, GRP94 and GRP78) suggest that the stress response of these astrocytes to hypoxia may focus on the restoration of ER function. The unique expression of these stress proteins may provide a clue to understand the role of this cell type in ischemic cerebrovascular accidents.
A variety of brain malformative lesions, resulting mainly from abnormalities in neuronal migration, have been recently highlighted with increasing knowledge on surgical pathology of intractable epilepsy. In this article, a wide spectrum of pathology in and around the neuronal migration period are reviewed. Morphological changes of lissencephalies, polymicrogyria, microdysgenesis and focal cortical dysplasia were described, as well as some problems in the classification of malformative brains.

Advances in the field of neuroscience are enhancing outcomes for pediatric neurosurgical patients. Innovative diagnostic tools that include ventriculoscopy for hydrocephalus; long-term monitoring with subdural and epidural electrodes for seizures; and intraoperative computer-assisted, three-dimensional imaging for tumors are currently aiding neurosurgeons. These advances in the care of pediatric patients require the perioperative nurse to reevaluate and expand the nurse's role to optimize patient outcomes.
There is evidence that during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), pulsatile pump flow improves cerebral metabolism. This was a study to explore the effect of pulsatile versus nonpulsatile perfusion on cerebral lactate, pyruvate, glucose and beta-hydroxybutyrate using a Stckert roller pump. We found no significant differences between the arterial-venous (A-V) differences of lactate, glucose and beta-hydroxybutyrate (p &gt; 0.05). When the upward trend of A-V pyruvate was accounted for, there was again no difference (p = 0.2). Arterial lactate:pyruvate ratios were not significantly different between pulsatile and nonpulsatile pump flow (p &gt; 0.05). Venous lactate:pyruvate ratios were significantly higher during pulsatile bypass, but when the downward trend was accounted for, the differences between pulsatile and nonpulsatile values were no longer significant (p = 0.4). Therefore, the metabolic changes were not significant. There was no significant difference in systemic vascular resistance (SVR) during pulsatile and nonpulsatile flow (p = 0.4). Pulsatile flow delivered by the Stckert roller pump appears to have no metabolic or SVR advantages in adults undergoing CPB.
The present experiment examined effects of disulfiram (Antabuse) administration on behavioral measures of nociception (hot plate and tail flick), peripheral muscular performance (grip strength), motivated performance, balance, and coordination (rotorod) in 24 male Sprague-Dawley rats during and 2 wk after an eight-day administration of disulfiram. In addition, peptidylglycine 5(-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM) activity in several tissues and levels of alpha-amidated alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) in the neurointermediate lobe of the pituitary were assayed to evaluate biochemical effects of disulfiram. These particular assays were included because it has been reported that disulfiram affects alpha-amidated peptides via alteration of PHM activity. Decrements in all behavioral measures, except tail flick, occurred after one week of disulfiram administration. Decrements in grip strength continued for the 2 wk after cessation of disulfiram. Dose-related reductions in changes in PHM activity and levels of alpha-MSH were found 2 wk after cessation of disulfiram administration. The time course of the results suggest that changes in PHM activity may underlie decrements in grip strength. The present experiment provides a paradigm for further investigations of effects of alpha-amidated peptides on behavior.
This study aimed at investigating the effects of modulators of acetylcholine-muscarinic (ACh-M) and GABAA.B-receptors in the lateral hypothalamus and ventral tegmentum on the electrical self-stimulation evoked from these regions. In each Wistar rat, a bipolar electrode and an ipsilateral insulated cannula-cum-electrode were implanted chronically in the right hemisphere. There were two placement combinations: 1. Bipolar electrode in lateral hypothalamus-medial forebrain bundle (LH-MFB) and cannulacum-electrode in ventral tegmental area-substantia nigra (VTA-SN) or 2, bipolar electrode in VTA-SN and cannula-cum-electrode in LH-MFB. The stimulation parameters were kept at a level to obtain 50% of the maximum possible asymptotic intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) rates (M50) from each site. Carbachol injected into VTA-SN increased the ICSS responding rate of VTA-SN as well as, indirectly, that of LH-MFB, and atropine injections had an opposite effect. Similar injections of these ligands into LH-MFB again had facilitatory and inhibitory effects on its ICSS: however, there was no indirect effect on the ICSS of VTA-SN. Bicuculline injection into VTA-SN had no effect on either its ICSS or that of LH-MFB. On the other hand, bicuculline injected into LH-MFB decreased its ICSS and, indirectly, the ICSS of VTA-SN in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast, intra VTA-SN injections of picrotoxin decreased its ICSS and, indirectly, ICSS of LH-MFB. Similar injections into LH-MFB had no effect on the ICSS of VTA-SN. The results suggest that ICSS of VTA-SN is Ach-M receptor mediated and, also, this mediation influences the ICSS of LH-MFB. On the contrary, changes in ICSS of LH-MFB following Ach-M receptor ligands do not influence the ICSS of VTA-SN. The direct effects of GABA-receptor antagonists have shown disassociation because ICSS of LH-MFB was more sensitive to bicuculline, whereas the ICSS of VTA-SN was more sensitive to picrotoxin. Thus, the cholinergic and GABAergic mechanisms of the self-stimulation of lateral hypothalamus and ventral tegmentum are different.

BALB/c mice were unilaterally implanted with a guide cannula, the tip of which was positioned 1.5 mm above the ventral tegmental area (VTA). On each day of the experimental period, a stainless steel injection cannula was inserted into the VTA in order to study the eventual self-administration of a low dose (1.5 ng/50 nl) of bicuculline, a GABAA-antagonist, using a spatial discrimination task in a Y maze. Mice rapidly discriminated between the arm enabling a micro-injection of bicuculline and the neutral arm of the maze, and robust self-administration of this GABAergic antagonist was observed. Once this self-administration response for bicuculline had been fully acquired, the systemic injection of the dopaminergic D2 antagonist sulpiride (50 mg/kg), 30 min before the test, produced a rapid extinction of the self-administration response. Moreover, if this same sulpiride pretreatment was given during the initial acquisition period mice did not discriminate between the two arms of the Y-maze. These data demonstrate the dopamine D2 dependence of this bicuculline self-administration behavior, and confirm that GABAergic interneurons and/or inputs normally transynaptically inhibit neuronal activity in the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system.
The onset of bilateral face weakness is uncommon. Two cases are presented, followed by a discussion of a differential diagnosis.
The present study relies on data for the years 1988 and 1989 from the Swedish continuous Surveys of Living Conditions (SLC), which are based on random samples from the population among individuals aged 16 through 84 years. We compared the rates of self-reported mental health for subjects reporting diabetes (n = 361), a musculoskeletal condition but without diabetes (n = 2187), hypertension but without diabetes (n = 980), and healthy free from any medical condition (n = 6664). Comparisons are based on age- and gender-standardized rates, using the diabetes group as standard. The results show that more diabetic respondents had psychic symptoms and long-standing psychiatric disorders than the healthy respondents, with otherwise no differences compared to the other chronic conditions. The diabetic respondents had lower mean disposable income, and a higher rate of disability pension than the respondents with hypertension, and than the healthy. They also reported more sick leave days than the healthy respondents.
To assay and profile chronic neurobehavioral impairment associated with chlordane exposure in symptomatic patients, consecutive evaluations of nine patients were done with sensitive neurophysiologic and neuropsychologic tests for neurobehavioral function. Their visual fields, balance, reaction time, blink, color discrimination, grip strength, cognitive function, recall, memory, and perceptual motor speed were tested, and mood states and frequencies of 35 symptoms were appraised. Prevalences of abnormality were compared test-by-test to predict values with confidence intervals, and mean values for the group were compared with reference values. Testing showed abnormal balance with eyes closed in 7, abnormal color discrimination in 6, verbal recall deficit in 5, and prolonged blink reflex latency, prolonged choice reaction time, and decreased Culture Fair scores in 4 each. Profile of Mood States score was elevated in 5. These observations suggest that chlordane causes protracted neurotoxicity.




Most neurons in the mammalian CNS encode and transmit information via action potentials. Knowledge of where these electrical events are initiated and how they propagate within neurons is therefore fundamental to an understanding of neuronal function. While work from the 1950s suggested that action potentials are initiated in the axon, many subsequent investigations have suggested that action potentials can also be initiated in the dendrites. Recently, experiments using simultaneous patch-pipette recordings from different locations on the same neuron have been used to address this issue directly. These studies show that the site of action potential initiation is in the axon, even when synaptic activation is powerful enough to elicit dendritic electrogenesis. Furthermore, these and other studies also show that following initiation, action potentials actively backpropagate into the dendrites of many neuronal types, providing a retrograde signal of neuronal output to the dendritic tree.
In 1994, TINS published a brief analysis of the problems faced by the European neuroscience community in its attempt to meet the challenges associated with the proclamation of the European 'Decade of the Brain'. Since then numerous initiatives have been taken by national and European neuroscience societies with the common goals of improving communication among European neuroscientists, increasing the visibility of the neurosciences as an autonomous and increasingly important domain of research in the appreciation of national and European granting bodies, and facilitating integration of colleagues from Eastern Europe into the international scientific community. These initiatives have led to major changes in the organization and self-apprehension of national and European neuroscience societies.
How the brain generates visual percepts is a central problem in neuroscience. We propose a detailed neural model of how lateral geniculate nuclei and the interblob cortical stream through V1 and V2 generate context-sensitive perceptual groupings from visual inputs. The model suggests a functional role for cortical layers, columns, maps and networks, and proposes homologous circuits for V1 and V2 with larger-scale processing in V2. An integrated treatment of interlaminar, horizontal, orientational and endstopping cortical interactions and a role for corticogeniculate feedback in grouping are proposed. Modeled circuits simulate parametric psychophysical data about boundary grouping and illusory contour formation.
The use of genetically engineered mice has been a major development in neuroscience research. Genetic engineering is an undoubtedly powerful technique; however, the value of this approach has been debated, particularly in relation to its use to probe the underlying bases of complex behaviors, such as memory. A recent new development of the technique is the ability to target a specific gene knockout to a particular subregion or even to specific and limited cell types of the mouse brain. An example of this approach is the knockout of the NMDARI gene in only CAI-pyramidal cells of the hippocampus. The resulting animals can be tested by several methods, including in vivo multielectrode recording during behavioral tasks. The data provide strong evidence in favor of the notion that NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity at CAI synapses is required for both the acquisition of spatial memory and the formation of normal CAI place fields. This relationship suggests that robust place fields may be essential for spatial memory.
As a step toward understanding the mechanism by which targets are selected for smooth-pursuit eye movements, we examined the behavior of the pursuit system when monkeys were presented with two discrete moving visual targets. Two rhesus monkeys were trained to select a small moving target identified by its color in the presence of a moving distractor of another color. Smooth-pursuit eye movements were quantified in terms of the latency of the eye movement and the initial eye acceleration profile. We have previously shown that the latency of smooth pursuit, which is normally around 100 ms, can be extended to 150 ms or shortened to 85 ms depending on whether there is a distractor moving in the opposite or same direction, respectively, relative to the direction of the target. We have now measured this effect for a 360 deg range of distractor directions, and distractor speeds of 5-45 deg/s. We have also examined the effect of varying the spatial separation and temporal asynchrony between target and distractor. The results indicate that the effect of the distractor on the latency of pursuit depends on its direction of motion, and its spatial and temporal proximity to the target, but depends very little on the speed of the distractor. Furthermore, under the conditions of these experiments, the direction of the eye movement that is emitted in response to two competing moving stimuli is not a vectorial combination of the stimulus motions, but is solely determined by the direction of the target. The results are consistent with a competitive model for smooth-pursuit target selection and suggest that the competition takes place at a stage of the pursuit pathway that is between visual-motion processing and motor-response preparation.
To study the relationship between ocular dominance columns (ODCs) and axonal projections of individual layer 6 pyramidal neurons in the primary visual cortex, neurons were intracellularly labeled with biocytin in live slices prepared from macaque monkeys that had received an intravitreal injection of tetrodotoxin (TTX). The TTX injection indirectly causes a decrease in cytochrome oxidase (CO) expression in the cortical ODCs corresponding to the treated eye (Wong-Riley &amp; Carroll, 1984). Sections from slices with labeled layer 6 neurons were double stained for biocytin and CO, to allow visualization of neuronal processes as well as ODCs. Twenty-seven layer 6 pyramidal neurons in ODC-labeled slices were analyzed. These neurons were classified according to the criteria of Wiser and Callaway (1996). Eight of these are class I neurons, which have dense axonal projections to the monocular layer 4C. The remaining 19 are class II neurons which project primarily to the binocular layers outside 4C. Among class I neurons, two have dense axonal arbors in layer 4C alpha (type I alpha), one in layer 4C beta (type I beta), and two throughout the depth of layer 4C (type IC). None of these neurons have ODC-specific axonal arbors. The remaining three class I neurons have focused axonal projections in layers 4C beta and 4A (type I beta A). All three appear to have axonal arbors predominantly within their home ODC in layer 4C. The axonal arbors of class II neurons do not appear to relate to ODCs in any specific fashion.
Recent studies have suggested that humans cannot estimate their direction of forward translation (heading) from the resulting retinal motion (flow field) alone when rotation rates are higher than approximately 1 deg/sec. It has been argued that either oculomotor or static depth cues are necessary to disambiguate the rotational and translational components of the flow field and, thus, to support accurate heading estimation. We have re-examined this issue using visually simulated motion along a curved path towards a layout of random points as the stimulus. Our data show that, in this curvilinear motion paradigm, five of six observers could estimate their heading relatively accurately and precisely (error and uncertainty &lt; approximately 4 deg), even for rotation rates as high as 16 deg/sec, without the benefit of either oculomotor or static depth cues signaling rotation rate. Such performance is inconsistent with models of human self-motion estimation that require rotation information from sources other than the flow field to cancel the rotational flow.
Discrimination of colours was studied using instrumental learning paradigm in monkeys (Macaque rhesus) and fishes (Carpio Cyprinus L.). The confusion matrices composed of probabilities of instrumental responses were treated by factor analysis. The spherical structure of perceptual colour space revealed in both animals was close to one in humans. Four eigenvectors constituting four-dimensional Euclidean hyperspheres correspond to red-green, blue-yellow, bright and dark neuronal channels.
Ibogaine, a putatively anti-addictive alkaloid, binds to kappa-opioid and NMDA receptors. In the present study we investigated the roles of kappa-opioid and NMDA actions in mediating ibogaine's (40 mg/kg, i.p.) behavioral and neurochemical effects in rats. A combination of a kappa-opioid antagonist (norbinaltorphimine, 10 mg/kg, s.c.) and a NMDA agonist (NMDA, 20 mg/kg, i.p.) partially prevented ibogaine-induced inhibition of intravenous morphine self-administration and ibogaine-induced antagonism of morphine-induced locomotor stimulation. The combination, as well as norbinaltorphimine and NMDA alone, blocked the acute effects of ibogaine on dopamine release and metabolism in the striatum. The data suggest that both kappa-opioid agonist and NMDA antagonist actions of ibogaine contribute to its putative anti-addictive effects.
We studied the interaction of catecholaminergic and thalamic afferents of the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) by analyzing the effects of catecholamine depletion on thalamus-induced c-fos expression in the PFC of freely moving rats. Thalamic projections to the PFC were pharmacologically activated by perfusing the GABA-A receptor antagonist bicuculline (0.03 mM or 0.1 mM) through a dialysis probe implanted into the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus. Bicuculline perfusion induced Fos-like immunoreactivity in the thalamic projection areas, including the PFC, and in the thalamic nuclei surrounding the dialysis probe. 6-Hydroxydopamine lesions of the ventral tegmental area causing a 70-80% depletion of catecholamines in the PFC did not influence the increase in the number of Fos-like immunoreactive nuclei in the prefrontal cortex in response to thalamic stimulation. However, densitometric image analysis revealed that the intensity of Fos-like immunoreactivity in the PFC of lesioned rats perfused with 0.1 mM bicuculline was higher than in correspondingly treated controls. The behavioral activity to bicuculline perfusion, an increase of non-ambulatory activity (0.03 mM) followed by locomotion and rearing (0.1 mM), was not changed in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. It is suggested that the thalamically induced c-fos response is directly mediated by excitatory, presumably glutamatergic, transmission and not indirectly by an activation of catecholaminergic afferents of the PFC. The increase in the intensity of Fos-like immunostaining in strongly stimulated, catecholamine-depleted rats suggests that catecholamines modulate the degree to which thalamic activity can activate the PFC of awake animals.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a sustained strengthening of synaptic connections that occurs in the mammalian hippocampus, and is a cellular mechanism likely to contribute to memory formation. One question of current interest is whether the biochemical mechanisms responsible for the maintenance of LTP have a presynaptic or postsynaptic locus. We have determined that the phosphorylation of the postsynaptic protein kinase (PKC) substrate RC3/neurogranin is increased in the maintenance phase of LTP, and that the induction of this effect is dependent on activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors. The sustained increase in RC3/neurogranin phosphorylation requires ongoing protein kinase activity, as application of the protein kinase inhibitor H-7 after LTP induction can reverse the increased RC3/neurogranin phosphorylation. Overall, these data are evidence for postsynaptic biochemical changes in the maintenance of LTP. They also implicate RC3/neurogranin as a downstream effector of PKC activity in LTP that could contribute to physiologic expression of LTP.
Membrane depolarization of PC12 cells using 50 mM KCl leads to induction of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA. This induction of TH mRNA is apparently due to increased TH gene promoter activity mediated by the influx of Ca2+. In PC12 cells transiently transfected with a chimeric gene expressing chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) driven by the proximal TH gene 5'-flanking region, 50 mM KCl increases TH gene promoter activity 3-4-fold. Promoter analysis utilizing TH-CAT constructs containing mutagenized sequences indicates that this response to the depolarization-mediated influx of Ca2+ is primarily dependent on both the TH cAMP-responsive element (CRE) and TH activating protein-1 (AP1) site. Minimal promoter constructs that contain a single copy of either the TH CRE or TH AP1 site fused upstream of the TH gene basal promoter are only modestly responsive or nonresponsive, respectively, to depolarization. However, both these constructs are strongly responsive to the calcium ionophore, A23187. Gel shift assays indicate that TH AP1 complex formation is dramatically increased after treatment with either 50 mM KCl or A23187. Using antibodies to transcription factors of the Fos and Jun families, we show that the nuclear proteins comprising the inducible TH AP1 complex include c-Fos, c-Jun, JunB, and JunD. In cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB)-deficient cell lines that express antisense RNA complementary to CREB mRNA, the response of the TH gene promoter to cyclic AMP is dramatically inhibited, but the response to A23187 remains robust. This result indicates that transcription factors other than CREB can participate in the Ca2+-mediated regulation of the TH gene. In summary, our results support the hypothesis that regulation of the TH gene by Ca2+ is mediated by mechanisms involving both the TH CRE and TH AP1 sites and that transcription factors other than or in addition to CREB participate in this response.
Vesicular monoamine transporters package monoamine neurotransmitters into secretory vesicles for regulated exocytotic release. Both vesicular monoamine transporter 1 and 2 contain several charged residues predicted to reside within transmembrane domains (TMDs), and conservation of these residues in multiple species and in other members of the gene family suggest important roles in transporter structure and function. To determine the role of these residues, we have used site-directed mutagenesis. Replacement of Asp-263 in TMD6 with Asn (D263N) had no effect on transport activity. However, replacement of Lys-139 in TMD2 with Ala (K139A), Asp-400 in TMD10 with Asn (D400N), or Asp-427 in TMD11 with Asn (D427N) eliminated transport activity despite normal levels of protein expression. Remarkably, the double mutant K139A/D427N showed substantial transport activity, suggesting that Lys-139 and Asp-427 interact to form an ion pair in the native protein and hence that TMD2 occurs next to TMD11. Nonetheless, the double mutant showed reduced apparent affinity for serotonin and reduced ability of serotonin to inhibit reserpine binding, suggesting that although not required for activity, the ion pair promotes high affinity interaction with the substrate. In addition, a double mutant in which the polarity of the charged residues was reversed (K139D/D427K) showed no active transport. Remarkably, however, this mutant displayed normal reserpine binding that remained coupled to DeltaH+, but serotonin failed to inhibit reserpine binding, suggesting that the charge reversal specifically disrupts substrate recognition.
In our recent studies, we identified HLA-DRB1*0901-binding peptides by affinity-based selection of a phage random peptide library and showed that two major anchors (WxxS, where x is any amino acid) play an essential role in binding to DR9, determined using a radioactive peptide in combination with column chromatography. In the current study, we established an ELISA-based peptide-HLA binding assay system, with a new index (relative binding affinity: r.b.a.) for quantitation of peptide-HLA binding, using standard curves of competitive inhibition, an approach which enabled handling of a larger number of samples simultaneously. Quantitation of binding between HLA-DR9 molecules and 39 synthetic peptides showed that: (a) this system yields results which correlate with those obtained using the previous assay system (Spearman's rank correlation coefficient; the p value of the putative first anchor &lt; 0.001, and the putative second anchor &lt; 0.001); and (b) substituting the putative first (the most N-terminal) anchor Trp to Y, M, F, I, L, V, or C, and the putative second anchor Ser to T, G, A, V, F, or H, allow high-affinity binding to DR9.
Deciding advantageously in a complex situation is thought to require overt reasoning on declarative knowledge, namely, on facts pertaining to premises, options for action, and outcomes of actions that embody the pertinent previous experience. An alternative possibility was investigated: that overt reasoning is preceded by a nonconscious biasing step that uses neural systems other than those that support declarative knowledge. Normal participants and patients with prefrontal damage and decision-making defects performed a gambling task in which behavioral, psychophysiological, and self-account measures were obtained in parallel. Normals began to choose advantageously before they realized which strategy worked best, whereas prefrontal patients continued to choose disadvantageously even after they knew the correct strategy. Moreover, normals began to generate anticipatory skin conductance responses (SCRs) whenever they pondered a choice that turned out to be risky, before they knew explicitly that it was a risky choice, whereas patients never developed anticipatory SCRs, although some eventually realized which choices were risky. The results suggest that, in normal individuals, nonconscious biases guide behavior before conscious knowledge does. Without the help of such biases, overt knowledge may be insufficient to ensure advantageous behavior.
Recently the rat and mouse Growth Factor Independence (Gfi-1) genes have been cloned (Gilks et al., 1993; Zoring et al; 1996). This gene allows cells in culture to overcome the depletion of growth factors in the culture medium and maintain their proliferative potential. As part of a cloning strategy to isolated genes from human chromosome 1p22 which are associated with a constitutional chromosome translocation from a patient with stage 4S neuroblastoma, we have identified the human homologue of the Gfi gene and defined a 50 Kb map position within a well characterised YAC contig from the region. The full length cDNA sequence is 81% homologous with the rodent counterparts and, at the protein level, is even more highly conserved.
The activity of a selective tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist, PD 154075 ([(2-benzofuran)-CH2OCO]-(R)-alpha-MeTrp-(S)-NHCH(CH3) Ph), was examined in radioligand binding studies, in a [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P-induced foot-tapping model in the gerbil, and in cisplatin-induced acute and delayed emesis in the ferret. In radioligand binding studies, PD 154075 showed nanomolar affinity for the human, guinea-pig, gerbil, dog and ferret NK1 receptors with an approximate 300 times lower affinity for the rodent NK1 receptor. Using NK2,NK3 receptors and a range of other receptor ligands, PD 154075 was shown to exhibit a high degree of selectivity and specificity for the human type NK1 receptor. Following subcutaneous administration PD 154075 dose dependently (1-100 mg/kg) antagonised the centrally mediated [Sar9,Met(O2)11] substance P-induced foot tapping in the gerbil with a minimum effective dose (MED) of 10 mg/kg. The ability of PD 154075 to readily penetrate into the brain following oral administration was confirmed by its extraction and high performance liquid chromatography assay from the rat brain. PD 154075 was shown to achieve a relatively fast and sustained brain concentration (brain/plasma ratios ranged from 0.27 to 0.41 during the time period of 0.25-12 h). Further pharmacokinetic studies revealed that the absolute oral bioavailability of PD 154075 in the rat was (mean +/- S.D.) 49 +/- 15%. PD 154075 (1-30 mg/kg, i.p.) dose dependently antagonised the acute vomiting and retching in the ferret measured for 4 h following administration of cisplatin (10 mg/kg, i.p.) with a MED of 3 mg/kg. The administration of a lower dose of cisplatin (5 mg/kg, i.p.) in the ferret induces both an acute (day 1) and delayed (days 2 and 3) phase of emesis. The i.p. administration of PD 154075, 10 mg/kg three times a day for 3 days, almost completely blocked both the acute and delayed emetic responses. In the same study, the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist ondansetron (1 mg/kg, i.p., t.i.d.) was also very effective against the acute emetic response observed during the first 4 h following cisplatin, but it was only weakly active against the delayed response. In conclusion, PD 154075 is a selective and specific high affinity NK1 receptor antagonist with good oral bioavailability which is effective against both acute and delayed emesis induced by cisplatin in the ferret.
It has been suggested that members of the neuropeptide Y (NPY) family of regulatory peptides [NPY, peptide YY (PYY) and pancreatic polypeptide (PP)] play an important role in the development of the endocrine pancreas. The development of rat endocrine pancreas from embryonic (E) day 12 until 30 days postpartum (P) was studied with emphasis on NPY, PYY and PP and their co-existence with insulin, glucagon and somatostatin using single and double immunostaining and in situ hybridization. Already at E12, PYY was detectable in small endocrine cell clusters and found to be co-localised with both insulin and glucagon, which at this stage occurred in the same cells. At E16 most of the insulin-immunoreactive (IR) cells were distinct from the glucagon/PYY-IR cells. Interestingly, at E16 NPY mRNA, and at E17 NPY immunoreactivity appeared in a few, scattered endocrine cells. Virtually all NPY-IR endocrine cells were insulin-producing beta cells. At E18 the endocrine cells started to form typical islets with centrally located insulin/NPY-IR cells surrounded by glucagon/PYY-IR cells. AT E20-E21, the vast majority of insulin-producing cells also expressed NPY. However, at birth (day 0) islet cell NPY mRNA was lacking. Postnatally the number and immunostaining intensity of NPY-IR islet cells rapidly declined, being non-detectable at P5. Cells containing PP immunoreactivity and PP mRNA were first detected at E21. The adult pattern of islet peptide distribution, with NPY confined to neuronal elements. PYY and PP exclusively in endocrine cells, was established at P5. The beta cell expression of NPY during the latter part of embryogenesis coincides with the prepartal glucocorticoid surge and with rapid islet cell replication and differentiation. This is compatible with steroid induction of NPY expression and with a role for NPY in the maturation of beta cells and their hormone release, which occurs in the immediate neonatal period.
Tissue concentrations of D-serine and other chiral and non-chiral amino acids were measured post-mortem in the cerebral cortex of the neonatal or infantile individuals with (three cases) or without (seven cases) non-ketotic hyperglycinemia (NKH) using high performance liquid chromatography with fluorometric detection. In the cortical tissues of the NKH patients lacking activity of glycine cleavage system, there was a marked reduction and elevation of the contents of D-serine and glycine, respectively, compared to non-NKH controls. Systemic administration of an inhibitor of glycine cleavage system (GCS), cysteamine, mimicked the changes in the cortical concentrations of these amino acids in the 8-day-old rats. Augmentation of brain glycine levels by means of intraperitoneal injection of glycine itself resulted in an increase in cortical D-serine contents in the neonatal rats with normal activity of GCS. These findings provide the first evidence that GCS might be implicated in the biosynthesis or content regulation of endogenous D-serine in the mammalian brain.
We isolated mouse CPP32/apopain cDNA, a mammalian homologue most closely related to Ced-3 in C. elegans, and examined the involvement of CPP32 in the apoptosis of nervous system during development. CPP32 is specifically expressed in the trigeminal (V) ganglia, facio-acoustic (VII-VIII) ganglion complex, and dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) of mouse 10.5-day embryos. CPP32-like proteases are activated during apoptosis of DRG neurons induced by deprivation of NGF and serum. Ac-DEVD-CHO, an inhibitor for CPP32-like proteases, prevents apoptosis of DRG neurons, but Ac-YVAD-CHO, an inhibitor for ICE-like proteases, does not. These results suggest that CPP32 or CPP32-like proteases play a role as central mediator in the apoptosis of DRG neurons induced by lack of neurotrophin signals.
Anandamide, an endogenous canabinoid substance, is hydrolyzed by an amidohydrolase activity present in rat brain and liver. We report that the bromoenol lactone, (E)-6-(bromomethylene) tetrahydro-3-(1-naphthalenyl)-2H-pyran-2-one (BTNP), is a potent inhibitor of this enzyme activity. BTNP prevented anandamide hydrolysis in rat brain microsomes with an IC50 of 0.8 +/- 0.3 microM. Kinetic and dialysis experiments indicated that this effect was non-competitive and irreversible. After chromatographic fractionation of the enzyme activity, BTNP was still effective, suggesting that it interacts directly with the enzyme. Anandamide hydrolysis was 12-fold greater in rat cortical neurons (1.94 +/- 0.1 pmol/min/mg protein) than in cortical astrocytes (0.16 +/- 0.01 pmol/min/mg protein) and, in either cell type, it was inhibited by BTNP (IC50 = 0.1 microM in neurons). These results suggest that BTNP may provide a useful lead for the development of novel inhibitors of anandamide hydrolysis.
Acetylcholine (ACh) is synthesized in nerve terminals from choline and acetyl coenzyme A by the cytoplasmic enzyme choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). The neurotransmitter is thereafter transported into synaptic vesicles, where it is stored until release. cDNA clones encoding a vesicular ACh transporter (VAChT) were recently isolated. In this paper, we report on the generation of highly specific goat polyclonal antisera to the rat VAChT protein by using a synthetic carboxy-terminal 20-amino-acid peptide sequence as an immunogen. Characterization of the antisera revealed recognition of VAChT, but not vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT) protein, in transfected CV-1 cells. VAChT immunoreactivity was also detected in cells that endogenously express the protein, such as in PC12 cells and in primary cultures of spinal motoneurons. Absorption controls showed that the VAChT antisera could be completely blocked at the 10(-5) M concentration by cognate peptide used for immunization. The antisera cross-reacted with the VAChT protein in rat and mouse but not in guinea pig, rabbit, or cat. Immunohistochemistry and confocal laser microscopy, using the goat VAChT antisera, showed strong immunoreactivity in discrete fibers and neuronal cell bodies of the central and peripheral nervous systems. Within cell bodies and axonal nerve terminals, as well as in dendrites, the staining appeared granular, presumably representing labeling of synaptic vesicles containing ACh. In the rat central nervous system, VAChT-positive cell bodies were demonstrated in the cerebral cortex, striatum, septum, nucleus basalis, medial habenula, mesopontine complex, cranial, and autonomic and spinal motor nuclei and in the intermediomedial region near the central canal. High densities of VAChT-immunoreactive axonal fibers were encountered in areas such as the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, striatum, basal forebrain, amygdala, thalamus, hypothalamus including median eminence, hippocampal formation, superior colliculus, interpeduncular nucleus, and pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei. In cranial and spinal motor nuclei, particularly large varicosities were seen in close proximity to the motoneuron cell somata and their proximal dendrites. In the peripheral nervous system, VAChT immunoreactivity was also detected in motor endplates of skeletal muscle as well as in fibers of sympathetic and parasympathetic abdominal ganglia, heart atrium, respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract, pancreas, adrenal medulla, male genitourinary tract, and salivary and lacrimal glands. Direct double labeling revealed colocalization of VAChT and ChAT immunoreactivity in neurons. The results show that VAChT antisera represent novel and unique tools for the study of cholinergic neurons in the central and peripheral nervous systems.
A whole-mount immunocytochemical method was devised to study the olfactory receptor neurons on the surface of the human olfactory mucosal sheet. Antibodies to neuron-specific tubulin and/or microtubule-associated protein 5 and phosphorylated neurofilament protein were used. Specimens taken at autopsy from 56 patients ranging in age from 2 days to 92 years revealed a structure not previously described, an olfactory pit. Round or oval openings with a diameter of 50 to 500 microns were observed on the surface of the olfactory epithelium in the whole-mount specimen. The morphology, number, and distribution of these openings varied among the different individuals. A detailed analysis of these structures was carried out by rehydrating and sectioning the whole-mount specimens. The olfactory pit (OP) is a blind pouch lined with olfactory epithelium (OE), which appears as an invagination of OE into the connective tissue, with a depth varying between 150 and 200 microns. In some sections through an OP, a thick axon bundle emerging from the bottom of the pouch was visible. The extension and termination of this axon bundle in the central nervous system has not been explored. We have found OPs in monkey olfactory mucosa, but none in rodents. The function of the pit specialization is unclear, but it appears to be a feature of normal, young epithelium. The configuration of the blind pouch may prolong odorant association with the olfactory receptor neurons, or the OP may contain specialized neurons that have not yet been recognized by morphological, biochemical, or functional techniques.
It has recently become evident that all types of chemical messengers, hormones and transmitters act through membrane receptors which constitute our largest superfamily of proteins, i.e. the G protein-coupled receptors. These proteins, which are characterized by having seven transmembrane segments (7TM), also act as, for example sensors for light and odor components in our sensory systems. Already today monoamine 7TM receptors are the target for many drugs; however, the development of non-peptide ligands for a variety of peptide receptors indicates that probably all 7TM receptors can become pharmacotherapeutic targets. The discovery that chemokine receptors function as the crucial cofactors for cell entry of HIV-1 suggests that antagonists or agonists for one or more chemokine 7TM receptor could be interesting agents against AIDS. The occurrence of a multitude of orphan 7TM receptors without known ligand indicates, that surprisingly large areas within endocrinology and neuroscience are still today waiting to be characterized.
A major role of the serotonergic system has been hypothesized in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia, mostly based on the evidence of action of new and atypical neuroleptics such as Risperidone or Clozapine. We evaluated the genotypes and alleles of the 5HT2a receptor gene in 67 nuclear families following the Haplotype Relative Risk (HRR) strategy and in a second sample of 100 schizophrenics and 103 controls. The 5HT2a receptor gene polymorphism, following PCR amplification and subsequent Hpa II digestion, reveals a two-alleles system in the coding region of the gene. We did not find statistically significant differences between patients and controls for genotypes, nor for alleles, both in the HRR and in the case-control groups. These results do not confirm the positive association obtained by Inayama et al.: [Neuropsychopharmacology 1(35): 145-219, 1994] and by Williams et al. [Lancet, 397:1294-1296, 1996] in our population.
The role of oxidative stress in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-mediated neurotoxicity is as yet unclear and the evidence for generation of oxygen free radicals as a primary event in the neurotoxicity is yet to be demonstrated. The present study was undertaken to ascertain the potential role of oxidative damage, and the protective role, if any, of the antioxidant, glutathione (GSH), in MPTP-induced neurotoxicity. Exposure of sagittal slices of mouse brain to MPTP resulted in significant increases of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and malondialdehyde (MDA, the product of lipid peroxidation) and decreases in GSH content. Pretreatment of mouse brain slices, in vitro, with GSH or GSH isopropyl ester attenuated MPTP toxicity as assessed by the tissue activity of the mitochondrial enzyme, NADH-dehydrogenase (NADH-DH), and by leakage of the cytosolic enzyme, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), from the slice into the medium. In vivo administration of MPTP (30 mg/kg body weight, s.c.), to mice resulted in significant lowering of GSH in the striatum and midbrain, 2 h after dosage; ROS levels in the striatum and midbrain increased after 4 and 8 h, respectively. In the striatum significant inhibition of rotenone-sensitive NADH ubiquinone-1 oxido-reductase (Complex 1) was observed transiently 1 h after MPTP administration. The enzyme activity recovered thereafter; significant inhibition of mitochondrial Complex I was observed in the striatum only 18 h after MPTP dose. In the midbrain, mitochondrial Complex I was inhibited only 18 h after MPTP dose; no change was observed at the early time points examined. Thus, the depletion of GSH and increased ROS formation preceded the inhibition of the mitochondrial enzyme in the midbrain. Evidence presented herein from both in vitro and in vivo studies support that MPTP exposure generates ROS resulting in oxidative stress.
Modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the brain by protein phosphorylation may play a central role in the regulation of synaptic plasticity. To examine the phosphorylation of the NR1 subunit of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in situ, we have generated several polyclonal antibodies that recognize the NR1 subunit only when specific serine residues are phosphorylated. Using these antibodies, we demonstrate that protein kinase C (PKC) phosphorylates serine residues 890 and 896 and cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) phosphorylates serine residue 897 of the NR1 subunit. Activation of PKC and PKA together lead to the simultaneous phosphorylation of neighboring serine residues 896 and 897. Phosphorylation of serine 890 by PKC results in the dispersion of surface-associated clusters of the NR1 subunit expressed in fibroblasts, while phosphorylation of serine 896 and 897 has no effect on the subcellular distribution of NR1. The PKC-induced redistribution of the NR1 subunit in cells occurs within minutes of serine 890 phosphorylation and reverses upon dephosphorylation. These results demonstrate that PKA and PKC phosphorylate distinct residues within a small region of the NR1 subunit and differentially affect the subcellular distribution of the NR1 subunit.
During amphibian metamorphosis, the tail and gills that are useful in aquatic life but inappropriate for terrestrial activity are induced to degenerate completely in several days by endogenous thyroid hormone (TH). The dramatic resorption of the tadpole tail has attracted a good deal of attention as an experimental system of cell death, but the mechanism has not been well characterized. To facilitate in vitro analysis, we have established a myoblast cell line (XLT-15) derived from the Xenopus laevis tadpole tail. This cultured cell line died in response to TH and exhibited positive TUNEL reaction and internucleosomal DNA cleavage. Simultaneously, expression of the Xenopus CPP32/apopain/Yama gene was up-regulated by TH in the cell line as it is in regressing tadpole tail, whereas interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme (ICE) mRNA is around 1 copy/cell in tail and undetectable in XLT-15 cells. A CPP32/apopain/Yama inhibitor (acetyl-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-aldehyde) prevented TH-induced apoptosis of XLT-15 cells, but an ICE inhibitor (acetyl-Tyr-Val-Ala-Asp-aldehyde) did not. These results suggested that an increase of CPP32/apopain/Yama gene expression is involved in TH-dependent apoptosis of XLT-15 and tadpole tail resorption during metamorphosis.
The quantification of insulin released from single cells of the insulin-secreting cell line beta TC3 permeabilized by digitonin is demonstrated. A simple method for monitoring the on-column release process by using capillary electrophoresis and laser-induced native fluorescence detection is described. Quantitative measurements of both the amount of insulin released and the amount remaining in the cell can be achieved simultaneously. This protocol provides an alternative approach to the study of cell secretion in the fields of neuroscience and endocrinology.
The Lewy body variant of Alzheimer disease (LBV) is a distinct category of dementia which, unlike pure diffuse Lewy body disease (DLBD), meets clinical and neuropathologic criteria for Alzheimer disease (AD) but differs from pure AD in having a neocortical predominance of diffuse and neuritic plaques (NP), with very few neurofibrillary tangles (NFT). We investigated the immunoreactivity of NP with a monoclonal antibody against paired helical filaments (PHF) composed of phosphorylated microtubule associated protein tau. With routine thioflavin-S preparations, 12 LBV and 14 AD cases had similar numbers of NP, but the LBV had significantly (P &lt; 0.05) fewer NFT per microscopic field in the midfrontal cortex. Among subjects with midfrontal NFT, 81-84% of NP in AD and LBV were anti-PHF positive. Among subjects without midfrontal NFT, 52% of NP in AD but only 12% of NP in LBV cases were anti-PHF positive (P &lt; 0.05). LBV differs from AD in that its NP generally do not contain PHF, unless they are accompanied by neocortical NFT.
The PDAPP transgenic mouse, which overexpresses human amyloid precursor protein (APP717V--&gt;F), has been shown to develop much of the pathology associated with Alzheimer disease. In this report, levels of APP and its amyloidogenic metabolites were measured in brain regions of transgenic mice between 4 and 18 months of age. While absolute levels of APP expression likely contribute to the rate of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) deposition, regionally specific factors also seem important, as homozygotic mice express APP levels in pathologically unaffected regions in excess of that measured in certain amyloid plaque-prone regions of heterozygotic mice. Regional levels of APP and APP-beta were nearly constant at all ages, while A beta levels dramatically and predictably increased in brain regions undergoing histochemically confirmed amyloidosis, most notably in the cortex and hippocampus. In hippocampus, A beta concentrations increase 17-fold between the ages of 4 and 8 months, and by 18 months of age are over 500-fold that at 4 months, reaching an average level in excess of 20 nmol of A beta per g of tissue. A beta1-42 constitutes the vast majority of the depositing A beta species. The similarities observed between the PDAPP mouse and human Alzheimer disease with regard to A beta42 deposition occurring in a temporally and regionally specific fashion further validate the use of the model in understanding processes related to the disease.
To investigate the roles of K+ channels in the regulation and fine-tuning of cellular excitability, we generated a mutant mouse carrying a disrupted gene for the fast activating, voltage-gated K+ channel Kv3.1. Kv3.1-/- mice are viable and fertile but have significantly reduced body weights compared with their Kv3.1+/- littermates. Wild-type, heterozygous, and homozygous Kv3.1 channel-deficient mice exhibit similar spontaneous locomotor and exploratory activity. In a test for coordinated motor skill, however, homozygous Kv3.1-/- mice perform significantly worse than their heterozygous Kv3.1+/- or wild-type littermates. Both fast and slow skeletal muscles of Kv3.1-/- mice are slower to reach peak force and to relax after contraction, consequently leading to tetanic responses at lower stimulation frequencies. Both mutant muscles generate significantly smaller contractile forces during a single twitch and during tetanic conditions. Although Kv3.1-/- mutants exhibit a normal auditory frequency range, they show significant differences in their acoustic startle responses. Contrary to expectation, homozygous Kv3.1-/- mice do not have increased spontaneous seizure activity.
We found a novel dystrophin-associated protein (DAP) exhibiting almost the same mobility as gamma-sarcoglycan on SDS-PAGE. This novel DAP with basic charge is separated from gamma-sarcoglycan by 2-dimensional PAGE or de-N-glycosylation followed by SDS-PAGE. This DAP is most likely the rabbit homologue of &quot;delta-sarcoglycan&quot;, the gamma-sarcoglycan-like protein identified previously [Nigro et al. (1996) Hum. Mol. Genet. 5, 1179-1186], since an internal amino acid sequence from the DAP matched the predicted amino acid sequence of &quot;human delta-sarcoglycan&quot; within the limits of species difference and this DAP was recognized by anti-&quot;delta-sarcoglycan&quot; antibody. The DAP was found to be contained in the sarcoglycan fraction which was prepared by treatment of the dystrophin-DAP complex with n-octyl beta-D-glucoside and crosslinked with beta- and/or gamma-sarcoglycan by a chemical crosslinker, dithiobis(succinimidyl propionate). Therefore, we concluded that the DAP is the fourth component of the sarcoglycan complex.
A specific antiserum against substance P receptor (SPR) labels nonprincipal neurons in the cerebral cortex of the rat (T. Kaneko et al. [1994], Neuroscience 60:199-211; Y. Nakaya et al. [1994], J. Comp. Neurol. 347:249-274). In the present study, we aimed to identify the types of SPR-immunoreactive neurons in the hippocampus according to their content of neurochemical markers, which label interneuron populations with distinct termination patterns. Markers for perisomatic inhibitory cells, parvalbumin and cholecystokinin (CCK), colocalized with SPR in pyramidallike basket cells in the dentate gyrus and in large multipolar or bitufted cells within all hippocampal subfields respectively. A dense meshwork of SPR-immunoreactive spiny dendrites in the hilus and stratum lucidum of the CA3 region belonged largely to inhibitory cells terminating in the distal dendritic region of granule cells, as indicated by the somatostatin and neuropeptide Y (NPY) content. In addition, SPR and NPY were colocalized in numerous multipolar interneurons with dendrites branching close to the soma. Twenty-five percent of the SPR-immunoreactive cells overlapped with calretinin-positive neurons in all hippocampal subfields, showing that interneurons specialized to contact other gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic cells may also contain SPR. On the basis of the known termination pattern of the colocalized markers, we conclude that SPR-positive interneurons are functionally heterogeneous and participate in different inhibitory processes: (1) perisomatic inhibition of principal cells (CCK-containing cells, and parvalbumin-positive cells in the dentate gyrus), (2) feedback dendritic inhibition in the entorhinal termination zone (somatostatin and NPY-containing cells), and (3) innervation of other interneurons (calretinin-containing cells).
Susceptibility to infection by the human polyomavirus, JCV, is determined by intracellular mechanisms which control transcription and replication. Originally thought to propagate well only in human cells of oligodendroglial lineage, JCV has recently been shown to infect astrocytes, astrogliomas, and a neuroblastoma cell line. The data reported here describe two cell types that have been subcultured from a human neuroblastoma cell line, SK-N-SH. The SH-SY5Y subclone displays neuronal phenotypes and is not susceptible to JCV infection, while the SH-EP subclone displays glial cell phenotypes and is susceptible to infection. Binding of nuclear proteins from the permissive SH-EP cells to the nuclear factor-1 (NF-1) site in the JCV regulatory DNA sequences results in a gel shift pattern that is different from the nonpermissive SH-SY5Y cell proteins. Northern analysis of mRNA for the four classes of NF-1 proteins showed a predominance of the NF-1/X class in SH-EP cells similar to the highly permissive human fetal glial cells. Very low levels of mRNA for NF-1/X were seen in the nonpermissive SH-SY5Y cells, similar to that seen for the nonpermissive HeLa cells. Several other cell lines tested that were permissive for JCV infection also showed synthesis of the NF-1/X class of proteins. SH-EP cells represent a cell line in a glial cell lineage which is susceptible to JCV multiplication. These cells may be a useful cell culture system for the investigation of DNA binding factors which correlates with viral susceptibility.
Mammalian S-adenosylmethionine decarboxylase (AdoMetDC) catalyses a regulatory important step in the biosynthesis of polyamines and is a potential target for therapeutic agents against various parasitic diseases and proliferative disorders. In the present study we examined the effects of a newly synthesized AdoMetDC inhibitor. 4-amidinoindan-1-one 2'-amidinohydrazone (CGP 48664), on polyamine metabolism in the mouse leukaemia cell line L1210. Treatment of the cells with 2 microM CGP 48664 led to a depletion of cellular spermidine and spermine. The putrescine content, in contrast, was markedly increased. Cells seeded in the presence of the inhibitor showed a significant decrease in growth rate, which was fully reversed by the addition of 2 microM spermidine or 1 microM spermine. The syntheses of ornithine decarboxylase and AdoMetDC were greatly increased in cells treated with CGP 48664. These increases were not correlated with similar changes in the mRNA levels, indicating the involvement of a translational mechanism. CGP 48664 was demonstrated to be a very poor competitor of spermidine uptake in the L1210 cells. L1210 cells deficient in polyamine transport were as sensitive to the antiproliferative effect of the inhibitor as were the parental cells, indicating that CGP 48664 did not enter the cells by the polyamine transport system. In addition to inhibiting AdoMetDC, CGP 48664 stabilized the enzyme against degradation. In the present study we also demonstrated that aminoguanidine (AMG), which is frequently used in cellular systems to inhibit any action of serum polyamine oxidase, apparently inhibits AdoMetDC by an irreversible mechanism that markedly stabilizes the enzyme against proteolytic degradation. CGP 48664 and the parental compound methylglyoxal bis(guanylhydrazone), which is also a potent inhibitor of AdoMetDC, contain one or two AMG-like moieties; the importance of these residues in the inhibition of AdoMetDC is discussed.
Accurate reaching toward a visual target is disturbed after the visual field is displaced by prisms but recovers with practice. When the prisms are removed, subjects misreach in the direction opposite to the prism displacement (aftereffect). The present study demonstrated that the severity of the aftereffect depends on the velocity of the movements during and after the visual displacement. Trained subjects were required to reach with one of four movement durations (&lt;300, approximately 800, approximately 2000, and approximately 5000 msec) from a fixed starting point to a target that appeared at a random location on a tangent screen (400 mm away). The size of the aftereffect was largest when the movement after the removal was performed with the same duration as that performed with the prisms. It became smaller as the difference in velocity became larger. When the contralateral arm was used after visual displacement, the aftereffect was never significant. Because the adaptation does not generalize across velocities or to the other arm, we infer that the underlying changes occur at a later stage in the transformation from visual input to motor output, in which not only the direction but also the time-dependent parameters of movements, such as velocity, acceleration or force, are represented.
In vertebrates, the two-step peptide alpha-amidation reaction is catalyzed sequentially by two enzymatic activities contained within one bifunctional enzyme called PAM (peptidylglycine alpha-amidating mono-oxygenase). Drosophila head extracts contained both of these PAM-related enzyme activities: a mono-oxygenase (PHM) and a lyase (PAL). However, no bifunctional PAM protein was detected. We identified cDNAs encoding an active mono-oxygenase that is highly homologous to mammalian PHM. PHM-like immunoreactivity was found within diverse larval tissues, including the CNS, endocrine glands, and gut epithelium. Northern and Western blot analyses demonstrate RNA and protein species corresponding to the cloned PHM, but not to a bifunctional PAM, leading us to predict the existence of separate PHM and PAL genes in Drosophila. The Drosophila PHM gene displays an organization of exons that is highly similar to the PHM-encoding portion of the rat PAM gene. Genetic analysis was consistent with the prediction of separate PHM and PAL gene functions in Drosophila: a P element insertion line containing a transposon within the PHM transcription unit displayed strikingly lower PHM enzyme levels, whereas PAL levels were increased slightly. The lethal phenotype displayed by the dPHM P element insertion indicates a widespread essential function. Reversion analysis indicated that the lethality associated with the insertion chromosome likely is attributable to the P element insertion. These combined data indicate a fundamental evolutionary divergence in the genes coding for critical neurotransmitter biosynthetic enzymes: in Drosophila, the two enzyme activities of PAM are encoded by separate genes.
It has been suggested that anandamide (N-arachidonoylethanolamine), an endogenous cannabinoid substance, may be produced through Ca2+-stimulated hydrolysis of the phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) derivative N-arachidonoyl PE. The presence of N-arachidonoyl PE in adult brain tissue and the enzyme pathways that underlie its biosynthesis are, however, still undetermined. We report here that rat brain tissue contains both anandamide (11 +/- 7 pmol/gm wet tissue) and N-arachidonoyl PE (22 +/- 16 pmol/gm), as assessed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. We describe a N-acyltransferase activity in brain that catalyzes the biosynthesis of N-arachidonoyl PE by transferring an arachidonate group from the sn-1 carbon of phospholipids to the amino group of PE. We also show that sn-1 arachidonoyl phospholipids are present in brain, where they constitute approximately 0.5% of total phospholipids. N-acyltransferase activity is Ca2+ dependent and is enriched in brain and testis. Within the brain, N-acyltransferase activity is highest in brainstem; intermediate in cortex, striatum, hippocampus, medulla, and cerebellum; and lowest in thalamus, hypothalamus, and olfactory bulb. Pharmacological inhibition of N-acyltransferase activity in primary cultures of cortical neurons prevents Ca2+-stimulated N-arachidonoyl PE biosynthesis. Our results demonstrate, therefore, that rat brain tissue contains the complement of enzymatic activity and lipid substrates necessary for the biosynthesis of the anandamide precursor N-arachidonoyl PE. They also suggest that biosynthesis of N-arachidonoyl PE and formation of anandamide are tightly coupled processes, which may concomitantly be stimulated by elevations in intracellular Ca2+ occurring during neural activity.
A CNS catecholaminergic cell line, Cath.a, was established by targeted oncogenesis in transgenic mice. Cath.a cells express neuronal properties but lack neuronal morphology. Here, we describe a variant of Cath.a, called CAD (Cath.a-differentiated), in which reversible morphological differentiation can be initiated by removal of serum or exogenously added protein from the medium. In serum- or protein-free media, CAD cells stop proliferating and extend long processes. Differentiated CAD cells can be maintained without serum or protein for at least 6 weeks. CAD cells are distinct from Cath.a cells; most significant, the original immortalizing oncogene, SV40 T antigen, was spontaneously lost. By immunostaining or immunoblotting, we show that CAD cells express neuron-specific proteins, such as class III beta-tubulin, GAP-43, SNAP-25, and synaptotagmin, but not GFAP. Ultrastructurally, processes from differentiated CAD cells have abundant parallel microtubules and intermediate filaments, and bear varicosities that contain both large dense-core vesicles/granules (120-160 nm) and smaller clear vesicles (60-80 nm). Additionally, CAD cells express enzymatically active tyrosine hydroxylase and accumulate L-DOPA. CAD cells exhibit biochemical and morphological characteristics of primary neurons and provide an unique tool for studying neuronal differentiation.
Neuropeptides are known to be important signaling molecules in several neural systems of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. Although the functions of these peptides have been studied in many neurons, the nature of the postsynaptic signal transduction is mainly unknown. The cloning and characterization of neuropeptide receptors in Lymnaea thus would be very valuable in further elucidating peptidergic pathways. Indirect evidence suggests that these neuropeptides operate via G-protein-coupled mechanisms indicating the presence of G-protein-coupled receptors as the initial postsynaptic targets. Here we describe the cloning of a neuropeptide receptor from Lymnaea and the isolation of an endogenous ligand. This peptide, PSFHSWSamide, belongs to the leucokinin family of peptides, and, thus, this Lymnaea receptor is the first example of a leucokinin-like neuropeptide receptor, representing a new subfamily of G-protein-coupled neuropeptide receptors.
1. N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA)-activated currents were recorded from dissociated rat retinal ganglion cells using whole-cell recording. The NMDA open-channel blocking drug memantine was evaluated for non-competitive and/or uncompetitive components of antagonism. A rapid superfusion system was used to apply various drugs for kinetic analysis. 2. Dose-response data revealed that memantine blocked 200 microM NMDA-evoked responses with a 50% inhibition constant (IC50) of approximately 1 microM at -60 mV and an empirical Hill coefficient of approximately 1. The antagonism followed a bimolecular reaction process. This 1:1 stoichiometry is supported by the fact that the macroscopic blocking rate of memantine (kon) increased linearly with memantine concentration and the macroscopic unblocking rate (koff) was independent of it. The estimated pseudo-first order rate constant for macroscopic blockade was 4 x 10(5) M-1 S-1 and the rate constant for unblocking was 0.44 s-1. Both the blocking and unblocking actions of memantine were well fitted by a single exponential process. 3. The kon for 2 microM memantine decreased with decreasing concentrations of NMDA. By analysing kon behaviour, we estimate that memantine has minimal interaction with the closed-unliganded state of the channel. As channel open probability (Po) approached zero, a small residual action of memantine may be explained by the presence of endogenous glutamate and glycine. 4. Memantine could be trapped within the NMDA-gated channel if it was suddenly closed by fast washout of agonist. The measured gating process of channel activation and deactivation appeared at least 10-20-fold faster than the kinetics of memantine action. By combining the agonist and voltage dependence of antagonism, a trapping scheme was established for further kinetic analysis. 5. With low agonist concentrations, NMDA-gated channels recovered slowly from memantine blockade. By analysing the probability of a channel remaining blocked, we found that memantine binding appeared to stabilize the open conformation of the blocked channel and did not affect ligand affinity. Validity of the &quot;trapping model' and stabilization of the open conformation were further suggested by agreement between the predicted dose-response curve for NMDA in the presence of 2 microM memantine and the empirically derived dose-response relationship. 6. Based on simple molecular schemes, the degree of blockade at various concentrations of agonist for &quot;pure' non-competitive vs. uncompetitive inhibition was computer simulated. The measured degree of blockade by 6 microM memantine was close to ideal for pure uncompetitive antagonism. Taken together, we conclude that the predominant mechanism of open-channel blockade by memantine is uncompetitive. In general, the relative magnitude of the dissociation rate of an open-channel blocker from the open but blocked channel (the apparent off-rate) compared with the rate of leaving the closed and blocker-trapped state (the leak rate) will determine the contribution of uncompetitive vs. non-competitive actions, respectively. 7. Millimolar internal Cs+ competed with memantine for binding in the NMDA-gated channel, and reduced the association rate of memantine, but had no effect on the voltage dependence of the dissociation rate. After removal of Cs+, the calculated Ki for memantine remained voltage dependent. These observations would be difficult to reconcile with models in which memantine binds to a site outside the channel pore and instead strongly support the supposition that the blocking site for memantine is within the permeation pathway.
A recent study showed that SKF92374, a structural analog of the histamine H2 receptor antagonist cimetidine, induces antinociception after intraventricular (i.v.t.) administration in the rat. SKF92374 lacked significant activity on H1 or H2 receptors, but had weak activity on H3 receptors. To test the hypothesis that SKF92374-induced antinociception is mediated by an action on H3 receptors, the effects of the H3 agonist R-alpha-methylhistamine (RAMH) and the H3 antagonist thioperamide (both by i.v.t. administration) were investigated on SKF92374 antinociception. SKF92374-induced antinociception was slightly enhanced by thioperamide (30 microg), but unaffected by a range of doses of RAMH (up to 2 microg). Furthermore, SKF92374-induced antinociception was not reduced by large doses of systemically-administered antagonists of H1 (pyrilamine), H2 (zolantidine), H3 (GT-2016), or opioid (naltrexone) receptors. These findings show that the novel compound SKF92374 induces antinociception by a non-opioid mechanism that does not utilize brain H1, H2 or H3 receptors.
In vertebrates, interaction of prohormone convertase 2 (PC2) with the highly conserved polypeptide 7B2 is essential for transport and maturation of proPC2 in the regulated secretory pathway. In vitro, 7B2 displays a strong inhibitory activity toward PC2. Here, we characterize a cDNA encoding the first invertebrate 7B2-related protein (L7B2) from the brain of the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis. The overall amino acid sequence identity between L7B2 and its vertebrate counterparts is surprisingly low (29%) and is restricted to a few small stretches of amino acid residues. Of particular interest are a conserved proline-rich region in the middle portion of the L7B2 sequence and a repeated conserved region in the carboxyl-terminal domain. Synthetic peptides corresponding to the carboxyl-terminal regions inhibit Lymnaea PC2 enzyme activity in extracts of insulin-producing neurons, in which both L7B2 and Lymnaea PC2 are abundantly expressed. Moreover, the peptides inhibit mouse PC2 enzyme activity. Our cloning of invertebrate 7B2 helps to delineate residues that are important for 7B2-PC2 interaction.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a pathopysiolocal condition characterized by abnormal bowel habits that are frequently accompanied by abdominal pain. Current therapy based on reducing high-amplitude GI contractions with nonselective muscarinic antagonists is limited in efficacy due to typical muscarinic side effects and provides no pain relief. We have previously found potent antinociceptive agents acting through muscarinic receptors. In the present work, new 1,2,5-thiadiazole-based structures with muscarinic activity have been evaluated both for activity as analgesics in the mouse withing assay and for activity in normalizing spontaneous cluster contractions in ferret jejunum as a model of IBS in humans. (5R,6R)-exo-6-[4-[(4,4,4-Trifluorobutyl)thio]-1,2,5-thiadiazol+ ++-3-yl] -1-azabicyclo[3.2.1]octane (35, LY316108/NNC11-2192) was found to offer an exceptional profile combining analgesic potency in mouse writhing (ED50 = 0.1 mg/kg) along with potency for normalization of GI motility (ED50 = 0.17 mg/kg). This combination of GI and analgesic potency suggests 35 as an excellent candidate for evaluation as a potential treatment of IBS.
Electrical properties and morphology of 21 genioglossal motoneurons were measured in a slice preparation of the rat brainstem at four different postnatal ages. The motoneurons labeled with neurobiotin were reconstructed and quantified in three-dimensional space. There was no strong correlation found between the input resistance or membrane time constant and the total membrane surface area. We conclude that there is no electrical property of these developing motoneurons that can accurately predict their anatomical size.
Incubation of rat astrocytes or C6 glioma cells with norepinephrine (NE) suppresses bacterial endotoxin and cytokine-dependent induction of calcium-independent nitric oxide synthase (Feinstein et al., J. Neurochem., 60 (1993) 1945-1948]. We examined if NE also modified L-arginine uptake. Overnight incubation in 10 microM NE reduced the Vmax for uptake by 30-40%, but did not decrease the apparent Km for arginine. Short incubation times (up to 90 min) with NE were without effect. The beta-adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol was as effective as NE in reducing uptake, while the alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist phenylephrine produced a slight, but significant decrease. Arginine uptake was similarly decreased by incubating cells with the cyclic AMP (cAMP) analog dibutyryl cAMP (dbcAMP). Both NE and dbcAMP potently blocked glial cell proliferation, however the anti-mitogenic agent cytosine arabinoside had no effect on arginine uptake. These results support the concept that glial cell arginine metabolism is regulated by endogenous neotransmitters such as NE.



To identify genes induced in monocytes by interferon-gamma, we carried out PCR-based cDNA subtraction and subsequent differential display on mRNA isolated from a human monocytic leukemia cell line, THP-1. We detected a novel gene encoding a protein bearing GTP-binding motifs, the characteristics of GTP-binding proteins (G-proteins). We also identified the mouse homologue of this gene and designated the gene GP-1. The amino acid sequence of GP-1 deduced from the nucleotide sequence is highly conserved in human and mouse (97% identical over the entire protein), suggesting a fundamental physiological role for this molecule. As amino acid sequences of GTP-binding motifs of human and mouse GP-1 are practically identical to those of recently identified putative G-proteins of nematode, AGP-1 and CGP-1, these proteins are likely to be members of the same, novel G-protein family. GP-1 mRNA was readily detected in mouse brain, thymus, lung, and kidney, while GP-1 mRNA is rarely expressed in liver.
Compound potencies and efficacies depend upon receptor reserve and hence estimating this parameter in assay systems allows for a more meaningful interpretation of the data generated. This study describes a method whereby the degree of receptor reserve, with respect to 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), was determined for a HeLa cell line expressing the human 5-HT1A receptor using the agonist-induced [35S]guanosine 5'[gamma-thio]triphosphate ([35S]GTP gamma S) binding assay, followed by a comparison of the potencies and relative efficacies of several compounds. Following irreversible antagonism with benextramine 5-HT yielded a pKA of 7.3, compared with a pKobs of 8.4 from saturation analysis, indicating the presence of high and low affinity state receptors. A 20% receptor occupancy elicited a half-maximal functional response consistent with the presence of receptor reserve. 5-HT, 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT), 8-hydoxy-dipropylamino-tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), 5-methoxy-3-(1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridin-4-yl)-1 H-indole (RU24969), buspirone, gepirone, mesulergine and sumatriptan were equally efficacious. 1-(2-Methoxyphenyl)-4-[4-(2-phthalimido)butyl]piperazine (NAN 190) displayed reduced relative efficacy and methiothepin inverse agonism.
A 42-year-old woman with systemic lupus erythematosus developed an episode of tonic seizures and progressive disturbance of consciousness at the terminal stage. Neuropathological examination of the brain revealed a nearly symmetrical distribution of multiple spongy foci in the internal capsules, thalami, globus pallidus, mesencephalic tegmentum, cerebral peduncles and hilus of the dentate nuclei. The spongy lesions were obviously distributed along apparently intact medium-sized veins, and contained large numbers of macrophages, and axonal spheroids and a few reactive astrocytes, without inflammatory cell infiltration. In addition, the perivenous spongy lesions exhibited IgG immunoreactivity, so it is surmised that some neurotoxic factor(s) that exuded from the veins in the center of the perivenous lesions may have brought about such a unique pathology.
Microtubules in the axon are uniformly oriented, while microtubules in the dendrite are nonuniformly oriented. We have proposed that these distinct microtubule polarity patterns may arise from a redistribution of molecular motor proteins previously used for mitosis of the developing neuroblast. To address this issue, we performed studies on neuroblastoma cells that undergo mitosis but also generate short processes during interphase. Some of these processes are similar to axons with regard to their morphology and microtubule polarity pattern, while others are similar to dendrites. Treatment with cAMP or retinoic acid inhibits cell division, with the former promoting the development of the axon-like processes and the latter promoting the development of the dendrite-like processes. During mitosis, the kinesin-related motor termed CHO1/MKLP1 is localized within the spindle midzone where it is thought to transport microtubules of opposite orientation relative to one another. During process formation, CHO1/ MKLP1 becomes concentrated within the dendrite-like processes but is excluded from the axon-like processes. The levels of CHO1/MKLP1 increase in the presence of retinoic acid but decrease in the presence of cAMP, consistent with a role for the protein in dendritic differentiation. Moreover, treatment of the cultures with antisense oligonucleotides to CHO1/MKLP1 compromises the formation of the dendrite-like processes. We speculate that a redistribution of CHO1/MKLP1 is required for the formation of dendrite-like processes, presumably by establishing their characteristic nonuniform microtubule polarity pattern.
We investigated the effect of nicotine, a nicotinic agonist, and D-cycloserine (DCS, a partial glycine-B agonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex) on aging-induced defects of water maze (WM) spatial navigation in rats. Nicotine (0.3 mg kg-1, s.c.) or DCS (10 mg kg-1, i.p.) enhanced acquisition of the WM task. A combination of subthreshold doses of nicotine (0.1 mg kg-1) and DCS (3 mg kg-1) improved WM acquisition. A subthreshold dose of a competitive NMDA antagonist, CPP (1 mg kg-1), blocked the effect of nicotine (0.3 mg kg-1) on WM acquisition. A nicotine antagonist, mecamylamine (10 mg kg-1), impaired WM acquisition and had no effect on retention, but did not block the effect of DCS 10 mg kg-1. The results suggest that nicotine and DCS synergistically enhance spatial navigation in aged rats.
The present study investigated the effects of bilateral dorsal hippocampal infusions with muscarinic acetylcholine (scopolamine; 3 and 10 micrograms per hemisphere) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) (CPP; 0.01 and 0.03 microgram per hemisphere) antagonists on acquisition (drug delivered before daily training), consolidation (drug delivered after daily training) and retrieval (drug delivered only before spatial bias test) performance in a water maze (WM) spatial navigation test. Scopolamine 10 micrograms disrupted acquisition, but had no effect on consolidation or retrieval. CPP 0.03 microgram disrupted acquisition and retrieval behaviour. A combination of subthreshold doses of CPP (0.01 microgram) and scopolamine (3 micrograms) disrupted acquisition performance. The treatments did not disrupt navigation to a clearly visible escape platform. The present data indicate that dorsal hippocampal NMDA and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors are important for spatial navigation behaviour.

Nitric oxide (NO), the diffusible gas formed by nitric oxide synthase (NOS) has been implicated in the enhanced locomotor activity attributed mainly to increased dopamine release in the shell of the nucleus accumbens (Acb). Furthermore, the release of both NO and dopamine are known to be altered by agonists of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type glutamate receptors in this region. We examined the cellular sites of NO synthesis and the sites of potential relevancy for functional associations between neurons containing NOS and the NMDA receptor in the shell of the Acb. This was achieved by dual ultrastructural immunogold and immunoperoxidase labeling of antisera raised against the brain form of NOS and the NMDAR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor in this region of rat brain. NOS-like immunoreactivity (NOS-LI) was seen throughout the cytoplasm of isolated medium-large somata, aspiny dendrites and axon terminals. In 217 NOS-labeled profiles, NMDAR1-like immunoreactivity (NMDAR1-LI) was colocalized in 17% of somata and dendrites. Additionally, 35% of NOS-labeled dendrites apposed glial processes containing NMDAR1-LI, and 29% apposed axon terminals containing NMDARI-LI. NOS-labeled terminals more rarely colocalized NMDAR1 or apposed NMDAR1-labeled glial processes or dendrites. These results provide anatomical evidence that, in the shell of the Acb, NMDA receptors are localized so as to directly modulate the output of neurons producing NO as well as to influence other neurons and glia having the greatest access to the released gas.
Rabbits acquire conditioned responses (CRs) normally with bilateral removal of the hippocampus, but alterations of the intact hippocampus can affect the rate of acquisition. The cognition-enhancing drug, nefiracetam ameliorated the acquisition of CRs in older rabbits, protected membrane dysfunction in hippocampal CA1 neurons following oxygen and glucose deprivation, and promoted the release of diverse neurotransmitters, including acetylcholine. Because the septo-hippocampal cholinergic system is demonstrated to be involved in eyeblink conditioning, this experiment was undertaken to explore whether nefiracetam ameliorates conditioning via the hippocampus. Data from 53 rabbits of a mean age of 28 months were tested under two drug conditions (10 or 0 mg/kg nefiracetam) and 4 lesion conditions (bilateral hippocampectomy, bilateral neocortical removal, sham surgery, no surgery). The three groups of nefiracetam-treated rabbits with intact hippocampus acquired CRs more rapidly than the vehicle-treated groups, but rabbits with bilateral hippocampectomy treated with nefiracetam learned like vehicle-treated rabbits. Results suggest that nefiracetam ameliorates learning via the hippocampus. Because of the parallels between conditioning in rabbits with disrupted hippocampal cholinergic systems and conditioning in Alzheimer's disease (AD), these results suggest that nefiracetam may ameliorate conditioning in AD as it ameliorates conditioning in older rabbits.
Recent evidence indicates that tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is up-regulated following brain injury and in neurodegenerative disorders such as stroke, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. TNF-alpha elicits its biological effects through two distinct TNF receptor (TNFR) subtypes: p55 TNFR (TNFR1) and p75 TNFR (TNFR2). Studies have demonstrated that the p55 TNFR contributes to cell death, whereas the role of the p75 TNFR in neuronal viability is unclear. To better understand the role of p75 TNFR, we treated human neuronal SH-SY5Y cells with phosphorothioate-modified antisense oligonucleotides (ASO) for p75 TNFR and established that ASO inhibited p75 TNFR expression. Treatment of SH-SY5Y cells with ASO alone did not affect cell viability, whereas treatment with both ASO and human TNF-alpha significantly increased cell death relative to treatment with TNF-alpha alone. Moreover, addition of ASO significantly increased the level of cell injury observed following hypoxic conditions or exposure of beta-amyloid peptide. These results indicate that inhibition of p75 TNFR using ASO increases the vulnerability of neurotypic cells to insults and suggest that the p75 TNFR may not be required for normal neuronal cell viability but rather plays a protective role following injury.
Electron microscopic analysis of the CA1 region of the rat hippocampus revealed that specific immunoreactivity (IR) for a G protein-gated, inwardly rectifying potassium channel (GIRK1) was present exclusively in neurons and predominantly located in spiny dendrites of pyramidal cells. Within stratum lacunosum-moleculare and the superficial stratum radiatum, GIRK1-IR was often present immediately adjacent to asymmetric (excitatory-type) postsynaptic densities in dendritic spines. The subcellular localization of GIRK1-IR in the Golgi apparatus of pyramidal cell somata and in the plasma membrane of dendrites and dendritic spines confirms the hypothesis that GIRK1 is synthesized by pyramidal cells and transported to the more distal dendritic processes. G protein-coupled receptor activation of a dendritic potassium conductance would attenuate the propagation of excitatory synaptic inputs and thereby produce postsynaptic inhibition. Thus, these results show that the GIRK family of channels joins the list of voltage-sensitive channels now known to be expressed in dendritic spines.
The Leu-enkephalin-encoding sequence DNA-binding factor (LEF) with high affinity for the Leu-enkephalin-encoding sequences in the prodynorphin and proenkephalin genes has earlier been identified. This factor is composed of three subunits of about 60, 70 (the major DNA-binding subunit), and 95 kDa, respectively. Estimated molecular mass, sequence specificity of DNA-binding, and supershift/inhibition with specific antibodies in a band shift assay showed that the DNA-binding subunit of LEF is identical to the multifunctional transcription factor YY1. However, an antibody against the C-terminus of YY1 distinguished the YY1 complexes with a Leu-enkephalin-encoding sequence and canonical YY1 binding site oligonucleotides, suggesting different protein conformations in complexes with these two DNA fragments.
Apoptosis and necrosis are generally recognized as two distinct pathways of cell death, based on biochemical and morphological characteristics. Despite rapid advances in elucidating molecular mechanisms of cell death, little is known about the morphological progression of death in neurons and the relationship between different mechanisms of neuronal death and the resulting subcellular alterations. With excitotoxicity, a clinically relevant model of neuronal death, apoptotic DNA laddering and morphologic evidence of necrosis can occur simultaneously in the same region of adult brain. Here, we tested the hypothesis that activation of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) and non-NMDA glutamate receptors (GluR) results in a spectrum of morphologically distinct phenotypes of neuronal death, with apoptosis and necrosis as its endpoints. The ultrastructural morphologies of newborn and adult neurons at different times following intrastriatal injections of non-NMDA and NMDA GluR agonists were compared to apoptosis, as established during naturally occurring neuronal death in the developing rat brain. Excitotoxic neuronal death in newborn striatum was morphologically indistinguishable from developmental apoptosis. In the adult, non-NMDA receptor agonist-induced neuronal death was characterized by extensive chromatin condensation that was reminiscent of, but not identical to, apoptosis during normal development. In contrast, quinolinate, an NMDA receptor agonist, produced only minor chromatin clumping and rapid cytoplasmic disintegration, which is suggestive of necrosis. These findings support the concept that degenerative phenotypes of excitotoxically injured neurons are influenced by the degree of brain maturity and GluR subtype stimulation, independent of the severity of excitotoxic insult, along a morphological continuum or gradient ranging from apoptosis to necrosis.
Glutamate-induced excitotoxicity is a clinically relevant degenerative process that causes selective neuronal death by mechanisms that remain unclear. Cell death is usually classified as apoptotic or necrotic based on biochemical and morphological criteria. Excitotoxic lesions in the adult rat striatum result in neuronal death associated with apoptotic DNA laddering despite a necrotic appearance of neurons ultrastructurally. This suggests that apoptosis and necrosis may not be mutually exclusive modes of cell death. Here, we characterized normal developmental cell death in the newborn rat brain with respect to DNA fragmentation patterns and ultrastructural morphology to establish a standard for apoptosis in the nervous system, and we concluded that it is essentially indistinguishable from apoptosis described in other tissues. We then investigated whether brain maturity could influence the morphology of neuronal death in vivo in the excitotoxically lesioned newborn rat forebrain. Kainic acid induced DNA laddering and death of neurons exhibiting a variety of morphologies, ranging from necrosis to apoptosis. In neurons that were dying by apoptosis, morphologic changes were characterized by a highly ordered sequence of organelle abnormalities, with swelling of endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi vesiculation preceding most nuclear changes and mitochondrial disruption. We concluded that brain maturity influences the morphologic phenotype of neurodegeneration and that excitotoxic neuronal death in the immature brain is not a uniform event but, rather, a continuum of apoptotic, necrotic, and overlapping morphologies. This excitotoxic paradigm might prove useful for analyzing the mechanisms that govern cell death under physiological and pathological conditions.

Two strains of mice, C57BL/6J (B6) and DBA/2J (D2) were allowed to self-administer intravenous (iv) ethanol. These two strains were selected because they differ greatly in their preference for drinking ethanol solutions: B6 mice are preferrers, whereas D2 mice are avoiders of ethanol. Of interest was whether these strains would also differ in self-administration of iv ethanol when taste factors presumably do not influence consumption. Mice were trained with either 60, 75, or 90 mg/kg per infusion. Mice from both strains acquired nose-poking for all of these doses on an FR-3 schedule of reinforcement during 2-hr daily sessions. Additionally, mice in both strains acquired an equal preference for nosepoking on the side resulting in ethanol infusion, compared with the side that had no scheduled consequence, although B6 mice took somewhat more ethanol early in training than did D2 mice. Mice in both strains achieved equal levels of responding at the conclusion of training, when response rates had stabilized. A subset of animals were then tested at doses of ethanol ranging from 25 to 125 mg/kg per infusion. Although their responding tended to decrease over time regardless of changes in the unit dose of ethanol, these mice showed lower response rates for higher doses of ethanol, and less responding for saline than for ethanol. Together, these findings imply that iv ethanol has reinforcing properties in both these strains, despite the strain difference in preference for oral ethanol. Self-administration of iv ethanol in mice may prove a valuable addition to existing animal models for the study of ethanol reward.
Associations of polymorphic genetic markers at the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine D4 receptor (DRD4) loci were examined in Scandinavian chronic alcoholics (n = 72) and control subjects (n = 67). Patients were divided into subgroups with regard to the presence of parental alcoholism and age of onset. Neither the TH nor the DRD4 allele distributions were significantly different when alcoholic samples were compared with control subjects. However, a tendency to high prevalence for 1 of the 5 TH alleles assayed (TH-K3) was observed in a subsample of 44 alcoholics characterized by late onset when compared with control subjects (27.3% vs. 10.6%, p = 0.041). Results suggest that no major influence on alcoholism is exerted through genes associated with the DRD4 or TH allelic markers examined.
These studies examined stimulated fluid intake by rats in which vagally mediated signals of gastric distension were blunted by systemic treatment with the neurotoxin capsaicin, as verified by the loss of cholecystokinin-induced inhibition of feeding. After overnight food deprivation, intake of a 10% sucrose solution by capsaicin-treated rats was greater than that by control rats. Similarly, capsaicin-treated rats drank more water than did control rats when stimulated by plasma hyperosmolality after intraperitoneal administration of hypertonic NaCl or by isosmotic hypovolemia after subcutaneous administration of a hyperoncotic colloidal solution. Finally, during chronic administration of the mineralocorticoid deoxycorticosterone acetate, capsaicin-treated rats consumed more concentrated saline than did control rats. In all tests, intakes by capsaicin-treated rats were significantly greater than those by control rats within 5-15 min. These results suggest that early signals of gastric distension, such as those that occur during normal episodes of food, water, or NaCl intake, may modulate ongoing ingestion and that, with the attenuation of such general inhibitory signals, ingestion continues until gastric distension becomes larger and/or later postgastric signals are detected.
We assessed the effects of primary afferent nerve ablation (systemic treatment with capsaicin during adult or neonatal periods), primary afferent nerve activation (intracolonic capsaicin), and sympathectomy [6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)] on the development of colitis induced by 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS) in rats. We also examined whether lidocaine was effective after ablation of primary afferent nerves or sympathectomy. Colitis was assessed by macroscopic scoring, measurement of myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, and histology. Systemic capsaicin treatment in adults increased the macroscopic damage score. Capsaicin treatment of neonates did not significantly increase damage score or MPO activity compared with vehicle-treated controls. However, all capsaicin-treated groups had a higher mortality. Intracolonic capsaicin treatment did not alter the severity of colitis. Chemical sympathectomy resulted in a decreased damage score and improved histology compared with controls. In 6-OHDA pretreated rats, lidocaine administration reduced the macroscopic and histological scores and MPO activity almost to control levels. However, lidocaine administration in capsaicin-treated rats attenuated the macroscopic damage but did not improve MPO activity or histology. These data suggest that capsaicin-sensitive nerves play a protective role in experimental colitis and sympathetic nerves contribute to the development of colitis. The beneficial effects of lidocaine appear to be due primarily to its action on enteric nerves.




A dinucleotide repeat polymorphism in a tau intron was identified and used in a case-control study to analyze the genetic association of tau with several neurodegenerative diseases with tau pathology. Subjects with the homozygous tau AO alleles were excessively represented in the progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) group, compared with the age-matched healthy control group. Consequently, this allele is more frequently found in PSP than in a group of healthy subjects. This trend was not found in Alzheimer's disease or parkinsonism-dementia complex of Guam, both of which are accompanied by major tau pathology. The result suggests a possible involvement of tau in the pathogenesis of PSP.
Antibody-mediated autoimmunity underlies a diverse range of disorders, particularly in the nervous system where the extracellular domains of ion channels and receptors are especially vulnerable targets. We present here a novel means of detecting autoantibodies where the genes of the suspected target proteins are known, and use it to detect specific autoantibodies in acquired neuromyotonia (Isaacs' syndrome), a disorder characterized by hyperexcitable motor nerves and sometimes by central abnormalities. We expressed different human brain voltage-gated potassium channels in Xenopus oocytes by injecting the relevant alpha-subunit complementary RNA, and detected antibody binding by immunohistochemistry on frozen sections. Antibodies were detected to one or more human brain voltage-gated potassium channel in 12 of 12 neuromyotonia patients and none of 18 control subjects. The results establish neuromyotonia as a new antibody-mediated channelopathy and indicate the investigative potential of this molecular immunohistochemical assay.
The occurrence and distribution of several neurochemical markers were investigated. Numerous nerve fibres were shown, using antibodies to protein gene product (PGP) 9.5, neurone-specific enolase, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), substance P. neurokinin A or protein S-100. The presence of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), peptide histidine isoleucine amide (PHI), neuropeptide tyrosine, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH), cholecystokinin/gastrin, glutamate and galanin was more scarce. Nerve fibres containing these above-mentioned markers were found at several locations, i.e. in the epithelium, connective tissue, and around blood vessels. In the taste buds, numerous PGP 9.5, neurone-specific enolase-, CGRP-, substance P-, neurokinin A- and protein S-100-containing structures were found, but few VIP and galanin ones. No immunoreactivity was found with antibodies against somatostatin, bombesin, enkephalin or dynorphin. These findings extend knowledge about the general as well as the neurochemical messenger-based innervation of rat fungiform papillae, forming a firm basis for future functional investigations of normal, experimental and also clinical materials.


Behavioral and neurobiological parallels between rabbits and humans in eyeblink classical conditioning (EBCC) make this paradigm potentially useful for preclinical and clinical trials. The known involvement of hippocampal pyramidal cells in EBCC in rabbits led us to evaluate the nootropic compound, nefiracetam. In Expt. 1, 56 rabbits of a mean age of 27.9 months received daily doses of vehicle, 1, 3, 10, or 15 mg/kg nefiracetam 15 min before testing in the 750 ms delay EBCC paradigm. Trials to learning criterion (T/C) was significantly better with 10 mg/kg. To investigate whether nefiracetam ameliorated EBCC via the hippocampus, 20 older rabbits received bilateral hippocampal aspirations in Expt. 2. Eleven rabbits of a mean age of 26.8 months had histologically confirmed bilateral hippocampectomy and were dosed with vehicle or 10 mg/kg nefiracetam and tested with EBCC. Hippocampectomized rabbits treated with vehicle and 10 mg/kg nefiracetam had 718 and 996 T/C, respectively, that were not different from 845 T/C of 8 intact older rabbits and vehicle mg/kg nefiracetam, but significantly worse than 473 T/C for 8 intact older rabbits and 10 mg/kg nefiracetam. Nefiracetam ameliorated EBCC in older rabbits only when the hippocampus was intact.

A symbolic matching-to-sample procedure was adopted to investigate whether humans (n=2) and baboons (n=2) discriminate more accurately the prototypes of polymorphous categories than less typical exemplars. Subjects were initially trained to discriminate between two categories of stimuli defined by the possession of any two out of three possible binary features. In transfer, prototypes, which contained all the three feature values of their categories, and novel two-out-of-three feature exemplars were presented for discrimination. Humans solved the task in a propositional way, and showed no evidence for a better performance with the prototypes than with other exemplars. By contrast, monkeys classified the prototypes more accurately than the other exemplars. The analysis of training performance showed however, that their discriminations did not involve prototypical representations of the categories, but rather depended upon feature-and exemplar-response associations. It is argued that monkeys' better performance with the prototypes rested on peak shift and/or novelty effects.
PACE4 is one of the neuroendocrine-specific mammalian subtilisin-related endoproteases believed to function in the secretory pathway. The biosynthesis and secretion of PACE4 have been studied using transfected neuroendocrine and fibroblast cell lines. as well as primary pituitary cultures. ProPACE4 (approx. 106 kDa) is cleaved intracellularly before secretion of PACE4 (approx. 97 kDa); the N-terminal propeptide cleavage is accelerated in a truncated form of PACE4 lacking the Cys-rich C-terminal region (PACE4s). Neither PACE4 nor PACE4s is stored in regulated neuroendocrine secretory granules, whereas pro-opiomelanocortin-derived peptides and prohormone convertase I enter the regulated secretory pathway efficiently. The relatively slow cleavage of the proregion of proPACE4 in primary anterior pituitary cells, followed by rapid secretion of PACE4, is similar to the results for proPACE4 in transfected cell lines. The enzyme activity of PACE4 is distinct from furin and prohormone convertases, both in the marked sensitivity of PACE4 to inhibition by leupeptin and the relative insensitivity of PACE4 to inhibition by Ca2+ chelators and dithiothreitol; PACE4 is not inhibited by the alpha1-antitrypsin Portland variant that is very potent at inhibiting furin. The unique biosynthetic and enzymic patterns seen for PACE4 suggest a role for this neuroendocrine-specific subtilisin-like endoprotease outside the pathway for peptide biosynthesis.


The relationship between presynaptic calcium transients ([Ca2+]t) and transmitter release evoked by a single stimulus was both investigated experimentally and modeled at a mammalian central synapse, the CA3 to CA1 pyramidal cell synapse in guinea pig hippocampal slices. In the present study, we compared the low-affinity calcium indicator furaptra with the higher-affinity indicator fura-2. The 10-90% rise time of the furaptra transient was 2.4 ms compared to 7.8 ms with fura-2; the half-decay time (tau 1/2) was 30 ms for furaptra, compared to 238 ms for fura-2. The half-width of the calcium influx was 1.8 ms with furaptra, which provides an upper limit to the duration of the calcium current (ICa) evoked by an action potential. Modeling the decay time course of the furaptra transients led to the conclusion that the predominant endogenous calcium buffer in these terminals must have relatively slow kinetics (kon &lt; 10(5)/M.s), although the presence of small amounts of fast buffers cannot be excluded. The relationship between the [Ca2+]t measured with furaptra and the postsynaptic response was the same as previously observed with fura-2: the postsynaptic response was proportional to about the fourth power (m approximately 4) of the amplitude of either [Ca2+]t or calcium influx. Thus, although fura-2 may be locally saturated by the high local [Ca2+] responsible for transmitter release, the volume-averaged fura-2 signal accurately reflects changes in this local concentration. The result that both indicators gave similar values for the power m constrains the amplitude of calcium influx in our model: Ica &lt; 1 pA for 1 ms.
The gap junction membrane channel is composed of macular aggregations of intercellular channels permitting the direct intercellular transfer of ions and small molecules. Each intercellular channel is formed by the apposition of two hexameric transmembrane channels (connexons), one from each cell. The interlocking of the two channels occurs extracellularly in a narrow 2.5-nm &quot;gap&quot; separating the junctional membranes. The channel-channel interaction is known to be selective between members of the family of proteins, called connexins, which oligomerize into the connexons. In addition to selectivity, the molecular interfaces involved in the extracellular interactions between connexons must be very congruent, since the intercellular channel must provide high resistances to the leakage of small ions between the channel lumen and the extracellular space. By using a recently developed biochemical procedure for obtaining ordered arrays of connexons from gap junctions split in the extracellular gap, (Ghoshroy, S., D. A. Goodenough, and G. E. Sosinsky. 1994. Preparation, characterization, and structure of half gap junctional layers spit with urea and EGTA. J. Membr. Biol. 146:15-28) a three-dimensional reconstruction of a connexon has been obtained by electron crystallographic methods. This reconstruction emphasizes the structural asymmetry between the extracellular and cytoplasmic domains and assigns lobed structural features to the extracellular domains of the connexon. The implication of our hemichannel structure is discussed in relation to the in vivo state of unpaired connexons, which have been shown to exist in the plasma membrane.
This follow-up study has been carried out on 15 bone marrow transplant recipients treated intravenously with cyclosporin A (CsA) as a bolus (1.25-2.5 mg/kg/12 h) or by continuous infusion (1-3 mg/kg/24 h) from -2 until the 21st day after transplantation. All patients were subsequently treated with CsA orally at a starting dose of 6.25 mg/kg/12 h; this starting dose was then adjusted on the basis of CsA blood levels until the 60th day after transplantation, followed by progressive reduction and withdrawal within 6-12 months. In whole blood, trough levels of polyclonal (P) and monoclonal (M) CsA were monitored by a FPIA method and the polyclonal/monoclonal ratio (P/M) was calculated. This ratio was lower during CsA administration as a bolus or by continuous infusion than during oral administration; the decrease was statistically significant. This difference was probably due to first-pass metabolism which occurs in the liver and gut after oral administration.
We report the case histories of two patients treated in our unit for cervical radiculopathy by anterior cervical discectomy and BOP grafting. Both grafts disintegrated within 6 weeks of insertion resulting in increased neurological deficit from cervical cord compression. At reoperation fibres from the grafts were found to have separated and the larger fragments had extruded into the vertebral canal. No evidence of infection was seen, but a foreign body reaction was found in one case. Following graft removal the patients improved symptomatically although one was left with permanent mild biceps weakness.
1. The present study was designed to investigate further the effects of the newly discovered orphanin FQ (OFQ)-the endogenous ligand for the orphan opioid receptor (called, e.g., ORL, and LC132)-on pain modulation in the rat. We used the tail-flick assay as a nociceptive index. 2. When injected into a cerebral ventricle, OFQ (4 fmol-10 nmol) has no effect on basal tail-flick latency by itself at any dose, but dose-dependently antagonizes systemic morphine analgesia (400 fmol 50 nmol). 3. Injected intrathecally, OFQ (3 and 10 nmol) displayed an analgesic effect without producing motor dysfunction, and potentiated morphine analgesia (1 and 10 nmol). 4. The anti-opioid effect of OFQ in rat brain and the high level of expression of LC132/ORL, receptor in the locus coeruleus indicated a possible role of OFQ in the precipitation of opiate withdrawal symptoms. However, no such precipitation was observed by OFQ in morphine-dependent rats.
1. It has been suggested that the vasoconstrictor response to neuropeptide Y (NPY) is located in the microvessels and that it increases with reduced vessel diameter. The aim of the present study was to analyse quantitatively, on the cat gastrocnemius muscle preparation in vivo, the effects of NPY on total regional vascular resistance (RT) and its distribution to large-bore arterial resistance vessels (&gt; 25 microns; Ra,prox), small arterioles (&lt; 25 microns; Ra,micro) and the veins (Rv). Associated effects on capillary pressure (Pc,v) and fluid exchange were also studied. 2. Close-arterially infused NPY (1-32 micrograms kg-1 min-1) caused a dose-dependent, slowly developing vasoconstriction in all three vascular sections, yet with a preferential action in the small arterioles. At 32 micrograms kg-1 min-1, NPY raised RT by 133 +/- 22%, Ra,prox by 94 +/- 15%, Ra,micro by 277 +/- 104% and Rv by 81 +/- 11%. However, the veins (ED50 = 3.9 +/- 1.2 micrograms kg-1 min-1) were more sensitive to NPY than both large-bore arterial vessels (ED50 = 7.7 +/- 1.6) and small arterioles (ED50 = 7.0 +/- 1.4). NPY decreased Pc,v due to an increase in the pre-to post-capillary resistance ratio. 3. Close-arterial infusions of Pro34NPY and peptide YY evoked vasoconstrictor responses which did not differ from the response to NPY. In contrast, the Y2-preferring C-terminal fragments: Ac-[Leu28, Leu31]-NPY (24-36) and NPY(13-36) were without effect in the muscle vascular bed. The selective NPY Y1 receptor antagonist BIBP3226 (100 micrograms kg-1 min-1, i.a.) abolished the vascular response to NPY. 4. The present findings indicate that the vasoconstrictor response to NPY in skeletal muscle is preferentially located in the small arterioles and mediated via the Y1 receptor and, further, that Y2 and Y3 receptors do not play a significant role in the vasoconstrictor response to NPY in cat skeletal muscle. BIBP3226 was found to be an effective NPY antagonist in vivo and to lack agonist activity.
The development of the primate brain is determined by an interaction of genetic programmes and environmental events. We examined quantitatively the contribution of each of these factors to adult human brain hemisphere volume and global cortical gyral patterns by comparing 3-D MRI renderings of brains of 10 pairs of monozygotic (MZ) and nine pairs of same-sex dizygotic (DZ) twins. Brain volume was highly correlated in MZ pairs [unbiased intraclass correlation coefficient, ICC(U) = 0.95, P &lt; 0.00001], but not in DZ pairs [ICC(U) = 0.35, P = 0.09]. Structural equation modelling indicated a 94% heritability of brain volume. Gyral patterns appeared visually more similar in MZ than in DZ pairs. This was confirmed statistically by a cross-correlation analysis of rendered images of lateral and mesial cortical surfaces. MZ twins exhibited significantly greater similarity than did DZ twins in comparisons of gyral patterns; DZ twins were not more alike than unrelated pairings. Ipsilateral hemispheres were significantly more alike than contralateral hemispheres within MZ pairs, but not within DZ pairs. Contralateral hemispheres within an individual were more alike than contralateral hemispheres between twins in the DZ pairs, but not in the MZ pairs. Heritability for gyral-sulcal patterns, as reflected in the cross-correlation data, was low and ill defined. These results indicate that human cerebral size is determined almost entirely by genetic factors and that overall cortical gyral patterns, though significantly affected by genes, are determined primarily by nongenetic factors.
The intracarotid sodium amobarbital procedure (IAP) is currently regarded as the best method of the determination of hemispheric specialization for speech, and it is universally relied on as a prognostic test for patients with medically refractory epilepsy who are candidates for neurosurgical intervention. Since its initial development, the IAP also has been adapted for assessing lateralized mesiotemporal contributions to memory functioning in this patient population, and it is now in wide use for both basic and applied research in behavioral neuroscience on language, memory, visuospatial functions, emotion, attention, and consciousness. Despite the IAP's wide range of applications, little has been said about its history and development. This essay recounts and discusses this history.

Lesions and grafts in the nigrostriatal dopamine system in rats is widely used as a model of degeneration and regeneration in the CNS, and the development for alternative strategies for treatment in Parkinson's disease. The methods of preparing a dissociated cell suspension of embryonic rat substantia nigra and its transplantation into the brain of adult rats are described. This is the first of a series of methodological reports on the basic methodology and refinements of neural transplantation techniques in the mammalian central nervous system.
Fractionation of brain tissue by either differential or isopycnic centrifugation is a useful cytological and biochemical tool to study the intracellular localization of neuronal elements involved in neurotransmission. Several neuroreceptors and uptake sites were found to display a subcellular bimodal distribution in rat brain. However, in the human brain, little is known about the subcellular distribution of neurotransmitter receptors and amine uptake sites. Despite the inevitable post-mortem delay which seems to induce many more morphological changes than modifications of enzymatic or receptor distribution profile from the subcellular fractions, fractionation of human brain areas remains a valid procedure to explore the subcellular localization of neuronal constituents. This paper describes the methods used to separate human brain tissue. As we have previously demonstrated in rat and dog brains, our results indicate that differential and isopycnic fractionation techniques, used with a large number of markers such as enzymes, receptors and uptake sites, make it possible to separate tissue fractions enriched in nerve endings, dendrites, dendritic spines, plasma membranes or vesicles.
We report here a simple method for the local delivery of various substances to the neuromuscular system in developing and adult rats. This method permits continuous treatment of tissues with a compound over a period of days. Alternative drug delivery systems are unsuitable in neonates. Osmotic pumps are too large and repetitive injections damage the tissues in neonatal rats. Our delivery system provides an adaptable means by which we can directly apply substances in various concentrations in implants of differing sizes. Substances are incorporated into flexible, non-toxic silicone rubber. Strips are cut from the rubber for implantation alongside the muscle or nerve in the anaesthetised animal. The size of the strip is tailored to the length of the muscle or nerve requiring the treatment. Release of the substance from the implant occurs over a period of days and if a longer period of treatment is required, the initial strip can be replaced with a second and even a third implant. We have tested the effects of the substances applied in this manner both physiologically, by examination of muscle function, and morphologically, by muscle histology and retrograde labelling of motoneurones. We have successfully used this method for the application of various groups of substances, including neurotoxins, channel blockers (K+, Ca2+ and Cl-), calcium-chelating agents, protease inhibitors and ionic salts.
The aim of this work was to develop and characterize a quick and simple procedure to determine the intracellular content of ATP in monolayer primary cultures of neurons. The baseline was to use the minimum amount of cells which still provides reproducible results. The first step consists of releasing intracellular ATP from the cells. This is accomplished by treatment with a detergent solution, the somatic cell releasing reagent from Sigma. This reagent is claimed by the manufacturer to release ATP from a suspension of viable somatic cells. The procedure has been adapted to be used for attached cells (neurons or astrocytes growing in monolayer), thus avoiding the use of alternative time-consuming procedures to release ATP such as boiling buffers or trichloroacetic acid. After its release the free ATP was measured using the firefly luciferase reaction. We have used this protocol to assess the effect of neurotoxic concentrations of glutamate on the intracellular content of ATP in neurons. The same procedure has been used successfully to determine intracellular ATP in primary cultures of astrocytes.
We have designed this method for the comprehensive and adequate analysis of neurotransmitters and metabolites including acetylcholine (ACh) and choline in specific brain nuclei. In physiological and pharmacological studies, the role of specific neurotransmitters in the central nervous system (CNS) has often been studied by microinjection of their agonist and antagonist into the target regions, with the action and role of the transmitter in question being deduced in a relatively straightforward manner from the results. However, none of these studies have investigated fluctuation in neurotransmitter and metabolite contents in response to a variety of stimuli in vivo. No comprehensive analysis of neurotransmitters in small specific area in the CNS has been undertaken due to the difficulties of proper analysis of ACh and choline. Different types of neuronal systems in the CNS affect each other. Thus, it is not necessarily clear that different types of neurons do in fact respond to an administered agonist and antagonist. For example, dopaminergic neuron mediated control of cholinergic interneuron in the striatum and dopaminergic regulation of cortical ACh release have been documented. Similarly, the cholinergic system affects dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurons. Intraventricular administration of an ACh esterase inhibitor, neostigmine, increases dopamine and noradrenaline release in the hypothalamus. So, an adequate comprehensive analysis of the transmitters and the metabolites in the same tissue sample provides valuable aid to clarify what types of neurons truly respond to the administered drugs and the excitation of physiological events. For an appropriate analysis we employed a microwave device, which made the estimation of ACh and choline possible. In addition to this, we employed a punch technique for the microdissection of the specific nuclei and area from the brain slice.
The method of non-radioactive in situ hybridization was developed as an alternative to radioactive assay because of the difficulties and disadvantages of the safety measures required, extensive time required for autoradiography (especially with 3H-labelled probes) and limited cellular resolution obtained using 32P- and 35S-labelled probes. This method holds great potential for studying functional anatomy of specific neuronal pathways if it can be used in conjunction with conventional tract tracing techniques. In this article we describe a simple method by which immunofluorescence in situ hybridization (IFISH) was jointly used with rhodamine latex microspheres (RLM) to trace the origin of the thalamic cholecystokininergic input in rat. RLM is a widely used retrograde fluorescence tracer and seems ideal for IFISH because: (1) it lacks aversive effect on the hybridization and immunocytochemical reactions, (2) it is resistant to the rather harsh tissue treatment required for IFISH, and (3) both the RLM and mRNA hybrids give fluorescence signals; therefore, the extent of signal co-localization can be conveniently and more accurately verified under an epifluorescence microscope. Success of the IFISH-RLM combination is chiefly limited by the quantity and availability of mRNA signals in the tissue. In our case, we used a digoxigenin (DIG)-labelled oligonucleotide probe, which through immunological amplification significantly enhanced the sensitivity of mRNA detection.
The demonstration of 5'-nucleotidase in neural tissue is achieved at both the light and electron microscopic levels by means of an enzyme cytochemical lead method, which is specific, sensitive and fast. By its activity this adenosine-producing ecto-enzyme (EC 3.1.3.5) outlines cellular surface membranes at the ultrastructural level. It is classically known as a marker of myelin and of astrocytes as well as (activated) microglial cells in the mature nervous system. In recent years, we discovered that 5'-nucleotidase is transiently active within synaptic clefts under conditions of development and regeneration. The enzyme is also seen at terminals in the mature retina and olfactory bulb, where spontaneous synaptic turnover occurs at adulthood. Thus, 5'-nucleotidase cytochemistry is useful in revealing sites of glial reactions and synaptic plasticity in CNS development and repair. It is assumed that the molecule affects terminal formation and cell motility due to dual functions in adenosine production and cell adhesion. Finally, at the light microscopic level, 5'-nucleotidase activity displays a dense neuropil staining which identifies topographic sub-units of certain parts of the nervous system, such as the striosomes of the basal ganglia, ocular dominance columns of the visual cortex and parasagittal bands of the cerebellum.
Synaptic plasma membrane (SPM) vesicles represent a membrane fraction very useful in studying non-vesicular neurotransmitter release. The procedure described here to isolate SPM vesicles from a crude synaptosomal fraction of sheep brain cortex is quick, simple (ultracentrifugation in a discontinuous density gradient of dextran T110), and combines a high yield (130 micrograms/g brain) with a satisfactory grade of purification. The preparation of SPM vesicles consists of vesicles (approximately 0.54 +/- 0.8 micron diameter) delimited by a single membrane with the native orientation. We are able to ascertain these characteristics on the basis of morphology studies (electron microscopy observations), enzyme activities (Na+/K(+)-ATPase, Ca2+/Mg(2+)-ATPase, acetylcholinesterase and glucose-6-phosphatase), biochemical composition (lipid and protein analysis) and the tetrodotoxin sensitivity of the veratridine-induced gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release. Isolating the SPM vesicles by the proposed procedure permits manipulating the ionic gradients across the membrane by changing the ion concentrations on either side or by utilizing specific ionophores. The vesicles retain their various activities, including their capacity for neurotransmitter uptake and release assays for at least 3 months, when preserved at -70 degrees C. Furthermore, the vesicles permit depicting the electrochemical gradients across the membranes into chemical and electrical components. We describe the use of the tetraphenylphosphonium cation (TPP+) to dissipate the membrane potential (delta psi) of the vesicles, while preserving ionic gradients. The characteristics of the lipid-soluble cation TPP+ allows a massive inflow of this cation into vesicular compartments and a consequent depolarization.
We recently reported 50% decreases in mRNA levels of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA)-encoded cytochrome oxidase (COX) subunits I and III in Alzheimer disease (AD) brains. The decreases were observed in an association neocortical region (midtemporal cortex) affected in AD, but not in the primary motor cortex unaffected in AD. To investigate whether the decreases are specific to mtDNA-encoded mRNA, we extended this analysis to nuclear DNA (nDNA)-encoded subunits of mitochondrial enzymes of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). Brains from five AD patients showed 50-60% decreases in mRNA levels of nDNA-encoded subunit IV of COX and the beta-subunit of the F0F1-ATP synthase in midtemporal cortex compared with mRNA levels from midtemporal cortex of control brains. In contrast, these mRNAs were not reduced in primary motor cortices of the AD brains. The amount of nDNA-encoded beta-actin mRNA and the amount of 28S rRNA were not altered in either region of the AD brain. The results suggest that coordinated decreases in expression of mitochondrial and nuclear genes occur in association cortex of AD brains and are a consequence of reduced neuronal activity and downregulation of OXPHOS machinery.


1. Transformed (TR) cell lines showed faster doubling times and higher cell densities at confluence, as well as altered morphology, changing from flat epitheloid to smaller round or bipolar shapes. Since such morphological changes are suggestive of alterations in intermediate filaments, we have analyzed the expression of both vimentin and neurofilament. 2. Immunohistochemical analysis of vimentin showed a redistribution from a cytoplasmic network to a perinuclear accumulation in TR cell lines. 3. Western blot analysis demonstrated that the vimentin content was decreased 60-90%. The content of the 70-kD neurofilament protein was also decreased in TR cells, but its intracellular distribution was indistinguishable from that in the control cell lines.
Thoracic positron emission tomographic (PET) scanning after injection of 6-[18F]fluorodopamine ([18F]-6F-DA) visualizes cardiac sympathetic innervation. We tested whether changes in curves relating myocardial [18F]-6F-DA-derived radioactivity with time (time-activity curves, TACs) can reflect changes in important aspects of cardiac sympathetic function. Thoracic PET scans were obtained after intravenous administration of [18F]-6F-DA or the perfusion imaging agent [13N]ammonia into normal volunteers. Ganglion blockade with trimethaphan (TRI) was used to decrease sympathoneural traffic, desipramine (DMI) to block neuronal uptake of catecholamines, and tyramine (TYR) to displace vesicular amines. After [18F]-6F-DA administration, myocardial concentrations of [18F]-6F-DA-derived radioactivity declined bi-exponentially from the peak value. TRI increased the y-intercept (yo) value for the early phase (p = 0.01), and DMI decreased the yo for the late phase (p = 0.01). The TRI effect did not result from increased arterial [18F]-6F-DA concentrations or from increased myocardial perfusion. TYR infusion, begun 90 min after [18F]-6F-DA administration, accelerated the decline of myocardial radioactivity by 2.6-fold (p = 0.003). Alterations in post-ganglionic sympathoneural traffic, neuronal catecholamine uptake, and vesicular turnover of monoamines produce distinct changes in myocardial TACs after [18F]-6F-DA injection. [18F]-6F-DA PET scanning may therefore enable assessments of effects of stressors, drugs, and neurocardiological disorders on specific aspects of cardiac sympathoneural function.
Sumatriptan has been shown to be most effective in migraine attacks, but with transient, slight side effects and high rebound attack rates. We carried out a prospective study on the efficacy and safety of Sumatriptan in a Saudi population. A series of 63 consecutive out-patients with migraine histories ranging from 1/2 to 20 years were given six tablets of 100 mg Sumatriptan plus two diary cards to record the effects and side effects of the drug in two attacks per patient. Effect assessment by patients on a 4-point scale at 4 h after first medication was complemented by a 4-point scale physician's assessment. Time to resolution of attack post-medication, need for second dose (rebound attack), time lapsed to return to daily activities and side-effects were recorded. Exclusion parameters included pregnancy, lactation, hypertension, atherosclerosis, and cardiac and cerebrovascular disease. Inclusion criteria were International Headache Society (IHS)-1988 confirmed migraine characteristics and ages from 15 to 60 years. Physician assessed responses were excellent in 21 patients, good in 21, reasonable in nine and poor to nil in 12 patients. Rebound attacks necessitating second dose occurred in 25 patients. Side effects occurred in 22 (35%) patients. Sumatriptan 100 mg taken orally, is an effective and safe acute treatment mode for migraine attacks in Saudi patients.
This report presents a retrospective prognostic study of 65 patients with intramedullary astrocytoma surgically treated between 1953 and 1990. Median survival and statistical survival at 5 years were assessed in relation to clinical, histological and therapeutic factors for each patient. Results showed that factors positively influencing the prognosis are low histological grade of the tumour and good pre- and post-operative general conditions. Among the grade II astrocytomas, the fibrillary and protoplasmatic types presented longer survival times regardless of the type of removal performed. In anaplastic astrocytomas the simultaneous presence of certain morphological features indicative of higher malignancy negatively influenced survival. The degree of resection did not influence average survival within each histological grade.
We report the cases of two patients with complaints of dysphagia following long-term neuroleptic therapy. Esophageal contrast radiography revealed that one patient suffered disruption of the normal swallowing activity of the pharyngoesophagus due to tardive dyskinesia. Her dysphagia disappeared following changes in her neuroleptic medications and the administration of clonazepam. The other patient demonstrated severe rabbit syndrome involving the glossopharynx. This 3-Hz rhythmic movement disorder resolved following injection of an anticholinergic agent. Thereafter, the addition of oral trihexyphenidyl to her medication regimen improved her dysphagia. It should be emphasized that the differential diagnosis of neuroleptic-associated dysphagia subtypes is important because therapeutic strategies differ depending on the subtype of this life-threatening illness.
L-Dopa is the most effective drug known for the treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, the large doses required to treat this neurodegenerative disorder can significantly affect tissue concentrations of sulfur amino acid metabolites due to peripheral and central O-methylation. These effects include decreases in tissue concentrations of the biochemical methyl donor S-adenosylmethionine (SAM), increases in tissue concentrations of the methylation inhibitor S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH), and increases in plasma concentrations of homocysteine, recently identified as an independent risk factor for vascular disease. In the present study, the ability of the catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor Ro 41-0960 to prevent L-Dopa-induced changes in SAM, SAH, and homocysteine concentrations was determined in rats. Rats were injected intraperitoneally with Ro 41-0960 or vehicle 30 min prior to an intraperitoneal injection of L-Dopa or vehicle. One hour after the second injection, the rats were killed and their brains, livers, spleens, kidneys, and plasma collected. SAM and SAH concentrations were then determined in discrete brain regions and peripheral tissues, and total homocysteine concentrations were determined in plasma. In the rats treated with only L-Dopa, decreased SAM concentrations and increased SAH concentrations were found in all brain regions and peripheral tissues measured, and increased homocysteine concentrations were found in plasma, consistent with previous reports. In rats pretreated with Ro 41-0960, however, these L-Dopa-induced effects on sulfur amino acid metabolite concentrations were attenuated or prevented entirely. It remains to be determined if this sparing effect of Ro 41-0960 on sulfur amino acid metabolites has clinical significance.
Idiopathic low back pain has confounded health care practitioners for decades. The cellular and neural mechanisms that lead to facet pain, discogenic pain, and sciatica are not well understood. To help elucidate these mechanisms, anesthetized New Zealand white rabbits were used in a series of neurophysiologic and neuroanatomic studies. These studies showed the following evidence in support of facet pain: an extensive distribution of small nerve fibers and endings in the lumbar facet joint, nerves containing substance P, high threshold mechanoreceptors in the facet joint capsule, and sensitization and excitation of nerves in facet joint and surrounding muscle when the nerves were exposed to inflammatory or algesic chemicals. Evidence for pain of disc origin included an extensive distribution of small nerve fibers and free nerve endings in the superficial annulus of the disc and small fibers and free nerve endings in adjacent longitudinal ligaments. Possible mechanisms of sciatica included vigorous and long lasting excitatory discharges when dorsal root ganglia were subjected to moderate pressure, excitation of dorsal root fibers when the ganglia were exposed to autologous nucleus pulposus, and excitation and loss of nerve function in nerve roots exposed to phospholipase A2.


This review follows closely on the publication of significant handbooks and symposia concerned with neuro-otology, pharmacology of emesis, imaging, cochlear prostheses and aspects of vertigo which reflect the considerable advances that have been made in clinical and basic neuroscience in these areas in recent years. The value of the cochlear prosthesis has been demonstrated convincingly and may well be a model for the future of brain implantations in diverse disorders of the central nervous system. Imaging of the inner ear has made spectacular advances to provide invaluable aids to diagnosis. Neuro-otologists are becoming aware of the diversity of diseases, particularly those related to hormonal regulation, which may cause or exacerbate symptoms in patients with vertigo. Fortunately for the sufferer, a clearly focussed view is emerging of the pharmacology of overlapping and interrelated problems of emesis, vertigo and migraine which promises an early solution to their integrated management.
This review primarily concerns two issues. First, in myasthenia gravis, what mechanisms are likely to underlie the low threshold for extraocular muscle involvement in this disease? Second, what is the likely importance of anti-GQ1b ganglioside antibodies in the diagnosis and causation of Miller-Fisher syndrome?
During development, the sympathetic innervation of two targets, sweat glands and periosteum, changes the neurotransmitters it expresses from noradrenaline to acetylcholine and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP). The target-derived molecules that induce, these changes have not been identified. Neuropoietic cytokines, including ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) and leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), induce the same phenotypic changes in sympathetic neurons in vitro as sweat glands and periosteum do in vivo, raising the possibility that one of these factors mediates induction of cholinergic traits and VIP by these target tissues. Because CNTF and LIF have overlapping functions and signalling pathways, they could act interchangeably or in concert to influence neurotransmitter expression. To determine whether CNTF or CNTF and LIF together are responsible for the induction of cholinergic and peptidergic function in vivo, we analyzed the neurotransmitter properties of sweat gland innervation in mice lacking CNTF or CNTF and LIF. We find that, as in wild-type mice, gland innervation in mice lacking one or both molecules appropriately expresses cholinergic properties and VIP immunoreactivity. Furthermore, footpads of mice lacking one or both genes contain choline acetyltransferase activity comparable to that of wild-type mice, and CNTF- or CNTF/LIF-deficient mice possess the normal complement of active sweat glands. We analyzed the innervation of a second, recently identified cholinergic sympathetic target, the periosteum, which is the connective tissue surrounding bone. Periosteal innervation of mice lacking CNTF, LIF, or both, like that of wild-type mice, is immunoreactive for the vesicular acetylcholine transporter, a recently identified cholinergic marker, and VIP. These results provide evidence that neither CNTF, LIF, nor a combination of the two are required for the developmental change from noradrenergic to cholinergic function that occurs in sympathetic innervation of sweat glands and periosteum.
During zebrafish development, identified motoneurons innervate cell-specific regions of each trunk myotome. One motoneuron, CaP, extends an axon along the medial surface of the ventral myotome. To learn how this pathway is established during development, the CaP axon was used as an assay to ask whether other regions of the myotome were permissive for normal CaP pathfinding. Native myotomes were replaced with donor myotomes in normal or reversed dorsoventral orientations and CaP pathfinding was assayed. Ventral myotomes were permissive for CaP axons, even when they were taken from older embryos, suggesting that the CaP pathway remained present on ventral myotome throughout development. Dorsal myotomes from young embryos were also permissive for CaP axons, however, older dorsal myotomes were non-permissive, showing that permissiveness of dorsal myotome for normal CaP pathfinding diminished over time. This process appears to depend on signals from the embryo, since dorsal myotomes matured in vitro remained permissive for CaP axons. Genetic mosaics between wild-type and floating head mutant embryos revealed notochord involvement in dorsal myotome change of permissiveness. Dorsal and ventral myotomes from both younger and older floating head mutant embryos were permissive for CaP axons. These data suggest that initially both dorsal and ventral myotomes are permissive for CaP axons but as development proceeds, there is a notochord-dependent decrease in permissiveness of dorsal myotome for CaP axonal outgrowth. This change participates in restricting the CaP pathway to the ventral myotome and thus to neuromuscular specificity.

The short-term influence of visual experience was studied in the first-order tetrad synapses of the first optic neuropil, or lamina, underlying the compound eye in the housefly (Musca domestica). We report the effects of single light reversals, in which flies reared in constant darkness were exposed to light or those in constant light were exposed to darkness, on this defined population of synapses. The synaptic population was characterized by quantitative electron microscopic methods using three parameters: (i) the number of synaptic contacts per photoreceptor terminal; (ii) the size of these synapses, given by the mean platform width of their presynaptic ribbons; and (iii) the proportion (up to approximately 20%) of small synapses-those having a ribbon platform less than 0.17 micron wide. The effects of light exposures in flies reared in constant darkness include decreased mean synaptic size and increased numbers of synapses. These effects are seen in flies of all ages (to 10 days). Long light exposures (2-6 h) are much less effective than short exposures (down to 20 s), with maximum effects obtained at 15 min (up to 45% more synapses). Small synapses are reasoned to be new junctions formed only recently; the decreased mean synaptic size and the increased number of synapses seen after short light exposures are both interpreted to result from a recent burst of synaptogenesis in the adult lamina. The effects of dark exposure in flies reared in constant light are the reciprocal of those seen in dark-reared flies exposed to light, but they are less pronounced. Although the function of such changes is not yet known, they may form part of the light adaptation mechanism of the photoreceptor, and occur along with a redistribution of other organelles involving membrane invaginations into its terminal. These changes occur against a background trend for control flies reared under constant conditions to have fewer, larger synapses with increasing age up to 10 days, an effect that is most pronounced in constant darkness, when synaptic number decreases by 21% and size increases by 13%.
It has been proposed that neurons in sensory cortices are organized into modules that centre on clusters of apical dendrites belonging to layer V pyramidal neurons. In the present study, sections reacted for microtubule-associated protein (MAP2) were examined in order to determine the three-dimensional inter-relationships of pyramidal cell dendrites in mouse primary motor cortex (MsI) cortex. Results indicate that pyramidal cell dendrites in MsI cortex can be interpreted to be arranged in a modular fashion, and that these modules are organized similarly to those in the sensory areas of the cortex. Also included in the present study are experiments designed to determine if the clusters of apical dendrites, around which the modules are centred, are composed of dendrites belonging to one or to more than one type of projection cell. Callosal neurons in MsI cortex were labelled by the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase deposited onto severed callosal fibres in the contralateral hemisphere. Examination of tangential thin sections through layer IV of MsI cortex shows clusters of apical dendrites in which every dendrite is labelled with horseradish peroxidase. Adjacent clusters are composed of unlabelled dendrites, suggesting that the apical dendrites of callosal neurons aggregate to form clusters that are composed exclusively of dendrites belonging to this type of projection cell. These findings suggest a hitherto unsuspected degree of specificity in the cellular composition of cortical modules.

Despite its potent proconvulsant effects in vitro, the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX) does not induce seizures when administered in vivo. This contrasts with the effects of less selective adenosine antagonists such as theophylline or cyclopentlytheophylline, and led us to reexamine the nature of DPCPX-induced epileptiform activity. In the present study, we report that proconvulsant effects of bath-applied DPCPX in rat hippocampal slices are only observed after a preceding stimulus such as NMDA receptor activation or brief tetanic stimulation. While this may be due to the absence of a basal &quot;purinergic tone&quot;, the relatively high interstitial concentrations of adenosine present in the slice suggest that access of the drug to A1 receptors may instead be prevented by tightly coupled endogenous adenosine, with the ternary adenosine-A1 receptor-G protein complex stabilised in the high-affinity conformation by a coupling cofactor. This implies that a substantial percentage of adenosine A1 receptors are inactive under physiological conditions, but that access of adenosine A1 receptor antagonists may be facilitated under pathological conditions. Once induced, DPCPX-evoked spiking persists for long periods of time. A &quot;kindling&quot; effect of A1 receptor blockade is unlikely, since persistent spiking is not usually observed with less selective A1 antagonists even after prolonged application. Alternatively, endogenous adenosine released during increased neuronal activity may activate A2 receptors during selective A1 blockade. The most important factor determining the duration of DPCPX-induced spiking, however, may be a persistence of the drug in the tissue and subsequent access to the A1 receptor via a membrane-delineated pathway, since DPCPX-induced spiking could be shown to decrease markedly after a transient superfusion of theophylline. This hypothesis, which implies that the apparent affinity of adenosine antagonists for the A1 receptor is in part a function of their membrane partitioning coefficient, is supported by a close correlation between alkylxanthine logP values obtained from the literature and their Ki value at A1 receptors, but not at the enzyme phosphodiesterase, whose xanthine binding site is presented to the cytosol. The implications for the therapeutic value of purinergic drugs are discussed.
We have analyzed the behavior of neurons of the lateral reticular nucleus (LRN) during fictive respiration and locomotion and found that some LRN neurons have both central respiratory and locomotor. rhythms. Experiments were conducted on decerebrate, decerebellate, immobilized, and artificially ventilated cats, with the spinal cord transected at the lower thoracic cord. Fictive respiration and fictive forelimb locomotion were ascertained by monitoring activities from the phrenic nerve and forelimb extensor and flexor nerves, respectively. Fictive locomotion was evoked by electrical stimulation of the mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR) or sometimes occurred spontaneously. During fictive locomotion many LRN neurons fired in certain phases of the locomotion cycle; i.e., with respect to the nerve discharge of the ipsilateral forelimb they fired in either the extensor, flexor, extensor-flexor, or flexor-extensor phase. Firing of some LRN neurons was modulated synchronously with central respiratory rhythm. Neurons with inspiratory activity and those with expiratory activity were both found. More than half of these respiration-related LRN neurons had locomotor rhythm as well. The majority of the three types of LRN neurons, i.e., neurons with only locomotor rhythm, those with only respiratory rhythm, and those with both respiratory and locomotor rhythms, were antidromically activated by electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral inferior cerebellar peduncle. Electrical stimulation of the upper cervical cord showed that these LRN neurons, not only locomotion-related but also respiration-related neurons, received short latency inputs from the spinal cord. The LRN neurons studied were distributed widely in the LRN, relatively densely in the caudal two-thirds of the nucleus. No particular differences were detected between the three types of LRN neurons with respect to their location in the nucleus. These results indicate that the information about central respiratory and locomotor rhythms that is necessary for cerebellar control of the coordination between respiration and locomotion converges, at least partly, at the level of the LRN.
Hepoxilin A3 has previously been shown to cause a rapid dose-dependent rise in intracellular calcium in intact human neutrophils in suspension. Two components have been observed, an initial rapid phase of intracellular calcium rise, followed by a slow decline to plateau levels that remain above the original baseline calcium levels. These changes have been suggested to involve the release of calcium from intracellular stores in the ER (initial rapid phase), while the slower rate of decline (plateau phase) was presumed to be due to calcium influx as it was abolished in zero calcium extracellular medium. The present study used confocal microscopy to examine the response to hepoxilin A3 at the subcellular level. Our results show that calcium dynamics in response to hepoxilin A3 varies in different subcellular compartments within the cell and that hepoxilin A3 evoked a persistent accumulation of calcium in organelles. The hepoxilin-evoked calcium sequestration was eliminated by prior exposure to CCCP, a mitochondrial uncoupler. CCCP also eliminated the plateau phase of the calcium response in cell suspension, suggesting that this phase was due to mitochondrial accumulation of calcium rather than calcium influx. Experiments with DiI-loaded cells, a membrane marker, showed that the nuclear calcium was not elevated by hepoxilin addition to the cells. These results demonstrate that hepoxilins evoke the release of calcium from the ER which is taken up by the mitochondria where it is tightly sequestered. These results offer an explanation of observations previously made with cell suspensions in which hepoxilin A3 was shown to inhibit the calcium mobilizing effects of chemotactic agents.
The expression of generalized clonic and generalized tonic seizures has been suggested to result from the activation of different and independent neuronal circuits. Using the induction of the c-fos protein (Fos) as a marker of neuronal activity, we identified brain structures that are differentially associated with the expression of electroconvulsive shock-induced generalized clonic and generalized tonic seizures. Expression of either seizure phenotype resulted in a similar bilaterally symmetrical increase in Fos immunoreactivity in many forebrain structures, including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, hippocampal dentate gyrus, amygdala, and piriform cortex, compared to controls. However, following tonic hindlimb extension (THE), the degree of labeling in specific thalamic, hypothalamic, and brain stem areas was significantly greater than that of either controls or animals exhibiting clonic seizures. While a greater number of neurons in the hypothalamus (e.g., ventromedial nucleus), subparafascicular thalamic nucleus, peripeduncular area, deep medial superior colliculus, dorsal and lateral central gray, and paralemniscal nuclei were robustly labeled following THE, noticeably fewer cells were immunoreactive following face and forelimb clonic seizure behaviors. These differences were also found to be independent of the stimulus magnitude. In animals stimulated with the same current intensity but expressing either of the two seizure phenotypes, the pattern of Fos induction was consistent with the seizure phenotype expressed. These results demonstrate that specific subsets of neurons are differentially activated following the expression of different generalized seizure behaviors and that activity in discrete mesencephalic and diencephalic structures is more frequently associated with the expression of generalized tonic seizures than with the expression of generalized clonic seizures.
This study investigated the immunostaining of protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms and amyloid precursor protein (APP) in rat brain cortex and determined alterations following an excitotoxic challenge in vivo. Cellular alterations in APP and PKC isoforms (alpha, beta, gamma, delta, epsilon, and zeta) following glutamate perfusion in the rat parietal cortex were compared with NaCl perfusion. In all animals, two histological zones could be defined consistently, a necrotic core and a boundary zone immediately adjacent to the core. Following glutamate and NaCl perfusion, cellular immunoreactivity to PKC isoforms and amino-terminal APP was significantly reduced within the necrotic core. Striking carboxy-terminal APP immunoreactivity was observed in some neurons remaining within the necrotic core. In the boundary of the glutamate lesion, the perikarya of most neurons were intensely immunoreactive to PKC alpha and beta. Furthermore, within the boundary zone, enhanced immunoreactivity within neuronal perikarya was observed to amino-terminal APP and, to a lesser extent, carboxy-terminal APP. Increased immunostaining of PKC alpha and beta and APP at the boundary zone was a consistent feature of intracortical glutamate perfusion and was not observed following NaCl perfusion. There were minimal alterations in PKC isoforms gamma, delta, epsilon, and zeta, in the boundary region following intracortical glutamate or NaCl perfusion. There was no astrocytic response, as detected by GFAP immunoreactivity, at the boundary zone. These findings indicate that there is a topographical relationship between cellular alterations of specific PKC isoforms and APP following an excitotoxic challenge in vivo.
GTP binding proteins, heterotrimeric molecules composed of alpha-, beta-, and gamma-subunits, are known to serve as transducers of information from seven-transmembrane receptors. Activation of G-proteins has been generally considered to involve subunit dissociation, with G(alpha) separating from G(betagamma). However, we have found a receptor activation of G(i) in proliferating cells that differs from these models and involves the subcellular translocation of the alpha-subunit from the cell periphery to the nucleus where G(i alpha) binds to chromatin for the duration of mitosis. This report describes the mechanism of G(i) activation in Swiss 3T3 cells in response to serum, thrombin, and epidermal growth factor, and describes a role for G(i2) in the cell cycle. Agonists were found to be unable to induce the physical dissociation of G(i2) subunits. The alpha- and beta-subunits of G(i2) could be coimmunoprecipitated with a G(i alpha) antibody from both the membrane and nuclear fractions of long-term activated cultures, showing that G(i alpha 2) and G(i beta) are induced to comigrate to the nucleus in response to growth factor receptor activation. G(i2) appears to be activated in part by a postreceptor signal that can be mimicked by protein kinase C activation; this signal may be responsible for the convergence of the signaling mechanisms of these distinct seven-transmembrane and tyrosine kinase receptors. We suggest that translocation of G(i alpha) to the nucleus induced by either thrombin or EGF may occur without subunit dissociation. Functional studies of the role of G(i) showed that pertussis toxin does not block DNA synthesis in Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts induced by serum or thrombin, but that cell proliferation is retarded to each. These results provide direct evidence for a novel mechanism of GTP binding protein activation and for an essential role of G(i) in the induction of cell division by a variety of growth factor receptors. G(i) can carry out this role in control of cellular proliferation through its translocation to the nucleus of mitotic cells.
In the present study we analyzed how oxidative stress conditions induced by ascorbate/ Fe2+ affect the excitatory amino acid (EAA) transport systems in cultured chick retina cells. The uptake of D-[3H]aspartate, which is transported by the same carrier as glutamate, was determined in control cells and in cells subjected to ascorbate/Fe2+. The uptake of this EAA was Na+ dependent and was inhibited by about 40% under oxidative stress conditions. To clarify the molecular mechanisms involved in the inhibition of D-[3H]aspartate uptake by ascorbate/Fe2+, we investigated the effect of vitamin E (Vit E), melatonin, reduced glutathione (GSH), and dithiothreitol (DTT) on the uptake of D-[3H]aspartate and on the extent of lipid peroxidation in control and in peroxidized cells. Preincubation with Vit E (100 microM) abolished lipid peroxidation, but had no significant effect on the inhibition of D-[3H]aspartate uptake evoked by ascorbate/Fe2+. Melatonin was more effective in reducing the formation of TBARS and conjugated dienes than in preventing the D-[3H]aspartate uptake inhibition evoked by the oxidant pair. Conversely, GSH (4 mM) and DTT (4 mM) completely prevented the inhibition of D-[3H]aspartate uptake in cells subjected to oxidative stress, but were without effect on the extent of peroxidation. Free fatty acids, such as arachidonic acid, seem not to be involved in reducing the activity of the D-[3H]aspartate uptake system, whereas the reduction of the Na+ electrochemical gradient that occurs under oxidative stress was in part involved in the reduction of D-[3H]aspartate uptake by the cells. The inhibition of D-[3H]aspartate uptake by ascorbate/Fe2+ persisted for at least 1 h, but could be partially reverted by disulfide reducing agents. It is concluded that oxidative stress causes long-lasting modifications of the glutamate/D-[3H]aspartate transport system (or systems), such as oxidation of protein sulfhydryl (SH) groups, which can be recovered by some antioxidants.
A door-to-door population-based epidemiological study of the prevalence of migraine and headache in a sample of 3,246 people older than 15 years of age was carried out in Cuzco, a high-altitude town in the Peruvian Andes, located at 3,380 meters. Among the 3,246 screened people, there were 172 cases of migraine and 930 cases of headache, yielding a crude 1-year prevalence of 5.3% for migraine (2.3% among men and 7.8% among women) and 28.7% for headache (17.5% among men and 38.2% among women). Our results suggest that migraine prevalence in Cuzco is close to that of other developing countries, whereas headache prevalence may be higher than in other developing countries. Multivariate logistic regression suggested that both migraine and headache were related to the female sex, age, and anxiety and/or depression. This study suggests that migraine is a relatively common disorder in Cuzco, but does not show any difference which could significantly related to altitude. In contrast, our results suggest that headache may be more frequent at high altitude than at sea level.

This study was conducted to determine whether there is a increase in responsiveness to the activating effects of testosterone on male reproductive behavior during puberty in male golden hamsters and whether responsiveness to behavioral actions of testosterone is correlated with the ability of testosterone to upregulate brain androgen receptor immunoreactivity (AR-ir). Sexually naive male hamsters were castrated at 21 or 42 days of age and implanted subcutaneously with a pellet containing 0, 2.5, or 5 mg of testosterone. One week later, males were given a 10-min mating test with a receptive female. Animals were euthanized 1 hr after the behavioral test, and blood samples and brains were collected. Plasma testosterone levels were equivalent in prepubertal and adult males that had been administered the same dose of testosterone. However, adult males exhibited more mounts, intromissions, and ejaculations than prepubertal males, demonstrating that postpubertal males are more responsive than prepubertal males to the effects of testosterone on sexual behavior. In both age groups, testosterone increased the number of AR-ir cells per unit area in several brain regions involved in male sexual behavior, including the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN), medial amygdala, posteromedial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and magnocellular preoptic nucleus (MPNmag). Surprisingly, testosterone increased AR-ir in the latter three regions to a greater extent in prepubertal males than in adults. Thus, prepubertal males are more responsive to the effects of testosterone on AR-ir in these regions. In a separate experiment, a pubertal increase in the number of AR-ir cells per unit area was found in both the MPN and MPNmag of intact male hamsters. These results indicate that a testosterone-dependent increase in brain AR during puberty may be necessary, but is not sufficient, to induce an increase in behavioral responsiveness to testosterone.
Protection against experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced by s.c. infusion of myelin basic protein (MBP) alone is dose dependent and long lived. Protection is not effective against passively induced disease nor is it transferable with lymphoid cells. The proliferative response of lymph node cells to MBP following encephalitogenic challenge is decreased in the EAE-protected animals as is the production of IL-2 and IFN-gamma by these cells. Treatment with soluble MBP promed rats for antibody production is evidenced by the early appearance of anti-MBP antibody following encephalitogenic challenge. Determination of antibody isotype following challenge revealed a change in the ratio of IgG1 to IgG2a with a significant increase in the amount of IgG1 produced. These data suggest that infusion of high dose soluble neuroantigen primes the immune response such that subsequent challenge with an encephalitogenic inoculum pushes the response down a non-destructive Th2 autoimmune pathway.
Acute extrapyramidal syndromes (EPS) are frequently recorded during treatment with classical neuroleptic drugs. In patients with EPS a consistent finding is high central D2-receptor occupancy (&gt; 80%) as demonstrated with positron emission tomography (PET). The exception is clozapine, an atypical antipsychotic which has low EPS liability and also induces a low D2 occupancy (20-67%). We have proposed that the PET demonstration of low D2 occupancy at antipsychotic dose levels can be viewed as a strategy to confirm atypicality. There have been strong incentives in recent years to discover new drugs which do not induce EPS, but so far no drug has been shown unequivocally to have the low D2 occupancy and EPS liability reported for clozapine. Sertindole is a new antipsychotic drug which has shown a low incidence of acute EPS in clinical studies. In the present study PET was used to measure central D2-dopamine receptor binding in the basal ganglia at baseline and 6 h after oral administration of 4 mg sertindole to two healthy males. D2-dopamine receptor occupancy was 15% in one subject and 6% in the other. The low occupancy level demonstrated at 4 mg indicates the need for a PET study in patients at the suggested clinical dose level of 12-24 mg a day. In particular, it is important to determine whether sertindole induces antipsychotic effects at a D2 occupancy level which is lower that found in patients treated with classical antipsychotics.
The present study was undertaken to determine whether release of glutamate is capable of influencing dendritic morphology in a developing network of rat hippocampal neurons in vitro. Control cultures developed a dense network of fibers and evinced spontaneous electrical activity from the third day in vitro. Dendrites were examined in cultures maintained for 2 weeks in vitro: the experimental group grown in medium containing the glutamate receptor antagonists AP-5 and DNQX. Dendritic extensions were analyzed as a function of time (days in vitro) using a number of morphometric parameters, vis. the number of processes, the number and length of intermediate and terminal segments, as well as the total length of all segments. We found that the effect of age and treatment was most prominently reflected in the length of the terminal segments. Chronic addition of ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists from day 2 in culture arrested all dendrite parameters at the prefunctional level. The results suggest that glutamate release is crucial for the onset of dendritic morphological development in hippocampal neurons.
The prevalence of back pain among Swedish women 16-84 years of age has increased from 6.1% in 1975 to 8.1% in 1989; no such increase has been recorded for Swedish men. To determine whether an association exists between back pain and oral contraceptive (OC) use, a register study was conducted at the major health center in Tierp, Sweden; 65% of the 45,000 physician visits made each year by the population of this municipality were to this site. The 503 women prescribed OCs in 1980 (19.08% of women 14-44 years of age in the study area) served as cases; age-matched non-users were controls. Lower back pain was recorded significantly more frequently each year during the 1981-85 follow-up period among OC users than among controls (p 0.01 in the first year and 0.05 in the fourth year). Pregnancy was not a confounding factor. However, the register did not allow analysis of life-style factors such as heavy physical work, smoking, or obesity that are also associated with back pain. Moreover, bias could have been introduced by the fact that OC users made more health center visits, increasing the potential for diagnosis. Additional studies are required to determine whether the OC-back pain association identified in this study is causal.

The Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children-Revised (WISC-R) was applied (in a Swedish version) in 120 children with Asperger syndrome, autistic disorder, and attention disorders. Using stepwise logistic regression analysis, the WISC's discriminating ability was investigated. The overall rate of correct diagnostic classification was 63%. Further, WISC profiles were analysed within each group. The group with autistic disorder was characterised by a peak on Block Design. The Asperger syndrome group had good verbal ability and troughs on Object Assembly and Coding. The group with attention disorders had troughs on Coding and Arithmetic. The results suggest that Kaufman's Verbal Comprehension, Perceptual Organisation and Freedom from Distractibility factors rather than verbal IQ and performance IQ account for the variance on the WISC. Furthermore, the Asperger syndrome and autistic disorder groups differed in respect of &quot;fluid&quot; and &quot;crystallised&quot; cognitive ability.

Although there is justifiable optimism regarding telomerase activity and early detection of cancer, it is important to point out that there is much that remains to be understood and additional validation studies will be required before knowledge of telomerase activity will be useful in decisions regarding patient management. A key question is whether we will be able to distinguish those cancers that are going to progress from those cancers that are not by detecting telomerase activity. Molecular staging using markers such as telomerase activity in combination with other molecular markers may be particularly useful in this regard. Basic scientists and clinicians must work together if this strategy is to mature. Telomerase inhibitors in the treatment of cancer are awaited with great anticipation.
The presence of prosaposin, the precursor of the sphingolipid activator proteins (saposins A, B, C, and D), was investigated in bovine milk. The milk proteins were resolved by SDS-PAGE, blotted onto nitrocellulose sheets, and immunostained. Each of three appropriate antibodies defined a band from milk that matched in mobility the reference prosaposin from human milk at a relative molecular mass of 66,000. Evidence of mature saposins was not found. Prosaposin was detected in milk of other species chimpanzee, rhesus, goat, and rat) and was consistently observed in samples of retail milk and from individual cows. Prosaposin was not associated with particulate matter (fat globules, casein micelles, membrane fragments, and somatic cells) in either human or bovine milk. Rather, prosaposin was located exclusively in the milk serum (whey), existing in monomeric form, as revealed by nondenaturing PAGE. A commercial whey protein concentrate (75% protein) appeared to retain milk prosaposin quantitatively. Properties that were useful in the isolation of prosaposin from milk were its binding to concanavalin A, retention by anion-exchange cellulose, and resistance to precipitation by heating. The possibility that bovine milk prosaposin nutritionally benefits the humans who consume it is enhanced by the fact that only part of its saposin C segment is required for neurotrophic activity.

We examined the effect of a clinically therapeutic dose of methyl 2-tetradecylglycidate (McN-3716, methyl palmoxirate, MEP) (2.5 mg/kg), an inhibitor of beta-oxidation of fatty acids, on incorporation of radiolabeled palmitic acid ([U-14C]PAM) from plasma into brain lipids of awake rats. Four hour pretreatment with 2.5 mg/kg MEP significantly increased the incorporation of [U-14C]PAM into brain lipids and substantially decreased aqueous radiolabeled metabolites in brain that can constitute unwanted background signal when analyzed by quantitative autoradiography. MEP treatment increased the lipid to aqueous background radioactivity from 0.8 to 3.0. Net rate of incorporation, k*, was significantly increased (60%) by MEP and was attributed to incorporation of [U-14C]PAM into phospholipid and triglyceride brain compartments. MEP treatment did not affect the size of the fatty acyl-CoA pool or the distribution of the various molecular acyl-CoA species. These results indicate that MEP, at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg (per os), can be used to increase incorporation of [1-(11C)]PAM for studying brain lipid metabolism in humans by positron emission tomography (PET).
To investigate the prognostic role of tumour necrosis factor (TNF) in Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) infection, we measured the immunoreactive forms of TNF concentrations in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 47 laboratory-confirmed cases of JE. It was observed that TNF levels were elevated (&gt; 15 pgm/ml) in all the 47 serum samples (range 19.4-923.8 pg/ml), while in 46/47 CSF samples TNF was elevated (range 10.8-376 pg/ml). The mean (SD) TNF levels in the serum of fatal cases was 234.34 pg/ml (304.40) as compared to the mean of 85.31 pg/ml (SD 153.92) in nonfatal cases. Similar observations were also made with respect to the TNF levels in the CSF; the mean of fatal cases was 69.39 pg/ ml (SD 39.00) in contrast to the mean of 62.41 pg/ml (SD 75.25) of nonfatal cases. The increase in TNF levels did not show any correlation to the duration of illness. It was further observed that the mortality rate increased with increasing concentrations of TNF in the serum and CSF. Correlation of laboratory parameters to final outcome revealed that TNF concentrations above 50 pg/ ml in serum correlated significantly (P = .05) with a fatal outcome, whilst high levels of JEV-IgM antibodies (&gt; 500 units) in the CSF correlated with a nonfatal outcome (P = .03). These results suggest that TNF can be used as a possible prognosticator of a fatal outcome in JEV infection.
The effects of the calmodulin antagonists W-7 and trifluoperazine have been measured on the Ca2+-activated potassium channel in the membrane surrounding protoplasmic drops expressed from internodal cells of charophyte plants. The large-conductance (170 pS), voltage- and Ca2+-dependent gating, and prominent conductance substrate of this channel shows a strong kinetic resemblance to those of the Maxi-K channel from animal cells. This is the first study of the action of calmodulin antagonists which measures their effects on the most populated substates as well as the closed and main open states of Maxi-K channels. The substate analysis provides new evidence for different modes of action of- and different bindings sites for these calmodulin antagonists. Neither antagonist produces the simple closure of the channel reported previously as its effect on the Maxi-K channel, though both do induce flicker-block, reducing the mean current to near zero at high concentrations following an inverted Michaelis-Menten curve. W-7 reduces residence time in the fully open state, thus raising, in the same proportions, the probabilities of finding the channel in the closed state or a pre-existing substate. Its binding to the channel is voltage- and calcium-dependent. In contrast, trifluoperazine reduces residence in the open state and promotes an apparently new substate which overlaps the closed state at -50 mV but is distinguishable from it at voltages more negative than -100 mV. This substate may represent times that trifluoperazine is bound to the channel. Both antagonists have effects clearly distinguishable from that of withdrawing calcium from the channel, which does not affect open state residence time but increases closed state residence time. Thus neither antagonist reverses the activating effect of Ca2-. This is good kinetic evidence against the view that the channel is activated by Ca2+-calmodulin and that the effect of a calmodulin antagonist is to reverse this process by making Ca2--calmodulin less available.
Activated microglial cells are concentrated in senile plaques characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. Such accumulations of activated microglia may contribute towards neurodegeneration via production of cytokines and free radicals. Studies suggesting a link between Alzheimer's disease and heart disease led us to study microglia immunohistochemically, using monoclonal antibody LN-3, in age-matched nondemented humans with and without heart disease. Using a qualitative staging system for assessing morphological changes occurring in microglia, we found higher microglial activation in the brains of subjects with heart disease than in those without it. Lectin histochemical examination of brains from rabbits maintained on a high-cholesterol diet also revealed increased microglial activation and leukocyte infiltration. Collectively our observations from humans and rabbits suggest that hypercholesterolemia and heart disease accelerate brain aging, and that the formation of senile plaques may be the end result of progressive microglial activation that occurs with aging.
The expression of catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes in the adrenal medulla is upregulated in parallel by stress and pharmacological treatments. In this study we examined whether a neuropeptide and its processing enzyme are regulated in parallel with catecholamine enzyme genes after drug treatment. Because the main effect of stress on the adrenal medulla is via splanchnic nerve stimulation of nicotinic receptors, we used nicotine to stimulate the medulla and visualized expression of catecholamine enzyme genes, the medullary peptide neuropeptide Y (NPY), and the neuropeptide-processing enzyme peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) by in situ hybridization quantified by image analysis of autoradiographic images. Rats received a single injection of nicotine (0, 1, or 5 mg/kg sc). Six hours later, rats were transcardially perfused. Free-floating adrenal gland sections were hybridized with 35S-labeled cDNA probes for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH), phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT), PAM, and NPY. Nicotine treatment upregulated the expression of TH, PNMT, and NPY genes in a dose-dependent fashion. Small but nonsignificant increases were observed in DBH and PAM mRNA levels. These results suggest that common transcriptional activation mechanisms may upregulate both catecholamine and neuropeptide synthesis in the adrenal medulla after nicotinic stimulation.
Our objective was to test the assessment of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and associated symptoms in a multicultural immigrant/refugee population at a psychiatric out-patient clinic. The pilot study included volunteer patients who were randomly assigned to an intervention group (N = 33), who received SCID diagnosis and a battery of life event questionnaires, and a referent group (N = 30), who received the standard diagnostic program. All were followed-up for 1 year. Forty percent of the intervention group, but none in the referent group, were judged to have PTSD. In the intervention group, positive significant correlations were found between HTQ and HSCL-25 and SCID, Axis I PTSD. Experience of trauma influenced the ill-health in the psychometric indices, and the psychometric indices correlated negatively with present and optimal functioning. A targeted trauma approach toward multicultural psychiatric patients using a multidisciplinary team and validated psychometric tools provided sensitive and accurate diagnostic information for this group.
Primary cultures of rat cortex, conveniently prepared from newborn animals, were used to study opioid effects on 45Ca2+ uptake and glutamate release. 45Ca2+ uptake, induced by treatment with glutamate or NMDA, was largely blocked by the NMDA antagonist MK-801. K+ depolarization-induced 45Ca2+ uptake was also reduced by MK-801, indicating that the effect was mediated by glutamate release. Direct analysis verified that glutamate, and aspartate, were indeed released. Opioid peptides of the prodynorphin system were also released and these, or other peptides, were functionally active, because naloxone treatment increased glutamate release, as well as the 45Ca2+ uptake induced by depolarization. Opioid agonists, selective for mu-, kappa-, and delta-receptors, inhibited the 45Ca2+ uptake induced by K+ depolarization. The combination of low concentrations of MK-801 and opioid agonists resulted in additive inhibition of K(+)-induced 45Ca2+ uptake. The results indicate that this system may be useful as an in vitro CNS model for studying modulation by opioids of glutamate release and Ca2+ uptake under acute, and perhaps also chronic, opiate treatment.
Myelin-deficient (mld) is a complex mutation affecting the myelin basic protein (MBP) locus of the mouse. It consists of duplication and partial inversion of the MBP gene and results in a dysfunctional MBP locus. The mutant phenotype is reversed, both in vivo and in vitro, in approximately 5% of mld oligodendrocytes. One possible mechanism for the somatic reversion is recombination between homologous sequences of the duplicated gene copies to reconstitute a functional MBP locus. There are several possible recombination events that could reconstitute a functional MBP locus by DNA rearrangement. Two of these would result in reinversion and circularization of specific MBP gene sequences, respectively. In this work polymerase chain reaction analysis was used to detect both reinverted and circularized MBP gene sequences in mld mouse tissues, indicating that DNA rearrangement at the MBP locus does occur. Analysis of individually harvested cells showed that in revertant MBP-positive mld oligodendrocytes DNA rearrangement at the MBP locus was correlated with reactivation of the MBP gene. Fluctuation analysis showed that reactivation of the MBP locus is a stochastic event occurring with a frequency of approximately 1.4 x 10(-6) per cell per cell cycle during oligodendrocyte development. The frequency of rearrangement and reactivation of the MBP locus was comparable in double mutant (mld/mld, scid/scid) and single mutant (mld/mld, +scld/+scld) mice, indicating that the scid factor is not required for MBP gene reactivation in mld. The significance of DNA rearrangement in mammalian development is discussed.
A clear message to emerge from the recent 6th International TNF Congress is that TNF-alpha, LT-alpha and possibly other TNF family members, are important integral mediators of the CNS stress response to threatened homeostasis and that either excessive or insufficient TNF-alpha production can have significant consequences upon correct CNS functioning. Experimental data are particularly relevant in light of recent evidence which shows some linkage between polymorphisms in the human TNF-alpha/LT-alpha locus and susceptibility to CNS infection and thus highlight such cytokine pathways as promising therapeutic targets for the management of certain CNS diseases. Judging by the significant advances that have been made recently in the field of cytokine neurobiology, and the currently explosive development of transgenic and gene mutant mouse models with which to probe the cellular and molecular mechanisms of TNF-alpha and LT-alpha action within the CNS, we can look forward to shortly understanding more precisely the important and diverse roles that these cytokines play in CNS health and disease.

The effects of 7-[[4-[bis(4-fluorophenyl)-methyl]-1-piperazinyl]methyl] -2-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino] 4-(1-methylethyl)-2,4,6-cycloheptatrien-1-one (U-92032), a newly described Ca2+ channel blocker, on voltage-gated ionic currents were measured. Whole cell voltage-clamp records were obtained from acutely isolated CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons from 7- to 14-day-old rats. Dimethyl sulfoxide, at either 0.01% or 0.1%, partially inhibited T-type Ca2+ currents (approximately 20% inhibition) but not high-voltage-activated (HVA) Ca2+ currents. Ethanol (0.2%) did not affect Ca2+ currents. U-92032 selectively inhibited T-type Ca2+ currents (median inhibiting concentration approximately 500 nM). HVA Ca2+ currents were less sensitive, with approximately 75% of the current resistant at 10 microM. Inhibition of Ca2+ currents was reversible. U-92032 inhibited Na+ currents at concentrations similar to those required for T-type currents (&gt; 33% block at 1 microM). Block of Na+ currents took several minutes to develop and was irreversible. Voltage-gated K+ currents were insensitive to U-92032 (1 or 10 microM). These results indicate that U-92032 inhibits both T-type Ca2+ channels and Na+ channels, constraining its utility in certain studies. Among Ca2+ channels, however, U-92032 should prove a useful tool for distinguishing physiological contributions of T-type channels.
Nonsimultaneous two-tone interactions were studied in the primary auditory cortex of anesthetized cats. Poststimulatory effects of pure tone bursts (masker) on the evoked activity of a fixed tone burst (probe) were investigated. The temporal interval from masker onset to probe onset (stimulus onset asynchrony), masker frequency, and intensity were parametrically varied. For all of the 53 single units and 58 multiple-unit clusters, the neural activity of the probe signal was either inhibited, facilitated, and/or delayed by a limited set of masker stimuli. The stimulus range from which forward inhibition of the probe was induced typically was centered at and had approximately the size of the neuron's excitatory receptive field. This &quot;masking tuning curve&quot; was usually V shaped, i.e., the frequency range of inhibiting masker stimuli increased with the masker intensity. Forward inhibition was induced at the shortest stimulus onset asynchrony between masker and probe. With longer stimulus onset asynchronies, the frequency range of inhibiting maskers gradually became smaller. Recovery from forward inhibition occurred first at the lower- and higher-frequency borders of the masking tuning curve and lasted the longest for frequencies close to the neuron's characteristic frequency. The maximal duration of forward inhibition was measured as the longest period over which reduction of probe responses was observed. It was in the range of 53-430 ms, with an average of 143 +/- 71 (SD) ms. Amount, duration and type of forward inhibition were weakly but significantly correlated with &quot;static&quot; neural receptive field properties like characteristic frequency, bandwidth, and latency. For the majority of neurons, the minimal inhibitory masker intensity increased when the stimulus onset asynchrony became longer. In most cases the highest masker intensities induced the longest forward inhibition. A significant number of neurons, however, exhibited longest periods of inhibition after maskers of intermediate intensity. The results show that the ability of cortical cells to respond with an excitatory activity depends on the temporal stimulus context. Neurons can follow higher repetition rates of stimulus sequences when successive stimuli differ in their spectral content. The differential sensitivity to temporal sound sequences within the receptive field of cortical cells as well as across different cells could contribute to the neural processing of temporally structured stimuli like speech and animal vocalizations.
The effects of activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) on synaptic inputs to magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus (SON) were studied with the use of whole cell patch-clamp and microelectrode recordings in acute hypothalamic slices. Application of the mGluR agonist trans-(+/-)-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentane dicarboxylic acid (trans-ACPD, 100 microM) elicited an increase in the frequency of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in 20% of the cells, and of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) in 50% of the cells tested in normal medium. The increased frequency of spontaneous EPSPs/EPSCs and IPSPs/IPSCs was blocked by tetrodotoxin (TTX), indicating that mGluRs act to excite the somata/dendrites of presynaptic glutamatergic and GABAergic neurons. (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (50 microM), a selective group I receptor agonist, mimicked the presynaptic somatic/dendritic effects of trans-ACPD, suggesting that the presynaptic somatic/dendritic receptors responsible for increased spike-dependent glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release belong to the group I mGluRs. In the presence of TTX, trans-ACPD caused a decrease in the frequency of miniature EPSCs (up to 90%) in 13 of 16 cells, and a decrease in the frequency of miniature IPSCs (up to 80%) in 10 of 16 cells tested. Miniature EPSC and IPSC amplitudes usually did not change in trans-ACPD, suggesting that activation of metabotropic receptors located at presynaptic glutamatergic and GABAergic terminals led to a reduction in transmitter release onto SON magnocellular neurons. L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (100-250 microM), a selective group III receptor agonist, mimicked the effects of trans-ACPD at presynaptic terminals, decreasing the frequency of miniature EPSCs and IPSCs by up to 85% without affecting their amplitude. Thus the metabotropic receptors at presynaptic glutamate and GABA terminals in the SON belong to group III mGluRs. EPSCs evoked by electrical stimulation were enhanced by the group III receptor antagonist (S)-2-amino-2-methyl-4-phosphonobutanoic acid, suggesting that presynaptic metabotropic receptors are activated by the release of endogenous glutamate. These data indicate that mGluRs in the hypothalamus have opposing actions at presynaptic somata/dendrites and at presynaptic terminals. Activation of group I receptors (mGluR1 and/or mGluR5) on presynaptic somata/dendrites led to an increase in spike-dependent transmitter release, whereas activation of the group III receptors (mGluR4, 7, and/or 8) on presynaptic terminals suppressed glutamate and GABA release onto SON neurons. No differences were seen in the effects of mGluR activation between immunohistochemically identified oxytocin and vasopressin neurons of the SON.
Auditory experience is critical for vocal learning in songbirds as in humans. Therefore, in a search for neural mechanisms for song learning and recognition, the auditory response properties of neurons in the anterior forebrain (AF) pathway of the songbird brain were investigated. This pathway plays an essential but poorly understood role during the period of song development when auditory feedback is most crucial. Single-unit recordings demonstrated that both the lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (LMAN) and Area X (X) contain auditory neurons in adult male finches. These neurons are strongly selective for both spectral and temporal properties of song; they respond more robustly to the bird's own song (BOS) than to songs of conspecific individuals, and they respond less well to the BOS if it is played in reverse. In addition, X neurons are more broadly responsive than LMAN neurons, suggesting that responses to song become progressively more refined along this pathway. Both X and LMAN of young male finches early in the process of song learning (30-45 d old) also contain song-responsive auditory neurons, but these juvenile neurons lack the song and order selectivity present in adult birds. The spectral and temporal selectivity of the adult AF auditory neurons therefore arises during development in neurons that are initially broadly song-responsive. These neurons provide one of the clearest examples of experience-dependent acquisition of complex stimulus selectivity. Moreover, the auditory properties of the AF circuit suggest that one of its functions may be to mediate the auditory learning and feedback so essential to song development.
In Caenorhabditis elegans necrosis-like neuronal death is induced by gain-of-function (gf) mutations in two genes, mec-4 and deg-1, that encode proteins similar to subunits of the vertebrate amiloride-sensitive epithelial Na+ channel. We have determined the progress of cellular pathology in dying neurons via light and electron microscopy. The first detectable abnormality is an infolding of the plasma membrane and the production of small electron-dense whorls. Later, cytoplasmic vacuoles and larger membranous whorls form, and the cell swells. More slowly, chromatin aggregates and the nucleus invaginates. Mitochondria and Golgi are not dramatically affected until the final stages of cell death when organelles, and sometimes the cells themselves, lyse. Certain cells, including some muscle cells in deg-1 animals, express the abnormal gene products and display a few membrane abnormalities but do not die. These cells either express the mutant genes at lower levels, lack other proteins needed to form inappropriately functioning channels, or are better able to compensate for the toxic effects of the channels. Overall, the ultrastructural changes in these deaths suggest that enhanced membrane cycling precedes vacuolation and cell swelling. The pathology of mec-4(gf) and deg-1(gf) cells shares features with that of genetic disorders with alterations in channel subunits, such as hypokalemic periodic paralysis in humans and the weaver mouse, and with degenerative conditions, e.g., acute excitotoxic death. The initial pathology in all of these conditions may reflect attempts by affected cells to compensate for abnormal membrane proteins or functions.
In order to transfer exogenous DNA into embryonic cortical cells, we have chosen a transfection technique using a synthetic lipospermine (dipalmitoylphosphatidylethanolamylspermine, DPPES) which complexes DNA molecules and allows their penetration into the intracellular compartment. The procedure was optimized after testing several parameters: DPPES/DNA ratio, incubation time, kinetics of transgene expression, and growth medium. The protocol was achieved by following the expression of the E. coli LacZ reporter gene under the control of the cytomegalovirus promoter. The lipopolyamine-mediated transfection is efficient for terminally differentiated cells, since we routinely obtained transfection efficiencies of 30% for neurons.
The purpose of this study, which was based on Ajzen's theory of planned behavior, was to determine the extent to which personal attitudes, subjective norms and perceptions of behavioral control influence the intentions of nurses to care for persons with HIV/AIDS. Questionnaires measuring the concepts of attitudes, subjective norms, perceived behavioral control and intention to care for persons with HIV/AIDS were completed by 368 members of a neuroscience nursing organization. Hierarchial regression analysis was used to determine if nurses' intentions were predicted by their attitudes and subjective norms, and if perceived behavioral control would add to the prediction. Attitudes accounted for a significant percent of variance when entered at the first step, and perceived behavioral control accounted for a significant increase in variance when entered at the second step. In the final model, only perceived behavioral control contributed significantly to the prediction of intention.
As the average life expectancy increases, older adults will be living longer with chronic illnesses. Health promotion is a multidimensional concept that applies to all individuals regardless of age of disability. As the needs of healthcare consumers change, neuroscience nurses are challenged to redefine health, aging, disability and health promotion. Strategies are needed to expand the knowledge base of health promotion including research, partnerships and communication.
Age-dependent changes in the expression of Na,K-ATPase alpha 1- and alpha 3-mRNAs were analyzed in the rat cerebellum by in situ hybridization. In young rats, alpha 1-mRNA showed prominent labeling in the granular layer (GL) with moderate fine distribution in the molecular layer (ML), Purkinje cell layer (PCL), and white matter (WM) but no clusters over Purkinje cells (PCs). In old rats, alpha 1-mRNA remained unchanged in ML and PCL, but declined by 43% (P &lt; 0.0001) in GL and increased by 624% (P &lt; 0.0001) in WM. alpha 3-mRNA in young rats showed large clusters of label on stellate, basket, Golgi, and PCs and fine grains diffusely in ML, GL, and WM. In old rats, alpha 3-mRNA declined by 87% in ML, 83% in PCL, 84% per PC, and 89% in GL and increased by 111% in WM (all values P &lt; 0.0001) relative to young rats. PC numbers were reduced by 30%, but the average area of PC profiles did not change significantly. In old rats, the specific cluster-like label related to alpha 3-mRNA on PCs, stellate, basket, and Golgi cells was lost. Immunocytochemistry of cerebellum and hippocampus showed no age-related change in the distribution and density of total catalytic polypeptide. Thus, the discordance between changes in the levels of mRNAs in neuronal layers and WM in the face of constant polypeptide levels indicates age-related changes in polypeptide turnover. Cell- and isoform-specificity of alpha-isoform mRNAs in aging rat cerebellum may reflect differential regulation underlying age-related impairments in signal transduction and motor learning.
The permissiveness of cat motor and sensory systems to infection by pseudorabies virus (PRV) was examined. Eight adult cats of both sexes received injections of a virulent strain of PRV (PRV-Becker) into either the diaphragm or neck musculature. Temporal analysis of the replication and transynaptic passage of virus in each experimental paradigm revealed that sensory neurons in the dorsal root ganglia were more susceptible to infection than motor neurons. Only scattered motor neurons displayed productive replication of virus at postinoculation intervals extending to 192 h whereas robust replication of virus in neurons in the dorsal root ganglia and dorsal horn of the spinal cord was apparent as early as 96 h post inoculation. The data demonstrate that functionally distinct populations of neurons in the cat are differentially permissive to infection and transneuronal transport of PRV.
1-[(3-Fluoro-4-pyridinyl)amino]-3-methyl-1(H)-indol-5-yl methyl carbamate (P10358) is a potent, reversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that produces central cholinergic stimulation after oral and parental administration in rats and mice. P10358 is a 2.5 times more potent acetylcholinesterase inhibitor than THA in vitro (IC50 = 0.10 +/- 0.02 microM vs. IC50 = 0.25 +/- 0.03 microM). It also inhibits butyrylcholinesterase activity as potently as THA (IC50 = 0.08 +/- 0.05 microM vs. IC50 = 0.07 +/- 0.01 microM). Ex vivo, P10358 (0.2 - 20 mg/kg, p.o.) produced dose-dependent inhibition of brain acetylcholinesterase activity. At 10 and 20 mg/ kg, it produced profound and long-lasting hypothermia in mice. P10358 enhanced performance in rats in a step-down passive avoidance task (0.62 and 1.25 mg/kg) and in a social recognition paradigm (0.32, 0.64 and 1.25 mg/kg) in mice. It reversed scopolamine-induced deficits in the Morris Water maze in rats (1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg) and a higher dose elevated striatal homovanillic acid levels. These behavioral and biochemical effects are consistent with central cholinergic stimulation. Hemodynamic studies in the rat demonstrated a 16-fold separation between behaviorally active doses (1.25 mg/kg) and those that elevated arterial pressure (20 mg/kg). Lethality in rats occurred at an oral dose of 80 mg/kg, but not at lower doses. Chemically, P10358 is an N-aminoindole and may not have the hepatotoxic liability associated with aminoacridine structure of tacrine. P10358 had weak affinity (&gt;10 microM) at a variety of aminergic and peptidergic receptors and uptake carriers. These properties suggest that P10358 may be a safe and promising symptomatic treatment for Alzheimer's disease.
Regulation of dopamine receptor subtypes was determined after long-term (8 mo) administration of typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs using 3H-nemonapride, 3H-raclopride, 3H-spiperone, 3H-7-hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin, 3H-SCH23390 and 125I-sulpiride in vitro receptor autoradiography. Drug-induced receptor upregulation was remarkably different across the various D2-like receptor radioligands. Chronic haloperidol treatment resulted in a strong increase in 3H-nemonapride, 3H-spiperone and 125I-sulpiride binding to striatal areas, whereas 3H-raclopride binding was marginally affected. Raclopride treatment elevated striatal binding of 3H-nemonapride and 3H-spiperone to a lesser extent, and did not alter 3H-raclopride binding. Clozapine treatment did not affect the binding of the tritiated radioligands. These differences suggest that 3H-nemonapride and 3H-spiperone are binding to an additional subset of D2-like receptors, not recognized by 3H-raclopride. 3H-Nemonapride binding in the presence of 300 nM raclopride uncovered a striatal binding site (designated as D4-like receptor), that was up-regulated after chronic haloperidol, raclopride and clozapine treatment. The 125I-sulpiride binding sites in the prefrontal cortex were also up-regulated by the three antipsychotics. In contrast, 3H-spiperone binding sites were down-regulated in the prefrontal and dorsolateral cortical area. Chronic antipsychotic treatment did not affect Dl-like or D3 dopamine receptor subtype binding.
A new way of inferring and presenting psychiatric signs and symptoms as a correlate of cerebral bioimpedance pattern is proposed. The basal principles of bioimpedance have been applied through promising techniques already developed and used. The biophysical electrical shunt model meets the fundamental criteria for static and dynamic regional extracellular fluid volume alterations and ionic density, velocity and compositional changes in the same spatial and temporal units. Bioimpedance technology applied by a suitable method can potentially utilize bioimpedance essentials to display high sensitivity and specificity resolution revealing regional extracellular iono-liquid disturbances in the brain. We suggest that the theoretical model for utilizing bioimpedance as a function for estimating psychiatric signs and symptoms may open new horizons in the neuroscience of biotyping mental disorders.
Rheb is a recently described member of the Ras family that was originally identified as an immediate-early gene in brain but is also widely expressed in other tissues. Here we demonstrate that Rheb interacts with and appears to regulate Raf-1 kinase, an essential component of the H-Ras signaling pathway. In direct contrast to H-Ras, however, the interaction of Rheb with Raf-1 is potentiated by growth factors in combination with agents that increase cyclic AMP (cAMP) levels. Protein kinase A-dependent phosphorylation of serine 43 within the regulatory domain of Raf-1 reciprocally potentiates its interaction with Rheb and decreases its interaction with H-Ras. A single amino acid in the G2 effector domain is critical for the differential properties of Rheb. Since Rheb is an immediate-early gene, our studies suggest that Rheb functions in concert with H-Ras to dynamically integrate cAMP and growth factor signaling.


Interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) is a pleotropic cytokine released by T-lymphocytes and natural killer cells. Normally, these cells do not traverse the blood-brain barrier at appreciable levels and, as such, IFN-gamma is generally undetectable within the central nervous system (CNS). Nevertheless, in response to CNS infections, as well as during certain disorders in which the CNS is affected, T-cell traffic across the blood-brain barrier increases considerably, thereby exposing neuronal and glial cells to the potent effects of IFN-gamma. A larger portion of this article is devoted to the substantial circumstantial and experimental evidence that suggests that IFN-gamma plays an important role in the pathogenesis of the demyelinating disorder multiple sclerosis (MS) and its animal model experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). Moreover, the biochemical and physiological effects of IFN-gamma are discussed in the context of the potential consequences of such activities on the developing and mature nervous systems.
Previously, a rat brain cDNA was reported that was designated alpha6 because of its homology with nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) alpha subunits, being especially similar to alpha3, but no acetylcholine-gated cation channels were detected when it was expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes alone or in combination with other known rat AChR subunits. We cloned chicken alpha6 and human beta4 AChR subunits and tested for acetylcholine-gated cation channels with alpha6 by expression in X. laevis oocytes alone or in pairwise combination with chicken alpha3, beta2, or beta4 or with human alpha3, beta2, or beta4 AChR subunits. Chicken alpha6 formed detectable functional AChRs only when expressed together with the human beta4 subunit. The alpha6beta4 AChR-mediated currents show strong inward rectification and dependence on extracellular Ca2+. It exhibited a distinct pharmacological profile with an EC50 value of 28 microM for acetylcholine, 24 nM for (+)-epibatidine, 6.6 microM cytisine, and 15 microM 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium. Both cytisine and 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium behaved as partial (approximately 30%) agonists. Remarkably, nicotine (EC50 = 22 microM) was an even weaker partial agonist (approximately 18%) and had a relatively long-lasting inhibitory effect. Coexpression of the previously cloned rat alpha6 subunit with the human the beta4 subunit also resulted in functional alpha6beta4 AChRs with properties resembling those of the chicken/human alpha6beta4 AChRs. Therefore, alpha6 can function as part of AChRs with unusual pharmacological properties.
We describe the cloning and functional expression of a cDNA encoding a novel G protein-coupled receptor, which was isolated from the central nervous system of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. The amino acid sequence predicted by this cDNA shows highest similarity with the sequence of the Locusta tyramine receptor, the Drosophila tyramine/octopamine receptor, and the mammalian alpha-adrenergic receptors. On expression in mammalian cells, [3H]rauwolscine, an alpha2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, binds with high affinity (K(D) = 2.9 x 10(-9) M) to the receptor. Of several tested neurotransmitters, octopamine (which is considered to be the invertebrate counterpart of norepinephrine) showed the highest affinity (1.9 x 10(-6) M) for the receptor. Therefore, we consider this receptor to be the first true octopamine receptor to be cloned. The ligand binding properties of the novel receptor, designated Lym oa1, seem to be distinct from any of the binding profiles described for octopamine receptors in tissue preparations. Although the pharmacological profile of Lym oa1 shows some similarity with that of Tyr/Oct-Dro and Tyr-Loc, there are also clear differences. In particular, phentolamine, chlorpromazine, and mianserine display markedly higher affinities for Lym oa1 than for the insect receptors. As far as the vertebrate adrenergic receptors are concerned, the ligand binding properties of Lym oa1 resemble alpha2-adrenergic receptors more than they do alpha- or beta-adrenergic receptors. Octopaminergic stimulation of Lym oa1 induces an increase in both inositol phosphates and cAMP (EC50 = 9.1 x 10(-7) M and 5.1 x 10(-6) M, respectively). This is in contrast to the signal transduction pathways described for the related tyramine- and alpha2-adrenergic receptors, which couple in an inhibitory way to adenylyl cyclase.
Long-term potentiation (LTP), a model of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity and of certain forms of memory, comprises the persistent enhancement of excitatory neurotransmission that results from high-frequency activation. A presynaptic component of LTP is thought to be modulated by a retrograde messenger generated by the postsynaptic neuron. Arachidonic acid, nitric oxide, carbon monoxide and PAF have each been proposed as retrograde messengers in LTP, but arachidonic acid, unlike PAF, requires NMDA receptor activation. A PAF antagonist (BN 52021) that provides neuroprotection in ischemia-reperfusion displaces [3H] PAF bound to presynaptic membranes, blocks PAF-induced glutamate exocytosis and inhibits LTP. An antagonist selective for the intracellular PAF binding site (BN 50730) did not affect LTP, nor did BN 52021 modify NMDA currents. LTP was induced with weak synaptic stimulation coupled with postsynaptically administered enzyme resistant mcPAF. Theta-burst stimulation (10 min) after bath applications of mcPAF (1 microM) induced APV-independent LTP that was blocked by 5 microM BN 52021. When this antagonist was infused into the hippocampus before or immediately after training, it impaired memory of inhibitory avoidance training in the rat. Memory was not altered if the antagonist is infused 30 or 60 min after training. Moreover, mcPAF enhances memory on retention test performance of step-down inhibitory avoidance habituation and learning in rats. Also, memory was studied using a caudate nucleus-dependent cued water maze task. Rats received an 8 trial (30 s intertrial interval) training session in which a visible cued escape platform was located in a different quadrant of the maze of each trial. Following trial 8, the rats received a unilateral post-training intra-caudate injection of mcPAF (1 microgram/0.5 microliter), BN 52021 (0.5 microgram/0.5 microliter) or vehicle. On a retention test session 24 h later, latency to mount the escape platform was used as a measure of memory. The retention test escape latencies of rats given mcPAF were significantly lower than those of the vehicle-injected controls, indicating a memory enhancing effect of mcPAF. Injection of mcPAF did not affect retention when administered 2 h post-training, indicating a time-dependent effect of mcPAF on memory. The latencies for animals injected with BN 52021 were significantly higher than those of the controls, indicating that antagonism of endogenous PAF impairs memory. The findings show that PAF plays a role in memory formation in a caudate-mediated cued discrimination task. Administration of BN 52021 2 h post-training had no affect on retention, indicating a time-dependent effect of endogenous PAF on memory formation. PAF, the most potent bioactive lipid known, modulates excitatory synaptic transmission, neuronal plasticity and memory. When PAF production is overstimulated as in seizures or ischemia, it becomes neurotoxic.
Immunocytochemical staining was performed to investigate the presence of anti-hippocampal antibodies in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n = 19), aged normal controls (n = 9), and young normal controls (n = 10). Marked staining of neurons in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus and in pyramidal neurons in CA1-3 of the rat hippocampus was observed in 5 AD CSF samples (26%), 1 aged control sample (11%), and 1 young control sample (10%). These differences were not statistically significant. One of the immunoreactive AD CSF specimens also contained high concentrations of C5b-9, the membrane attack complex. The infrequent occurrence of anti-hippocampal antibodies in AD CSF, and the detection of similar immunoreactivity in control CSF specimens, suggest that these antibodies are unlikely to play a role in the neurodegenerative process in most individuals with AD. However, elevated C5b-9 concentration in an AD CSF specimen with marked immunoreactivity to hippocampal neurons suggests the possibility that anti-neuronal antibodies may contribute to complement activation in some AD patients.
We determined the dose-response relationship and examined the time-related effect of CRF (corticotropin releasing factor) injected directly into the Median Eminence (ME) on LH secretion in conscious intact and castrated male rats. Doses of 0.25, 0.75, 1, and 1.5 nmol CRF dissolved in 1 microl of saline (or saline only in the controls) were injected into the ME and blood samples collected 30, 60, 90, and 120 min postinjection to determine by RIA serum LH. CRF at doses of 0.75, 1 and 1.5 nmol significantly decreased serum LH in castrated and intact animals. The lower dose of CRF did not decrease LH in the two groups studied. The results suggest that in males as in females, CRF inhibits by itself LH secretion, at least in part, by a central action in the ME; the inhibitory effect of CRF on LH is similar in castrated and intact males; the dose of 0.25 nmoles of CRF was ineffective in decreasing LH and finally that CRF at ME levels may participate in a variety of stress-related responses, including reproduction inhibition, through LH suppression.
Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, it has been previously shown that gonadotropes and folliculo-stellate cells in the rat anterior pituitary gland express nitric oxide (NO) synthase (NOS), and that NOS expression is increased by gonadectomy. Using the indirect immunofluorescence technique in conjunction with antibodies raised to conjugated cGMP, we have attempted to establish the target cells for NO in the anterior pituitary and to define the mediator of NO regulation. After incubation of pituitary slices with several NO donors, numerous endocrine cells, but no folliculo-stellate cells, expressed cGMP. Most of these cells stained for LH, that is they were gonadotropes. However, there were apparently cGMP-positive, LH-negative and LH-positive, cGMP-negative endocrine cells. The increase in cGMP could be virtually completely blocked by a guanylyl cyclase inhibitor. cGMP was not expressed in corticotropes, but cGMP-positive cells often contained NOS-like immunostaining. Incubation with GnRH did not result in detectable levels of cGMP. However, when castrated rats were pretreated with a potent longlasting GnRH antagonist, antide, the castration-induced increase in NOS was completely blocked. This suggests that GnRH is involved in the in vivo upregulation of NOS after castration, but that GnRH cannot induce cGMP accumulation in normal pituitary slices in vitro. Taken together, the present results give further evidence for a role of NO in the control of, in particular, LH secretion from the anterior pituitary gland in the rat.
In the spontaneous mutant Ames dwarf mouse, GH deficiency coincides with a dramatic increase in the expression of both mRNA and peptide for stimulatory GHRH and reduced expression of GH-inhibitory somatostatin (SRIH) mRNA and peptide. However, both GHRH and SRIH are markedly reduced in the dwarf median eminence (ME), suggesting that ME innervation by GHRH and SRIH neurons may be aberrant in the absence of GH. In order to test this hypothesis, the number of GHRH and SRIH ME-projecting neurons was evaluated in normal and dwarf mice using a combination of retrograde tract-tracing and neuron phenotype identification by immunocytochemistry (ICC). Adult animals were injected intraperitoneally with the fluorescent tract-tracer fluorogold (FG), which, in the brain, is taken up only by axons terminating in areas deprived of the blood-brain barrier, such as the ME. Visualization of FG was achieved by either UV illumination or ICC, and was combined as appropriate with fluorescence or bright-field ICC for GHRH or SRIH. Cells immunoreactive for GHRH or SRIH and labeled with FG were quantified at each 180-microns rostral-to-caudal level through the hypothalamus. As reported previously, the total number of hypophysiotropic GHRH neurons was markedly increased in dwarf compared with that in normal mice. However, a similar percentage of ME-innervating GHRH cells was estimated in dwarf (73 +/- 4%) and normal (76 +/- 3%) animals. Such a percentage in dwarfs thus represents a larger population of ME-projecting GHRH cells (749 +/- 53) than in normal mice (128 +/- 15). Increased numbers of FG-labeled GHRH neurons in dwarfs were located at the middle and posterior levels of the arcuate nucleus (2.08, 2.26 and 2.44 mm posterior to bregma). The percentage of FG-labeled SRIH neurons was also similar for dwarf (83 +/- 2%) and normal (87 +/- 2%) mice. Because the total SRIH-immunoreactive neuronal population in dwarfs is significantly reduced compared to that in normal animals, the similar FG-labeled percentage reflects a reduced number of SRIH cells projecting to ME in dwarf (1,376 +/- 104) compared with normal (3,192 +/- 267) mice. Fewer FG-labeled SRIH cells were found in dwarfs at every anterior-to-posterior level of the periventricular nucleus (p &lt; 0.01 for comparisons at 0.28, 0.46, 0.64, and 1.0, and p &lt; 0.05 for comparison at 1.18 mm posterior to the bregma). The present study indicates that the reduction in GHRH and SRIH immunoreactivity in the dwarf ME may result from different phenomena for each neuronal population. The reduction in GHRH immunostaining in the ME, despite a marked increase in the total ME-projecting GHRH neurons, may be interpreted as increased GHRH release, with consequent depletion of the ME stores. In contrast, the deficit in ME SRIH may be proportional to the deficit in the number of detectable SRIH periventricular nucleus neurons.
We evaluate regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in 19 healthy elderly subjects, mean age 64 +/- 11 (SD, years), during a passive visual stimulus in which pattern-flash frequency was parametrically manipulated. Using goggles with a grid of red lights imbedded into each lens, we performed five positron emission tomography (PET) H2(15)O water scans on each subject at alternating (left to right eye) flash frequencies of 0, 1, 4, 7, and 14 Hz. We found a biphasic rising and falling rCBF response in the striate cortex (7 Hz peak) and left anterior cingulate (4 Hz peak), 1 Hz activation in left middle temporal gyrus (V5), monotonically increasing rCBF in posterior areas (lateral and inferior visual association areas, Brodmann 18 and 19), and monotonically decreasing rCBF in anterior areas (frontal, cingulate, and superior temporal) predominantly in right hemisphere. We suggest the striate rCBF changes at all frequencies primarily reflect lateral geniculate input, the middle temporal activation at 1 Hz reflects perception of apparent motion, and the posterior extrastriate rCBF monotonic increase represents a neural response to increasing luminance intensity and form and color complexity that occur as pattern-flash frequency increases. The anterior monotonic rCBF decrease may represent active cross-modal functional suppression of brain areas irrelevant for processing the passive visual stimulus. Pattern-flash rCBF responses were highly reproducible (no series effect), more so in posterior than in anterior brain regions. The reproducibility and systematically changing rCBF responses to this passive stimulus suggest that it could be successfully used as a disease probe to evaluate neural function and drug effects in cognitively impaired patients.
In the scientific community, the quality and progress of various endeavors depend in part on the ability of researchers to share and exchange large quantities of heterogeneous data with one another efficiently. This requires controlled sharing and exchange of information among autonomous, distributed, and heterogeneous databases. In this paper, we focus on a neuroscience application, Neuroanatomical Rat Brain Viewer (NeuART Viewer) to demonstrate alternative database concepts that allow neuroscientists to manage and exchange data. Requirements for the NeuART application, in combination with an underlying network-aware database, are described at a conceptual level. Emphasis is placed on functionality from the user's perspective and on requirements that the database must fulfill. The most important functionality required by neuroscientists is the ability to construct brain models using information from different repositories. To accomplish such a task, users need to browse remote and local sources and summaries of data and capture relevant information to be used in building and extending the brain models. Other functionalities are also required, including posing queries related to brain models, augmenting and customizing brain models, and sharing brain models in a collaborative environment. An extensible object-oriented data model is presented to capture the many data types expected in this application. After presenting conceptual level design issues, we describe several known database solutions that support these requirements and discuss requirements that demand further research. Data integration for heterogeneous databases is discussed in terms of reducing or eliminating semantic heterogeneity when translations are made from one system to another. Performance enhancement mechanisms such as materialized views and spatial indexing for three-dimensional objects are explained and evaluated in the context of browsing, incorporating, and sharing. Policies for providing the system with fault tolerance and avoiding possible intellectual property abuses are presented. Finally, two existing systems are evaluated and compared using the identified requirements.
Methods of clinical neurophysiology are of little use for the diagnosis of headache disorders. They are, however, invaluable tools for a better understanding of the pathophysiology of functional headaches. They are traumatic, able to explore simple or more complex neural activities, and to some extent capable of reflecting activity in certain neurotransmitter systems as well as the action of pharmacologic agents on the CNS. This article reviews the interest and limits of electroencephalography, evoked potentials, electromyography, and nocifensive reflexes in primary headaches. Because neurophysiologic methods are no more than indirect means of looking into the &quot;black box,&quot; their results need to be interpreted with caution and, whenever possible, should be compared in the same study with clinical behavioral and biochemical data.
We studied the peripheral myelin protein gene PMP-22 in a large Sardinian family with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1A (CMT1A), in which the duplication commonly found in CMT1A was absent, but with evidence of linkage on chromosome 17. Sequencing of DNA and cDNA showed a missense point mutation G368--&gt;T in exon 5 of PMP22, predicted to determine a valine for glycine substitution at codon 107, which could be plotted in the center of the PMP22 protein putative transmembrane domain III. Using sequence-specific oligonucleotide probes (SSOP), we found the point mutation in all affected CMT1A subjects but not in healthy family members or in 314 chromosomes of controls, thus indicating that the G368--&gt;T point mutation is not a polymorphism. In the hypothetical model of PMP22, the amino acid at position 107 plots deeply into alpha-helical transmembrane domain III, a domain where point mutations have never previously been found. Although the same mutation was present in all CMT1A subjects examined, clinical findings showed a different stereotyped pattern in relation to the generation examined, for a progressive increase in severity and an earlier onset from the first to the third generation examined. Molecular analysis suggests that CMT1A disease in this family is due to the G368--&gt;T point mutation, although other mechanisms may account for the clinical variability in the members of different generations.
Mechanisms underlying the learned vocal behavior of songbirds were studied by examining expression of the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos (Fos) in zebra finches. Auditory stimuli including the bird's own song did not induce Fos in the song system. In contrast, the motor act of singing induced Fos in two song sensorimotor nuclei, HVc and RA. This induction was independent of auditory feedback, since it occurred in deafened birds that sang. Double-labeling studies demonstrated that only one of the two sets of projection neurons in HVc expressed singing-related Fos. The motor-driven induction of Fos identifies functionally distinct cell populations in a network for singing and may point to sites of cellular plasticity necessary for song maintenance.
Axonin-1 and NrCAM were previously shown to be involved in the in vivo guidance of commissural growth cones across the floor plate of the embryonic chicken spinal cord. To further characterize their role in axon pathfinding, we developed a two-dimensional coculture system of commissural and floor-plate explants in which it was possible to study the behavior of growth cones upon floor-plate contact. Although commissural axons readily entered the floor plate under control conditions, perturbations of either axonin-1 or NrCAM interactions prevented the growth cones from entering the floor-plate explants. The presence of antiaxonin-1 resulted in the collapse of commissural growth cones upon contact with the floor plate. The perturbation of NrCAM interactions also resulted in an avoidance of the floor plate, but without inducing growth-cone collapse. Therefore, axonin-1 and NrCAM are crucial for the contact-mediated interaction between commissural growth cones and the floor plate, which in turn is required for the proper guidance of the axons across the ventral midline and their subsequent rostral turn into the longitudinal axis.


The present study has examined the glycine/N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, R-(+)-3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolid-2-one (R-(+)-HA-966) and the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, cis-4-(phosphonomethyl)piperidine-2-carboxylic acid (CGS 19755) on the behavioural syndrome and increased hipppocampal acetylcholine efflux induced during morphine-withdrawal in the rat. Subcutaneous naltrexone (1 mg/kg) injection, 48 hr after implantation of a 75 mg morphine pellet, induced a robust withdrawal syndrome consisting of wet dog shakes, ejaculations, mouth movement, ptosis, irritability to touch and diarrhoea. Pretreatment with the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, clonidine (0.1-0.4 mg/kg), R-(+)-HA-966 (10-60 mg/kg) or CGS 19755 (5 or 10 mg/kg) significantly reduced the incidence of withdrawal behaviours. In addition, all three compounds significantly attenuated the increase in hippocampal acetylcholine efflux induced following naltrexone (1 mg/kg, s.c.) injection in morphine-dependent rats. These results provide further evidence demonstrating that NMDA receptor antagonists attenuate both the behavioural and neurochemical effects observed during morphine withdrawal in the rat.
We have previously reported that extracellular ATP causes a transient rise in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) in cultured Schwann cells derived from adult animals [Ansselin A. D. et al. (1994) Int. J. Neurosci. 74, 148]. In this study, the receptor mediating this response has been characterized. Established adult rat and rabbit Schwann cell cultures were loaded with fura-2 (acetoxymethyl ester, 10 micromol/l, 40 min, 37 degrees C). which indicated, by fluorescence imaging, a resting [Ca2+]i of 34.7 +/- 1.4 nmol/l (mean S.E., n=591). The cells were exposed to 100 micromol/l ATP, ADP, AMP, UTP and adenosine in defined medium for 1-2 min, and the change in [Ca2+]i was observed as a change in the Fura-2 ratio. Seventy-seven percent of adult rat Schwann cells (n=235) and 88% adult rabbit Schwann cells (n=356) responded to the presence of extracellular ATP (100 mmol/l) with a transient increase in [Ca2+]i (41 and 90 nmol/l from resting value, respectively), independent of the presence of [Ca2+]o. Calcium waves were observed in one experiment. The following order of agonist potency was observed: UTP= ATP&gt;ADP&gt;AMP=adenosine. The agonists alpha,beta-methylene-ATP and 2-methylthio-ATP had a small effect on the cells, similar to AMP, and were mutually desensitizing. The ATP antagonist suramin blocked the response. We conclude that adult Schwann cells express a purinergic ATP receptor belonging to the G-protein-coupled P2u alpha subtype [O'Connor S. et al. (1991) Trends pharmac. Sci. 12, 137-141].
Connexin-43 in relation to gap junctions between astrocytes and between other cell types in rat spinal cord was investigated immunohistochemically. In gray matter, connexin-43 was distributed thoughout all laminae, but was more concentrated in the substantia gelatinosa and around the central canal. Ultrastructurally, immunostaining was present in the cytoplasm of, and at gap junctions between, fine astrocytic processes, most of which ensheathed neuronal elements. In white matter, connexin-43 was localized to somata of fibrous astrocytes, their glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive processes running parallel to myelinated axons, and at gap junctions between these processes. Labelling was also evident in thick radially-directed astrocytic processes displaying pockets of staining near immunopositive gap junctions. Near the cord surface, staining was present in cell bodies of subpial astrocytes and at gap junctions between their tangential processes which formed most of the glia limitans. Radially-directed processes of subpial astrocytes formed symmetrically- and asymmetrically-labelled gap junctions with each other and extended fine branches into surrounding white matter where they made contact and often formed gap junctions with oligodendrocytic processes at the outer surface of myelinated fibres. Immunopositive astrocyte processes also made heterologous gap junctions with unstained oligodendrocyte cell bodies. Ependymal cells lining the central canal exhibited apical cytoplasmic labelling, as well as symmetrically-labelled gap junctions at their apices. Ependymal cells also formed asymmetrically-labelled gap junctions at which the junctional membranes of unlabelled cells, presumed to be tanycytes, were unstained. The results indicate the expression of connexins in addition to connexin-43 at asymmetrically-labelled gap junctions between some astrocytic processes, between astrocytes and oligodendrocytes and between some ependymal cells. The presence of gap junctions between astrocyte and oligodendrocyte processes at the outer surface of myelin suggests incorporation of the latter into the extensive gap junctionally-coupled astrocytic syncytium.
When humans voluntarily and maximally contract a muscle under isometric conditions, the average firing rate of motor units decreases from an initially high value over several tens of seconds. The mechanisms underlying the rate reduction are probably manifold. One mechanism could involve changes in the motoneuron afterhyperpolarization, another reflex effects of group III-IV muscle afferents that are excited during developing muscle fatigue. It appears possible that changes in motoneuron afterhyperpolarization are mediated by these afferent inputs. We therefore studied effects on motoneuron afterhyperpolarization of small-diameter muscle afferents excited by intra-arterially injected metabolites such as bradykinin and serotonin. In decerebrate and mostly spinalized cats, lumbosacral alpha-motoneurons were recorded intracellularly. Current pulses were injected to test for input resistance and elicit action potentials and afterhyperpolarizations. Afterhyperpolarizations were averaged from c. 10 successive stimulus repetitions. Measurements were taken of afterhyperpolarization amplitude, half-width and area; and exponential functions were fitted to the afterhyperpolarization decay phase to determine afterhyperpolarization decay time-constants. In selected cases, the entire afterhyperpolarization trajectory was fitted with a sum of two exponentials to assess more precisely changes in afterhyperpolarization trajectory. Small catheters were inserted into side-branches of the sural artery and the accompanying vein to apply substances like bradykinin, serotonin and KCl to the calf muscles. Concentrations were in the range of those used by other workers. Intra-arterial injection of bradykinin and serotonin usually decreased blood pressure, which may at times have affected mean motoneuron membrane potentials. Afterhyperpolarization amplitude usually changed with membrane potential in a way expected from ensuing changes in driving potential. Whenever excitation of group III-IV muscle afferents caused moderate to strong increases in motoneuron synaptic noise, afterhyperpolarization amplitudes were reduced, usually in parallel to decreases in input resistance. Afterhyperpolarization half-widths were mostly unaffected, but occasionally decreased. There was a significant trend for afterhyperpolarization decay time-constants to increase during increased synaptic noise, this increase being inversely correlated with the reduction in afterhyperpolarization amplitude. The reduction in input resistance was associated with a decrease in the membrane time-constant, which could therefore not account for the prolongation of the afterhyperpolarization decay time-constant. The afterhyperpolarization area decreased, indicating that the reduction of afterhyperpolarization amplitude outweighed the prolongation of afterhyperpolarization decay time-constant. During a prolonged fatiguing muscle contraction group III-IV afferents become increasingly excited, produce augmenting synaptic inputs in motoneurons, and will change afterhyperpolarization properties. On average, these changes per se tend to diminish the effect of afterhyperpolarization on motoneuron discharge.
A role has been suggested for hypothalamic alpha1 adrenoceptors in the acute stress-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. Using a polyclonal antiserum against the rat alpha1B adrenergic receptor protein, we have demonstrated alpha1B receptor immunoreactivity in neurons and especially in punctate cell processes in the rat paraventricular nucleus. The distribution of alpha1B receptor immunoreactivity overlapped in part with the distributions of c-Fos immunoreactivity induced in the paraventricular nucleus by either restraint stress or hypertonic saline administration. However, intraperitoneal pretreatment with the alpha1 receptor antagonist prazosin (0.5 or 5.0 mg/kg) failed to attenuate stress-induced c-Fos expression in the paraventricular nucleus. Prazosin also failed to attenuate the secretion of corticosterone following restraint stress. Thus, we conclude that neither acute secretory activity nor activation of gene transcriptional responses mediated by c-Fos in the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis following these stressors are dependent upon hypothalamic alpha1 adrenergic receptors.
In the forebrain of the domestic chick (Gallus gallus domesticus), an area termed the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale is strongly involved in emotional learning paradigms such as acoustic filial imprinting. Furthermore, the involvement of the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale in stressful situations, such as social separation, has been demonstrated in 2-deoxyglucose studies. The aim of the present study was to examine whether quantitative changes of dopamine, serotonin and their metabolites occur during auditory filial imprinting and during social separation. Using in vivo microdialysis in tone-imprinted and in naive, control chicks, we compared the extracellular levels of homovanillic acid, a metabolite of dopamine, and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, a metabolite of serotonin, during the presentation of the imprinting tone. A small, but statistically significant, decrease of extracellular homovanillic acid levels was found in the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale of imprinted chicks compared to control animals, whereas changes of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid were not detected. In a second experiment, we investigated the levels of homovanillic acid and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale of socially reared chicks during different stress situations, such as handling or separation from their cage mates. Handling induced a significant increase of homovanillic acid and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, while social separation resulted in a significant increase of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and only a slight increase of homovanillic acid. Despite considerable inter-individual variability, the increase of distress vocalizations (duration of distress calls) after social separation displayed a good correlation to the increased 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels in all animals analysed. These results provide the first evidence that the physiological response of the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale related to different emotional conditions after acoustic imprinting and during stressful situations is, at least in part, mediated by dopaminergic and/or serotonergic pathways. Furthermore, the results from the present study indicate a distinct activation of dopaminergic and serotonergic pathways in relation to the behavioural situation and the associated changes of emotional status.
Background and evoked activities of sensorimotor cortex neurons have been examined on learning cats with conditioned placing reaction before, during and after iontophoretic application of synaptically active drugs. It was shown that glutamate exerted not only a direct excitatory effect on the cortical neurons during its application, but also developed modulatory influences on background and evoked impulse activity after cessation of application in the subsequent 10-20 min. Adrenergic influences on the activity of neocortical neurons evoked by application of adrenomimetic drugs were complex and consisted of at least two different types. Noradrenaline depressed background and particularly evoked activity of many neurons through beta1-adrenoreceptors. At the same time, activation of beta2-adrenoreceptors was accompanied by facilitation of background and evoked activity during application and 10-20 min after its cessation, as was shown in experiments with alupent. Co-application of glutamate and alupent improved facilitation of impulse response evoked by conditioned stimuli. It was concluded that beta1- and beta2-adrenergic inputs to neocortical neurons are involved in plasticity changes of glutamate inputs of some cortical neurons.
The method of transneuronal retrograde transport of the Bartha strain of the swine alpha-herpes virus, pseudorabies virus, was used to identify putative interneurons presynaptic to motoneurons that supply a tail-flick muscle in the rat. We also investigated whether these interneurons also contribute to ascending somatosensory pathways. Two to five days after injection of pseudorabies virus into the left abductor caudae dorsalis muscle, and cholera toxin B into the right somatosensory thalamus and midbrain, rats were perfused and spinal cord sections processed immunohistochemically in a two-step procedure to stain cholera toxin B-immunoreactive cells black and pseudorabies virus-immunoreactive cells brown. At short (two-day) survivals, the first spinal neurons to be pseudorabies virus-immunoreactive were in the ipsilateral abductor caudae dorsalis motoneuron pool (S3-S4) and intermediolateral cell column (T12-L2), with a few (0 to five/section) bilaterally in the intermediate zone and around the central canal (all lumbosacral levels). With longer (three- to four-day) survival, more cells were noted (20-50/section) bilaterally (ipsilateral preponderance) in the dorsal and ventral horns of the lumbosacral cord. Many were in lamina I (marginal layer), while few were in lamina II (substantia gelatinosa). At four- and five-day survivals, the numbers of cells increased (20 to 100/section) bilaterally and now included lamina II. The fact that unilateral rhizotomy at L4-Co1 failed to change the distribution of spinal pseudorabies virus labeling suggests that the labeling was due to retrograde transport via the ventral root. In support, bilateral removal of the lumbar sympathetic ganglia, which receive their preganglionic innervation through the ventral root, reduced pseudorabies virus immunoreactivity throughout the thoracic and rostral lumbar spinal cord. These data indicate that there are (i) direct projections from intermediate and dorsal horn cells to abductor caudae dorsalis motoneurons, and (ii) disynaptic connections from dorsal horn (possibly including lamina II) cells to more ventral last-order interneurons. We also suggest that some lamina II cells are presynaptic to lamina I cells that project directly to abductor caudae dorsalis motoneurons. We observed cholera toxin B-immunoreactive cells (five to 20/section) in the expected locations (contralateral lamina I, deep dorsal horn and intermediate zone; lateral spinal nucleus bilaterally). Double-labeled (i.e. pseudorabies virus- and cholera toxin B-immunoreactive) neurons were only occasionally seen in the lateral spinal nucleus and were absent in the spinal gray matter, indicating that segmental interneurons do not collateralize in long ascending sensory pathways to the midbrain and somatosensory thalamus.
Abnormal pain-related behaviour that accompanies peripheral nerve injury may be the result of altered spinal neuronal function. The long-term loss of inhibitory function by GABA neurons in particular may be a mechanism by which abnormal neural hyperactivity occurs, leading to exaggerated sensory processing following nerve injury. In order to assess this, changes in spinal GABA immunoreactivity at several time points following constriction nerve injury were quantified in parallel with behavioural assessments of abnormal sensory responses to noxious and innocuous stimuli. In addition, the effects of spinal adrenal medullary transplants were determined since previous findings have demonstrated alleviation of behavioural pain symptoms by such transplants. In response to unilateral sciatic nerve injury, GABAergic profiles normally found in lumbar dorsal horn laminae I-III significantly decreased. The decrease was apparent three days following ligation, particularly on the side ipsilateral to the nerve injury. By two weeks, no GABAergic profiles could be seen, with the deficit appearing in the spinal dorsal horn both ipsilateral and contralateral to the unilateral peripheral nerve injury. Marked decreases in GABA-immunoreactive profiles persisted for at least up to five weeks post-injury, with partial restoration occurring by seven weeks. However, even at seven weeks, losses in GABA-immunoreactive profiles persisted in the dorsal horn ipsilateral to peripheral nerve injury. These findings were comparable in animals receiving control striated muscle transplants. In contrast, adrenal medullary transplants markedly reduced the loss in GABA-immunoreactive profiles at all time-points examined. In addition, GABA-immunoreactive profile levels were normalized near that of intact animals by five to seven weeks following nerve injury in animals with adrenal medullary transplants. Parallel improvements in sensory responses to innocuous and noxious stimuli were also observed in these animals. The results of this study indicate that peripheral nerve injury can result in severe losses in spinal inhibitory mechanisms, possibly leading to exaggerated sensory processes in persistent pain states. In addition, adrenal medullary transplants may provide a neuroprotective function in promoting recovery and improving long-term survival of GABAergic neurons in the spinal dorsal horn which have been damaged by excitotoxic injury.
The phenomenon of long-term potentiation is widely used as an experimental model of memory. An approach that has been used to study its underlying mechanisms is to analyse its interaction with presynaptic paired-pulse facilitation. Several studies found no evidence for an interaction in the CA1 hippocampal area, whereas other data, for example from quantal analysis, suggested that presynaptic mechanisms contribute to the maintenance of long-term potentiation. In the present study, initial slopes of field potentials in area CA1 were measured in rat hippocampal slices. &quot;Conventional&quot; long-term potentiation was induced by high-frequency (100 Hz) afferent tetanization of the testing input. &quot;Associative&quot; long-term potentiation was induced by combining lower frequency (40 Hz) tetanization of a testing input with high-frequency tetanization of a second input. The paired-pulse facilitation ratio decreased in the majority of experiments in which long-term potentiation was induced conventionally, but it decreased, increased or did not change after inducing associative potentiation. Decreases in the paired-pulse facilitation correlated inversely with the initial (pre-tetanic) facilitation ratio. A more detailed regression analysis suggests that this correlation results from two other correlations: (i) that between changes in paired-pulse facilitation and the magnitude of long-term potentiation, and (ii) that between initial paired-pulse facilitation and the magnitude of long-term potentiation. The first correlation prevailed during the initial 10 min following tetanization, while the second prevailed 40-60 min later. A post-tetanic decrease in paired-pulse facilitation is evidence for an involvement of presynaptic mechanisms in the maintenance of long-term potentiation. The lack of significant changes in some studies could be due to the inclusion in the analyses of experiments with long-term potentiation of small magnitude, in which changes in paired-pulse facilitation ratios would have been inconsistent. The present study suggests that the early (10-20 min) and late (40-50 min) phases of long-term potentiation were mediated by different mechanisms, with a mixture of these mechanisms during the intermediate period. On the basis of the present and previous studies, the following scheme of involvement of several mechanisms in long-term potentiation maintenance is proposed. The early phase includes two major mechanisms: an increase in the probability of transmitter release, leading to an apparent increase in the number of effective release sites, and an increase in efficacy of one transmitter quantum, probably due to an increased number of postsynaptic receptors. The later phase of long-term potentiation is attributed to an increase in the number of transmitter zones, presumably due to structural modifications.
The gene for choline acetyltransferase, synthesizing acetylcholine, is induced by several neurotrophic factors. A role for AP-2 in enhancing this transcription and limiting it to neural cells is strongly suggested. Previous studies demonstrated that base pairs +465-727 within the untranslated exon 1 of the porcine gene enhanced the expression of a reporter gene transfected into PC-12 cells. Deletion and mutation experiments indicate that base pairs +465-472 (CCGCGGGG) in the porcine gene, or +307-314 (CCTCGGGG) in the human sequence, were necessary and sufficient for increased gene expression in cholinergic or adrenergic but not liver cells. Constructs containing active sequences, but not inactive mutated sequences, specifically bind nuclear proteins from neuroblastoma cells, but not liver cells, in gel shift experiments. The human and porcine sequences are in agreement with an AP-2 consensus binding sequence, a nuclear transcription factor expressed only in cells derived from the neural crest. Gel shift experiments using recombinant AP-2 confirm this identification. AP-2 antibody further retarded the mobility of these DNA-nuclear extract or DNA-AP-2 complexes. These results support the importance of this AP-2 binding sequence in enhancing and limiting choline acetyltransferase expression in neural cells.
The degree to which growth factors act alone or in combination to influence neuronal survival during the development of the central nervous system is not well understood. In this study, we investigated whether multiple growth factors might interact to regulate the survival of developing basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in vitro, in the rat. We have previously shown that most embryonic septal cholinergic neurons grown in sandwich cultures in serum-free, completely defined medium are dependent on nerve growth factor during a critical period of their development, such that nerve growth factor withdrawal during this period results in the protein synthesis-dependent, apoptotic death of most, but not all, of these neurons. Here we report that brain-derived neurotrophic factor, acidic and basic fibroblast growth factors, and insulin-like growth factor-I applied individually in serum-free, completely defined medium, were not able either to support the development of septal cholinergic neurons from plating at embryonic day 16, or to prevent the cell death of these neurons induced by nerve growth factor withdrawal during days 14-18 after plating. We also found that the apoptotic death of developing septal cholinergic neurons induced by nerve growth factor withdrawal was not prevented by a number of antioxidants, with the exception of a high concentration (50 mM) of ascorbic acid. However, this effect of ascorbic acid was prevented when pH was buffered, and is likely to have been mediated via a proton-induced sustained neuronal depolarization. These findings suggest that in the absence of serum and other additives, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, acidic and basic fibroblast growth factors, and insulin-like growth factor-I do not interact with nerve growth factor to regulate the survival of septal cholinergic neurons during the developmental period spanned by this in vitro model. In addition, the findings suggest that the apoptotic death of septal cholinergic neurons induced by nerve growth factor withdrawal is not mediated by oxidative stress or free radical generation.
Localization of acid phosphatases was studied with the use of beta-glycerophosphate and p-nitrophenyl phosphate as substrates in the brain with special emphasis on the olfactory system of adult rat at light and electron microscopic level. With the use of beta-glycerophosphate, a selective substrate for the lysosomal acid phosphatase, lead-containing reaction product was found in primary and secondary lysosomes of neurons, glial cells and perivascular macrophages as well as in the cytoplasm of olfactory sensory axons. Incubation with p-nitrophenyl phosphate as substrate additionally revealed a cytoplasmic isoform of acid phosphatase, which could not be inhibited by tartrate or fluoride and was predominantly located in dendrites. Acid phosphatase isoforms were biochemically characterized in samples prepared separately from the olfactory mucosa, olfactory nerve layer, olfactory bulb and its dendrodendritic synaptosomes isolated by subcellular fractionation. In the olfactory mucosa and olfactory nerve layer the lysosomal type (high molecular weight form) was the most prominent acid phosphatase form, whereas the isoform located in dendrites corresponded to the tartrate-resistant extralysosomal, cytosolic type (low molecular weight form). The functional significance of different isoforms of acid phosphatase in the olfactory sensory axons and dendritic elements is discussed.
In this study, we analysed the molecular heterogeneity and synaptic localization of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 and the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptor subunit 1 in the olfactory bulb glomerular synaptic circuitry. Semiquantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction showed that approximately 40% of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 messenger RNA splice variants contain the N1 exon, which conveys specific functional properties on the channel. In other forebrain and hindbrain regions that we examined, the ratio of the N1-containing (receptor subunit 1(1XX)) to N1-lacking (receptor subunit 1(0XX)) N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 messenger RNAs varied considerably. The cellular and subcellular distribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 and AMPA receptor subunit 1 was investigated with antibodies generated against the C-terminal domain of the individual subunits [Petralia R. S. et al. (1994) J. Neurosci. 14, 667 696; Wenthold R. J. et al. (1992) J. biol Chem. 267, 501 507]. Both N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 and AMPA receptor subunit 1 were localized to the postsynaptic density of asymmetric synapses established by olfactory receptor neuron terminals with the dendrites of mitral and tufted cells. Not all of these synapses, however, were labelled. These results are consistent with the notion that glutamate is the neurotransmitter at the olfactory nerve to mitral and tufted cell synapses, and suggest a high heterogeneity in the expression of the postsynaptic glutamate receptors.
In the glomerular layer of the rat main olfactory bulb, we previously reported three chemically defined interneuron groups: GABA-like immunoreactive, calretinin-immunoreactive and Calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive groups [Kosaka K. et al. (1995) Neurosci. Res. 23, 73-88]. In the present study, we analysed the structural features of these three neuron groups using confocal laser scanning light microscopy, focusing on their dendritic arborization pattern, especially on their close apposition to olfactory receptor terminals labeled by olfactory marker protein. Each glomerulus consisted of two zones, the olfactory nerve zone and the non-olfactory nerve zone. The former was mainly occupied by olfactory nerve preterminals and terminals as well as their targets, postsynaptic fine dendritic portions of intrinsic neurons. The latter non-olfactory nerve zone was occupied mainly by olfactory marker protein-negative profiles. Processes of GABAergic neurons and those of one of their subpopulations, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons, were numerous both in the olfactory nerve and non-olfactory nerve zones, resulting in their frequent close apposition to olfactory marker protein-immunoreactive elements. Combined confocal laser scanning light microscopic electron microscopic examination revealed synaptic contacts from olfactory nerve terminals on tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive processes at these sites of close apposition. In contrast, calretinin-immunoreactive and Calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive processes, particularly Calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive ones, were distributed almost exclusively in the non-olfactory nerve zone, as if they avoided the olfactory nerve zone, showing a net or honeycomb pattern. Thus, calretinin-immunoreactive and Calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive processes were not or very rarely closely apposed to olfactory nerve terminals. These findings suggested that there might be some differences among chemically defined interneuronal groups in their synaptic contacts from olfactory nerves. Further quantitative image analysis clearly exhibited the prominent differences among these neuron groups in their intraglomerular dendritic arborization in relation with the olfactory nerve zone, i.e. the percentages of the area in the olfactory nerve zone occupied by GABAergic and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive processes were about 10%, respectively, whereas those of calretinin-immunoreactive and Calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive processes were only about 1% and 0.3%, respectively. These findings suggested that so-called periglomerular cells in glomeruli might be heterogeneous not only in their chemical nature, but also in their dendritic arborization pattern and synaptic contacts from olfactory nerve terminals.
The chemical phenotype of proneurotensin messenger RNA-expressing cells was determined in the acute haloperidol-treated rat striatum using a combination of (35S)-labelled and alkaline phosphatase-labelled oligonucleotides. Cellular sites of proneurotensin messenger RNA expression were visualized simultaneously on tissue sections processed to reveal cellular sites of preproenkephalin A messenger RNA or the dopamine and adenylate cyclase phosphoprotein-32, messenger RNA. The cellular co-expression of preproenkepahlin A (enkephalin) and preprotachykinin (substance P) messenger RNA was also examined within forebrain structures. Cellular sites of enkephalin (substance P) and dopamine and adenylate cyclase phosphoprotein-32 messenger RNAs were visualized using alkaline phosphatase-labelled oligonucleotides whilst sites of substance P and proneurotensin messenger RNA expression were detected using (35S)-labelled oligos. Cellular sites of enkephalin and dopamine and adenylate cyclase phosphoprotein-32 gene expression were identified microscopically by the concentration of purple alkaline phosphatase reaction product within the cell cytoplasm, whereas sites of substance P and proneurotensin gene expression were identified by the dense clustering of silver grains overlying cells. An intense hybridization signal was detected for all three neuropeptide messenger RNAs in the striatum, the nucleus accumbens and septum. Dopamine and adenylate cyclase phosphoprotein-32 messenger RNA was detected within the neostriatum but not within the septum. In all forebrain regions examined, with the exception of the islands of Calleja, the cellular expression of enkephalin messenger RNA and substance P messenger RNA was discordant; the two neuropeptide messenger RNAs were detected essentially in different cells, although in the striatum and nucleus accumbens occasional isolated cells were detected which contained both hybridization signals; dense clusters of silver grains overlay alkaline phosphatase-positive cells, demonstrating clearly that these dual-labelled cells expressed both messenger RNAs. By contrast, the hybridization signals for proneurotensin and enkephalin, and proneurotensin and dopamine and adenylate cyclase phosphoprotein-32 were generally coincident, at least within the neostriatum; most proneurotensin messenger RNA-positive cells expressed enkephalin messenger RNA and were also positive for dopamine and adenylate cyclase phosphoprotein-32 messenger RNA. However, occasional proneurotensin messenger RNA-positive striatal cells were identified that were single-labelled and did not express enkephalin messenger RNA. Within the septal nucleus, enkephalin messenger RNA and substance P messenger RNA were expressed essentially within segregated cell populations. These studies illustrate further the utility of co-expression techniques for investigating the chemical phenotype of cells within the CNS and demonstrate that the distribution of neuropeptide co-expressing cells is different within different brain regions. That several populations of proneurotensin messenger RNA-positive striatal cells may exist, of which one population is sensitive to haloperidol, co-expresses enkephalin messenger RNA and is positive for dopamine and adenylate cyclase phosphoprotein-32 messenger RNA may be of some significance in neuropsychiatric/neurological disorders given that the translated peptide, neurotensin, is known to influence and interact closely with the dopamine systems.
We have investigated the neuroprotective effects of the the spin-trapping agent alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone on striatal lesions produced by local injections of the excitotoxin quinolinate or the mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid. We have assessed both the behavioural and morphological consequences of the lesion. Thus, we tested paw-reaching ability and amphetamine- and apomorphine-induced rotational behaviour in lesioned rats with or without alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone treatment, and also explored the relationship between the outcome of the behavioural studies and the extent of the lesion. In the morphological analysis, we chose immunocytochemistry for dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein with a molecular weight of 32,000 as a specific marker for striatal neurons. The paw-reaching ability of rats with the quinolinate and 3-nitropropionic acid lesions was significantly impaired compared to normal control animals. Treatment with alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone significantly ameliorated the paw-reaching deficits produced by the quinolinate lesion, whereas the 3-nitropropionic acid-induced deficits were unaffected by alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone. Both quinolinate and 3-nitropropionic acid lesions resulted in a rotation asymmetry towards the lesioned side in response to both amphetamine and apomorphine. In the quinolinate lesion model, the alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone treatment resulted in a less marked motor asymmetry in response to both drugs. By contrast, alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone did not significantly reduce the drug-induced rotation asymmetry in rats with a 3-nitropropionic acid lesion. Morphological analyses disclosed that alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone significantly increased the size of the spared striatum in the quinolinate lesions, but only caused a non-significant trend towards an attenuation of the 3-nitropropionic acid lesions. The behavioural deficits were inversely correlated to the size of the spared residual striatum. The intrastriatal injection of 3-nitropropionic acid, unlike the injection of quinolinate, caused degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopamine system as well as of transverse fibre bundles of the internal capsule in the striatum, in addition to the striatal lesion. The behavioural studies revealed that the combination of multiple lesions seen in 3-nitropropionic acid-lesioned rats significantly exacerbated paw-reaching deficits and amphetamine-induced rotation asymmetry. In conclusion, alpha-phenyl-tert-butyl nitrone attenuated behavioural and morphological consequences of striatal lesions induced by local injections of quinolinate, but not of 3-nitropropionic acid. Deficits in behavioural tests of striatal function reflected well the extent of striatal lesion. The intrastriatal injection of 3-nitropropionic acid led to degeneration of both intrinsic striatal neurons and the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, suggesting that this lesion may provide an animal model of a form of multiple system atrophy rather than Huntington's disease.
We have developed an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide to the dopamine transporter and used it to discriminate the behavioral properties of amphetamine and cocaine. In SK-N-MC cells permanently transfected with the dopamine transporter complementary DNA, treatment with 5 mM antisense oligodeoxynucleotide reduced dopamine uptake by 25% when compared to sense control. Unilateral intranigral administration of dopamine transporter antisense (50 microM) twice daily in freely moving rats for 2.5 days was sufficient to reduce dopamine transporter messenger RNA by 70% as measured by in situ hybridization, but not protein levels as measured by [3H]mazindol binding. However, intranigral treatment via implanted osmotic minipump over a period of seven days produced reductions in both dopamine transporter messenger RNA and protein levels (32%) at a dose of 500 pmol/day. These results indicate a longer half-life for the dopamine transporter than expected. Potassium chloride depolarization of ipsilateral striatal slices showed a greater than 200% increase in dopamine overflow on the antisense-treated side compared to the control side. Since imbalance of dopamine tone is known to induce rotational activity, we tested this behavioral paradigm in rats treated with various oligodeoxynucleotides at different doses and time-points. We have found that antisense-treated animals did not rotate spontaneously under any experimental conditions. Using various psychostimulants that target the dopamine transporter and increase dopamine levels, we found that the antisense-treated animals consistently rotated contralaterally in response to amphetamine (2 mg/kg), but not to cocaine (10 mg/kg) or nomifensine (10 mg/kg). These results bring in vivo evidence for a different mode of action of amphetamine and cocaine on the dopamine transporter and lend direct support to the view that amphetamine acts as a dopamine releaser, whereas cocaine acts by blocking dopamine transport.
Previous studies suggest that the left and right amygdalae are interconnected in rodents. The origin and topography of these connections have, however, remained obscure. In the present study, we investigated the interamygdaloid projections originating in the different divisions of the basal and accessory basal nuclei of the rat amygdala by using the Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin anterograde tract-tracing technique. The basal nucleus gave rise to substantial interamygdaloid projections. However, the density of the projections depended on the location of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin injection in the basal nucleus. The magnocellular and intermediate divisions projected heavily to the homonymous regions on the contralateral side, as well as to the nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract. The parvicellular division projected lightly to the homonymous region on the contralateral side, to the contralateral anterior amygdaloid area and to the medial division of the central nucleus. The contralateral projections originating in the accessory basal nucleus were light compared to those of the basal nucleus. These data indicate that interamygdaloid connections in the rat brain are extensive and topographically organized. Via these connections, one amygdala may rapidly activate the contralateral side. This may explain, for example, why the epileptic seizures in one amygdala spread contralaterally and cause the development of independent seizure activity in kindling model of temporal lobe epilepsy.
The acoustic startle reflex is a coordinated contraction of the skeletal musculature in response to a sudden, intense sound. One form of startle plasticity, &quot;prepulse inhibition&quot;, is the normal suppression of the startle reflex when the intense startling stimulus is immediately preceded by a weak pre-stimulus. Prepulse inhibition is utilized as an operational measure of sensorimotor gating, and is significantly impaired in several neuropsychiatric disorders that are characterized by symptoms associated with central inhibitory deficits. In rats, prepulse inhibition is disrupted by central dopamine activation or by manipulations of limbic cortical structures including the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. In the present study, we assessed prepulse inhibition in rats after surgical and pharmacologic manipulations of the basolateral amygdala. Quinolinic acid lesions of the basolateral amygdala significantly reduced prepulse inhibition without significantly changing startle amplitude. These lesions also blocked fear-potentiated startle, which is known to be regulated by the basolateral amygdala. The prepulse inhibition-disruptive effects of basolateral amygdala lesions were not reversed by systemic injection of the dopamine antagonist haloperidol at doses that totally restored prepulse inhibition in apomorphine-treated rats. In other studies, intra-amygdala infusion of the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (0, 0.15, 1.5, 4.5 microg) dose-dependently reduced prepulse inhibition. These data suggest that the basolateral amygdala regulates sensorimotor gating by mechanisms that are independent of central dopamine hyperactivity.
Voltammetric recordings with electrochemically modified carbon-fiber electrodes were obtained from specific regions of the forebrain in rats given free-choice access to a novel environment. Entry into novelty increased the catechol signal in the medial prefrontal cortex and shell of the nucleus accumbens by more than 100%, but had no consistent effect in either the neostriatum or accumbal core. In both the medial prefrontal cortex and accumbal shell, moreover, the novelty-induced increase in catecholaminergic activity was detectable only during the initial entry into the novel compartment and did not reappear when animals returned to the familiar environment. These results support increasing evidence for a functional distinction between the accumbal core and shell, with the latter having been linked to brain reward mechanisms. The results also indicate that novelty activates, albeit very transiently, some of the same neurochemical systems believed to play a critical role in the reinforcing effects of certain drugs of abuse.
Corticostriatal neurons linking the prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens connect the terminal fields of the ascending mesotelencephalic dopamine neurons and may potentially mediate cortical dopaminergic modulation of subcortical dopamine transmission. In our attempt to develop a brain slice preparation that maximally preserves this prefrontal accumbens pathway for in vitro electrophysiological studies, knowledge of the complete course of its projection is critical. Microinjection of biotin-dextran amine as an anterograde tracer into the prefrontal cortex revealed the following in the coronal, sagittal and oblique planes of rat brain. (1) Axonal fibers from the rostral prelimbic cortex projected at an angle of approximately 60 degrees to the horizontal plane through the infralimbic region and mainly entered the rostromedial accumbens. Some also chose a ventral route to enter the &quot;core&quot; of the accumbens. (2) From the central ventral prelimbic regions, axons spread out diffusely and descended to the dorsal accumbens. They then entered throughout the rostral-caudal &quot;shell&quot; of the nucleus accumbens. (3) From the caudal prelimbic region of the prefrontal cortex, axonal fibers descended approximately 10 degrees to the coronal plane and entered the dorsal nucleus accumbens and the caudate nucleus. The denser caudate-projecting fibers gave rise to collaterals that entered the accumbens &quot;core&quot;. These results suggest that brain slices that preserve the rostral prelimbic-medial accumbens pathway can be obtained by an oblique (approximately 60 degrees) cut, whereas preservation of the caudal prefrontal-accumbens neurons necessitates a 10 degrees cut. Finally, in whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of accumbens neurons in such slices, orthodromically evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials to deep layer prefrontal cortical stimulation were observed, thus confirming the functional preservation of portions of this prefrontal cortex nucleus accumbens pathway.
Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from neurons in the substantia gelatinosa of adult rat spinal cord slices with attached dorsal root to study a slow synaptic current evoked by focal or dorsal root stimulation. Repetitive focal stimulation with a monopolar electrode positioned within substantia gelatinosa elicited a slow excitatory postsynaptic current preceded by a fast excitatory postsynaptic current in 73 of 83 neurons. A similar slow excitatory postsynaptic current was also elicited by stimulation of A delta afferent fibres. The amplitude of slow excitatory postsynaptic currents was unchanged when the recording electrode contained guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate). The slow excitatory postsynaptic current and current evoked by aspartate revealed similar reversal potentials and showed a marked outward rectification at holding potentials more negative than -30 mV, while the glutamate-induced current exhibited a relatively linear voltage relationship. In addition, the slow excitatory postsynaptic currents were reversibly occluded during the aspartate-induced current but were not occluded during the glutamate-induced current. The slow excitatory postsynaptic currents evoked by focal stimulation were depressed but not abolished by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (10 microM) or by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione together with DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (100 microM). Similarly, the aspartate- and glutamate-induced currents were also resistant to these antagonists. These observations suggest that a transmitter released from interneurons or descending fibres which are activated in part by A delta afferents, mediates a slow excitatory postsynaptic currents in substantia gelatinosa neurons and that an excitatory amino acid is implicated in the generation of the slow excitatory postsynaptic current, although the receptor appears to differ from the known ligand-gated channels. C afferents are unlikely to contribute to the slow excitatory postsynaptic current. This slow synaptic response may participate in the pain pathway and play an important role in the processing of nociceptive information in the spinal dorsal horn.
Nitric oxide mediates diverse functions in development and physiology of vertebrate skeletal muscle. Neuronal type nitric oxide synthase-mu is enriched in fast-twitch fibers and binds to syntrophin, a component of the sarcolemmal dystrophin glycoprotein complex. Here, we show that cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase type I, a primary effector for nitric oxide, occurs selectively at the neuromuscular junction, in mice and rats, and both neuronal type nitric oxide synthase-mu and cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase type I remain at skeletal muscle endplates at least two weeks following muscle denervation. Expression of neuronal type nitric oxide synthase-mu and cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase type I are up-regulated following fusion of cultured primary myotubes. Interestingly, the highest levels of neuronal type nitric oxide synthase-mu in muscle are found complexed with dystrophin at the sarcolemma of intrafusal fibers in muscle spindles. Localization of neuronal type nitric oxide synthase-mu and cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase type I at the neuromuscular junction suggests functions for nitric oxide and cyclic GMP in the regulation of synaptic actions of intra- and extrafusal muscle fibers.
Aging is associated with disturbances in autonomic cardiovascular control. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that changes in nitric oxide occur with aging in brainstem nuclei involved in autonomic cardiovascular control. The principal and unexpected finding in this study was that NADPH-diaphorase reactivity, which is considered a marker of neuronal nitric oxide synthase activity, was decidedly increased in the neuronal bodies of the gracile nucleus but decreased in the axons and axon terminals in old compared with young rats. In situ hybridization also revealed that nitric oxide synthase gene expression was enhanced predominantly in the gracile nucleus neurons of aged rats. The differences between the young and old rats were most dramatically evident in the gracile nucleus, but not evident in other brainstem nuclei. The significance of this finding as it might relate to autonomic or other specific neural dysfunction with aging is not evident at this time.
High frequency synchronized neuronal activity plays an important role in spatiotemporal processing of sensory inputs and possibly cognitive function. This activity, in the so called beta and gamma electroencephalographic frequency range is found in cortical areas and in the hippocampus. Here we show that activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors by the agonist 1-aminocyclopentane-(1S,3R)-dicarboxylate evokes synchronous 20 Hz rhythmic activity in rat hippocampal slices. Quisqualate was more potent than 1-aminocyclopentane-(1S,3R)-dicarboxylate which suggests involvement of either the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes I, V or both. The 20 Hz rhythmic activity was different from the theta-rhythmic effect induced by the cholinergic muscarinic receptor agonist carbachol which showed a dominant frequency of 9.0 +/- 0.5 Hz. The 20 Hz rhythmic activity is correlated with an increased firing rate of pyramidal neurons. The 20 Hz rhythmic activity was reduced by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline, thus interneuron activity plays a major role in the 20 Hz oscillations. The 20 Hz rhythmic activity induced by activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors represents a new aspect of synchronized activity in the hippocampus and may be involved in the binding and representation of converging sensory inputs.
The after-effects of the firing of the primary spindle endings were studied in ankle extensor muscles of cats under Nembutal anesthesia. The activities of 27 primary endings of the muscle spindles from mm. soleus, plantaris, and gastrocnemius have been analysed in various combinations of fusimotor and extrafusal stimulation and application of the mechanostimulation to the spindle bearing muscle. Short-term simulation of static gamma-axons evoked a post-stimulation increase in the spindle ending firing, which can be recorded under both isometric and isotonic conditions on applying a weak extrafusal stimulation or without it. The movement-dependent after-effects were tested with a double-trapezoid pattern of muscle length (or load) changes. The after-effects consisted of the difference of firing rates at the same values of muscle length (or load) with opposite direction of movement to the steady states; these uncertainties were also present during constant stimulation of static gamma-axons. The rate difference showed a tendency to a certain decrease with stimulation rate increment. For diapason of the stimulation rates up to 125 impulses/s a small negative correlation (r = -0.61) between the firing rate differences and the gamma-stimulation rate has been registered in the population of primary endings tested under length servo-control conditions. Using a frequency-modulated intrafusal stimulation, a clockwise hysteresis dependence of the spindle firing rate upon stimulation rate was demonstrated. The pronounced after-effects were shown to exist for steady rates of stimulation: the discharge rates were always higher after stimulation rate increase and lower after its decrease. Fusimotor after-effects were effectively destroyed by both the extrafusal stimulation and the cyclic length (load) changes evoked lengthening-shortening movements of the muscle. The results obtained can be considered as evidence for a hypothesis that history-dependent behavior of muscle spindles is mainly connected with hysteresis of the intrafusal muscle fibers and the whole spindle bearing muscle.
Neurokinin A-like immunoreactivity of dorsal root ganglion neurons innervating the kidney were studied with retrograde tracing of FluoroGold dye applied to the cut renal nerves. The proportions and sizes of renal afferent neurons with neurokinin A-like immunoreactivity were quantified in T9-L2 dorsal root ganglia from five rats. Of 240 renal afferent neuronal somata examined, 26 +/- 3% (S.E.M.) showed neurokinin A-like immunoreactivity. Compared with the overall size distribution of renal afferent neurons, those staining for neurokinin A were mostly small-sized neurons with a few medium-sized neurons. All somata with neurokinin A-like immunoreactivity were neurofilament-poor as judged by labelling with an anti-neurofilament antibody, RT97, and it is therefore likely that they had unmyelinated fibres. To examine the sites to which the renal afferent fibres with neurokinin A might project, sections of rat and guinea-pig kidney and upper ureter were examined. Fibres with neurokinin A-like immunoreactivity were found beneath and within the transitional epithelium lining the inner surface of the pelvis, and within the smooth muscle layer beneath the transitional epithelium. Epithelial innervation was found only in regions with underlying smooth muscle and loose connective tissue, and not in sites where the epithelium was closely applied to the renal parenchyma. The network of fibres was most dense towards the pelvo-uretic junction. Fibres with neurokinin A-like immunoreactivity were not seen beneath or within the cuboidal/columnar epithelium covering the papilla within the renal pelvis. Furthermore, only very few fibres with neurokinin A were observed penetrating the transitional epithelium of the upper ureter in both rat and guinea-pig. The distribution of fibres labelled with antibodies to substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in the renal pelvis was similar to that for fibres with neurokinin A-like immuno-reactivity, although a few fibres penetrated further into the fornices than fibres with neurokinin-A-like immunoreactivity. Thus, many afferent fibres in the renal pelvis may contain neurokinin A as well as substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide. These fibres may be the source of the neurokinin A, substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide which can be released by topical capsaicin treatment. In addition they may be the mechano- and chemo-receptive fibres in the renal pelvis that are known to play important roles in renal haemodynamics. The intra-epithelial position of some of these fibres in the epithelial layer suggests a possible chemosensory or osmosensory role.
Neuronal activities in the intermediate reticular nucleus and adjacent lateral tegmental field are critical for the neurogenesis of the ventilatory pattern of gasping. We report herein the anatomical features of these neurons, their axonal projections and the location of neurons providing afferent inputs. These neuroanatomical evaluations were performed by iontophoretic injection of the tracer Neurobiotin into the region of the intermediate reticular nucleus of the rat. At the site of injection, neurons having soma of 30-50 microns were filled. Labelled axons and terminals were observed in ipsilateral regions which contain neurons having established functions in the control of ventilatory activity. These regions include the nucleus ambiguous and motor nuclei of the hypoglossal and facial nerves. In addition, axonal projections extended to the contralateral region of the intermediate reticular nucleus. From this contralateral region, retrograde tracing revealed projections to the site of injection. Similarly, many ipsilateral regions which received axonal terminals from the region of the intermediate reticular nucleus had reciprocal projections to this region. These anatomical results support the physiological observation that the neurogenesis of gasping involves a synchronized activation of diverse components of the brainstem ventilatory control system.
The deep rostral piriform cortex contains a site (area tempestas) in which focal application of picomole amounts of bicuculline, a GABA antagonist, triggers limbic motor seizures which are dependent upon activation of both N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyloxole-4-proprionate subtypes of glutamate receptors. In the present study we determined whether nitric oxide can influence the local modulation of seizure initiation by bicuculline. Nitric oxide and the nitric oxide precursor L-arginine, alone or in combination with low doses of bicuculline were focally administered into the area tempestas of rats. While nitric oxide alone had no significant convulsant effect, L-arginine alone (30-240 nmol) induced brief myoclonic episodes. Nitric oxide (0.7 nmol) and L-arginine (30 nmol) markedly potentiated the seizures evoked by a low dose of bicuculline. The effect of L-arginine was prevented by focal pretreatment with an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthesis, N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester. However, N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester did not attenuate the convulsant effect of bicuculline or kainate alone when focally administered into area tempestas. The data demonstrate that exogenously applied nitric oxide or its precursors can enhance seizure triggering activity. However, the data also indicate that L-arginine-nitric oxide pathway does not normally contribute to seizure expression from area tempestas, as N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester alone did not attenuate focally-evoked seizures.
Nitric oxide synthase is co-localized with somatostatin and neuropeptide Y in a subpopulation of striatal interneurons that stain selectively for NADPH-diaphorase. We studied the ontogeny of diaphorase-positive neurons in striatal serum-free cultures derived from 15-16-day-old CD1 mice. NADPH-diaphorase staining was detected as early as embryological day 18 in vivo and day 5 in vitro. Over the next seven days the number of neurons staining for NADPH-diaphorase increased rapidly and then levelled off at about 0.5-1% of the total neuronal population both in vivo and in vitro. The cultured diaphorase neurons were also similar to their in vivo counterparts in terms of morphology and dendritic branching. Striatal neurons expressing NADPH-diaphorase exhibit similar ontogeny, morphology and neurochemical characteristics in vivo and in serum-free primary neuronal cultures. The culture system may represent a useful model for studying this important subgroup of striatal neurons.
Fetal hippocampal cells grafted into the excitotoxically lesioned hippocampus of adult rats are capable of extending axonal projections into the host brain. We hypothesize that the axonal growth of grafted fetal cells into specific host targets, and the establishment of robust long-distance efferent graft projections, require placement of fetal cells in close proximity to appropriate axon guidance pathways. Intracerebroventricular administration of kainic acid in adult rats leads to a specific loss of hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neurons. We grafted 5'-bromodeoxyuridine-labeled embryonic day 19 hippocampal cells into adult hippocampus at four days post-kainic acid lesion, and quantitatively measured the projection of grafted cells into the contralateral hippocampus and the septum after three to four months survival using Fluoro-Gold and 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine (Dil) tracing. Grafts located in or near the degenerated CA3 cell layer exhibited numerous neurons which established commissural projections with the contralateral hippocampus. However, such projection did not occur in intrahippocampal grafts located away from the CA3 cell layer. In contrast, neurons in all grafts established robust projections into the septum regardless of location within hippocampus although grafts located near the degenerated CA3 cell layer displayed more neurons with such projections. Location of grafted cells clearly influences the development of efferent graft projections into distant targets in the adult host brain, particularly access to axon guidance pathways to facilitate the formation of projections. The establishment of robust long-distance commissural projections of fetal hippocampal grafts is clearly dependent on their placement in or near the degenerated CA3 cell layer, suggesting that appropriate axon guidance pathways for commissural pathways are tightly focussed near this cell layer. However, the establishment of septal projections of these grafts was not dependent on specific location within the CA3 cell layer, suggesting that axonal guidance mechanisms to the septum are more diffuse and not limited to the CA3 dendritic layers. The results underscore that fetal hippocampal grafts are capable of partly restoring lesioned hippocampal circuitry in adult animals when appropriately placed in the host hippocampus.
The contribution of the various hippocampal regions to the maintenance of epileptic activity, induced by stimulation of the perforant path or commissural system, was examined in the awake rat. Combination of multiple-site recordings with silicon probes, current source density analysis and unit recordings allowed for a high spatial resolution of the field events. Following perforant path stimulation, seizures began in the dentate gyrus, followed by events in the CA3-CA1 regions. After commissural stimulation, rhythmic bursts in the CA3-CA1 circuitry preceded the activation of the dentate gyrus. Correlation of events in the different subregions indicated that the sustained rhythmic afterdischarge (2-6 Hz) could not be explained by a cycle-by-cycle excitation of principal cell populations in the hippocampal-entorhinal loop. The primary afterdischarge always terminated in the CA1 region, followed by the dentate gyrus, CA3 region and the entorhinal cortex. The duration and pattern of the hippocampal afterdischarge was essentially unaffected by removal of the entorhinal cortex. The emergence of large population spike bursts coincided with a decreased discharge of interneurons in both CA1 and hilar regions. The majority of hilar interneurons displayed a strong amplitude decrement prior to the onset of population spike phase of the afterdischarge. These findings suggest that (i) afterdischarges can independently arise in the CA3-CA1 and entorhinal dentate gyrus circuitries, (ii) reverberation of excitation in the hippocampal-entorhinal loop is not critical for the maintenance of afterdischarges and (iii) decreased activity of the interneuronal network may release population bursting of principal cells.
Fetal dopaminergic neurons grafted into the dopamine-depleted striatum have previously been shown to normalize neurochemical and behavioural abnormalities. However, the extent of graft-induced recovery of striatal compartments, which differ in their ontogeny, neurochemical properties and function, is still not clear. The striosome and matrix compartments of the striatum provide a segregated projection to somatostatin-containing GABAergic neurons of the rostral part of the entopeduncular nucleus and somatostatin-negative GABAergic neurons of the caudal part of the entopeduncular nucleus, respectively. In the present study, preprosomatostatin and glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA levels in the rostral and caudal parts of the entopeduncular nucleus were determined six and 18 months postgrafting in rats with complete recovery of rotational behaviour following apomorphine challenge, and in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions or sham lesions and no grafts. Sections were processed for in situ hybridization using 35S-labelled cRNA probes for glutamate decarboxylase (67,000 mol. wt isoform; GAD67) and preprosomatostatin. Autoradiographs showed a marked increase in preprosomatostatin messenger RNA within the ipsilateral entopeduncular nucleus in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, and a substantially lower increase six months postgrafting. At 18 months postgrafting, the preprosomatostatin messenger RNA levels were symmetrical within the entopeduncular nucleus. Unilateral depletion of striatal dopamine resulted in a moderate increase in GAD67 messenger RNA levels within the ipsilateral entopeduncular nucleus, along with a substantial decrease in GAD67 levels within the contralateral nucleus. By six months postgrafting, the GAD67 levels had decreased considerably within the ipsilateral entopeduncular nucleus, while the messenger RNA levels had returned to normal within the contralateral nucleus. Interestingly, at 18 months postgrafting, the GAD67 levels remained decreased within the ipsilateral entopeduncular nucleus and were significantly lower than the normal value. The results indicate that fetal nigral grafts placed within the dopamine-depleted striatum can restore the neurochemical alterations seen in striatal target areas such as the entopeduncular nucleus. This may form the neurochemical basis of graft-induced behavioural recovery, as the normalization of neurotransmitter messenger RNA levels in the entopeduncular nucleus reflects the restoration of overall activity in both direct and indirect striatal output pathways. The results also indicate that the graft-derived dopaminergic innervation restores the output of both striosome and matrix compartments of the striatum. The present results also showed a progressive recovery leading to over-compensation of neurotransmitter messenger RNA levels following grafting, perhaps indicating the importance of feedback regulation of grafted dopaminergic neurons by the host.
We have quantified the density of serotonin axonal varicosities, their synaptic incidence and their distribution among potential targets in the pars reticulata and pars compacta of the rat substantia nigra. Serotonin axonal varicosities, counted at the light microscopic level following in vitro [3H]serotonin uptake and autoradiography, amounted to 9 x 10(6)/mm3 in the pars reticulata and 6 x 10(6)/mm3 in the pars compacta, among the densest serotonin innervations in brain. As determined at the electron microscopic level following immunolabelling for serotonin, virtually all serotonin varicosities in the pars reticulata and 50% of those in the pars compacta formed a synapse, essentially with dendrites. The combination of serotonin immunocytochemistry with tyrosine hydroxylase immunolabelling of dopamine neurons reveals that 20% of the serotonin synaptic contacts in the pars reticulata are on dopamine dendrites and 6% are on a type of unlabelled dendrite characterized by its peculiarly high cytoplasmic content of microtubules. The comparison of the diameter of the dendritic profiles that were in synaptic contact with serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities with the diameter of all other dendritic profiles of the same type suggests that serotoninergic varicosities innervate dopamine dendrites uniformly along their length, whereas they tend to contact microtubule-filled dendrites in more proximal regions and the other, unidentified dendrites in more distal regions. Furthermore, the size of the serotonin-immunoreactive varicosities and of their synaptic junctions is significantly smaller on dopamine dendrites and larger on microtubule-filled dendrites than on other, unidentified dendrites, indicating that the nature of the postsynaptic target is an important determinant of synaptic dimensions. These data should help to clarify the role of serotonin in the nigral control of motor functions. They indicate that this dense serotonin input to the substantia nigra is very precisely organized, acting through both &quot;non-junctional&quot; and &quot;junctional&quot; modes of neurotransmission in the pars compacta, which projects to the neostriatum and the limbic system, whereas the predominant mode of serotonin transmission appears to be of the &quot;junctional&quot; type in the pars reticulata, where serotonin can finely control the motor output of the basal ganglia by acting on the GABA projection neurons either directly or through the local release of dopamine by dopaminergic dendrites. The data also raise the possibility that the postsynaptic targets have trophic retrograde influences on serotoninergic terminals.
While it is well established that nerve growth factor is growth promoting for sensory neurons in culture, it is unclear whether it serves such a function in vivo. In fact, our previous studies led to the hypothesis that nerve growth factor could actually impair axonal regeneration by reducing the neuronal cell body response to injury. In the present study, the consequence of continuous intrathecal infusion of nerve growth factor on regeneration of sensory neurons was examined in rats given a bilateral sciatic nerve crush. Rats received nerve growth factor (125 ng/h) as a continuous infusion into the subarachnoid space of the lumbar spinal cord via an osmotic minipump (Alzet); controls received cytochrome C. At seven or 10 days, the pump was removed and L4 or L5 dorsal root ganglion exposed and injected with 50 microCi of (3H)leucine. Animals were killed 24 h later, the sciatic nerves removed, cut into 3 mm segments and the radioactivity in each segment determined by liquid scintillation spectrophotometry. Maximal regeneration distances (determined from the front of the resultant transport curves) were similarly reduced (by approximately 6 mm) in nerve growth factor-infused compared to cytochrome C-infused rats. Thus, regeneration rates (determined between eight and 11 days) were unaltered by nerve growth factor infusion; regeneration rates from cytochrome C-infused and nerve growth factor-infused animals were 2.8 mm/day and 3.1 mm/day, respectively. However, nerve growth factor significantly (P &lt; 0.005) increased the delay to onset for regeneration by two days. Taken together, the present study demonstrates that nerve growth factor delays the onset of regeneration without affecting the rate of regeneration. The results implicate the involvement of at least two signals in the regulation of axonal regeneration in dorsal root ganglion neurons. It is suggested that the loss of nerve growth factor serves as an early, induction signal regulating the onset of regeneration and that a second, unidentified signal independently serves to maintain regeneration.
This study examined the behavioural and anatomical effects of intraventricular injections of nerve growth factor in rats with unilateral damage that included Zilles' areas Frl, FL, HL, ParI and the anterior portion of Oc2. Nerve growth factor-treated lesion rats showed attenuation of behavioural symptoms in measures of forelimb function (Whishaw reaching task) and hindlimb function (beam traversing task) as well as a measure of spatial navigation (Morris water task). Analysis of dendritic arborization using a modified Golgi. Cox procedure also showed a complete reversal of lesion-induced atrophy of dendritic fields in pyramidal neurons in motor (Zilles' Fr2) and cingulate (Zilles' Cgl) cortex. In addition, there was a reversal of a lesion-induced reduction in spine density. These results demonstrate that nerve growth factor treatment can facilitate functional recovery from cortical injury. This recovery may be mediated by a reorganization of intrinsic cortical circuitry that is reflected in changes in dendritic arborization and spine density of pyramidal neurons.
Basic fibroblast growth factor has been reported to protect neurons of various structures from excitotoxic damage. To study the effects of basic fibroblast growth factor on seizure-induced brain damage we infused the growth factor into the lateral ventricles of 35-day-old rats receiving convulsant dosages of kainic acid. Artificial cerebrospinal fluid or basic fibroblast growth factor at dosages of 0.5 ng/h or 2.5 ng/h was infused into the lateral ventricle continuously for seven days starting two days before and continuing for five days after the animals had kainic acid-induced status epilepticus. At age 80 days the animals underwent behavioural testing using the water maze, open field, and handling tests and at age 95 days were tested for seizure threshold using flurothyl inhalation. Neither artificial cerebrospinal fluid or basic fibroblast growth factor modified the latency or duration of the acute seizures following kainic acid. However, rats infused with 2.5 ng/h, but not 0.5 ng/h of basic fibroblast growth factor, had fewer spontaneous recurrent seizures, a higher seizure threshold, better performance in the handling, open field and water maze test, and less cell loss in the hippocampus when compared to rats receiving artificial cerebrospinal fluid or 0.5 ng/h of basic fibroblast growth factor. These results show that basic fibroblast growth factor has a dose-related neuroprotective effect against seizure-induced long-term behavioural deficits when administered by osmotic pump prior to seizure onset. This neuroprotective effect is not related to an anticonvulsant effect.
Central nervous system neurons and glia arise from undifferentiated embryonic neuroepithelial cells. Such progenitor cells from the human fetal forebrain can be propagated in vitro for extended periods, when grown on non-adhesive substrates in medium containing epidermal growth factor and insulin-like growth factor-1. These actively-dividing cells can be induced to differentiate into a variety of histochemically-characterized neurons and glia consistent with their forebrain origin. Electrophysiological recording indicates that differentiated neurons derived from these progenitors mature slowly, and display a range of glutamate- and GABA-mediated conductances characteristic of normal mammalian forebrain neurons. Our observations support a role for these trophic factors in normal development of the human brain. The methods described here may provide abundant normal, untransformed human forebrain neurons and glia for research and therapeutic applications.
During a conditioning stimulus, the influx of Ca2+ into neurons appears to be crucial for the induction of long-term potentiation at CA1 hippocampal synapses. We report here that extracellular Ca2+ is also required for full production of long-term potentiation during a critical period following the conditioning stimulus. In control slices, removal of extracellular Ca2+ (0 mM Ca2+/10 mM Mg2+) for 15 min eliminated synaptic transmission. Following reintroduction of normal extracellular solution, synaptic responses recovered fully within 15 min. However, removal of extracellular Ca2+ 15-30 min after theta burst stimulation significantly decreased the magnitude of long-term potentiation. A time window seems to exist for this effect, since either earlier or later Ca2+ removal was less effective. The effect of the 0 mM Ca2+/10 mM Mg2+ solution was observed in the absence of afferent stimulation, suggesting that evoked synaptic activity is not required. Perfusion with an extracellular solution containing Cd2+ (40 microM), a broad spectrum inhibitor of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels, or a low concentration (50 microM) of Ni2+, which preferentially blocks T-type, low-voltage-activated Ca2+ channels, also caused a significant decrease in potentiation, whereas an inhibitor of L-type, high voltage-activated Ca2+ channel, nifedipine (20 microM), had no effect. These results suggest that the presence of extracellular Ca2+ during a specific period after high-frequency synaptic activity is necessary for the maintenance of long-term potentiation, and that voltage-gated Ca2+ channels play a role in the stabilization of synaptic plasticity.
The extent to which glutamate receptors in the nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area regulate feeding-evoked increases in dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens was determined using in vivo brain microdialysis in the rat. In some animals a second dialysis probe was implanted in the ventral tegmental area ipsilateral to the nucleus accumbens probe. The feeding protocol involved access to standard rat chow after 18 h of food deprivation. Under these conditions rats began eating approximately 30 s after the introduction of food and consumed 7-8 g, resulting in a 50% increase in dopamine release. Application of the glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenate (1 mM) in the nucleus accumbens potentiated the feeding-evoked increase in dopamine release by 80%. Application of the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist trans-1S,3R-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid (100 microM) in the nucleus accumbens blocked the feeding-evoked increase in dopamine release. Application of a combination of the ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists 2-amino-5-phosphopentanoic acid (200 microM) and 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (50 microM) through the dialysis probe in the ventral tegmental area reduced basal dopamine output in the nucleus accumbens by 20% and markedly attenuated (by 70%) the effect of feeding on dopamine release. None of the treatments affected the latency to eat or the volume of food consumed. These results indicate that glutamatergic afferents to the ventral tegmental area mediate feeding-induced increases in dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens. In contrast, at physiological concentrations, glutamate in the nucleus accumbens appears to decrease dopamine release via actions on ionotropic and metabotropic receptors.
Chronically administered amphetamine can result in a paranoid psychosis that can be re-induced in former amphetamine abusers by psychological stressors. In an attempt to investigate the neurobiological correlates of this phenomenon, the present study examined the effects of prior D-amphetamine sensitization on regional c-fos expression induced by a psychological stressor. Rats received intermittent footshock in a distinctive environment for 30 min/day for three days. Three days after the last fear conditioning session, the animals received injections of saline or D-amphetamine (4 mg/kg, i.p.) once every second day for 16 days (eight injections in total). After a 14-day drug abstinent period, the animals were placed in the fear conditioning apparatus but without footshock. The amphetamine sensitization procedure significantly enhanced the effects of conditioned fear on c-fos expression in several brain regions. These included the cingulate cortex area 3, agranular insular cortex (layers 2 and 3), claustrum, piriform cortex, the shell region of the nucleus accumbens, medial striatum, ventral lateral septum, and CA3 and polymorphic layer of the hippocampal formation. These results indicate that D-amphetamine sensitization can have long-lasting effects on the neural circuitries activated by conditioned stressors.
Unilateral ablation of medial agranular cortex in rats results in neglect of contralateral stimuli and reductions in amphetamine-induced expression of the immediate early gene, c-fos, in both caudate-putamen and globus pallidus. Both unilateral neglect and the reductions in dopamine agonist induction of subcortical Fos immunoreactivity dissipate over a matter of weeks. Dopamine agonism induces Fos predominantly in striatonigral cells and in globus pallidus via striatopallidal disinhibition, whereas Fos is induced in striatopallidal cells by administration of antagonists of the D2 dopamine receptor subfamily. To examine more directly effects of cortical injury on striatopallidal function, induction of striatal Fos by the D2 antagonist eticlopride (0.1 mg/kg, s.c.) was examined in rats with medial agranular cortex ablation. In the same animals, eticlopride-induced Fos in globus pallidus was also examined. Five days after unilateral cortex injury, in rats showing neglect, the numbers of Fos immunoreactive nuclei induced by eticlopride were reduced by 50% in caudate-putamen and 25% in globus pallidus of the ipsilateral hemisphere. These lesion effects were restricted to dorsolateral caudate-putamen and dorsal pallidum. Three or more weeks after cortical injury, in rats recovered from neglect, eticlopride-induced Fos was normalized in caudate-putamen, but still decreased by 20% in globus pallidus. Along with previous findings, these results suggest that behavioral recovery from neglect produced by cortical injury may be at least partially mediated by normalizations of function of both striatopallidal and striatonigral neurons. In addition, the present findings suggest that normalization of function of pallidal cells activated by eticlopride is not necessary for behavioral recovery from frontal cortex ablation. Lingering reductions in excitatory cortico-subthalamo-pallidal input may be responsible for the longer-lasting dysfunctions of these pallidal cells.
In normal rats exploring a novel, complex environment, in comparison to control nonexploring rats, there is induction of the FOS protein, a marker of neuronal activity, in all layers of the striate visual cortex (particularly in the granular and supragranular layers), in the stratum griseum superficiale of the superior colliculus, and in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, as well as in all layers of the whiskers barrel field in the somatosensory cortex. A surprising finding was a selective activation of the visual sector of the thalamic reticular nucleus, in dorsocaudal parts of the nucleus. To the contrary, in visually deprived rats exploring a novel environment which would depend critically on whiskers tactile clues for exploration there was instead a selective activation of the somatic sector in central parts of the thalamic reticular nucleus, in conjunction with activation of cortical whiskers barrel field. From these results it is concluded: (1) Different sensory sectors of the rat thalamic reticular nucleus are activated depending on prevalent sensory channels used in recognition of the environment, suggesting a role of thalamic reticular nucleus in optimizing thalamocortical transmission of essential external cues to guide adequate behaviour. (2) In the awake state, the granular and supragranular layers of the visual and somatosensory cortices are more active when attention is paid to sensory stimuli that are essential for recognition of the environment. (3) The selective induction of c-fos in the visual and somatosensory cortices, and in the stratum griseum superficiale of superior colliculus of rats exploring a novel, complex environment might be related to plastic changes that have been demonstrated in these centres in rats raised in complex environments. These plastic changes are likely to be the result of target late-response genes activated by c-fos.
The cholecystokinin antagonists L-740,093, L-365,260, LY-288513 and CI988, which are all selective for the cholecystokininB receptor subtype, were examined for their ability to modulate locomotor activity induced by the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists phencyclidine and dizocilpine maleate (MK-801) in habituated rats. It was found that the locomotor effects (motility, locomotion) produced by subcutaneous administration of phencyclidine (2 mg/kg) were significantly potentiated by intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of L-740,093 (1 mg/kg), L-365,260 (10 mg/kg), LY-288513 (10 mg/kg), but not CI-988 (10 mg/kg). Locomotor activity induced by subcutaneous administration of MK-801 (0.15 mg/kg) was potentiated by intraperitoneal L-740,093 (0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg). L-740,093, L-365,260, LY-288513 and CI-988 administered alone did not alter spontaneous locomotor activity (motility) as compared to vehicle/saline controls. However, when these antagonists were administered to naive, unhabituated rats, L-365,260 and LY-288513 caused a significant reduction in motility compared to the vehicle control. These findings suggest that, although cholecystokinin may be involved in exploratory behaviour exhibited by rats in a novel environment (unhabituated rats), its role is negligible in rats subjected to a familiar environment (habituated rats). Furthermore, these results support the interpretation that cholecystokinin has a suppressant effect on locomotion elicited by phencyclidine and MK-801, and that this inhibitory action of cholecystokinin is mediated via the cholecystokininB receptor, since it can be eliminated by administration of cholecystokininB antagonists. It is suggested that the site of action of the cholecystokininB receptors involves mainly the cholecystokinin/glutamate projection from the cortex to the anterior nucleus accumbens and/or striatum. Finally, the present study provides two examples of endogenous release of a neuropeptide resulting in behavioural consequences.
The goal of the present study was to isolate, for the first time, cytochrome oxidase subunit genes from murine brain complementary DNA library and to characterize the expression of these genes from mitochondrial and nuclear sources at both light and electron microscopic levels. Brain subunit III (mitochondrial) shared 100% identity with that of murine L cells. Subunit VIa (nuclear) was known to have tissue-specific isoforms in other species: the ubiquitous liver isoform and the heart/muscle isoform. Our brain subunit VIa shared 93% homology with that of the rat liver and 100% identity with the recently reported murine liver isoform, which is only 62% identical to that of the rat heart isoform. In situ hybridization with riboprobes revealed messenger RNA labelling that was similar, though not identical, to that of cytochrome oxidase histochemistry. Monocular enucleation in adult mice induced a significant down-regulation of both subunit messages in the contralateral lateral geniculate nucleus. However, the decrease in subunit III messenger RNAs surpassed that of subunit VIa at all time periods examined, suggesting that mitochondrial gene expression is more tightly regulated by neuronal activity than that of nuclear ones. At the electron microscopic level, subunit III messenger RNA was localized to the mitochondrial compartment in both cell bodies and processes, while that of nuclear-encoded subunit VIa was present exclusively in the extramitochondrial compartment of somata and not of dendrites or axons. Surprisingly, the message was primarily associated with the rough endoplasmic reticulum, suggesting a novel pathway for its synthesis and trafficking. Our results indicate that the unique properties of neurons impose special requirements for subunits of a single mitochondrial enzyme with dual genomic origins. At sites of high energy demands (such as postsynaptic dendrites and some axon terminals), mitochondrial-encoded cytochrome oxidase subunits can be locally transcribed and translated, and they provide the framework for the subsequent importation and incorporation of nuclear-encoded subunits, which are strictly synthesized in the cell bodies. Dynamic local energy needs are met when subunits from the two genomic sources are assembled to form functional holoenzymes.
The 2-[14C]deoxyglucose method was used to map the metabolic activity in the neocortex of monkeys (Macaca nemestrina) performing a visually guided reaching task with one forelimb. Monkeys received liquid reward for correct, single directional reaching movements, which were required at a rate of about 10 per minute. We estimated the weighted average of local glucose consumption within several neocortical areas, and we reconstructed quantitative, high-resolution, two-dimensional maps of the detailed spatiointensive patterns of activity. Our findings demonstrate the involvement of the striate and prestriate cortices, the inferior intraparietal and superior temporal visual association areas, the frontal eye field and the caudal periprincipal cortex, the primary somatosensory and the related superior intraparietal area, the primary and association auditory cortices, the superior temporal multimodal region, and the premotor, primary, supplementary, and cingulate motor areas. The visual cortex in the superior temporal and the intraparietal sulci, which is concerned with &quot;where&quot;, was activated during visually guided reaching. In contrast, the inferior temporal visual association cortex, which is concerned with &quot;what&quot;, was not involved in our study. We suggest that the activated direction-selective layer four of V1 and the thick stripes of V2 convey visuomotor information to the activated cortex in the posterior bank and the floor of the superior temporal sulcus, which may encode the constantly updated position of the moving forelimb. In parallel, the activated cortex in the ventral part and the lateral bank of the intraparietal sulcus may encode visuospatial information related to the localization of the visual target in the extrapersonal space. Furthermore, the dorsal part of the medial bank of the intraparietal sulcus may be involved in proprioceptive guidance of movement, based on the parallel metabolic effects shown only contralateral to the moving forelimb within this region and the forelimb representations in the primary somatosensory and motor cortices. Finally, the bilaterally activated network including the inferior postarcuate skeletomotor and prearcuate oculomotor cortical fields and the caudal periprincipal region 46 may participate in sensory and oculomotor to motor transformations, in parallel with the medial and lateral intraparietal cortices with which this network is reciprocally interconnected.
Comparative neuroanatomical investigations in primates and non-primates have helped disentangle the anatomy of the basal forebrain region known as the substantia innominata. The most striking aspect of this region is its subdivision into two major parts. This reflects the fundamental organizational scheme for this portion of the forebrain. According to this scheme, two major subcortical telencephalic structures, i.e. the striatopallidal complex and extended amygdala, form large diagonally oriented bands. The rostroventral extension of the pallidum accounts for a large part of the rostral subcommissural substantia innominata, while the sublenticular substantia innominata is primarily occupied by elements of the extended amygdala. Also dispersed across this region is the basal nucleus of Meynert, which is part of a more or less continuous collection of cholinergic and non-cholinergic corticopetal and thalamopetal cells, which stretches from the septum diagonal band rostrally to the caudal globus pallidus. The basal nucleus of Meynert is especially prominent in the primate, where it is sometimes inappropriately applied as a synonym for the substantia innominata, thereby tacitly ignoring the remaining components. In most mammals, the extended amygdala presents itself as a ring of neurons encircling the internal capsule and basal ganglia. The extended amygdala may be further subdivided, i.e. into the central extended amygdala (related to the central amygdaloid nucleus) and the medial extended amygdala (related to the medial amygdaloid nucleus), which generally form separate corridors both in the sublenticular region and along the supracapsular course of the stria terminalis. The extended amygdala is directly continuous with the caudomedial shell of the accumbens, and to some extent appears to merge with it. Together the accumbens shell and extended amygdala form an extensive forebrain continuum, which establishes specific neuronal circuits with the medial prefrontal-orbitofrontal cortex and medial temporal lobe. This continuum is particularly characterized by a prominent system of long intrinsic association fibers, and a variety of highly differentiated downstream projections to the hypothalamus and brainstem. The various components of the extended amygdala, together with the shell of the accumbens, are ideally structured to generate endocrine, autonomic and somatomotor aspects of emotional and motivational states. Behavioral observations support this proposition and demonstrate the relevance of these structures to a variety of functions, ranging from the various elements of the reproductive cycle to drug-seeking behavior. The neurochemical and connectional features common to the accumbens shell and the extended amygdala are especially relevant to understanding the etiology and treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders. This is discussed in general terms, and also in specific relation to the neurodevelopmental theory of schizophrenia and to the neurosurgical treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders.
We report 2 children with partial epilepsy who manifested social and language regression and partial recovery after surgical treatment. One child had seizures since the first 2 weeks of life, caused by a right temporal dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor and regression in the latter part of the first year; seizures were relieved and some functions were recovered after temporal lobe resection at 12 months of age. The second child developed epilepsy at 3 years 3 months, and between 5 years 9 months and 6 years 1 month he became aphasic (Landau-Kleffner syndrome) and lost social functioning, manifesting a very severe behavior disorder. He exhibited a significant improvement in communication, social functioning, and behavior after left multiple subpial transections. Both children manifested evidence of subclinical seizure activity in both temporal lobes. Their clinical picture was one of combined language and autistic regression, and the autistic features demonstrated a clear response to surgical treatment. We suggest that in pediatric epilepsy surgical programs, autistic regression should prompt urgent investigation if drug treatment is not effective.
The immunohistochemical localization and changes in copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu, Zn-SOD) were examined in 14 neonates with pontosubicular neuron necrosis (PSN), as compared with those in 15 controls in which the cytoplasm of neurons and glial cells showed SOD immunoreactivity. In the temporal lobes and hippocampus with PSN, Cu, Zn-SOD reactivity was negative in neurons at 0 and 1 days after birth, but was positive after 5 days of age in 8 of 10 cases. In the pons and cerebellum, SOD-positive neurons appeared soon after birth, but eosinophilic or karyorrhectic neurons were SOD negative. On the other hand, glial cells were positive after birth in all cases of PSN, and their reactivity was increased in the cases of reactive astrogliosis. Early loss of the scavenging system directed at free radicals may lead to neuronal damage, and the induction of Cu, Zn-SOD may act as a defense mechanism against damage of neurons in neonates with PSN. Therefore, oxygen-derived free radicals may be one of the pathogenetic factors of PSN with characteristics of apoptosis in neonates.
The effects of sustained stress on response rate and temporal patterning (quarter-life) of rats performing either a previously learned fixed-interval schedule (FI 60) or learning an FI 60 simultaneously with stress onset were determined. Rats lived 24 h/day in operant cages, where they earned all of their food via lever-pressing. During the stress portion of each experiment, one group of rats was able to avoid or escape signalled intermittent footshock (Avoidance/ Escape Group), a second group (Yoked) did not have control over shock termination, a third group never received shock (Control). Shock trials were presented around the clock at approximately 5-min intervals and the stress portion of each study lasted 1-2 weeks. We have previously reported that rats tolerate this paradigm well and avoid/escape 99% of the shock trials. In rats previously trained on the FI task, both rate of responding and quarter-life values were significantly decreased on the first day of stress for both the Avoidance/Escape and Yoked Groups. Food intakes and quarter-life values were not significantly different from the controls by stress Days 3 and 2, respectively. In the acquisition study, controls learned the F1 task by Day 4 as judged by quarter-life of responding. FI task acquisition was significantly impaired in stressed rats compared to controls, not reaching asymptotic performance until Day 9 of stress. There were no major differences between the 2 stress groups in either study. These data demonstrate that stress may impair both the rate and patterning of behavior, and suggest that this rodent paradigm may usefully model some aspects of the effects of stress in humans.
This study investigated whether paradoxical, or rapid eye movement (REM), sleep deprivation (SD) affected spatial memory. SD was induced in male Wistar rats by housing them on small platforms over water. They fell into the water if they lost muscle tone. Controls were either housed in tanks with large platforms (TC) or in normal cages (CC). All rats had free access to food and water. Each day they were tested in a place-learning set task using a Morris water maze. The rats were released from 6 different starting points (sets) and allowed 2 min to find a submerged platform. Two trials were conducted from each starting point. SD caused a significant decrement in performance in Trial 1 from Day 2. By Day 4, when distance swum to find the platform was plotted against set, area under the curve was doubled in SD compared to that in TC and CC rats, indicating a significant impairment in reference spatial memory. There was no consistent effect on working memory, indicated by Trial 2. SD caused weight loss and increased serum corticosterone compared to that in CC rats. There were no differences in concentrations of hypothalamic, hippocampal, or cortical catecholamines or their metabolites. Serotonin metabolism was elevated in the hypothalamus and hippocampus in SD rats. These results indicate that SD induced in rats housed on small platforms causes a substantial impairment of reference memory. The memory deficit may not be specific to SD because the rats are physically stressed and lose some nonREM sleep when housed in these conditions.

The possibility that pregnancy-specific beta1 glycoprotein (PSG) is released by Sertoli cells was investigated by using reverse hemolytic plaque assays which enable the visualization of release from individual cells in culture. We found that the proportions of cells releasing PSG increased gradually in 3-day old cultures prepared from animals of increasing age (10-, 20-, and 40-day old animals). The gradual appearance of PSG-releasing cells during this period differed markedly from that of transferrin (TF)-releasing cells, suggesting that the age-related development of PSG-releasing cells is regulated in a specific manner. PSG cells were also found in Sertoli cell cultures prepared from stage-associated seminiferous tubule segments of adult rat testes. The percentages of PSG plaque-forming cells differed from one stage-associated culture to another with maximal proportions associated with stages III-V and XIII, and minimal proportions found in stages VII, and IX-XI. The abundance of Sertoli cells that released PSG from stage to stage differed markedly from those that released TF indicating that modulatory processes specific for PSG are also present in the adult testis. Finally, PSG cells were also identified immunocytochemically in cultures prepared from staged tubule segments. The proportion of PSG staining cells from stage to stage were found to be virtually indistinguishable from those identified with plaque assays. When taken together, these results show clearly that Sertoli cells in culture release a PSG-like molecule. Moreover, this release appears to be controlled in an age-related and stage-dependent manner, suggesting that Sertoli cells may be central to PSG function in the testis.
1. The MPCD method in freely moving rats is a new neuroscience technique. It is able to detect the location-specific firing of hippocampal place cells, and to deliver, via microdialysis, various drug solutions into the extracellular environment of the detected neurons. Place cells are critical elements of the neural system in brain which governs cognitive processes. It is emphasized in this article that effective cognition enhancer drugs must selectively and significantly affect the firing of these cells. 2. By using MPCD, it is possible to recognize drug combinations which can increase the location-specific firing of place cells to an optimal level. This paper proposes that such pharmacological action facilitates engram-creation in extrahippocampal cortical areas, improving cognitive functions. Thus, an MPCD-based research strategy may lead to the rational development of a new generation of cognition enhancer drugs for the treatment of learning and memory disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Data from animal studies suggest a functional relationship between the cholecystokinin-ergic (CCK) and the serotonergic (5-HT) system. There is increasing evidence that the cholecystokinin-4 (CCK4) challenge test could be a valid experimental model for panic attacks in man. The aim of the present study is twofold; 1) to validate this model further and 2) to shed more light on the putative CCK/5-HT interaction. To this end, we studied the effect of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluvoxamine on CCK4-induced panic attacks. Twenty-six panic disorder (PD) patients received, before and after a double blind 8-week treatment period with fluvoxamine (n = 17) or placebo (n = 9), a single blind bolus injection with 50 micrograms CCK4. Treatment with fluvoxamine (150 mg daily) significantly decreased the sensitivity of PD patients for CCK4 while placebo was without effect. Of the patients who responded to treatment, 83% no longer experienced a panic attack when rechallenged with CCK4, whereas in the non-responders group this was only 28%. In the fluvoxamine group the treatment response evaluated by the Hamilton Anxiety Scale (HAS) showed a statistically significant treatment effect. The results of this study strengthen the validity of the CCK4 test as an experimental human model for panic attacks and yield evidence supporting the hypothesis that both CCK and serotonin are implicated in the regulation of anxiety.
There is increasing evidence that the rewarding effect of nicotine is mediated by the mesolimbic dopamine system. The first objective of this study was to examine the dopamine response to repeated i.v. infusions of nicotine. Using in vivo microdialysis in awake and freely moving male Sprague-Dawley rats, we demonstrated that i.v. nicotine infusions (0.16 mg/kg or 0.32 mg/kg per infusion) produced increases in extracellular dopamine levels that were dose- and infusion order-dependent. Acute tolerance was evidenced by the smaller dopamine response produced by a second infusion of nicotine, administered 1 h after the first one. Tolerance was reversible, since the dopamine response to a second infusion of nicotine was unchanged when the interval between the infusions was increased to 3 h. Ibogaine, an alkaloid found in Tabernanthe iboga, is claimed to decrease smoking and to have an anti-nicotinic action. The second objective of this study was to establish whether this claim has any neurochemical basis. Pretreatment with ibogaine (40 mg/kg, i.p.) 19 h prior to the first nicotine infusion (0.32 mg/kg per infusion) significantly attenuated the increase in extracellular dopamine levels induced by-the nicotine infusions, suggesting that ibogaine may decrease the rewarding effect of nicotine.
The effects of the cholecystokinin-B (CCK-B) receptor antagonist CI-988 on symptoms elicited by the cholecystokinin tetrapeptide (CCK4) were studied in DSM-IIIR patients with panic disorder. The study employed a double-blind, two-period incomplete block design. Patients (n = 14) received two different dosages of CI-988 (50 mg or 100 mg) or placebo 2 h prior to an IV bolus injection of CCK4 (20 micrograms) on two separate occasions. The primary efficacy parameter was the total intensity score on the Panic Symptoms Scale (PSS). Secondary parameters were the number of panic symptoms, time to and occurrence of the first panic symptoms, duration of symptoms, intensity of apprehension and the percentage of patients who did not have a panic attack. The PSS failed to show a statistically significant treatment effect on any of these outcome measures. The average panic rate was 50%, 14.3% and 37.5% after placebo, 50 and 100 mg CI-988, respectively. The differences in panic rate were not statistically significant. The results of this study suggest that CI-988 in doses up to 100 mg is not effective in reducing symptoms of panic anxiety induced by CCK4.

The national trends and our regional experience of the utilization of complementary therapies suggest that a significant number of our patients will continue to employ remedies that are outside the mainstream of what has been defined as conventional Western medicine. The data obtained from our survey is very consistent with the national survey published in 1993. Indeed the national interest in alternative/complementary therapies seems to be growing. A recent newspaper article from Minneapolis noted that Allina, one of Minnesota's largest hospital and HMO systems, found, in a 1995 survey, that two-thirds of surveyed households had a least one member who had used some type of alternative or holistic care over the prior two year period. Certainly continued study of the safety and efficacy of alternative/complementary therapies is warranted. This work is being done on many fronts, including the Office of Alternative Medicine at the National Institutes of Health. A most important aspect of such investigations is to improve the understanding of why patients choose these unconventional remedies. For many patients, the answer is simple. They believe these alternative treatments work. For such patients, alternative therapies may constitute a practical way to move from the sterile &quot;high tech&quot; realm of traditional medicine to a more intimate, &quot;high touch&quot; intervention offered by non-physicians. In the end, physicians' most pressing mandate is &quot;to be of use&quot; to patients in their struggles with illness, disability, and impending death. None of us have all the answers, and the studies alluded to in this essay suggest that a significant segment of the population yearns for interventions that have been traditionally outside the practice of most physicians and nurses. The data from our survey corroborates the high utilization rate of alternative/complementary therapies, regionally and is consistent with national data. Our challenge, as caregivers, is to appropriately respond to the notable prevalence of alternative health practices and to the complex societal factors which nurture this usage.
In this study, we examined the effect of the acute and chronic administration of the selective neurokinin2 (NK2) receptor antagonist SR 48968 on the activity of spontaneously active dopamine (DA) cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNC) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) in anesthetized, male rats. This was accomplished using the technique of in vivo, extracellular single cell recording. The intravenous (i.v.) administration of SR 48968 (10-1280 micrograms/kg) did not significantly alter the basal firing rate or pattern of either spontaneously active SNC or VTA DA neurons compared to control. However, the acute administration of 1 mg/kg, i.p., of SR 48968, but not its inactive enantiomer SR 48965, produced a significant increase in the number of spontaneously active DA cells in the SNC (48%) and VTA (28%) compared to vehicle controls. The i.p. administration of SR 48968 did not alter the basal firing pattern of either SNC or VTA DA neurons compared to vehicle controls. The pretreatment of animals with 1 mg/kg, i.p., of SR 48968 significantly potentiated the suppressant action of (+)-apomorphine on spontaneously active SNC and VTA DA cells. In contrast to its acute effects, the administration of 1 mg/kg, i.p. of SR 48968 once daily for 21 days produced a significant decrease in the number of spontaneously active DA cells in the SNC and VTA. The decrease in the number of spontaneously active VTA DA cells was not reversed by (+)-apomorphine administration in fact, a further decrease in the number of VTA DA cells was observed. This suggests that the SR 48968-induced decrease in the number of spontaneously active DA neurons may not be the result of depolarization block. Overall, these results suggest that the acute and chronic administration of SR 48968 alters the number of spontaneously active midbrain DA neurons in anesthetized rats.




We address a surprising result in a previous study of speed discrimination with multiple moving gratings: discrimination thresholds decreased when the number of stimuli was increased, but remained unchanged when the area of a single stimulus was increased [Verghese &amp; Stone (1995). Vision Research, 35, 2811-2823]. In this study, we manipulated the spatial- and phase relationship between multiple grating patches to determine their effect on speed discrimination thresholds. In a fusion experiment, we merged multiple stimulus patches, in stages, into a single patch. Thresholds increased as the patches were brought closer and their phase relationship was adjusted to be consistent with a single patch. Thresholds increased further still as these patches were fused into a single patch. In a fission experiment, we divided a single large patch into multiple patches by superimposing a cross with luminance equal to that of the background. Thresholds decreased as the large patch was divided into quadrants and decreased further as the quadrants were maximally separated. However, when the cross luminance was darker than the background, it was perceived as an occluder and thresholds, on average, were unchanged from that for the single large patch. A control experiment shows that the observed trend in discrimination thresholds is not due to the differences in perceived speed of the stimuli. These results suggest that the parsing of the visual image into entities affects the combination of speed information across space, and that each discrete entity effectively provides a single independent estimate of speed.
Pulsed magnetic fields (patent pending) consisting of approximately 100 microT (peak), frequency modulated, extremely low frequency magnetic fields (ELFMF) were shown to induce a significant degree of antinociception ('analgesia') in the land snail Cepaea nemoralis. Fifteen minute exposures to a specific magnetic field both increased enkephalinase inhibitor induced opioid analgesia and induced analgesia in untreated snails. Injection of the prototypic opioid antagonist naloxone, attenuated, but did not completely block, the pulsed magnetic field induced analgesia. Two other pulsed waveform designs failed to induce analgesia in untreated snails. These findings suggest that specific magnetic field exposure designs may be tailored to produce significant behavioral effects including, but certainly not limited to, the induction of analgesia.
We have studied the effect of overexpressing either wild-type or an Alzheimer's disease mutant Presenilin 1 (PS1) on tau phosphorylation in transfected Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) and COS cells. Tau transfected into these cells is predominantly non-phosphorylated at many PHF-tau sites but co-transfection with the tau kinase glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3 beta) induces phosphorylation that generates epitopes for several phosphorylation-dependent antibodies. Co-transfection of tau with either wild-type or mutant PS1 did not alter tau phosphorylation as detected by five different antibodies. Likewise, co-transfection of the PS1s did not influence GSK-3 beta-mediated tau phosphorylation. The implications of these results for the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease are discussed.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor mediates synaptic transmission and plasticity in the central nervous system (CNS) and is regulated by tyrosine phosphorylation. In membrane patches excised from mammalian central neurons, the endogenous tyrosine kinase Src was shown to regulate the activity of NMDA channels. The action of Src required a sequence [Src(40-58)] within the noncatalytic, unique domain of Src. In addition, Src coprecipitated with NMDA receptor proteins. Finally, endogenous Src regulated the function of NMDA receptors at synapses. Thus, NMDA receptor regulation by Src may be important in development, plasticity, and pathology in the CNS.
By means of anterograde tracing of Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) it was determined if parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons in the basal forebrain receive a direct synaptic input from the A9-A10 dopaminergic nuclei of the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. Forebrain sections were processed for immunocytochemical detection of PHA-L and parvalbumin (PV) at light and electron microscopic levels. At the ultrastructural level, PHA-L-labeled terminals were found to establish synaptic contacts with PV-immunoreactive neuronal somata in the ventromedial globus pallidus, the ventral pallidum, the internal capsule, and the substantia innominata. PV-containing neurons in pallidal and adjacent basal forebrain territories are thus directly targeted by presumably A9-A10 dopaminergic neurons and represent a novel aspect of midbrain dopaminergic control of basal forebrain neuronal activity.
Astroglial and microglial reactions in the dorsal and ventral horns of the adult rat spinal cord were studied after graded electrical stimulation of the rat sciatic nerve and after topical application of mustard oil to the hindlimb foot. Antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein and complement receptor 3 (OX-42) were used as markers for astroglia and microglia, respectively. The results showed that electrical nerve stimulation resulted in increased immunoreactivity for GFAP and OX-42 in the spinal cord dorsal and ventral horns only after the use of stimulation strengths which were associated with nerve fiber degeneration in the stimulated nerve. Application of mustard oil to the foot caused no changes in GFAP or OX-42 immunoreactivity. These findings indicate that peripheral nerve stimulation in itself is insufficient to induce astroglial and microglial responses in the spinal cord. The signal(s) mediating these responses, regularly seen after nerve injury, are therefore most probably not related to the afferent barrage of action potentials evoked by the injury.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has been shown to increase dopaminergic parameters in vitro and in vivo and can reduce parkinsonian behaviors in animal models of the disease. This study determined the potential of the lateral ventricle as an administration route for GDNF by examining the distribution and neurochemical consequences of a single intraventricular injection. Autoradiographic analysis showed that intraventricularly administered [125I]GDNF was distributed throughout the ventricular system at 1 and 24 h following injection. The cerebral cortex, septum, diagonal band, fimbria, striatum, hippocampus, hypothalamus, substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area, and cerebellum were also labeled. At 7 days, there was still labeling throughout the ventricular system, hypothalamus, substantia nigra, and cerebellum. Twenty-four hours following an intrastriatal injection of [125I]GDNF, label was observed in the substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area, demonstrating retrograde transport. The neurochemical effects of intraventricularly administered GDNF (0.1-100 micrograms) at 7 days post injection were also examined. GDNF significantly increased striatal (approximately 28%) and nigral (up to 40%) dopamine, as well as regulated the dopamine metabolites homovanillic acid and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. Dopamine levels were unchanged in the frontal cortex. Dopamine content was significantly increased in the hypothalamus (up to 35%), an increase which may contribute to the inhibition of weight gain seen after administration of GDNF. Additionally, dopamine turnover was decreased or unchanged across the brain regions analyzed, which may indicate that in unlesioned rats, intraventricularly administered GDNF stimulates the synthesis and storage of dopamine. This study shows that intraventricularly injected GDNF can access basal ganglia structures, most notably the midbrain dopamine cell body region, and remains present in this area for at least 7 days following a single administration. GDNF differentially increases dopaminergic tone within a variety of brain structures, including the nigrostriatal pathway. These data support the potential effectiveness of intraventricular administered GDNF as a treatment for Parkinson's disease.
Nude mice inoculated with human pancreatic cancer (BxPC-3) cells and receiving 5 mg/kg of opioid growth factor ([Met5]enkephalin; OGF) three times daily exhibited a marked retardation in tumorigenicity compared to animals injected with sterile water (controls). OGF-treated animals had a delay of 43% in initial tumor appearance compared to control subjects (10.6 days). At the time when all of the control mice had tumors, 62% of the mice in the OGF group had no signs of neoplasia. Tumor tissue excised from mice after 30 days was assayed for levels of [Met5]enkephalin and zeta opioid receptors. Tumor tissue levels of [Met5]enkephalin were 24-fold greater in OGF-treated mice than controls, but plasma levels of OGF were 8.6-fold lower in animals receiving OGF. Specific and saturable binding of radiolabeled [Met5]enkephalin to nuclear homogenates of pancreatic tumor tissue was recorded, with a binding affinity (Kd) of 10 nM and a binding capacity (Bmax) of 46.8 fmol/mg protein. Binding capacity, but not affinity, of [3H-Met5]enkephalin was reduced by 58% of control levels in tumor tissue from mice of the OGF group. OGF and the zeta (zeta) opioid receptor were detected in human pancreatic tumor cells by immuno-cytochemistry. These results demonstrate that an endogenous opioid and its receptor are present in human pancreatic cancer, and act as a negative regulator of tumorigenesis in vivo.
The effects of electroconvulsive stimuli on the expression of mRNAs coding for preprotachykinin-A and the substance P-sensitive tachykinin NK1 receptor were examined in subregions of the rat striatum. In the electroconvulsive stimuli-treated animals, a 43% decrease in preprotachykinin-A mRNA was detected in the dorso-lateral caudate-putamen as compared to sham electroconvulsive stimuli treated animals. A 75% decrease in numerical density of tachykinin NK1 receptor mRNA positive neurons was found in the caudal part of the nucleus accumbens core. These findings provide new evidence for selective effects of electroconvulsive stimuli on specific populations of neurons in the rat striatum.
(-)-DS 121 [S-(-)-3-(3-cyanophenyl)-N-n-propyl piperidine], a dopamine autoreceptor preferring antagonist, has been shown to stimulate locomotor activity and induce conditioned place preference. However, the drug fails to facilitate intracranial self-stimulation or substitute for cocaine in cueing experiments, and it blocks cocaine self-administration. In the present study using 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography, (-)-DS 121 (at 50 but not 15 mg/kg i.p.) significantly and selectively increased local cerebral glucose utilization in the olfactory cortex, medial and lateral septum, hippocampal areas, substantia nigra pars reticulata, caudate, and mammillary body. Local cerebral glucose utilization was depressed in caudal areas of the cortex. Interestingly, however, both doses of (-)-DS 121 blocked the increases in local cerebral glucose utilization produced by 5 mg/kg i.v. cocaine. The present study also evaluated the effects of (-)-DS 121 of extracellular striatal dopamine levels using microdialysis in freely moving rats. By itself, 15 mg/kg of (-)-DS 121 increased extracellular striatal dopamine levels to approximately 300% of controls. Cocaine (5 mg/kg i.v.) produced a 370% increase in striatal dopamine levels. When rats were pretreated with (-)-DS 121, a subsequent dose of cocaine augmented the increase in extracellular striatal dopamine to 870% of controls. The results support the contention that (-)-DS 121 possesses weak cocaine-mimetic effects and that its antagonism of cocaine's subjective effects are due to interactions with dopamine at postsynaptic sites. It is hypothesized that, like other preferential autoreceptor antagonists, (-)-DS 121 may be useful as a pharmacotherapy in drug addiction.
Unilateral removal of all known visual cortical areas in the cat renders the animal hemianopic in the contralateral visual field as measured by visual perimetry and other behavioral tests. We have shown that visual orientation behavior can be restored to the previously blind hemifield by destruction of a critical zone in the substantia nigra pars reticulata contralateral to a cortical lesion (Wallace et al., J. Comp. Neurol. 296:222-252, 1990). The model proposed to explain this recovery postulates that damage to the crossed nigrotectal projection disinhibits the superior colliculus ipsilateral to the cortical lesion and this leads to recovery. If disinhibition can account for recovery, then destruction of the uncrossed nigrotectal projection, which is known to exert a tonic inhibition on the superior colliculus, should also result in recovery. We made unilateral visual cortical ablations and ipsilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Visual orienting behavior was assessed in animals for a period of 4 to 31 weeks. Contrary to the prediction of the model, we failed to observe a recovery of visual orienting behavior in the blind hemifield in any of 23 animals.


8-Chloro-adenosine, the dephosphorylated metabolite of the antineoplastic agent 8-chloro-cyclic AMP, has been proposed to act on the regulatory subunits of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase. 8-Chloro-adenosine has a growth-inhibitory effect, the mechanism of which is unclear. We investigated the effects of 8-chloro-cyclic AMP and 8-chloro-adenosine on nucleic acid synthesis and cell cycle kinetics in two human glioma cell lines. These effects were compared to those of the cyclic AMP analogue 8-(4-chlorophenyl)-thio-cyclic AMP (8-CPTcAMP), which is less susceptible to dephosphorylation. Whereas 8-CPTcAMP almost completely inhibited RNA and DNA synthesis, both 8-chloro-adenosine and 8-chloro-cyclic AMP only partly inhibited synthesis of RNA and DNA at growth-inhibitory concentrations, as demonstrated by using [5-1H] uridine and [14C]thymidine incorporation. Therefore, the growth-inhibitory effect of 8-chloro-cyclic AMP is not (or not completely) due to activation of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase nor to the inhibition of nucleic acid synthesis. Flow cytometric analysis revealed that 8-chloro-cyclic AMP and 8-chloro-adenosine probably block cell cycle progression at the G2M phase. The effects of 8-chloro-cyclic AMP on nucleic acid synthesis and cell cycle progression were largely prevented by adenosine deaminase, which inactivates 8-chloro-adenosine. This indicates that the effects of 8-chloro-cyclic AMP were at least in part due to its metabolite 8-chloro-adenosine. Incorporation of 8-chloro-adenosine into RNA and DNA might contribute to the disturbance of the cell cycle kinetics and growth-inhibitory effect of 8-chloro-adenosine.
The morphology of axon terminals changes with differentiation into mature synapses. A molecule that might regulate this process was identified by a screen of Drosophila mutants for abnormal motor activities. The still life (sif) gene encodes a protein homologous to guanine nucleotide exchange factors, which convert Rho-like guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases) from a guanosine diphosphate-bound inactive state to a guanosine triphosphate-bound active state. The SIF proteins are found adjacent to the plasma membrane of synaptic terminals. Expression of a truncated SIF protein resulted in defects in neuronal morphology and induced membrane ruffling with altered actin localization in human KB cells. Thus, SIF proteins may regulate synaptic differentiation through the organization of the actin cytoskeleton by activating Rho-like GTPases.
Classical antipsychotics, which block dopamine (DA) D2 receptors, showing intrastriatal variation in their effectiveness in modulating GABAergic function. To determine the cellular basis for such differences, we examined the electron microscopic immunocytochemical labeling of D2 receptors and GABA in the dorsolateral caudate-putamen (CPn) and the nucleus accumbens (Acb) shell. In both regions, peroxidase reaction product and gold-silver deposits representing D2 receptor immunoreactivity (D2-IR) and GABA immunoreactivity (GABA-IR), respectively, were detected in dendrites and perikarya having characteristics of either spiny projection neurons or aspiny interneurons. Some perikarya in both regions are dually labeled with D2-IR and GABA-IR. Neurons axon terminals in each region also contained one or both markers. However, there were notable regional differences in the immunolabeling patterns. In the CPn, D2-IR was more commonly seen in dendrites/spines than in axon terminals, and proportionally more dendrites were dually labeled than in the Acb. In the Acb shell, D2-IR was detected with similar frequency in terminals and dendrites/spines, but more terminals co-localized D2-IR and GABA-IR in this region compared with the CPn. These results provide the first ultrastructural evidence for direct D2-mediated effects of DA on striatal GABAergic neurons. They further suggest that modulation of GABAergic neurons by DA acting at D2 receptors may be relatively more postsynaptic in the CPn, but more presynaptic in the Acb shell.
In female rats, the sequential release of estradiol and progesterone from the ovaries is required for the expression of sexual behavior during the estrous cycle. Many of the neuronal effects of estradiol and progesterone involve estrogen and progestin receptors. Treatment with a behaviorally-effective dose of estradiol increases Fos expression, suggestive of neuronal response, and subsequent treatment with a behaviorally-effective dose of progesterone further increases Fos expression within a few hours in female rat brain. In order to determine if neurons that respond to progesterone with increase Fos expression also contain progestin receptors, we used a double-label immunofluorescent technique to label both progestin receptors and Fos protein following progesterone or vehicle treatment of estradiol-primed female rats. As shown previously, progesterone treatment increased Fos expression in progestin receptor-containing regions, such as the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus and the medial preoptic area. In addition, progesterone treatment induced a statistically-significant increase in Fos-immunoreactivity within progestin receptor-containing cells in the medial preoptic area and the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus, but not in the arcuate nucleus. Therefore, many but not all of the neurons that respond to progesterone with increased Fos expression also contain progestin receptor-immunoreactivity. The progesterone-induced Fos expression within progestin receptor-containing neurons may or may not be associated with the effects of progesterone on sexual or other reproductive behaviors, as it remains to be tested. However, the Fos expression provides a useful marker to aid in identification of neurons that respond to a behaviorally-relevant dose of progesterone.
Polyclonal antisera have been generated against two unique polypeptide fragments in the rat D1B dopamine (DA) receptor, as deduced from the cDNA sequence. Antisera titers were monitored using solid-phase ELISA. Once the titers were established, antisera specificity was determined using Chinese Hamster ovary (CHO) cells, stably transfected with the full-length cDNA for the rat D1B DA receptor. Immunoreactivity following staining with either anti-D1B DA receptor antisera was equivalent, selective for the D1B DA receptor-transfected CHO cells, and expressed at their membrane and within the cell cytoplasm. Minimal immunofluorescent staining for D1B DA receptor proteins was detected in untransfected CHO cells, or in D1A DA receptor-transfected CHO cells. The regional and cellular distribution patterns for the D1B DA receptor subtype were examined in various brain areas and illustrated significant protein levels within the frontal and parietal cortices and in the hippocampus and dentate gyrus. Lesser amounts of receptor protein staining were seen in the dorsal striatum, olfactory tubercle, and cerebellar vermis. D1B DA receptor protein staining was correlated with the cellular expression of D1B DA receptor mRNA transcripts in these same brain regions using concurrent fluorescent analyses. The homologous coincidence in staining patterns for the D1B DA receptor transcripts and encoded proteins in identified neurons of the frontal cortex and striatum showed variations in receptor expression in these identified basal ganglia pathways.
We studied the thermosensitivity of neurons in the rat horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca (HDB) in vitro under normal conditions and under conditions of a low calcium/high magnesium synaptic blockade (SB). Of 52 HDB neurons tested, 34 neurons (65%) were warm-sensitive (WS), three neurons (6%) were cold-sensitive (CS), 11 neurons (21%) were temperature-insensitive (TI) and four additional neurons (8%) were both warm- and cold-sensitive (WS/CS). Of 34 neurons tested for thermosensitivity under SB, 11 were WS, 4 were CS and 19 were TI. Nearly half (48%) of the WS neurons maintained warm sensitivity under SB, 43% became TI and 9% became CS. Baseline firing rates of neurons significantly decreased during SB and then increased during recovery from SB. In addition, a distinct anatomical distribution of thermosensitive neurons was found in the HDB. The most ventral aspect of the HDB (interaural +0.9-1.3 mm) had proportionally fewer temperature sensitive neurons (65% vs. 88%) than areas more dorsal (interaural +1.3-1.7 mm), and only one of seven ventral HDB neurons (14%) remained thermosensitive during SB. In the dorsal HDB, 65% of the neurons maintained thermosensitivity during SB. These results demonstrate that the HDB contains inherently thermosensitive neurons, and that a difference in thermal characteristics exists between the ventral and dorsal HDB neurons.
In the present paper immunocytochemical analysis at the fluorescence microscopical level has been performed of neural cell adhesion. molecule (NCAM) immunoreactivity in the adult rat tel- and diencephalon in order to further substantiate the highly selective neuronal localization of NCAM immunoreactivity, using an affinity purified rabbit antiserum recognizing homologous NCAM proteins from rat brain. Also, double immunolabelling experiments were performed with monoclonal antibodies specific for heparan sulfate related epitopes or gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) to establish in which cell populations a colocalization existed with immunoreactive heparan sulfate proteoglycans of GABA. Within the neocortex NCAM immunoreactivity was exclusively localized to the area of the cell membrane of soma and proximal dendrites of subsets of large pyramidal nerve cells of the layer 5 of the frontoparietal cortex. Within the dorsal hippocampus, the NCAM immunoreactivity was exclusively located to the cell surface area of the pyramidal cell bodies of area CA2. Two colour immunofluorescence procedures demonstrated a colocalization of NCAM and 3G10 but not 10E4 immunoreactivities in the cell surface area of many of the NCAM-positive nerve cell bodies of these two regions. Within the thalamus, strong NCAM immunoreactivity was exclusively demonstrated at all rostrocaudal levels of the reticular thalamic nucleus. The horizontal band of NCAM immunoreactivity was not continuous, but split up into patches of NCAM immunoreactivity within groups of nerve cell bodies. When analysing the number of cells per unitary square in the rostrocaudal direction, a significant increase of positive cells was found in the rostral and middle thirds versus the caudal third of the reticular thalamic nucleus. Many of the cell bodies with NCAM immunoreactivity in their cell surface are showed cytoplasmic GABA immunoreactivity. In the three regions shown to contain NCAM immunoreactivity, proteins of the NCAM type may play a special role for the maintenance of the synaptic structure. The findings also suggest that the sulfated proteoglycans and NCAM can interact in the regulation of cell-cell interaction via adhesion. In the reticular thalamic nucleus NCAM molecules may be part of a set of cell-adhesion molecules involved in a structural organization of the nucleus, which allows it to play a key role in relating cortical maps to thalamic maps.
In sensory hair cells of the cochlea, deflection of the stereociliary bundle results in direct mechanical gating of mechanoelectrical transduction channels, a function generally attributed to the tip link running between the tips of short stereocilia and the sides of adjacent taller ones. However, immunocytochemical experiments indicate that the channels may not be associated with the tip link but occur just below it in a region of contact between the stereocilia. To determine whether transduction channels in this location could be operated during physiologically appropriate deflections as effectively by shear displacement as if they were associated with the tip link, a two dimensional kinematic analysis of relative motion between stereocilia has been performed assuming contact between stereocilia is maintained during deflection. Bundle geometry and dimensions were determined from transmission electron micrographs of hair cells from several frequency locations between 0.27 and 13.00 kHz in the guinea-pig cochlea. The analysis indicates that for a 10 nm deflection of the tallest stereocilia of both inner and outer hair cells, i.e. within the range of the maximum sensitivity of mammalian hair bundles, the average shear displacement in the contact region would be 1.6 nm, but that it increases systematically towards higher frequency regions for outer hair cells. This displacement is comparable in magnitude to tip-link elongation for individual stereociliary pairs.
The Y2 subtype of neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY) receptors (Y2R) and some neuropeptides have been studied with in situ hybridization in sensory and autonomic neurons of rat and monkey. Between 10% and 20% of the lumbar dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neuron profiles (NPs) contain Y2R mRNA in the rat and monkey. In rat DRGs Y2R mRNA is expressed in calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-positive, medium-sized, and large neurons, that is in a complementary fashion to the Y1R that is located in small CGRP neurons. In monkey DRGs Y2R mRNA is expressed mainly in small neurons. Peripheral axotomy up-regulates the Y2R in small and large DRG neurons in both species. Y2R and NPY mRNAs are colocalized in many large neurons in axotomized rat DRGs. Y2R mRNA is expressed in 50% of the NPs in the nodose ganglion with a modest increase after axotomy. Y2R mRNA is detected in a few NPs in normal rat superior cervical ganglia, with a marked increase after transection of the carotid nerves. No Y2R mRNA-positive, but many (approximately 30%) weakly Y1R mRNA-positive NPs were found in the sphenopalatine ganglion. Finally, Y2R mRNA levels increase in rat spinal motoneurons after axotomy. Thus, under normal circumstances NPY may act on Y1 and Y2Rs expressed, respectively, in small and large CGRP-positive DRG neurons in the rat. Y2R may be an important receptor in the viscero-sensory neurons. Y2Rs may be particularly important after axotomy serving as presynaptic and/or autoreceptors on rat DRG, superior cervical ganglion, and nodose ganglion neurons and as presynaptic receptors in monkey DRG neurons.
Cortical-projecting thalamic neurons, in guinea pig brain slices, display high-frequency membrane potential oscillations (20-80 Hz), when their somata are depolarized beyond -45 mV. These oscillations, preferentially located at dendritic sites, are supported by the activation of P/Q type calcium channels, as opposed to the expected persistent sodium conductance responsible for such rhythmic behavior in other central neurons. Short hyperpolarizing pulses reset the phase and transiently increase the amplitude of these oscillations. This intrinsic thalamic electroresponsiveness may serve as a cellular-based temporal binding mechanism that sharpens the temporal coincidence of cortical-feedback synaptic inputs, known to distribute at remote dendritic sites on thalamic neurons.
Mammalian ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) is among the most labile of cellular proteins, with a half-life of usually less than an hour. Like other short-lived proteins ODC is degraded by the 26S proteasome. Its degradation is not triggered by ubiquitination, but is stimulated by the binding of an inducible protein, antizyme. Truncations and mutations in the C terminus of mammalian ODC have been shown to prevent the rapid turnover of the enzyme, demonstrating the presence of a degradation signal in this region. Moreover, ODCs from the trypanosomatid parasites Trypanosoma brucei and Leishmania donovani, which lack this C-terminal domain, are metabolically stable, and recombination of T. brucei ODC with the C terminus of mammalian ODC confers a short half-life to the fusion protein when expressed in mammalian cells. In the present study we have cloned and sequenced the ODC gene from the trypanosomatid Crithidia fasciculata. To our knowledge, this is the first protozoan shown to have an ODC with a rapid turnover. The sequence analysis revealed a high homology between C. fasciculata ODC and L. donovani ODC, despite the difference in stability. We demonstrate that C. fasciculata ODC has a very rapid turnover even when expressed in mammalian cells. Moreover, ODC from C. fasciculata is shown to lack the C-terminal degradation domain of mammalian ODC. Our findings indicate that C. fasciculata ODC contains unique signals, targeting the enzyme for rapid degradation not only in the parasite but also in mammalian cells.
Recent studies suggest that the novel opioid peptide orphanin FQ (OFQ) is involved in pain modulation. We found that intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of OFQ in the rat produced a dose-dependent antagonism of the analgesia induced by 100 Hz electroacupuncture (EA) stimulation as measured in the radiant heat tail-flick assay. Antisense oligonucleotides injected i.c.v. potentiated EA analgesia, presumably by interfering with the expression of the OFQ receptor in brain. These results suggest that endogenous OFQ exerts a tonic antagonistic effect on EA-induced analgesia. No such antagonism was observed when OFQ was injected intrathecally (i.t.). Rather, it appears that spinal OFQ produced a marked analgesic effect and enhanced EA-induced analgesia. These findings are consistent with the experimental results obtained in rats where morphine-induced analgesia is antagonized by i.c.v. OFQ and potentiated by i.t. OFQ.
This paper examines the contribution of egocentric cues and visual context to manual localization of remembered targets. Subjects pointed in the dark to the remembered position of a target previously viewed without or within a structured visual scene. Without a remembered visual context, subjects pointed to within 2 degrees of the target. The presence of a visual context with cues of straight ahead enhanced pointing performance to the remembered location of central but not off-center targets. Thus, visual context provides strong visual cues of target position and the relationship of body position to target location. Without a visual context, egocentric cues provide sufficient input for accurate pointing to remembered targets.
Halothane-anesthetized male rats were subjected to either moderately severe parasagittal fluid percussion-induced traumatic brain injury (TBI) or sham injury, and for 30 min immediately after injury hypoxia was induced in half the rats from each group by substituting a 13% O2 source to deliver halothane for continued anesthesia. At 60 min post-TBI, Northern blot analysis showed a significant increase in c-fos mRNA levels, by 60-100% above sham control levels in the frontal cortex, cerebellum and hippocampus. Although hypoxia in sham-injured rats did not by itself alter c-fos mRNA levels, it did significantly potentiate the TBI-induced changes in c-fos mRNA in all three brain regions. These findings show that hypoxia is an important factor influencing genomic responses to TBI.
Polymerization of Alzheimer amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) into amyloid fibrils is associated with resistance to proteolysis and tissue deposition. Here, it was investigated whether Abeta might be generated as a protease-resistant core from a polymerized precursor. A 100-amino acid C-terminal fragment of the Alzheimer beta-amyloid precursor protein (C100), containing the Abeta and cytoplasmic domains, polymerized both when inserted into membranes and after purification. When subjected to digestion using the nonspecific enzyme proteinase K, the cytoplasmic domain of C100 was degraded, whereas the Abeta domain remained intact. In contrast, dissociated C100 polymers were almost completely degraded by proteinase K. Mammalian cells transfected with the human Alzheimer beta-amyloid precursor gene contained a fragment corresponding to C100, which needed similar harsh conditions to be dissolved, as did polymers formed by purified C100. Hence, it was concluded that C100 polymers are formed in mammalian cells. These results suggest that the C terminus of Abeta can be generated by nonspecific proteases, acting on a polymerized substrate, rather than a specific gamma-secretase. This offers an explanation of how the Abeta peptide can be formed in organelles containing proteases capable of cleaving most peptide bonds.
The effects of a high affinity cannabinoid receptor agonist were evaluated in rats subjected to chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve (CCI) or a sham operation. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of the active, but not the inactive enantiomer, alleviated the pain behavior exhibited by CCI animals in a dose dependent manner. Moreover, at doses ranging from 0.43 to 4.3 mg/kg effects on sensitivity to a heat stimulus were observed neither in the paw contralateral to the sciatic ligation, nor in animals subjected to sham surgery. Animals subjected to CCI and treated with 4.3 mg/kg exhibited hypoalgesia in the paw ipsilateral to the ligated sciatic, i.e. heat hypoalgesia was completely reversed. The hypoalgesia is presumed to be the results of unmasking of a sensory deficit reflecting the known loss of C and A delta with CCI. Although side effects were present in some CCI animals subjected to the high dose (4.3 mg/kg), a moderate dose (2.14 mg/kg) completely alleviated the thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia, and mechanical allodynia without side effects. In addition to identifying a potential drug treatment for painful neuropathy, this study suggests that changes in cannabinoid receptors occurs in nerve injured animals.
Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) contain measurable amounts of met-enkephalin (ENK), and a significant number of DRG cells contain mRNA for the manufacture of ENK. Yet almost no DRG cells are immunostained for ENK and dorsal rhizotomy does not diminish ENK staining in the dorsal horn. A hypothesis which would explain these seemingly discrepant results is the phenomenon of differential transport, where DRG cells making ENK rapidly transport the peptide only to their peripheral sensory axons. Evidence consistent with this hypothesis would be the demonstration of ENK-containing peripheral sensory axons. The present study demonstrates that approximately 17% of peripheral cutaneous axons label for ENK. The presence of a significant number of ENK-containing axons suggests an endogenous neural source of opiate ligand in the periphery and, in addition to ENK-containing inflammatory cells, this neural source may be functionally important in responses to physiologic as well as inflammatory pain.
Using the P77PMC strain of rat, which is genetically prone to audiogenic seizures, and also has decreased levels of cholecystokinin (CCK), we examined the analgesic response to peripheral electrical stimulation, which is, in part, opiate-mediated. A number of studies have suggested that CCK may function as an antagonist to endogenous opiate effects. Therefore, we hypothesized that the P77PMC animals would show an enhanced analgesic response based on their decreased CCK levels producing a diminished endogenous opiate antagonism. We found that the analgesic effect on tail flick latency produced by 100 Hz peripheral electrical stimulation was more potent and longer lasting in P77PMC rats than in control rats. Moreover, the potency of the stimulation-produced analgesia correlated with the vulnerability to audiogenic seizures in these rats. We were able to block the peripheral electrical stimulation-induced analgesia (PSIA) using a cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) administered parenterally. Radioimmunoassay showed that the content of CCK-8 in cerebral cortex, hippocampus and periaqueductal gray was much lower in P77PMC rat than in controls. These results suggest that low CCK-8 content in the central nervous system of the P77PMC rats may be related to the high analgesic response to peripheral electrical stimulation, and further support the notion that CCK may be endogenous opiate antagonist.
The distribution of 5-HT1A receptors was examined in the post-mortem human brain using whole hemisphere autoradiography and the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist [3H]WAY-100635 ([O-methyl-3H]-N-(2-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl)-N-(2- pyridinyl)cyclohexanecarboxamide trihydrochloride). The autoradiograms showed very dense binding to hippocampus, raphe nuclei and neocortex. The labeling in neocortex was slightly lower than in the hippocampus and was mainly at superficial layers, although a faintly labeled band could be seen in deeper neocortical layers. Other regions, such as the amygdala, septum and claustrum, showed low densities caudatus and putamen, in cerebellum or in structures of the brain stem except in the raphe nuclei. The labeling of human 5-HT1A receptors with [3H]WAY-100635 was antagonised by the addition of 5-HT1A receptor ligands, 5-HT, buspirone, pindolol or 8-OH-DPAT (10 microM), leaving a very low background of non-specific binding. Saturation analysis of semiquantitative data from several human regions indicated that [3H]WAY-100635 has a Kd of approximately 2.5 nM. The selective labeling of 5-HT1A receptors with [3H]WAY-100635 clearly show that this compound is useful for further studies of the human 5-HT1a receptor subtype in vitro [11C]WAY-100635 is used for the characterization of 5-HT1A receptors with positron emission tomography (PET). WAY-100635 was also radiolabeled with the short-lived positron-emitting radionuclide carbon-11 (t1/2 = 20 min) and used for in vitro autoradiography on human whole hemisphere cryosections. [11C]WAY-100635 gave images qualitatively similar to those of [3H]WAY-100635, although with a lower resolution. Thus, the hippocampal formation was densely labeled, with lower density in the neocortex. Buspirone, pindolol or 8-OH-DPAT (10 microM), blocked all binding of [11C]WAY-100635. The in vitro autoradiography of the distribution of 5-HT1A receptors obtained with radiolabeled WAY-100635 provide detailed qualitative and quantitative information on the distribution of 5-HT1A-receptors in the human brain. Moreover, the studies give reference information for the interpretation of previous initial results at much lower resolution in humans with PET and [11C]Way-100635. These data provide a strong basis for expecting [11C]WAY-100635 to behave as a highly selective radioligand in vivo.
One of the first things that we are impressed by is the great variety of animals, particularly their behaviors and their physiologies. With so many differences, are there any generalities? With the establishment of evolutionary theory, evidence of &quot;unity in diversity&quot; comes with discoveries of common anatomical features, the cell cycle, conservation of intermediary metabolism, and the genetic code, to name but a few. In vertebrates there appears to be a conservation of the neural circuits underlying sexual behavior, but it is still too early to state the extent to which this concept can be extended to the hormonal mechanisms underlying behavior. Much of our conceptual understanding of behavioral neuroendocrinology stems from extensive studies on relatively few species. When an evolutionary perspective is applied to behavioral neuroscience, the breadth and validity of our assumptions about the mechanisms that control species-typical behaviors are challenged. This is not the same thing as saying that there are few unitary explanations that apply to all mammals, amniotes, or even vertebrates. Considerable information has been gathered about the neuroendocrine bases of behavior in a few species, but to uncover truly broad generalizations, we must look with equal intensity and rigor at other organisms. The pattern of evolution is best illustrated in the diversity of organisms, and the ecological and evolutionary perspective illuminates the utility of various &quot;experiments of nature.&quot; By studying (1) closely related species that live in different habitats, we can see if the adaptational responses are similar, and (2) distantly related species that live in the same habitat, we can see if the solutions are analogous. The unique qualities of each species also give us a deeper understanding of the constraints in fundamental processes. When basic conflicts exist, control mechanisms adapt or the species goes extinct. Interestingly, although the neural circuits themselves do not degenerate, they are either no longer used or coopted for other functions.
Guanine nucleotide binding (G) protein levels and functioning in the platelets of 19 methadone-maintained patients were compared to age and sex matched, normal controls. We found that in the methadone patients, G alpha s-levels were significantly higher, while the levels of G alpha i 1/2 and pertussis toxin catalyzed [32P]ADP ribosylation were significantly lower compared to control subjects in platelet membranes. We have further found that when all three of these biochemical indicators were combined in a discriminant function analysis, 79% of the methadone patients were correctly classified and 83% of the controls were correctly classified.

We characterized presubicular neurons giving rise to bilateral projections to the medial entorhinal cortex (MEA) of the rat. Retrograde labeling of presubiculo-entorhinal projections with horseradish peroxidase and subsequent GABA immunocytochemistry revealed that 20-30% of the ipsilaterally projecting neurons are GABAergic. No GABAergic projections to the contralateral MEA were observed. GABAergic projection neurons were observed only in the dorsal part of the presubiculum, which, when taking into account the topography of presubicular projections to MEA, indicates that only the dorsal part of MEA receives GABAergic input. The GABAergic projection neurons constitute approximately 30-40% of all GABAergic neurons present in the superficial layers of the dorsal presubiculum. Using double-label fluorescent retrograde tracing, we found that the ipsilateral and contralateral presubiculo-entorhinal projections originate from different populations of neurons. Anterograde labeling of presubiculo-entorhinal projections and electron microscopical analysis of labeled terminals substantiated the presence of a restricted GABAergic presubiculo-entorhinal projection. A small fraction of afferents to only ipsilateral dorsal MEA formed symmetrical synapses with dendritic shafts. No symmetrical synapses on spines were noted. Most afferents to the dorsal part of ipsilateral MEA, as well as all afferents to the remaining ipsilateral and contralateral MEA, formed asymmetrical synapses with both spines and dendritic shafts in an almost equal ratio. Thus, we conclude that the majority of the presubiculo-entorhinal projections exert an excitatory effect on both principal neurons and interneurons. The projections from the dorsal part of the presubiculum comprise a small inhibitory component that originates from GABAergic neurons and targets entorhinal interneurons.
Acetylcholine has long been implicated in nocturnal phase adjustment of circadian rhythms, yet the subject remains controversial. Although the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), site of the circadian clock, contains no intrinsic cholinergic somata, it receives choline acetyltransferase-immunopositive projections from basal forebrain and mesopontine tegmental nuclei that contribute to sleep and wakefulness. We have demonstrated that the SCN of inbred rats in a hypothalamic brain slice is sensitive to cholinergic phase adjustment via muscarinic receptors (mAChRs) only at night. We used this paradigm to probe the muscarinic signal transduction mechanism and the site(s) gating nocturnal responsiveness. The cholinergic agonist carbachol altered the circadian rhythm of SCN neuronal activity in a pattern closely resembling that for analogs of cGMP; nocturnal gating of clock sensitivity of each is preserved in vitro. Specific inhibitors of guanylyl cyclase (GC) and cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG), key elements in the cGMP signal transduction cascade, blocked phase shifts induced by carbachol. Further, carbachol administration to the SCN at night increased cGMP production and PKG activity. The carbachol-induced increase in cGMP was blocked both by atropine, an mAChR antagonist, and by LY83583, a GC inhibitor. We conclude that (1) mAChR regulation of the SCN is mediated via GC--&gt;cGMP--&gt;PKG, (2) nocturnal gating of this pathway is controlled by the circadian clock, and (3) a gating site is positioned downstream from cGMP. This study is among the first to identify a functional context for mAChR-cGMP coupling in the CNS.
The adenosine A3 receptor is expressed in brain, but the consequences of activation of this receptor on electrophysiological activity are unknown. We have characterized the actions of a selective adenosine A3 receptor agonist, 2-chloro-N6-(3-lodobenzyl)-adenosine-5'-N-methyluronamide (Cl-IB-MECA), and a selective A3 receptor antagonist, 3-ethyl-5-benzyl-2-methyl-4-phenylethynyl-6-phenyl-1, 4-(+/-)-dihydropyridine-3,5-dicarboxylate (MRS 1191), in brain slices from rat hippocampus. In the CA1 region, activation of A3 receptors had no direct effects on synaptically evoked excitatory responses, long-term potentiation, or synaptic facilitation. However, activation of A3 receptors with Cl-IB-MECA antagonized the adenosine A1 receptor-mediated inhibition of excitatory neurotransmission. The effects of Cl-IB-MECA were blocked by pretreatment with MRS 1191, which by itself had no effect on A1 receptor-mediated responses. The presynaptic inhibitory effects of baclofen and carbachol, mediated via GABA(B) and muscarinic receptors, respectively, were unaffected by Cl-IB-MECA. The maximal response to adenosine was unchanged, suggesting that the primary effect of Cl-IB-MECA was to reduce the affinity of adenosine for the receptor rather than to uncouple it. Similar effects could be demonstrated after brief superfusion with high concentrations of adenosine itself. Under normal conditions, endogenous adenosine in brain is unlikely to affect the sensitivity of A1 receptors via this mechanism. However, when brain concentrations of adenosine are elevated (e.g., during hypoxia, ischemia, or seizures), activation of A3 receptors and subsequent heterologous desensitization of A1 receptors could occur, which might limit the cerebroprotective effects of adenosine under these conditions.
To investigate a possible role for Ca as a transduction signal for regulatory volume decrease (RVD), the effects of external Ca removal, Ca channel blockers (Cd, Co, La, Gd, verapamil, diltiazem, dihydropyridines) and inhibitors of endoplasmic reticulum Ca release (dantrolene, ryanodine, TMB-8) were examined on RVD and on the swelling-activated efflux of two main osmolytes: Cl (traced by 125I) and [3H]taurine. Omission of Ca plus EGTA did not affect RVD or osmolyte release but when BAPTA was the chelator, RVD decreased 20%, 125I fluxes were unaffected and taurine stimulated efflux decreased (20%) while the basal efflux slightly increased (&lt;10%). Verapamil, diltiazem, Co, Cd, La and Gd did not affect RVD or osmolyte fluxes. Nimodipine and nitrendipine (25-50 microM) markedly decreased RVD and osmolyte fluxes (&gt;90%) through a mechanism independent of extracellular Ca. Swelling elicited an increase in cytosolic Ca measured by fura-2, which was notably variable ranging 50-350 nM. However, RVD and osmolyte fluxes were not affected by the blockers of endogenous Ca release dantrolene, ryanodine and TMB-8 or by the permeable Ca chelator BAPTA-AM, even when the cytosolic Ca increase was abolished by the chelator. These results indicate that 1) RVD and osmolyte fluxes are independent of extracellular Ca 2) RVD, osmolyte release and cytosolic Ca raise are only coincident events. Consequently, Ca is unlikely to be a transducing signal for RVD in neurons.
Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) is a functional and specific marker gene for neurons such as primary motor neurons that synthesize and release acetylcholine as a neurotransmitter. In adult mammals, transection of the peripheral nerve results in a loss of immunoreactivity for ChAT in the injured motor neurons without affecting their cell number. Using a quantitative RNase protection assay, we have investigated dynamic changes in ChAT mRNA levels following axotomy of motor neurons in the brainstem of adult rats. One week after transection of the left hypoglossal nerve, levels of ChAT mRNA in the ipsilateral side of the hypoglossal motor nucleus decreased dramatically to around 10% when compared to the uninjured contralateral side. When cut axons were chronically exposed to brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) for 1 week, ChAT mRNA levels were maintained at 63% of control levels. Thus, BDNF can abrogate the injury-induced loss of ChAT mRNA in mature motor neurons in vivo. In contrast, neither neurotrophin 4/5 nor nerve growth factor could prevent the decrease in message. This effect of BDNF on ChAT mRNA levels following peripheral injury to motor neurons demonstrates the existence of regulatory pathways responsive to neurotrophic factors that can &quot;rescue&quot; or &quot;protect&quot; cholinergic gene expression.
1. Tissue blood flow and blood pressure are regulated by the spontaneous, myogenic, contraction developed by resistance arteries. However, the cellular mechanisms underlying myogenic contraction are not understood. In this study, the mechanisms of myogenic contraction in cerebral resistance arteries were investigated. 2. The vasoconstriction observed in response to increased pressure in cerebral resistance arteries (myogenic reactivity) was dependent on Ca2+ entry through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels, since it was abolished by Ca2+ removal and by dihydropyridine antagonists of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. 3. Myogenic reactivity persisted in a high-K+ saline, with reduced Ca2+, where membrane potential is presumed to be clamped. Therefore, membrane depolarization alone does not fully account for the increased voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel opening. 4. Voltage-dependent Ca2+ currents in single smooth muscle cells isolated from the resistance artery were substantially increased by applying positive pressure to the patch electrode evoking membrane stretch. 5. Myogenic reactivity remained unaffected by ryanodine and therefore was independent of internal ryanodine-sensitive Ca2+ stores. 6. The myofilament Ca2+ sensitivity was not increased by elevated pressure in alpha-toxin-permeabilized arteries. However, pharmacological activation of protein kinase C or G proteins did increase the myofilament Ca2+ sensitivity. 7. Myogenic contraction over the pressure range 30-70 mmHg could be accounted for by an increase in [Ca2+]i from 100 to 200 nM. 8. It is concluded that modest increases in [Ca2+]i within the range 100-200 nM can account for that myogenic contraction, and that stretch-evoked modulation of Ca2+ currents may contribute to the myogenic response.
1. Influences of Ca2+ release from internal stores on the generation of depolarizing after-potentials (DAPs) were investigated in magnocellular neurones of rat supraoptic nucleus (SON) using whole-cell patch recording techniques in brain slices. 2. DAPs were recorded from more than half of the cells encountered, and following evoked single spikes had an amplitude of 3.00 +/- 0.19 mV (mean +/- S.E.M.) and lasted for 1.02 +/- 0.06 s. Their sizes usually increased with the number of preceding spikes, but could be reduced or eliminated when intervals between consecutive current pulses evoking tens of spikes were short. 3. DAPs were eliminated by removal of external Ca2+, and significantly reduced by bath application of nifedipine or omega-conotoxin. 4. Blockade of Ca2+ release from internal stores by perifusion with ryanodine or dantrolene, or direct diffusion of Ruthenium Red into cells suppressed DAP amplitudes by approximately 50% and shortened their durations. 5. Depletion of internal Ca2+ stores by perifusion with thapsigargin or cyclopiazonic acid also reduced DAP amplitudes by approximately 50% and eliminated phasic patterns of firing. 6. Caffeine, an agent known to enhance intracellular Ca2+ release, amplified DAPs and promoted phasic firing. 7. These results suggest that Ca2+ influx via high-voltage-activated Ca2+ channels in SON cells triggers ryanodine receptor-mediated Ca2+ release from internal stores. This process enhances DAPs and promotes phasic firing in SON cells, and would thus contribute to vasopressin release.
In recent months, neural fetal retina has been transplanted into blind human patients affected by Retinitis Pigmentosa. Initial success, as documented by improved visual activity, has been reported (del Cerro et al., Neuroscience Abstract, 1996). With the rapid progress in human patients, additional questions are arising concerning transplantation issues. Additional answers and further success in treating clinical disease will necessarily come from new laboratory research in animal models as well as in vitro systems. This increases the need for evaluation of the data already gathered over the first decade of retinal transplantation. The extensive experimental background work that preceded the current wave of human retinal transplants is reviewed in this paper, with particular emphasis given to the work dealing with the transplantation of neural retina.
The clinical reliability of measuring cholecystokinin (CCK) peptides in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) has not been fully elucidated. Therefore, we have assayed CCK-8S and CCK-4 in CSF obtained from 14 healthy male subjects, lumbar-punctured at the L4-5 level following a strictly standardised procedure. CSF concentrations of free CCK-8S and free CCK-4 were used as dependent variables while age, height, body weight, atmospheric pressure and some other factors served as independent variables. It was shown that the CCK-8S ratio between the second (7-12 ml) and first (0-6 ml) CSF fractions, correlated significantly with the atmosphere pressure at the time of puncture. Neither CCK-8S nor CCK-4 displayed concentration gradients in CSF. The CCK-4 levels, expressed as pmol l-1 in the total amount of CSF were found to be positively correlated with the neuraxis distance in the lying position and negatively with the neuraxis distance in the sitting position. Furthermore, CCK-4, expressed as pmol l-1 per min of tapping-time (pmol l-1 min-1), showed a negative correlation with storage time, presumably mirroring a proteolytic process. CCK-8S and CCK-4 intercorrelated positively independently of whether expressed as pmol l-1 or pmol l-1 min-1. In conclusion, the results of this exploratory study indicate that the neuraxis distance (in the sitting and lying positions) and storage-time have to be accounted for when interpreting data on CSF levels of CCK-4. Attention has to be paid to the potential influence of atmospheric pressure on the concentration ratio of CCK-8S.
Five distinct human somatostatin receptor subtypes have recently been cloned and characterized. Previous studies have suggested that these receptor subtypes might display coexistent localization, based on in situ hybridization or immunoblockage experiments. Here we provide evidence for coexistence of somatostatin receptor subtypes 2 and 5 in the human neuroblastoma cell line LA-N-2, using a combined approach with RT-PCR and receptor binding studies with somatostatin analogues. Somatostatin receptor subtypes simultaneously localized to a single cell might serve distinct functions in terms of targeting to different intraneuronal compartments or subtype specificity against so far unidentified somatostatin-related peptides.
Cerebral hypoxia-ischemia causes encephalopathy and neurologic disabilities in newborns by unclear mechanisms. We tested the hypothesis that hypoxia-ischemia causes brain damage in newborns that is system-preferential and related to regional oxidative metabolism. One-week-old piglets were subjected to 30 minutes of hypoxia and then seven minutes of airway occlusion, producing asphyxic cardiac arrest, followed by cardiopulmonary resuscitation and four-day recovery. Brain injury in hypoxic-ischemia piglets (n = 6) compared to controls (n = 5) was analyzed by hematoxylin-eosin, Nissl, and silver staining, relationships between regional vulnerability and oxidative metabolism were evaluated by cytochrome oxidase histochemistry. Profile counting-based estimates showed that 13% and 27% of neurons in layers II/III and layers of somatosensory cortex had ischemic cytopathology, respectively; CA1 neuronal perikarya appeared undamaged, and &lt; 10% of CA3 and CA4 neurons were injured; and neuronal damage was 79% in putamen, 17% in caudate, but nucleus accumbens was undamaged. Injury was found preferentially in primary sensory neocortices (particularly somatosensory cortex), basal ganglia (predominantly putamen, subthalamic nucleus, and substantia nigra reticulata), ventral thalamus, geniculate nuclei, and tectal nuclei. In sham piglets, vulnerable region generally had higher cytochrome oxidase levels than less vulnerable areas. Postischemic alterations in cytochrome oxidase were regional and laminar, with reductions (31-66%) occurring in vulnerable regions and increases (20%) in less vulnerable areas. We conclude that neonatal hypoxia-ischemia causes highly organized, system-preferential and topographic encephalopathy, targeting regions that function in sensorimotor integration and movement control. This distribution of neonatal encephalopathy is dictated possibly by regional function, mitochondrial activity, and connectivity.
Different mechanisms mediate constriction and dilation in different vascular beds. We have used reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction to investigate whether specific patterns of receptor gene expression may underlie these variable responses. Total RNA, from the basilar, pulmonary, mesenteric and tail arteries of anaesthetised adult Wistar rats, was reverse transcribed and amplified using primers specific for the molecular subtypes of the alpha 1(A, B, D)- and alpha 2(A, B, C)-adrenergic, neurokinin (NK1-NK3) and muscarinic (m1-m5), receptors. Results showed that the pattern of gene expression was variable with no two arteries having the same receptor profile. Messenger RNA for the alpha 1A, alpha 1B, alpha 2B, NK1, NK3, m3 and m5 receptor subtypes were detected in all vessels studied while the remaining subtypes showed a variable expression amongst the arteries. This is the first description of mRNA for the m5 muscarinic receptor in peripheral tissue. The NK3 receptor was the major neurokinin receptor expressed in all vessels except the pulmonary artery, in which the NK1 receptor was also strongly expressed. We conclude that each artery expressed a specific receptor array which may permit some unique neural and hormonal controls.
We have isolated cDNA encoding human telencephalin (TLN), a brain segment-specific neuronal adhesion molecule. Human TLN comprises an NH2-terminal signal peptide, an extracellular region with nine Ig-like domains, a single transmembrane region, and a COOH-terminal cytoplasmic tail. The NH2-terminal five Ig-like domains of TLN were closely related to those of intercellular adhesion molecules (ICAMs)-1 and -3. The TLN gene was mapped to the human chromosome 19p13.2, where the ICAM-1, -3, and -4 (LW) genes are located. Furthermore, we observed lymphocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1)-mediated adhesion of HL-60 cells on recombinant TLN protein, as well as on ICAM-1. However, the interaction of TLN with LFA-1 on HL-60 cells was divalent cation-independent and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate stimulation-independent. We conclude that TLN is a unique neuronal member of ICAM subgroup of the Ig superfamily and propose a novel type of interaction between the Ig superfamily molecule and integrin, which does not require the activation of integrin. TLN on the surface of telencephalic neurons may be a target molecule in the brain for LFA-1-expressing microglia and leukocytes in physiological or pathological conditions.

The role of back-propagating dendritic action potentials in the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) was investigated in CA1 neurons by means of dendritic patch recordings and simultaneous calcium imaging. Pairing of subthreshold excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) with back-propagating action potentials resulted in an amplification of dendritic action potentials and evoked calcium influx near the site of synaptic input. This pairing also induced a robust LTP, which was reduced when EPSPs were paired with non-back-propagating action potentials or when stimuli were unpaired. Action potentials thus provide a synaptically controlled, associative signal to the dendrites for Hebbian modifications of synaptic strength.
When we identify a visual object such as a word or letter, our ability to detect a second object is impaired if it appears within 400ms of the first. This phenomenon has been termed the attentional blink or dwell time and is a measure of our ability to allocate attention over time (temporal attention). Patients with unilateral visual neglect are unaware of people or objects contralateral to their lesion. They are considered to have a disorder of attending to a particular location in space (spatial attention). Here we examined the non-spatial temporal dynamics of attention in patients, using a protocol for assessing the attentional blink. Neglect patients with right parietal, frontal or basal ganglia strokes had an abnormally severe and protracted attentional blink When they identified a letter, their awareness of a subsequent letter was significantly diminished for a length of time that was three times as long as for individuals without neglect. Our results demonstrate for the first time that visual neglect is a disorder of directing attention in time, as well as space.
The dichotomy between two groups of workers on neuroelectrical activity is retarding progress. To study the interrelations between neuronal unit spike activity and compound field potentials of cell populations is both unfashionable and technically challenging. Neither of the mutual disparagements is justified: that spikes are to higher functions as the alphabet is to Shakespeare and that slow field potentials are irrelevant epiphenomena. Spikes are not the basis of the neural code but of multiple codes that coexist with nonspike codes. Field potentials are mainly information-rich signs of underlying processes, but sometimes they are also signals for neighboring cells, that is, they exert influence. This paper concerns opportunities for new research with many channels of wide-band (spike and slow wave) recording. A wealth of structure in time and three-dimensional space is different at each scale-micro-, meso-, and macroactivity. The depth of our ignorance is emphasized to underline the opportunities for uncovering new principles. We cannot currently estimate the relative importance of spikes and synaptic communication vs. extrasynaptic graded signals. In spite of a preponderance of literature on the former, we must consider the latter as probably important. We are in a primitive stage of looking at the time series of wide-band voltages in the compound, local field, potentials and of choosing descriptors that discriminate appropriately among brain loci, states (functions), stages (ontogeny, senescence), and taxa (evolution). This is not surprising, since the brains in higher species are surely the most complex systems known. They must be the greatest reservoir of new discoveries in nature. The complexity should not deter us, but a dose of humility can stimulate the flow of imaginative juices.
A recent study of the distribution of NADPH-diaphorase (NADPHd) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in a turtle brain (Brning et at. [1994]: J. Comp. Neurol. 348:183-206) has revealed that these enzymes are not only widely distributed throughout the brain, but also seem to be colocalized with other classical neurotransmitters, such as catecholamines and acetylcholine. The main goals of the present study were 1) to determine sites of colocalization of NADPHd/NOS with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH, as marker for catecholamines), and 2) by studying a representative of another reptilian radiation, to assess primitive and derived traits of the distribution of NADPHd and NOS in the brains of reptiles. For that purpose, single (NADPHd or NOS) and double staining (NADPHd with TH, or NOS with TH) techniques were applied to the brains of adult gekkonid lizards (Gekko gecko). The distribution of NADPHd and NOS in Gekko was largely comparable to that in turtles, which implies involvement in certain functions of these enzymes. Notable differences, however, were observed in the thalamus and pretectum. Colocalization was observed in numerous cells of the ventral tegmental area, the substantia nigra, and the retrorubral dopaminergic cell group. In other catecholaminergic cell groups, e.g., the locus coeruleus and the solitary tract nucleus, TH-immunoreactive cells and NADPHd/NOS-positive cells were closely intermingled, but not double-stained. From the present evidence, it is concluded that extensive colocalization of NADPHd/NOS with catecholamines occurs in the midbrain dopaminergic cell groups of reptiles and birds, but not (or only sparsely) in the corresponding cell groups of amphibians and mammals.
Intracellular recordings obtained from globus pallidus neurons in guinea pig revealed, on the basis of their membrane properties, the existence of at least two major (types I and II) and one minor (type III) groups of neurons. Type I neurons were silent at the resting membrane level and generated a burst of spikes with strong accommodation to depolarizing current injection. Type II neurons fired at the resting membrane level or with small membrane depolarization, and their repetitive firing (&lt; or = 200 Hz) was very sensitive to the amplitude of injected current and showed weak accommodation. Type III neurons did not fire spontaneously at the resting membrane level. The neurons were morphologically characterized by intracellular injection of biocytin following the electrophysiological recordings. Among the major groups, the soma size of type I neurons (40 x 23 microns) was larger than that of type II neurons (29 x 17 microns). Both types of neurons had three to six primary dendrites. Dendritic spines were very sparse. Occasionally, dendrites exhibited varicosities, especially in their terminal branches. Dendritic fields were disc-like in shape and were perpendicular to striopallidal fibers. Most of the axons had intranuclear collaterals. Main axonal branches projected rostrally or caudally, and in some neurons one axonal branch could be followed caudally, and another rostrally, into the striatum. These two types were major neurons in the globus pallidus and were considered to be projection neurons. Type III neurons were small (18 x 12 microns), and their dendrites were covered with numerous spines. They were considered to be interneurons.

A full-length K+ channel cDNA of Kv4.3, with an open reading frame of 611 amino acids, was isolated from rat hippocampus. Functional expression of Kv4.3 cDNA in Xenopus oocytes revealed an A-type K+ channel. In the central nervous system, Kv4.3 is most prominently expressed in the retrosplenial cortex, medial habenula, anterior thalamus, hippocampus, cerebellum, as well as lateral geniculate and superior colliculus, which are important for vision. The abundant expression of Kv4.3 in many CNS neurons supports its important role as a major component of subthreshold A currents in the control of action potentials and thus neuronal excitability.
The generation of different glial cell types in the central nervous system depends upon a wide variety of proliferative and differentiative signals. Here we report that changes in the levels of cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) and the cell cycle inhibitor p27kip1 accompany the differentiation of central glia-4 (CG-4) progenitor cells to an astrocytic cell phenotype in the presence of fetal calf serum. Although a decrease in CDK2 levels was observed in both oligodendrocyte and astrocyte cells derived from CG-4 cells, a striking increase in the levels of p27 was observed during the differentiation of astrocyte cells. In astrocyte cell extracts, inhibition of CDK2 activity could be overcome with exogenously added cyclin E. Furthermore, depletion of p27 from astrocyte extracts lowered the amount of cyclin E required for CDK2 activation. Taken together, these results suggest that the inhibitory action of p27 upon cyclin E-CDK2 may prevent entry of cells into the S phase and regulate the progression of CG-4 cells toward an astrocytic lineage.
Local injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA; 10-20 nmol/rat) into the prefrontal cortex of conscious rats caused a dose-related and an NMDA antagonist-reversible facilitation of norepinephrine (NE) disappearance in the cortical region during 35 min after inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase. Destruction of ascending NE neurons by bilateral application of 6-hydroxydopamine into the superior cerebellar peduncle failed to affect [3H]N-(1-[2-thienyl]cyclohexyl)piperidine binding to the NMDA receptor-associated ion channel in the prefrontal cortex. These results indicate that, under unanesthetized conditions, the prefrontal NE neurons may be under glutamatergic facilitatory control mediated by the NMDA receptors which are located on the non-NE systems in the frontal cortex.
The present study examined developmental patterns of antinociception mediated by the spinal 5-HT3 receptor system in the neonatal rat. Intrathecally administered 2-methylserotonin (25-100 micrograms) first produced antinociception against formalin-induced acute inflammatory pain at 10 days postnatally, with effect only at the peak dose (100 micrograms). Intrathecal 2-methylserotonin produced dose-dependent antinociception at 14 and 28 days of age that was attenuated by i.t. pretreatment with the 5-HT3 receptor antagonist MDL-72222 (10 micrograms).
The molecular mechanisms which underlie the development of the olivocerebellar topography are not fully understood. Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) is a growth factor known to play important roles in neural development and it has been identified within the cerebellum and the inferior olive. To assess the contribution of IGF-I to the development of climbing fibre topography, the distribution of IGF-I-like immunoreactivity (IGF-I IR) was identified in the cerebellar cortex and inferior olive of rats, 0, 3, 5, 7, 10, 15, 21, 28 and 90 days old. In the cerebellar cortex, IGF-I IR was localised solely to Purkinje cells and its distribution was spatially and temporally regulated in a manner which coincides with climbing fibre development. At birth, weak IGF-I IR was detected in a few Purkinje cells in the ventral vermis. More Purkinje cells became positive until at postnatal day 7(P7) all Purkinje cells displayed IGF-I IR. Subsequently, a subpopulation of Purkinje cells lost their reactivity for IGF-I to leave IGF-I-positive cells organised into sagittal bands by P15. IGF-I IR was also seen in all subdivisions of the inferior olive between birth and P10 in a distribution which paralleled the maturation of the inferior olive. The Purkinje cell and inferior olivary IGF-I IR parallels climbing fibre development and thus the results of this study support the hypothesis that IGF-I is involved in the development of climbing fibre topography.
The cerebellum on the heterozygous (+/sg) staggerer mutant mouse has recently been proposed as a model system in which to study the genetic contribution to the normal process of central nervous system aging since there is significant loss of neurons from 3 to 12 months of age (Shojaeian-Zanjani, H., Mariani, J., Delhaye-Bouchaud, N., and Herrup, K. (1992) Dev. Brain Res., 67, 153-160). In the current study we extend our analysis of the changes in Purkinje cell numbers up to 24 months of age in +/sg and C57BL/6J wild-type mice. At 13 and 18 months, while wild-type Purkinje cell numbers remain unchanged, there is a 22-26% loss in the number of Purkinje cells in +/sg after which no further cell loss is observed. Between 18 and 24 months, however, a 22% loss of Purkinje cell occurs in +/+ animals, with the result that by 2 years of age, the size of the Purkinje cell population is again similar in both genotypes. Analysis of the cell loss in both the mediolateral and the anteroposterior dimensions, as well as the immunostaining of Purkinje cells in frontal sections, reveal no obvious regional variation in the Purkinje cell loss. These results suggest that in +/sg, a precocious process of aging affects the size of the Purkinje cell population.

Plastination is a unique technique of tissue preservation developed by Dr. Gunther von Hagens in Heidelberg, Germany, in 1978. In this process, water and lipids in biological tissues are replaced by curable polymers which are subsequently hardened, resulting in dry, odorless and durable specimens. In neuroanatomy silicone and polyester resins are used. Silicone rubber is used for whole brains and brain dissections resulting in natural looking specimens. Polyester resin is used for brain slices resulting in an excellent distinction between gray and white matter. The silicone S 10 standard technique and the polyester P 35 technique are described in detail. The advantages of plastinated specimens in neuroanatomy teaching and research are discussed.

The time course of blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown after traumatic brain injury (TBI) has important implications for therapy. This study was conducted in order to test post-traumatic BBB dysfunction in a model of fluid-percussion induced TBI in rabbits at 1 and 6 hours after TBI and relate it to white blood cell (WBC) activation. Ten anesthetized rabbits had chronic cranial windows implanted three weeks prior to experimentation. Fluid-percussion injury (3.5 atm.) was induced and animals were followed for 1 or 6 h. Intravital fluorescence videomicroscopy was used to assess BBB permeability and WBC adhesion to pial venules. Na(+)-fluorescein was infused continuously over 30 min at either 30 min (Group I, n = 5) or 5.5 h (Group II, n = 5) after TBI. Microvascular permeability in individual postcapillary venules was assessed qualitatively at 1 and 30 min after start of infusion. TBI led to a transient mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) surge after trauma and a progressive increase in the number of sticking WBCs per mm2 vessel wall. Na(+)-fluorescein extravasation was observed in 4 out of 5 Group I animals and in none of Group II. BBB breakdown was not associated with WBC sticking. We conclude that after fluid-percussion injury the BBB is damaged at 1 h post-trauma and that its function is restored 6 h later. Increased WBC sticking at 6 h is not associated with BBB breakdown. Whether WBCs may cause vascular permeability changes at a later point needs further investigation.
Hypertonic saline (HS) has been shown to decrease intracranial pressure (ICP) and cerebral water content in experimental models of traumatic brain injury (TBI). The purpose of the present study was to test the efficacy of administration of HS (7.5%) combined with 6% hydroxyethyl starch (molecular weight 200.000/0.60-0.66; HHES) for the treatment of therapy-resistant intracranial hypertension in patients with severe TBI. Six patients with severe TBI (GCS &lt; 8) who met the inclusion criteria (therapy resistant ICP &gt; 25 mmHg, cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) &lt; 60 mmHg, plasma-Na+ &lt; 150 mOsm and &gt; 4 hours since the last HS/HHES treatment) were prospectively enrolled in the study and received between one and ten bolus infusions of maximal 250 ml HS/HHES at a rate of 20 ml/min. A total of 32 infusions were given. Administration of HS/HHES significantly lowered ICP by 44% and improved CPP by 38% to well above 70 mmHg at 30 min without affecting arterial blood pressure or blood gases. Plasma sodium normalized within 30 min. Experimental studies from our laboratory indicate that the ICP lowering effect is primarily due to dehydration of brain tissue and that cerebral blood volume remains largely unaffected by HS. In summary, HS/HHES reduces otherwise therapy-resistant intracranial hypertension and improves cerebral perfusion even after repeated administration without negatively affecting blood pressure or causing a rebound ICP increase.
Following in vitro lipofection transfection of the rat glioma cell line A15A5 with the plasmid transgene CMV/HyTK, which confirms hygromycin resistance and ganciclovir sensitivity, a series of experiments was planned in which the &quot;bystander&quot; phenomenon would be evaluated using the rodent implantation glioma model. However examination of the brain of rodents in which the A15A5HyTK cells were implanted showed no evidence of glioma growth. Furthermore, rodents having intracerebral implantation of (i) wild A15A5 and A15A5HyTK cells in a 50/50 mix, (ii) wild A15A5 and A15A5HyTK cells in a 90/10 mixture and (iii) wild C6 and A15A5HyTK cells in a 50/50 mix all failed to grow macroscopic tumours by 15-17 days irrespective of whether the animals had been administered ganciclovir (GCV) in the week before sacrifice. Neuropathological and immunocytochemical analysis of the implantation sites showed no difference between the GCV and saline treated groups of animals for any implantation cell mix. These observations confirm previous results that suggest transduction of malignant rodent glioma cell lines with a variety of selection, oncogenic and marker genes significantly impairs their in vivo tumorigenic potential compared to the wild type cell lines. This study also demonstrates that even without GCV treatment the transduced cells inhibit, by an unknown mechanism(s), the tumorigenicity of other non transfected malignant cells. The implications of this study for gene therapy of human malignant glioma are discussed.
Twenty patients with deafferentation pain were treated by chronic stimulation of the motor cortex. The central fissure was localized using stereotactic MRI and the motor cortex was mapped using intra-operative somatosensory evoked potentials. Seven patients with trigeminal neuropathic pain experienced definite pain relief varying between 40 and 100%. Ten patients had central pain secondary to central nervous system lesions. A satisfactory long-lasting pain control (pain relief &gt; 40%) was obtained in five of them (50% of cases). One patient with pain from peripheral nerve injury obtained more than 80% pain relief. Two patients had pain from spinal cord lesions. One did not respond but the other obtained an excellent long-term result. The location of the effective stimulation plots was in agreement with the somatotopic maps of the primary motor cortex. One patient developed a small extradural haematoma which resolved spontaneously. None of the patients developed seizure activity. This study confirms the potential value of motor cortex stimulation in the treatment of certain forms of intractable pain, especially in cases with trigeminal neuropathic pain.
26 patients with Parkinson's disease were assessed in the OFF state 2-3 days before and one week after pallidotomy for the time to complete each of 25 standardized motor tasks testing a wide range of voluntary activities important for daily living. After pallidotomy there were substantial improvements across this wide range of activities. Patients completed tasks that they could not perform preoperatively. In general for individual tasks (a) preoperative and postoperative scores were directly related, and (b) the absolute improvement (preop time-postop time) was directly related to preoperative performance: numerical improvements were greater in patients who were worse preoperatively. When the 25 tasks were ranked according to improvement relative to preoperative performance postoperative improvements were successively greater for (a) limbs ipsilateral to pallidotomy, (b) contralateral limbs, and (c) standing and walking. The best results were for activities in which the trunk plays a large part.
Recent studies have shown that the dentate granular cells of the hippocampus are affected in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). To gain a better understanding of the cytoskeletal alterations in these cells, we carried out immunocytochemical and immunoelectron microscopic analysis of the dentate gyrus of patients with primary degenerative dementias, using a monoclonal antibody against paired helical filaments (TG3). This antibody labeled a large number of spherical inclusions in the dentate granule cells of patients with AD and its Lewy body variant (LBV). These inclusions consisted of straight tubular structures (about 18-25 nm in diameter), similar to those found in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). These inclusions, although in a smaller number, were also found in demented patients with PSP, but not in those with diffuse Lewy body disease or age-matched controls. These findings indicate that the neurofibrillary alterations in the dentate granule cells of patients with AD, LBV and PSP share cytoskeletal similarities.

In this short review, we discuss several aspects of how temporal coding is reflected in the response of primary auditory cortical neurons. We attempt to establish a link between several different temporal response properties including onset latency, response strength to repetitive stimuli, and the recovery of a response from suppression by a preceding signal. The results suggest a relationship between temporal effects that are expressed at quite different time scales. The results are discussed in relation to spatial representational properties and to coding in other sensory cortices.
Jim Henry is best known for his seminal research on psychosocial stress and cardiovascular disease, and studies of the neuroendocrine correlates of animal behaviors during stress. However, he had a wide range of interests, made important contributions in many other areas, and served as a remarkable catalyst in advancing the work of other scientists. These numerous and less appreciated accomplishments could not possibly be covered in an article of this length. Hopefully, some personal observations, and a brief sketch of his extension of Carl Jung's research and his involvement in the U.S. space program, may help to illustrate the superb character and qualities of this modest and multifaceted individual, as well as a few of his lesser known, but equally meaningful achievements.
A meta-analysis was performed on efficacy and safety data from 4 randomized, double-blind, 6-week, single-center studies comparing mirtazapine (n = 194; 5-35 mg/day) with amitriptyline (n = 193, 40-280 mg/day) and placebo (n = 193) in outpatients with a DSM-III diagnosis of major depressive episode. On all the main efficacy variables both active drugs consistently produced significantly greater improvements and significantly greater percentages of responders or remitters than placebo. The meta-analysis of adverse events shows that mirtazapine was better tolerated than amitriptyline, particularly with respect to anticholinergic and cardiac adverse events. There were no differences between mirtazapine and placebo regarding the incidence of serotonergic adverse events. In conclusion, the results of this meta-analysis demonstrate that mirtazapine is as effective as amitriptyline but has a better tolerability profile.
Studies of self-concept have suffered from a lack of both a solid theoretical base and a clear definition of the term. It is not clear whether self-concept is a construct from the cognitive sciences, an active part of personality or of the ego and unconscious, or a physiological process as indicated from neurological research. Nor is it clear whether the psychological construct of self is related to other concepts, such as personal identity, self-esteem, and the ego, as sometimes these refer to the whole person or a structure or element within a person. What is evident is that the majority of researchers continue to assume that self-concept, however defined in theory, is primarily governed by environmental determinants despite abundant evidence from the neurosciences of the strong influence of its genetic heritability. This study assumed a genetic hypothesis, that self-concept is developmental and that adolescent perception of personal, relational, and academic self-identity occurs uniformly across cultures and environmental circumstances. Data were collected using a validated survey instrument, translated into Chinese, from majority and minority adolescents in the People's Republic of China. High similarity was found between the majority and minority adolescents, suggesting developmental propensities in the formation of self-concept.













There has been a dramatic resurgence of interest in the ketogenic diet during the past several years. For many children with difficult-to-control epilepsy, the diet presents an alternative approach to trying multiple medications. The ketogenic diet's current success rate, when properly executed, greatly exceeds that of the medications which have recently become available. Its side effects, both cognitive and allergic, appear fewer than most available medications. The ketogenic diet is also cheaper than most new anticonvulsants. Even though we now know that the diet works, we still do not know how it works. Nor do we know how most anticonvulsants work. The mechanism of action of the ketogenic diet appears to rely on a fundamental change in the brain's metabolism from that of a glucose-based energy substrate to a ketone-based substrate. This change is, in some fashion, critical to the maintenance of seizure threshold. Why should the source of the energy make a difference in seizure threshold? The change in seizure threshold appears to occur without affecting the brain's ability to carry out its normal complex functions. Could the brain's utilization of an energy substrate for seizure control be different from its utilization of energy for normal brain function? If so it should it be possible to study the metabolic differences between the two and develop a biochemistry of epilepsy, which is differentiated from the biochemistry of normal cognition and function. The ketogenic diet is successful in controlling or ameliorating a broad spectrum of seizure types and etiologies. Perhaps then, common metabolic pathways, independent of seizure type, are used in the initiation and spread of electrical seizures. Based on clinical experience and limited research data, it would appear that different seizures and different epilepsies must have metabolic pathways in common that make them susceptible to treatment with a common metabolic therapy. If we could understand how the ketogenic diet &quot;works,&quot; how changing from a glucose substrate' to a ketone body substrate is anticonvulsant, then perhaps a medication could be developed that would simulate the biochemical effects of the ketogenic diet. Such an approach would be a major departure in the study of the neuroscience of epilepsy. The ketogenic diet offers a new paradigm to think about epilepsy and its treatment, and perhaps will stimulate new approaches to this still often devastating condition.


The search for the physiological function of nicotinic receptors on neurons in the brain began with their discovery. It was initially assumed that, as in ganglia and at the neuromuscular junction, nicotinic receptors would gate fast synaptic transmission in the brain. The best functional evidence now, however, points to a role in modifying the release of other transmitters. This does not preclude a postsynaptic role in transmission for nicotinic receptors in the brain, but attempts to locate such a synapse have not been successful. If fast nicotinic synapses are present in the brain, they are probably low in number and may be masked by other more prevalent synapses (such as glutamatergic) so identification will not be easy. The extent of diversity of nicotinic receptors is substantial. At the molecular level this is reflected in the number of different genes that encode receptor subunits and the multiple possible combinations of subunits that function in expression systems. From the cellular level there is a broad diversity of properties of native receptors in neurons. Some useful pharmacological tools allow the limited identification of subunits in native receptors. For example, block by alpha-bungarotoxin identifies alpha 7, alpha 8, or alpha 9 subunits; activation of a receptor by cytisine indicates an alpha 7 or beta 4 subunit; and neuronal bungarotoxin block identifies a beta 2 subunit. Despite the clues to identity gained by careful use of these agents, we have not been able to identify all the components of any native receptor based on pharmacological properties assessed from expression studies. When both pharmacological and biophysical properties of a receptor are taken into consideration, none of the combinations tested in oocytes mimics native receptors exactly. The reason for this discrepancy has been debated at length; it is possible that oocytes do not faithfully manufacture neuronal nicotinic receptors. For example, they may not correctly modify the protein after translation or they may allow a combination of subunits that do not occur in vivo. Another possibility is that correct combinations of subunits have not yet been tested in oocytes. Data from immunoprecipitation experiments suggest that many receptors contain three or more different subunits. Results from further experiments injecting combinations of three or more subunits into oocytes may be enlightening. The diversity of receptors may allow targeting of subtypes to specific locations. Nicotinic receptors are located presynaptically, preterminally, and on the cell soma. The function of the nicotinic receptors located on innervating axons is presumably to modify the release of other neurotransmitters. It is an attractive hypothesis that nicotinic receptors might be involved in modifying the weight of central synapses; however, in none of the regions where this phenomenon has been described is there any evidence for axoaxonal contacts. The presynaptic receptors described so far are pharmacologically unique; therefore, if there are different subtypes of nicotinic receptors modifying the release of different transmitters, they may provide a means of exogenously modifying the release of a particular transmitter with drugs. There are still many basic unanswered questions about nicotinic receptors in the brain. What are the compositions of native nicotinic receptors? What is their purpose on neurons? Although there is clearly a role presynaptically, what is the function of those located on the soma? Neuronal nicotinic receptors are highly permeable to calcium, unlike muscle nicotinic receptors, and this may have important implications for roles in synaptic plasticity and development. Finally, why is there such diversity? (ABSTRACT TRANCATED)


The present study was designed to evaluate ethanol drinking behaviour in Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) and Sardinian alcohol-non-preferring (sNP) rats in the presence of different ethanol concentrations. Ethanol intake was tested under the two-bottle, free-choice regimen and continuous access schedule. Ethanol-naive sP and sNP rats were initially given ethanol solution at the standard, constant concentration of 10% (v/v) for 8 consecutive days (Phase 1). As expected, daily ethanol intake in sP rats rose from 4 to approximately 6 g/kg; in contrast sNP rats consumed &lt; 10 g/kg/day ethanol. Subsequently, an ascending series of ethanol concentrations, ranging from 3 to 60% (v/v), was presented to sP and sNP rats over a 28-day period (Phase 2). At concentrations varying from 7 to 30%, sP rats consumed constant amounts of absolute ethanol per kg of body weight (approximately 6.0 g/kg/day). Daily ethanol intake in sNP rats remained constantly lower than 1.0 g/kg, irrespective of the ethanol concentration. Data from Phase 2 demonstrate the ability of sP rats to precisely adjust daily ethanol intake and support the hypothesis that voluntary ethanol drinking in sP rats is sustained by specific pharmacological effects of ethanol.
Various influences in the family environment contribute to children of alcoholics' (COAs') risk of developing alcoholism and other mental health problems. These risk factors include alcohol-specific influences, which selectively predict alcohol problems, and alcohol-nonspecific influences, which predict a variety of mental health problems. Alcohol-specific family influences include modeling of parental drinking behavior, development of alcohol expectancies, and the family's ethnic background. Parental psychopathology, the family's socioeconomic status, and general family psychopathology are examples of alcohol-nonspecific risk factors, which increase the COA's risk of behavior disorders as well as of alcoholism. The families of COA's who are at highest risk for alcoholism and other mental health problems are characterized by the aggregation of numerous alcohol-specific and alcohol-nonspecific risk factors.
Medications can be used to treat alcoholism by decreasing craving for alcohol or by blocking the development of processes that lead to addiction. Medications also can enable alcoholic patients to participate more effectively in treatment by decreasing psychiatric symptoms associated with alcoholism or by improving alcohol-related intellectual impairment. Many promising medications for treating alcoholism appear to play a role in normalizing communication among nerve cells. Such medications include naltrexone and acamprosate, which help prevent relapse in patients undergoing psychotherapy for alcoholism. Medications that affect the neurotransmitter serotonin, however, may alleviate symptoms of anxiety and depression in alcoholics without affecting the alcoholism itself.
Alcohol withdrawal syndrome is characterized by hyperactivity of the nervous system. This hyperactivity represents the brain's attempt to function normally despite the inhibitory effect of chronic alcohol consumption. The syndrome manifests when alcohol consumption ceases. Experimental, clinical, and genetic research have linked the development of withdrawal to alterations in the sensitivity of neuronal communication systems. Early treatment of the syndrome is advised, because the symptom severity may increase with each subsequent episode.

We developed a set of informant-based items describing performance of activities of daily living (ADL) by patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) to identify which ADL are useful for assessment of patients in clinical trials. Evaluation of ADL is an important outcome measure in AD clinical trials. For clinical trial measurement, ADL should have broad applicability, good test-retest reliability, scaling to cover a range of performance, and sensitivity to detect change in disease progression. A total of 45 ADL items developed from literature review and clinical experience were administered to informants of 242 AD patients and 64 elderly controls as part of the multicenter Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study Instrument protocol. Half of the subjects were re-evaluated at 1 and 2 months and all at 6 and 12 months. Controls performed virtually all ADL items optimally at baseline and at 12 months. Among subjects with AD, 27 of the 45 ADL were widely applicable, i.e., performed at baseline or premorbidly by &gt; 90% of subjects; showed good test-retest reliability between baseline and 1 and 2 months; correlated with MMSE scores of AD patients cross-sectionally; and showed a decline in performance from baseline to 12 months in at least 20% of AD patients. ADL could be identified that capture change in functional ability in patients across the entire range of the MMSE. The remaining 18 ADL included several that may be useful for trials that target specific populations, e.g., women with AD. Because change on specific items depends on baseline MMSE, ADL evaluation should include items relevant to the severity of dementia of patients enrolled in a clinical trial.
We evaluated the contribution of the rostral nucleus reticularis ventrolateralis (NRVL) to the vasomotor component in the spectrum of systemic arterial pressure (SAP) signals by quantifying the transfer function between electrical stimulation of this medullary nucleus and the SAP response. Sprague-Dawley rats anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium, paralyzed with pancuronium, and mechanically ventilated were used. Broad-band stimulation of the NRVL with computer-generated rectangular current pulses (10-50 microA, 1 ms), at a mean spike rate of 50 pulses/s and randomized modulation frequency of 0-3 Hz, elicited a site-specific and intensity-related pressor response. Intriguingly, the corresponding autospectrum of SAP signals exhibited prevailing power density only in the lower frequency range (0-0.8 Hz). This low-pass response characteristic was confirmed by the observation that 90% of the total magnitude of transfer function between NRVL stimulation and SAP response concentrated between 0 and 0.6 Hz. The magnitude of NRVL-SAP transfer function was significantly reduced by phentolamine or prazosin but appreciably enhanced by yohimbine. We conclude that the NRVL may contribute to the very-low (0-0.25 Hz)- and low (0.25-0.8 Hz)-frequency components of the SAP spectrum, which are belived to reflect sympathetic modulation on vasomotor activity via alpha-adrenergic neurotransmission.
Local microvessels of peripheral nerve trunks (vasa nervorum) dilate following capsaicin-induced inflammation or local nerve trunk injury. In previous work, we observed that morphine blocked capsaicin-induced dilation of vasa nervorum presumably through the action of local opioid receptors. In the present work, we studied injury-related hyperemia of the rat sciatic vasa nervorum using laser Doppler and hydrogen clearance microelectrode measurements of local perfusion. Systemic morphine reversed hyperemia by vasoconstricting both extrinsic and intrinsic microvessels supplying 48-h-old &quot;neuroma&quot; preparations or crush zones of peripheral nerve trunks. Morphine did not constrict microvessels of contralateral uninjured or sham exposed but uninjured sciatic nerves. In contrast to the injured nerves, contralateral uninjured nerves exposed to morphine frequently had a rise in local perfusion, indicating vasodilation. The vasoconstrictive actions of morphine were blocked by pretreatment with naloxone and were not mimicked by saline injections alone. Systemic doses of selective opioid agonists to mu-, kappa-, and delta-receptors also selectively constricted microvessels of injured nerves. Local blood flow in older experimental neuromas at 7 days had partial sensitivity to morphine, whereas at 14 days perfusion flow was not influenced by morphine. Exogenous opioids dampen early but not later inflammatory microvasodilation and could have important influences on the nerve regenerative milieu.
The activity of a relatively small Cl- (SCl) channel in the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) vesicles of rabbit skeletal muscle was preserved following their reconstitution into lipid bilayer. Reducing PO2 from approximately 150 to &lt; 1 Torr in the cis-side (cytosolic) reversibly inhibited the channel activity within 2 min. The modulatory effects, deduced from reduction in Cl- current levels and in kinetic parameters of channel activation, in normoxic (PO2 approximately 150 Torr) and hypoxic (low PO2 &lt; 1 Torr) solutions were mimicked by oxidizing and reducing agents, respectively. Cl- current transitions to the main open conductance state were increased by 100 microM of the specific sulfhydryl (SH)-oxidizing agent 4,4'-dithiodipyridine and inhibited by the SH-reducing agent glutathione (GSH) with a Hill coefficient of 8 and inhibition constant of approximately 3.1 mM. The inhibitory effects of 5 mM [GSH]cis were prevented by prior addition of 1 mM iodoacetamide, an alkylating agent, to the cytosolic side of the channel. These findings suggest that an SH-dependent mechanism (redox couple, e.g., reduced/oxidized glutathione) could be involved in the gating of the SCl channel in such a way that SH oxidation (GSSH) favors the open state of the channel, and SH reduction (GSH), which mimics the inhibitory action of low PO2, favors the closed state.

We studied the immunohistochemical localization of the glutamate receptors (GluR-1, -2, and -3,) in the developing rat cerebral cortex and hippocampus using antibodies to GluR1 and to an epitope common to GluR2 and GluR3 (GluR2/3) subunits. In the cerebral cortex, GluR1 immunoreactivity appeared in the neurons from postnatal day (PND) 0, increased with maturation, was highest at PND 10, decreased until PND 30, and thereafter remained at the same level as on PND 0. GluR2/3 immunoreactivity appeared earlier in scattered neurons on embryonal day (ED) 18, increased with maturation and reached a peak between PND 10 and PND 15, after which the immunoreactivity gradually decreased and reached a plateau at PND 30. For both GluR1 and GluR2/3, some of the pyramidal neurons showed intense staining. In the pyramidal layers of the hippocampus, GluR1 and GluR2/3 immunoreactivity was found in all the pyramidal neurons of the CA1-4 area from ED 20. In the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, GluR1 and GluR2/3 immunoreactivity was found in the neurons of the granule cells after PND 0. Immunoreactivity in the neurons of the subiculum was found after PND 5 and that of the polymorphic cell layers was found after PND 15-20. Our results indicate that the development of glutamate receptor subunits in the rat cerebral cortex and hippocampus is expressed in different spatial patterns and distinct temporal patterns throughout development and is scheduled during the early postnatal period, when synaptic plasticity or synaptic connection occurs in these regions.

Through linkage analysis and the identification of structural chromosome rearrangements, a number of disease genes have been mapped to the pericentromeric region of the long arm of chromosome 13. Structural rearrangements, or deletions, of the 13q12 region have been implicated in a range of myeloproliferative neoplasms, and other haematopoietic malignancies. In particular, seven cases of a t(8;13)(p11;q12.1) rearrangement have been noted in patients with an atypical myeloproliferative disorder associated with T-cell leukemia and eosinophilia. We have previously identified a CEPH mega YAC, 943E4, which crosses the translocation breakpoint in archival tumour samples from two patients with this t(8;13) translocation. As an initial step in the characterisation of this translocation breakpoint, we have generated a fine structure physical map of this 1.9 Mb YAC. We have used the method of YAC fragmentation to generate a series of deletion constructs of known size, which provide discreet physical landmarks convenient for mapping genetic markers along the 943E4 YAC. Analysis of these deletion constructs defined the order of ESTs and microsatellite markers in 943E4 as: cen-NIB1257-(ATP1AL1/D13S283)-D13S179E-(D13S5 04E/D13S505E)-D13S824E-D13S182E -D13S221-tel. These markers have also been assigned to physically defined regions relative to the fragmented YAC endpoints and a derived NotI restriction map.
Morphometric and functional brain research is now an integral part of the most concentrated effort in a century to understand some of the most distressing illnesses to which man can fall victim. It will undoubtedly expand. The only ones with anything to fear from this work are those who, for ideological reasons, cannot accept its basic premises. The ethical issues it raises are not in general insurmountable, though the questions posed by the concept of informed consent remain.
Brain research, and neuroscience in general, seems to meet cultural needs rather than therapeutic necessities. There is no evidence indeed that recent findings--even if they are important--will have therapeutic application in the short run. Although indirect and direct costs of neurological and psychiatric diseases are outrageous, clinical research in these fields is not at all encouraged. Research in neuroscience seems above all interested in challenging some cultural paradigm. Likewise another great and similar venture, the Human Genome (HUGO) Project, also brain research seems to be a scientific enterprise which primarily aims at grounding human diversities on biological diversities. Yet can biology ever substitute the multiculturalist dream?
Krabbe's disease or globoid cell leukodystrophy is a rare demyelinating disorder of the central and peripheral nervous systems, the diagnosis of which is based on clinical findings and the determination of low to absent functional activity of the enzyme beta-galactocerebrosidase. We report the presentation of late-onset Krabbe's disease in 2 siblings, a 17-year-old boy and his 16-year-old sister, both with marked deficiency of the enzyme beta-galactocerebrosidase. Only the older sibling manifested clinical signs and symptoms of the disease, while the younger sister remained asymptomatic to date. Molecular analyses disclosed the presence in this family of two novel single point mutations within the gene for galactocerebrosidase.
Substantial dysfunction and loss of cholinergic neurons occur in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a potent neurotrophic factor for cholinergic basal forebrain neurons, and the use of NGF to stimulate residual dysfunctional cells in AD is being considered. To define the effects of NGF on other cell populations in the brain, NGF was continuously infused into the lateral ventricle of rats for 7 weeks. At the end of treatment, Schwann cell hyperplasia and abundant sensory and sympathetic neurite sprouting were observed in the subpial region of the medulla oblongata and the spinal cord. Following withdrawal of NGF, the Schwann cell hyperplasia and sprouting of sensory and sympathetic neurites disappeared completely. These findings suggest that better temporal and spatial delivery systems for NGF must be explored to limit potential undesirable side effects while maintaining the survival and function of diseased basal forebrain cholinergic neurons.
NCAM, L1, and DCC--immunoglobulin cell adhesion molecules (Ig CAMs)--are widely expressed during development. Many workers have dismissed a role for such molecules in the control of axonal growth and guidance because they do not show highly restricted expression patterns. Yet evidence from a number of model systems suggests all three CAMs play a role in the development of specific projections in the nervous system. For example, there is a reduction in mossy fiber tracts in the hippocampus of mice that lack NCAM, a requirement for DCC in the response of commissural neurons to a floor plate-derived chemoattractant, and a loss of corticospinal tracts in humans who carry mutations in the L1 gene. The above paradox might be explained by the observation that differential post-translational processing can modulate CAMs function and that alternative splicing can generate functionally distinct isoforms of a CAM. Activation of the FGF tyrosine kinase receptor is required for the responses stimulated by NCAM and L1, and the importance of regulated tyrosine phosphorylation for growth and guidance is underscored by the involvement of receptor tyrosine phosphatases in this process.
The acuity of compound eyes is determined by interommatidial angles, optical quality, and rhabdom dimensions. It is also affected by light levels and speed of movement. In insects, interommatidial angles vary from tens of degrees in Apterygota, to as little as 0.24 degrees in dragonflies. Resolution better than this is not attainable in compound eyes of realistic size. The smaller the interommatidial angle the greater the distance at which objects--prey, predators, or foliage--can be resolved. Insects with different lifestyles have contrasting patterns of interommatidial angle distribution, related to forward flight, capture on the wing, and predation on horizontal surfaces.
Physiological activation of the magnocellular hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system induces a coordinated astrocytic withdrawal from between the magnocellular somata and the parallel-projecting dendrites of the supraoptic nucleus. Neural lobe astrocytes release engulfed axons and retract from their usual positions along the basal lamina. Occurring on a minutes-to-hours time scale, these changes are accompanied by increased direct apposition of both somatic and dendritic membrane, the formation of dendritic bundles, the appearance of novel multiple synapses in both the somatic and dendritic zones, and increased neural occupation of the perivascular basal lamina. Reversal, albeit with varying time courses, is achieved by removing the activating stimuli. Additionally, activation results in interneuronal coupling increases that are capable of being modulated synaptically via second messenger-dependent mechanisms. These changes appear to play important roles in control and coordination of oxytocin and vasopressin release during such conditions as lactation and dehydration.
The mechanisms by which human speech is processed in the brain are reviewed from both behavioral and neurobiological perspectives. Special consideration is given to the separation of speech processing as a complex acoustic-processing task versus a linguistic task. Relevant animal research is reviewed, insofar as these data provide insight into the neurobiological basis of complex acoustic processing in the brain.
During early vertebrate development, the cells of the ectoderm choose between two possible fates: neural and epidermal. The process of neural induction was discovered nearly 70 years ago in vertebrates, and molecular analyses in recent years using Xenopus laevis embryos have identified several secreted factors with direct neural-inducing ability. There is considerable evidence that the mechanism of neuralization by these inducing factors is under inhibitory control and involves derepression. This review focuses on factors involved in the specification of neural fate within the frame of the default model of neural induction.
Regionalization of the cerebral cortex occurs during development by the formation of anatomically and functionally discrete areas of the brain. Descriptive evidence based on expression of molecules and structural features suggests that an early parcelation of the cerebral wall may occur during fetal development. Experimental strategies using tissue transplants and cell culture models have explored the nature of the timing of areal specification. New signaling systems displaying the sensitivity of precursor cells to environmental cues that define the fate of neurons destined for specific areas of the cortex have been discovered. Studies in the field now suggest mechanisms of regulating cell phenotype in the cortex that are common to all parts of the neuraxis.
The field of neurotrophic factor pharmacology emerged during the past decade with the discovery that these proteins can counteract neuronal atrophy and death in the adult nervous system. These concepts are being tested in clinical trials. Therapeutic use of neurotrophic proteins seems practical for diseases of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), where they can be given by systemic administration. For diseases of the CNS, special administration strategies will have to be developed to deliver the neurotrophic factors into the brain. The development of small molecule mimetics represents an alternative approach that is actively pursued to provide brain-penetrant neurotrophics.
Osmoreceptors regulate sodium and water balance in a manner that maintains the osmotic pressure of the extracellular fluid (ECF) near an ideal set point. In rats, the concerted release of oxytocin and vasopressin, which is determined by the firing rate of magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs), plays a key role in osmoregulation through the effects of natriuresis and diuresis. Changes in excitatory synaptic drive, derived from osmosensitive neurons in the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT), combine with endogenously generated osmoreceptor potentials to modulate the firing rate of MNCs. The cellular basis for osmoreceptor potentials has been characterized using patch-clamp recordings and morphometric analysis in MNCs isolated from the supraoptic nucleus of the adult rat. In these cells, stretch-inactivated cationic channels transduce osmotically evoked changes in cell volume into functionally relevant changes in membrane potential. The experimental details of these mechanisms are reviewed in their physiological context.
The scientific study of associative learning began nearly 100 years ago with the pioneering studies of Thorndike and Pavlov, and it continues today as an active area of research and theory. Associative learning should be the foundation for our understanding of other forms of behavior and cognition in human and nonhuman animals. The laws of associative learning are complex, and many modern theorists posit the involvement of attention, memory, and information processing in such basic conditioning phenomena as overshadowing and blocking, and the effects of stimulus preexposure on later conditioning. An unresolved problem for learning theory is distinguishing the formation of associations from their behavioral expression. This and other problems will occupy future generations of behavioral scientists interested in the experimental investigation of associative learning. Neuroscientists and cognitive scientists will both contribute to and benefit from that effort in the next 100 years of inquiry.
We review current computational models of hippocampal function in learning and memory, concentrating on those that make strongest contact with psychological issues and behavioral data. Some models build upon Marr's early theories for modeling hippocampal field CA3's putative role in the fast, temporary storage of episodic memories. Other models focus on hippocampal involvement in incrementally learned associations, such as classical conditioning. More recent efforts have attempted to bring functional interpretations of the hippocampal region in closer contact with underlying anatomy and physiology. In reviewing these psychobiological models, three major themes emerge. First, computational models provide the conceptual glue to bind together data from multiple levels of analysis. Second, models serve as important tools to integrate data from both animal and human studies. Third, previous psychological models that capture important behavioral principles of memory provide an important top-down constraint for developing computational models of the neural bases of these behaviors.
The application of neurobiological tools to behavioral questions has produced a number of working models of the mechanisms mediating the rewarding and aversive properties of stimuli. The authors review and compare three models that differ in the nature and number of the processes identified. The dopamine hypothesis, a single system model, posits that the neurotransmitter dopamine plays a fundamental role in mediating the rewarding properties of all classes of stimuli. In contrast, both nondeprived/deprived and saliency attribution models claim that separate systems make independent contributions to reward. The former identifies the psychological boundary defined by the two systems as being between states of nondeprivation (e.g. food sated) and deprivation (e.g. hunger). The latter identifies a boundary between liking and wanting systems. Neurobiological dissociations provide tests of and explanatory power for behavioral theories of goal-directed behavior.
Cell proliferation and invasion were studied in sixty biopsies of malignant gliomas selected to reproduce the spreading modalities identified in ninety autopsy cases of glioblastoma. Cell proliferation was studied by the immunohistochemical demonstration of PCNA and MIB-1 and by the calculation of their labeling indexes (LI). The main finding was that cell proliferation and cell invasion are not necessarily associated. The interface between the solid tumor and the adjacent brain was represented either by a gradient of tumor cell density or by a clearcut demarcation of the tumor. In the first case the LI either did not change in the infiltration area in comparison with solid tumor or it was much lower, whereas in the second case there was a ring with a high density of labeled nuclei at the tumor periphery. Perineuronal satellites were usually positive for proliferation markers. Cells accumulated in the outer cortical layers, from a deeply located tumor, were almost negative, whereas those originating from subarachnoidal or subpial invasion showed a high LI. High LIs were also found in subarachnoidal and subpial growths, and in a cell population descending into the brain parenchyma around meningeal penetrating vessels. The relationship between cell proliferation and invasion from in vivo studies is not a direct and a simple one.
Beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) has been shown to be involved in cell growth regulation. In spleen, the majority of cells showing betaAPP like immunoreactivity was found in the T cell-dependent zone. In Northern blot, the expression of betaAPP was increased to reach the peak at 72 h after the treatment of phytohemagglutinin (PHA). But, in cytofluorometry, almost all CD4(+) T helper/inducer cells and the majority of CD(8+) T suppressor/cytotoxic cells show betaAPP immunoreactivity which remained constant during the stimulation with PHA. These results suggest that betaAPP is a surface molecule of T lymphocyte and the turnover or release of APP might be increased with the treatment of T cell mitogen.
Soon after the birth of the hypothesis of the ascending brainstem activating system, Giuseppe Moruzzi considered the possibility that a fractionated and differentiated arousing action of the reticular formation is required for effective behavior and cognition. Current knowledge about the chemically tagged brainstem systems which project diffusely to thalamus, neocortex and limbic structures has justified the assumption of the existence of multiple arousal systems. Combined changes in the activities of these systems are responsible for the sleep-wake cycle and the modulation of the reactivity of the brain to environmental inputs. There remains the physiological problem--one which has always been foremost in Moruzzi's thinking about the intrinsic regulation of brain activity--of how the separate actions of the different arousal systems are brought together into a functional whole. This problem still awaits experimental answers.
An increasing flow of evidences collected on elementary forms of learning processes in selected animal models evidentiates some mechanisms which can represent the basic cellular principles underlying plastic changes: 1. 5HT and second messengers of nucleotide type (like cAMP) have a pivotal role in the learning process. 2. In almost all short-term learning processes the modifications are subserved by a mechanism of protein phosphorylation. 3. In various animal models the modulation of K+ and Ca2+ channels is the molecular mechanism for learning. Experiments performed in sensory T neuron of the leech indicate that the modulation of Na+/K+ electrogenic pump is one of the fundamental mechanism for learning. 4. In long-term plastic changes, the most important finding is that newly synthesized proteins are formed. 5. In addition to what has been observed in the Aplysia model, where changes in synaptic efficacy represent the basic principles of memory storage, in the leech it has been demonstrated that a molecular machinery present in a single neuron can adapt the activity of the cell to environmental stimuli.

Microneurography is an electrophysiological method to record impulse traffic in human peripheral nerve in situ. Using this method, not only sensory afferent nerve activity, but also postganglionic sympathetic efferent outflow leading to muscle (muscle sympathetic nerve activity-MSNA) and skin (skin sympathetic nerve activity-SSNA) can be recorded in human subjects. In this paper, the methodology of microneurography and following findings obtained by microneurography on sympathetic nerve responses to environmental stress in humans are reviewed. 1. MSNA is enhanced by gravitational stress, while being suppressed by simulated weightlessness through baroreflex mechanism to maintain hemodynamic homeostasis. 2. MSNA is enhanced by simulated high altitude through chemoreflex mechanism. 3. SSNA, which is composed of sudomotor and vasomotor discharges, plays an essential role in thermoregulation. There exist regional differences between SSNA responses to ambient temperature in the nerves innervating hairy and glabrous skin. The function of the sympathetic nervous system in humans has been so far generally analyzed indirectly by observing the effector organ activity or by measuring the plasma noradrenaline level. Meanwhile, a more direct method to approach the sympathetic nervous function in man, called microneurography, has been developed. By applying this technique, it is possible to investigate how the human sympathetic nervous system responds to different kinds of environmental stress (Mano, 1990, 1994). In this paper, the usefulness of microneurography as a research tool in environmental physiology is shown with a review of microneurographic findings on sympathetic nerve responses to environmental stress in human subjects.
Male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated neonatally with either of three different doses of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA): 50 micrograms i.c., 75 micrograms i.c., or 2 x 100 micrograms i.c.v., 30 min after a subcutaneous injection of desipramine (DMI, 25 mg/kg), in order to obtain selective lesions of mesencephalic dopamine (DA) neurons to different extents. From juvenile ages onwards, rats in each dose condition were tested for spontaneous motor activity and exploration in an openfield/holeboard setting measuring ambulation, rearing and head-dips. Between 77 and 78 days, the animals were tested in a modified, enclosed radial arm maze, followed 1 week later by tests in the circular swim maze. Finally, motor activity was tested in automated activity test chambers. In the openfield/holeboard setting, hyperactivity was seen for both rearing and ambulation in rats administered 50 micrograms 6-OHDA, whereas the 75 micrograms and 2 x 100 micrograms groups showed hyperactivity for ambulation, but hypoactivity for rearing and head-dips. All three dose groups demonstrated a retardation of learning in the radial arm maze. The 75 and 2 x 100 micrograms groups, but not the 50 micrograms group, showed impairments of acquisition in the swim maze. In the activity test chambers locomotion and rearing behavior varied as a function of 6-OHDA dose, being negatively and positively, respectively, related to DA concentration in striatum. These results show that the extent of the neonatal DA lesion determines both changes in motor- and exploratory activity as well as the occurrence and severity of acquisition impairment in spatial learning tasks.
Parental history and experiential factors in the development of snake and spider phobia were studied. Phobic women (DSM-IV, n = 158) reported on family history of animal phobia and whether direct (being frightened by the phobic object) or indirect (seeing someone else being frightened by and/or being warned of the phobic object) fear exposure predated phobia development. Fifty-nine mothers (37%) and 11 fathers (7%) had snake or spider phobia, which is higher than the upper 95% confidence interval in the populations (Fredrikson, Annas, Fischer &amp; Wik, Behavior Research and Therapy, 34, 33-39). Lifetime Relative Risk, RR, of animal phobia in probands' mother and fathers as a function of at least one phobic grandparent was 3.3 and 13.7 respectively. Indirect fear exposures were more common in snake (45%) than spider (27%) phobics (RR = 1.4). Indirect fear exposures were more common among probands with a positive parental history, the RRs being 3.6 and 2.1 as a function of maternal and paternal family history. Direct exposures were unrelated to parental history. The familial resemblance and transmission of specific phobia could be experiential in origin mediated by indirect exposures or of hereditary origin mediated by genetic factors. It may represent genetically facilitated learning and exemplify imprinting in humans.
The zebrafish has long been the favorite organism in many scientific disciplines. Although its attributes as a model were expounded for many years and thus were no secret, the zebrafish sat in the wings while other more popular vertebrates such as chick, amphibians, and mouse were examined at length. We cannot say there was a resurgence in popularity, but more an explosion of research utilizing the zebrafish beginning in the late 1970s when investigators at the University of Oregon began using it as their model in neuroscience. Prior to this reawakening, the zebrafish was one of the significant organisms in the study of teratology and toxicology, development, and, to some extent, behavior. Recently, however, the field of zebrafish genetics has gained immense popularity and success, in part owing to the fact that zebrafish are diploid and are amenable to genetic manipulations. Here we present an overview of the multidisciplinary research that has laid some of the foundation of our present understanding of the biochemical, cell biological, and molecular genetic events accompanying zebrafish development.






This paper studies the relation between the functional synaptic connections between two artificial neural networks and the correlation of their spiking activities. The model neurons had realistic non-oscillatory dynamic properties and the networks showed oscillatory behavior as a result of their internal synaptic connectivity. We found that both excitation and inhibition cause phase locking of the oscillating activities. When the two networks excite each other the oscillations synchronize with zero phase lag, whereas mutual inhibition between the networks resulted in an anti-phase (half period phase difference) synchronization. Correlations between the activities of the two networks can also be caused by correlated external inputs driving the systems (common input). Our analysis shows that when the networks exhibit oscillatory behavior and the rate of the common input is smaller than a characteristic network oscillator frequency, the cross-correlation functions between the activities of two systems still carry information about the mutual synaptic connectivity. This information can be retrieved with linear partialization, removing the influence of the common input. We further explored the network responses to periodic external input. We found that when the input is of a frequency smaller than a certain threshold, the network responds with bursts at the same frequency as the input. Above the threshold, the network responds with a fraction of the input frequency. This frequency threshold, characterizing the oscillatory properties of the network, is also found to determine the limit to which linear partialization works.
The Biomechanics Laboratory of the Neuroscience Department of the Medical College of Wisconsin is currently engaged in research involving trauma biomechanics. For some experiments, 24 channels of analog data must be sampled at 10,000 Hertz. The Modular Data Acquisition System (MDAS) is able to acquire up to 60 channels of analog data at sampling intervals as low as 6 microseconds. This excellent hardware system has only menu-driven utility software that is no longer supported and required updating to a Graphical User Interface (GUI). Using National Instruments LabWindows/CVI software a GUI was developed. The GUI consists of 9 Graphical User Interface panels controlled by a 3000 line C program &quot;MDAS3SAM&quot;. &quot;MDAS3SAM&quot; controls a driver program &quot;MDAS_SAM&quot; which communicates with the MDAS unit via a National Instruments GPIB interface. The 9 GUI panels allow the user to configure the MDAS system (selecting channels, sampling interval, triggering levels etc.), start sampling the data, writing the data to hard disk, graphing the data and printing the graphs. The new system allows the user to quickly reconfigure the MDAS unit and obtain accurate results.
FKBP12 was removed from ryanodine receptors (RyRs) by incubation of rabbit skeletal muscle terminal cisternae membranes with rapamycin. The extent of FKBP12 removal was estimated by immunostaining Western blots of terminal cisternae proteins. Single FKBP12-depleted RyR channels, incorporated into planar lipid bilayers, were modulated by Ca2+, ATP, ryanodine, and ruthenium red in the cis chamber and opened frequently to the normal maximum conductance of approximately 230 pS and to substate levels of approximately 0.25, approximately 0.5, and approximately 0.75 of the maximum conductance. Substate activity was rarely seen in native RyRs. Ryanodine did not after the number of conductance levels in FKBP12-depleted channels, but, at a membrane potential of +40 mV, reduced both the maximum and the substate conductances by approximately 50%. FKBP12-stripped channels were activated by a 10-fold-lower [Ca2+] and inhibited by a 10-fold-higher [Ca2+], than RyRs from control-incubated and native terminal cisternae vesicles. The open probability (Po) of these FKBP12-deficient channels was greater than that of control channels at 0.1 microM and 1 mM cis Ca2+ but no different at 10 microM cis Ca2+, where channels showed maximal Ca2+ activation. The approximately 0.25 substate was less sensitive than the maximum conductance to inhibition by Ca2+ and was the dominant level in channels inhibited by 1 mM cis Ca2+. The results show that FKBP12 coordinates the gating of channel activity in control and ryanodine-modified RyRs.
We are able to recognize very many different faces of individuals we know, apparently using a complex and ill-understood set of identifying features; it seems natural to assume that faces are perceived as spanning the equivalent of a high-dimensional vector space. I explore ways to probe the structure of perceptual face space without making a priori hypotheses about either the space itself or the mechanisms of perception and recognition, and using solely neuronal responses recorded in the monkey, and metrics derived from their mutual similarities. Within this approach, the dimensionality of face space remains an elusive concept, but the metric content and ultrametric content of the face sets used can be quantified and compared with those of other perceptual sets.
1. Increasing the medium osmolality, with a non-ionic osmoticant, from control (289 mOsm) to 319 mOsm or 344 mOsm in the lumbrical muscle cell of the mouse, resulted in a depolarization of the membrane potential (Vm) of 5.9 mV and 10.9 mV, respectively. 2. In control medium, the blockers of chloride related cotransport bumetanide and furosemide, induced a hyperpolarization of -3.6 and -3.0 mV and prevented the depolarization due to hypertonicity. When bumetanide was added in hypertonic media Vm fully repolarized to control values. 3. In a medium of 266 mOsm, the hyperpolarization by bumetanide was absent. 4. At 344 mOsm the half-maximal effective concentration (IC50) was 0.5 microM for bumetanide and 21 microM for furosemide. 5. In solutions containing 1.25 mM sodium the depolarization by hypertonicity was reduced to 2.3 mV. 6. Reducing chloride permeability, by anthracene 9 carboxylic acid (9-AC) in 289 mOsm, induced a small but significant hyperpolarization of -2.6 mV. Increasing medium osmolality to 344 mOsm enlarged this hyperpolarization significantly to -7.6 mV. 7. In a solution of 344 mOsm containing 100 microM ouabain, the bumetanide-induced hyperpolarization of Vm was absent. 8. The results indicate that a Na-K-2Cl cotransporter is present in mouse lumbrical muscle fibre and that its contribution to Vm is dependent on medium osmolality.
Case Alex, with Sturge-Weber Syndrome affecting the left hemisphere, failed to develop speech throughout early boyhood, and his comprehension of single words and simple commands remained stagnant at an age equivalent of 3-4 years. But then, following left hemidecortication at age 8.5 years and withdrawal of anticonvulsants when he was more than 9 years old, Alex suddenly began to acquire speech and language. He also showed an unusual degree of residual motor capacity on his right side. Alex's remarkable progress in learning speech and language, and the development of his other cognitive abilities, were measured periodically from the age of 9 to 15 years. His most recent scores on tests of receptive and expressive language place him at an age equivalent of 8-10 years. Comparison with the level of function attained in these domains by nine other left hemispherectomized patients with early onset of disease and comparable IQ (range, 40-68) but with early development of speech and language, suggests that, surprisingly, Alex has suffered no permanent disadvantage from his protracted period of mutism and severely limited comprehension. Although the findings in Alex, as in other left-hemispherectomized patients, indicate define limits to the cognitive and linguistic capacity of the isolated right hemisphere, Alex's achievements appear to challenge the widely held view that early childhood is a particularly critical period for acquisition of speech and language or any of their selective aspects, including phonology, grammar, prosody and semantics. It is concluded that clearly articulated, well structured, and appropriate language can be acquired for the first time as late as age 9 years with the right hemisphere alone.
Anti-Zebrin II is an antibody directed against a 36kDa aldolase epitope expressed by Purkinje cells. Two patterns of Zebrin II immunolabeling have been described in the cerebellar corpus. In mammalian cerebella, the anti-Zebrin II labels longitudinal zones of Purkinje cells, whereas in teleosts, all Purkinje cells of the cerebellar corpus are Zebrin II immunopositive. An outgroup analysis is required to determine which of these distribution patterns represents the primitive condition for jawed vertebrates. The sister group of the Osteichthyans (rayfinned fishes, amphibians, and amniotes) is the Chondrichthyans (sharks, skates, and rays). In the present study the distribution of Zebrin II immunopositivity was examined in the Atlantic stingray and the Southern stingray. Western-blot analysis demonstrates that the Zebrin II antibody recognizes an antigen of the same molecular weight in stingrays, teleosts, and mammals. In stingrays, anti-Zebrin II immunohistochemistry reveals a staining pattern in which all Purkinje cells are immunopositive, no banding pattern or zonal compartmentation is observed. Purkinje cell axon projections to the cerebellar nucleus and the octaval nuclei are also revealed. Within the octaval nuclei, immunopositive Purkinje cell axon terminals and boutons en passant were found in the anterior, descending, and posterior nuclei. These immunopositive profiles are found throughout these nuclei, but they are most dense in the lateral and ventral portions. Except for the dorsolateralmost portion, the magnocellular nucleus does not appear to receive Purkinje cell inputs. Based on these results it is concluded that the Zebrin II distribution pattern in which all Purkinje cells of the cerebellar corpus are immunopositive is the primitive condition for jawed vertebrates.
Eyes are the preeminent source of sensory information for the brain in most species, and many features of eyes reflect evolutionary solutions to particular selective pressures, both from the nonbiological environment and from other animals. As a result, the evolution of eyes, among all the sense organs, has attracted considerable attention from scientists. Paired eyes in the three major phyla, vertebrates, arthropods and mollusks, have long been considered to be classic examples of evolutionary convergence. At the macroscopic level, this must be true since they arise from different tissues and have evolved radically different solutions to the common problem of collecting and focusing light. However, opsin, the light-absorbing receptor protein, has a significant amount of shared DNA sequence homology across the phyla, and recently it has been discovered that some part of ocular development in different phyla is coordinated by a homologous, gene, Pax-6. So, although eyes from diverse phyla are clearly not homologous, neither can they be viewed as resulting solely from convergence. Instead, this shows that homology at the molecular level of organization does not predict homology at the organ or organismic level. The presence of homologous constituent molecules in nonhomologous structures reminds us that molecules are not eyes.
The morphology of the pit organs and canal neuromasts of the actinopterygian Polypterus and the lungfishes Lepidosiren, Neoceratodus and Protopterus are described using light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Pit organs resemble canal neuromasts in their hair cell polarization, but they differ in size, shape, hair cell density and in the length of the kinocilia. Pit line neuromasts in Lepidosiren, Polypterus and Protopterus are arranged in dense lines, with numerous neuromasts between pores in the canal, and are an order of magnitude smaller than canal neuromasts in Polypterus. We suggest that the evolutionary transformation of canal neuromasts into superficial neuromasts occurred through the evolutionary reduction of the lateral line canals, either as the result of selection for changes in neuromast function, or as the result of non-adaptive reduction of dermal bone around the lateral line canals and their neuromasts. Protopterus (a lepidosirenid lungfish) is apparently unique among bony fishes in that it has multiple neuromasts between adjacent pores in lateral line canals on the head. An analysis of the distribution of this character among major gnathostome clades indicates that multiple canal neuromasts between pore positions is a primitive gnathostome character. Latimeria, Neoceratodus and actinopterygian fishes are characterized by an alternative character state, the presence of one canal neuromast between adjacent pores.

This review summarizes our current understanding of the neural circuit underlying the larval proleg withdrawal reflex (PWR) of Manduca sexta and describes how PWR function changes in two contexts: metamorphosis and learning. The first form of PWR plasticity occurs during the larval-pupal transformation, when the reflex is lost. One mechanism that contributes to this loss is the weakening of monosynaptic excitatory connection from proleg sensory neurons to proleg retractor motor neurons. This change is associated with the hormonally-mediated regression of proleg motor neuron dendrites, which may break synaptic contacts between the sensory and motor neurons. After pupation, some of the proleg motor neurons die in a segment-specific pattern that persists even after individual motor neurons are isolated from the nervous system and exposed to hormones in vitro. The second form of PWR plasticity involves short-term, activity-dependent changes in neural function during the larval stage. The nicotinic cholinergic connections from proleg sensory neurons to motor neurons exhibit several forms of plasticity including facilitation, depression, post-tetanic potentiation and two types of muscarinic modulation. Larval PWR behavior exhibits two simple forms of learning-habituation and dishabituation-which involve alterations in the central PWR circuit. These studies of a simple circuit illustrate neural mechanisms by which behaviors undergo both short- and long-term modifications.
Juvenile chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) memorize odors characteristic of their natal stream, then use these imprinted olfactory cues to return to that same stream years later as sexually mature adults. In a preliminary effort to identify neuroanatomical changes in the salmon olfactory system that may underlie these behavioral capabilities, the structure of the olfactory bulb (OB) was studied at three developmental periods across the life history: in early juvenile development (0.1-4 months of age), in late juvenile development (11-16 months), and as spawning adults (48 months). Using antibodies that selectively label primary olfactory afferents (anti-keyhole limpet hemocyanin), combined with a thionin counterstain, the telencephalon (TEL), OB, and two of the bulb's laminar components, the olfactory nerve-glomerular layer (ONL-GL) and inner cell layer (ICL), could be easily identified. Laminar organization and relative volume (i.e. percent of OB comprised by ONL-GL or ICL) were then compared across groups, and absolute volumes of the OB, ONL-GL, and ICL were compared to that of the TEL at each stage. Three age-related processes were observed across the life history. First, a rapid increase in organizational and structural maturity of the OB was found to be confined to early juvenile life. Second, an increase in OB, ONL-GL, and ICL volume, relative to TEL volume, was found to occur across the entire life history. Lastly, the composition of the OB itself changed, in that an increase in the relative volume of the ONL-GL, and a decrease in that of the ICL, were observed across the life history. Taken together, these results indicate that the OB of young salmon matures dramatically while the fish is still in the freshwater phase of its life history. Then, during migration to the ocean and growth to the adult stage, the volume of the OB, relative to that of the telencephalon, and the relative volume of the input layer of the bulb, both undergo a marked, continuous increase. These changes in the structure, and presumably the function, of the olfactory bulb of salmon may be important in the behavioral phenomena of olfactory imprinting as juveniles and homing as adults.
The effect of morphine on the increase of NO2- and NO3- concentration in the dialysate obtained with a microdialysis probe implanted in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, and penile erection and yawning induced by N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) was studied in male rats. NMDA (50 ng) injected in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, induced penile erection and yawning and increased NO2- from 1.10 +/- 0.28 microM to 7.30 +/- 1.10 microM and NO3- from 5.05 +/- 0.71 microM to 11.03 +/- 1.61 microM. Morphine (1-10 microg), but not U-69,593 (10 microg), a selective agonist of the kappa opiate receptor subtype, prevented in a dose-dependent manner NMDA-induced increase in NO2- and NO3- concentration when injected in the paraventricular nucleus 15 min before NMDA. Morphine prevention of NMDA-induced NO2- and NO3- increase was related to a concomitant decrease in the number of penile erection and yawning episodes induced by the excitatory amino acid. Morphine effect was not observed in male rats treated with the opiate receptor antagonist naloxone (10 microg) microinjected in the paraventricular nucleus 15 min before morphine. The present results suggest that morphine prevents an NMDA-induced increase in paraventricular NO production, penile erection, and yawning by inhibiting NO synthase activity in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus through the stimulation of opioid receptors of the micro subtype.
Viruses with the ability to establish persistent infection in the central nervous system (CNS) can induce progressive neurologic disorders associated with diverse pathological manifestations. Clinical, epidemiological, and virological evidence supports the hypothesis that viruses contribute to human mental diseases whose etiology remains elusive. Therefore, the investigation of the mechanisms whereby viruses persist in the CNS and disturb normal brain function represents an area of research relevant to clinical and basic neurosciences. Borna disease virus (BDV) causes CNS disease in several vertebrate species characterized by behavioral abnormalities. Based on its unique features, BDV represents the prototype of a new virus family. BDV provides an important model for the investigation of the mechanisms and consequences of viral persistence in the CNS. The BDV paradigm is amenable to study virus-cell interactions in the CNS that can lead to neurodevelopmental abnormalities, immune-mediated damage, as well as alterations in cell differentiated functions that affect brain homeostasis. Moreover, seroepidemiological data and recent molecular studies indicate that BDV is associated with certain neuropsychiatric diseases. The potential role of BDV and of other yet to be uncovered BDV-related viruses in human mental health provides additional impetus for the investigation of this novel neurotropic infectious agent.
Gonadotropin releasing-hormone (GnRH) regulates the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal axis in all vertebrates. The vast majority of GnRH neurons are thought to be derived from progenitor cells in medial olfactory placodes. Several antibodies and lectins that recognize cell surface carbohydrates have been useful for delineating the migratory pathway from the olfactory placodes and vomeronasal organ, through the nasal compartment, and across the cribriform plate into the brain. In rats, alpha-galactosyl-linked glycoconjugates (immunoreactive with the CC2 monoclonal antibody) are expressed on fibers along the GnRH migration pathway and approximately 10% of the GnRH neuronal population. In lamprey, the alpha-galactosyl binding lectin, Grifonia simplicifolia-I (GS-1), identifies cells and fibers of the developing olfactory system. In contrast to the CC2 immunoreactive GnRH neurons in rats, the GS-1 does not label a subpopulation of presumptive GnRH neurons in lamprey. Results from these and other experiments suggest that GnRH neurons in developing lamprey do not originate within the olfactory placode, but rather within proliferative zones of the diencephalon. However, the overlap of olfactory- and GnRH-containing fibers from prolarval stages to metamorphosis, suggest that olfactory stimuli may play a major role in the regulation of GnRH secretion in lamprey throughout life. By contrast, olfactory fibers are directly relevant to the migration of GnRH neurons from the olfactory placodes in mammalian species. Primary interactions between olfactory fibers and GnRH neurons are likely transient in mammals, and so in later life olfactory modulation of GnRH secretion is likely to be indirect.
Chameleons display a number of well-described physiological peculiarities of their visual system, but there is no information on the topography of the retinal ganglion cell layer. In the present study, ganglion cell density of the chameleon retina was constructed from whole mounts of the retina stained with cresyl violet. For the identification of ganglion cells, these latter cells were labelled retrogradely with horseradish peroxidase applied to the optic nerve. Using this criterion, the proportion of ganglion cells was estimated to represent 80% of retinal cells, while glial cells and amacrine cells represented 14 and 6%, respectively, of the total cell population of the retina. As for the main features of the retinal map, first, ganglion cells were distributed inhomogeneously within the ganglion cell layer, and revealed the existence of a putative area centralis. Second, a horizontal visual streak, which showed two peak density areas, was identified. These features point out the degree of specialisation of the chameleon retina and the complexity of its visual system.
Mambas, African snakes of the genus Dendroaspis, produce several types of toxins that are of pharmacological interest. The novel muscarinic toxin-1 (MT-1), from the green mamba Dendroaspis angusticeps, binds specifically to muscarinic M1 receptors in homogenates of rat cerebral cortex. Iodination of the toxin, 125I-muscarinic toxin-1 (125I-MT-1), renders the toxin selective for M1 muscarinic receptors. Quantitative measurement of 125I-MT-1 autoradiography in rat brain sections indicated highest labeling in the nucleus accumbens, striatum, and dentate gyrus. High densities of 125I-MT-1 binding sites were located in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, frontal, and parietal cortices. Moderate densities of binding sites were seen in temporal cortex, and hippocampal subregions CA2, CA3, and CA4, whereas low labeling was observed in the cerebellum and spinal cord.
This review is aimed at emphasizing the need for basic neuroscience research on two tropical diseases, malaria and sleeping sickness (African trypanosomiasis), that still represent major health problems and in which severe involvement of the nervous system is frequently the direct cause of death. The life cycles of the two parasites, the protozoan Plasmodium and Trypanosoma brucei, which are the causative agents of malaria and sleeping sickness, respectively, are briefly reviewed. The historical contribution to the pathogenesis and therapy of malaria by a renowned pioneer in neuroscience, Camillo Golgi, is pointed out. The different strategies for survival in the host by the intracellular Plasmodium and the extracellular African trypanosomes are summarized; such strategies include sites favorable for hiding or replication of the parasites in the host, antigenic variation, and interactions with the cytokine network of the host. In particular, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interferon-gamma may play a role in these infections. The parasites may paradoxically interact with cytokines to their benefit. However, cytokine receptors are expressed on neuronal subsets sensitive to cytokine action, and stimulation of these subsets may cause neuronal dysfunctions during the infections. Finally, the clinical symptoms of cerebral malaria and African trypanosomiasis and research aiming at deciphering their pathogenetic mechanisms that could affect the nervous system at a molecular level are described. The need for neuroscientists in this endeavor is emphasized.
The word synapse first appeared in 1897, in the seventh edition of Michael Foster's Textbook of Physiology. Foster was assisted in writing the volume on the nervous system by Charles Sherrington, who can be credited with developing and advocating the physiological concept of a synapse. The word itself however, was derived by a Cambridge classicist, Arthur Verrall.
A novel in vitro cell culture model has been developed to investigate the mechanisms of delayed neuronal cell death following exposure to excitatory amino acids and hypoxia. Medium change damages cortical cells possibly leading to preselection of the neuronal population. This model allowed compounds to be administered in the absence of a medium change. In this system, the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist, MK-801, attenuated the neurotoxic effects of overnight exposure to glutamate and NMDA completely, and partially protected neurones exposed to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-proprionate (AMPA). The non-NMDA antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, CNQX, did not attenuate the effects of glutamate or NMDA but blocked the excitotoxic effects of AMPA completely. These results suggest partial involvement of NMDA receptor activation in AMPA-induced toxicity. By contrast, hypoxia-induced neuronal degeneration in this model was attenuated by either NMDA or non-NMDA antagonism, which confirms previous reports that the mechanisms of hypoxic and excitotoxic neurodegeneration in these in vitro models are not identical. A number of other compounds, which have been reported previously as neuroprotective in vitro and in vivo, including the calcium channel antagonists, SB 201823, flunarizine, and nifedipine, and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, L-NAME, demonstrated no significant neuroprotective effects in this in vitro system. In common with other in vitro models that include a change of medium, these data suggest that this system does not have predictive validity for the identification of novel neuroprotective agents in vivo.
Topographic organization of primary sensory cortex is a thoroughly documented phenomenon that provides a valuable tool for experimental neuroscience. However, its functional significance remains uncertain. It is not possible on the basis of evidence now available to determine whether topography is relevant primarily to neuronal processing, or instead to some aspect of development or &quot;housekeeping.&quot; The popular view that topography holds the key to understanding cortical function has little experimental basis, and may have misled inquiry into the basis of sensory processing.
The electrotonic properties of the complex arborizations of neurons can be simulated by creating compartmental models based on the morphology of real neurons. These models can be very detailed with thousands of individual compartments and active channels. Large numbers of these models can be linked together into biologically realistic, large-scale neural networks with which to obtain a better understanding of the interactions among real neurons. However, the use of detailed compartmental models in such large networks is hindered by long computation times. Methods exist to reduce the complex morphology of detailed compartmental models to simpler reconstructions that retain many of the electrotonic properties of the original model yet are computationally efficient. However, little work exists that evaluates the limitations and performance of such reduced models with realistic active conductances modeled in both the soma and the dendrites to ensure that they are appropriate for use in biologically realistic network models. We have created detailed and reduced models of reconstructed dye-filled neurons from rat somatosensory neocortex and evaluated the ability of the reduced models to faithfully reproduce the input-output functions of the more detailed models. We find that the reduced models are not capable of perfectly reproducing the exact output of the detailed models using identical parameters. However, if the parameters are adjusted the reduced models are certainly capable of providing input-output patterns that are well within an acceptable range of known neural activity. The limitations and the benefits of such models are discussed.
Clinical and experimental observations indicate that the hippocampus is critical in the formation of declarative memories. Interestingly, electrophysiological studies have demonstrated that the region also has a particularly low seizure threshold, where globally synchronous synaptic activity can occur. By using a detailed biophysical model of area CA3, it is shown how septal cholinergic modulation, through three distinct mechanisms, can interact with intrinsic and synaptic conductances to influence population behavior. A dissection of each mechanism demonstrates a variety of population firing activity ranging from fully synchronized behavior to a mixture of repetitive bursting and oscillations in reduced subsets of neurons, ideal for forming accurate associations during a learning and recall task.
The purpose of the present study was to analyze the Ca2+ channel involved in GABA release under resting and K(+)-evoked conditions in vivo. We used microdialysis to investigate the effects of the voltage-dependent calcium channel (VDCC) blockers neomycin, kanamycin, and omega-conotoxin GVIA, and the voltage-dependent Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin, in the frontal cortex of awake rats. The GABA content in frontal dialysates was analyzed by high performance liquid chromatography coupled to fluorescence detection. Basal GABA release was kanamycin, omega-conotoxin, and tetrodotoxin resistant, whereas neomycin induced a significant increase from the basal level. The K(+)-evoked release of GABA was kanamycin and omega-conotoxin resistant, but tetrodotoxin sensitive. The effects of neomycin were masked by the action of this drug on basal release. These results suggest that neomycin may affect GABA release in the frontal cortex through a mechanism independent of VDCC. In addition, the K(+)-evoked release of GABA in this cortical area was not mediated by the N-type voltage-dependent calcium channels, but was dependent on neural activity or TTX sensitive.
Various forms of cell death induced by the glutamate receptor agonist, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA), were analyzed by determining the capacity of cultured cerebellar granule cells to metabolize 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) into formazan, by measuring the leakage of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), by using confocal microscopy to visualize propidium iodide staining of apoptotic nuclei, and by using field inversion gel electrophoresis (FIGE) for the detection of AMPA-produced cleavage of DNA into high molecular-weight fragments (50 kbp). All these measures indicated that stimulation of AMPA receptors may be involved in the neurotoxic effects of glutamate, and that AMPA-induced neurotoxicity in cerebellar granule cells display morphologically distinct features of both necrotic and apoptotic modes of cell death. In agreement with previous observations, a blockade of AMPA receptor desensitization was necessary to unmask AMPA-induced functional responses in cultured cerebellar granule neurons in vitro. Microfluorimetric measurements of free cytoplasmic calcium concentrations ([Ca2+]i) in single cerebellar neurons revealed that AMPA neurotoxicity was accompanied by a pronounced elevation of [Ca2+]i. Our current results add further evidence to the notion that glutamate-induced neurotoxicity in cerebellar granule cells is mediated not only through NMDA receptors but also through a direct activation of AMPA receptor-regulated cation channels.
The acoustic startle reflex is inhibited by the presentation of a weak auditory prestimulus 30-500 ma prior to the starting stimulus. Previous studies have demonstrated that prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle is regulated by GABAergic activity in the ventral pallidum. Ventral pallidal efferents include major projections to the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPTg), subthalamic nucleus (STN), and mediodorsal thalamus (MD). We used lesion and intracerebral infusion techniques to determine the relevance of these projections to the ventral pallidal regulation of PPI. Consistent with previous results, PPTg lesions significantly reduced PPI in all startle sessions, while MD lesions significantly reduced PPI only under certain experimental conditions. STN lesions failed to alter PPI, but they did significantly disrupt amphetamine-induced locomotion, verifying the behavioral effectiveness of these lesions. Infusion of the GABA-A agonist muscimol into either the PPTg or the MD significantly reduced PPI. Ventral pallidal projections to the PPTg and to the MD thus appear to regulate PPI, possibly via a GABAergic mechanism. Pallidal projections to the STN may regulate other behavioral processes such as locomotor activity, but they do not appear to regulate sensorimotor gating of the acoustic startle reflex.
A five-choice serial reaction time (5-CSRT) task was used to assess attention in rats. In this behavioral paradigm, the rats are required to spatially discriminate a short visual stimulus that will occur randomly in one of five locations while maintaining a sufficient activity level. The ability of a rat to maintain attention on the task can be measured by counting the choice accuracy (percent correct responses), whereas the probability of premature responses indicates the level of impulsivity. According to previous results [24], rats performing poorly in the task have a lower choice accuracy and make more premature responses than normally behaving individuals, i.e., a clear, inverse correlation was observed between choice accuracy and impulsiveness of rats. Methylphenidate, a psychostimulant that has been shown to alleviate the symptoms in attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), improved the choice accuracy of poor performing rats in this task [24]. The present results show that the correlation between choice accuracy and impulsivity exists also when the rats are tested using a reduced stimulus intensity or curtailed stimulus duration. The results of a pharmacological experiment suggested that atipamezole (30, 300, or 1000 micrograms/kg), a potent and specific alpha-2 antagonist that is known to increase the activity of monoaminergic systems in the brain, did not affect the percent correct responses in poor performers or in controls tested either at the baseline conditions or at a curtailed stimulus duration (which impaired their choice accuracy). At the doses of 300 and 1000 micrograms/kg, however, atipamezole slightly increased the probability of premature responses in all group of rats. The results of an electrophysiological study indicated that the poor choice accuracy or impulsiveness of rats is not related to the amount of cortically recorded spike-wave discharges/high voltage spindle (HVS) activity, which reflect thalamo-cortical oscillation. Atipamezole dose-dependently reduced the incidence and duration of HVSs. The present data, therefore, indicate that (a) alpha-2 antagonist treatment is not superior to methylphenidate treatment when investigated using acute administrations of the agents in poor performers of the 5-CSRT task, and (b) thalamic oscillations are not the reason for the attention deficit of rats in this model of ADHD. The relationship between choice accuracy and impulsivity is discussed.
The influence of recombinant interferon-gamma (rIFN-gamma) on the development of acetylcholine receptor (AChR) aggregates in cocultures of rat embryonic muscle cells and spinal cord neurons was studied by counting the number of AChR aggregates in relation to cholinergic nerve fibers coming to the muscle fibers. rIFN-gamma caused no decrease in the number of cholinergic nerve fibers, but inhibited the increase in the number of AChR aggregates that occurs early during cocultivation and is an early sign in the development of neuromuscular junctions. rIFN-gamma stimulated release of nitric oxide, but no effects on aggregation of AChRs occurred after exposure to a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, L-NG-monomethylarginine, or by the addition of nitroprusside, a generator of nitric oxide. No effect was seen on the number of AChR aggregates when the cultures were exposed to rIFN-gamma at later time points of cocultivation, when the increase in number of AChRs had already occurred. These studies indicate that the key immunoregulatory cytokine IFN-gamma can cause alterations in the early process of synapse formation and that these effects are independent of the nitric oxide release caused by the cytokine.
The presence of abundant nitric oxide synthase (NOS) in magnocellular neurons of the rat hypothalamus suggests that nitric oxide (NO) may be involved in controlling the release of oxytocin and vasopressin. To test this possibility, we examined the effect of NO-related drugs on extracellular discharges of 124 supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons from slices of rat hypothalamus in vitro. Twenty-three (43%) of 53 neurons were inhibited by sodium nitroprusside (SNP), a spontaneous releaser of NO, at 1-3 mM. This inhibition was prevented by preincubation of the slices with 1 microM hemoglobin, an inactivator of NO (n = 14), whereas hemoglobin alone enhanced neuronal activity in seven (35%) of 20 neurons. L-Arginine (1 mM), a precursor of NO, inhibited neuronal activity in five (36%) of 14 neurons, while D-arginine (1 mM), the inactive counterpart of L-arginine, was ineffective (n = 12). N-omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 10 microM), an inhibitor of NOS, also enhanced neuronal activity in five (29%) of 17 neurons, while N-omega-nitro-D-arginine methyl ester (DNAME, 10 microM), the inactive enantiomer of L-NAME, was without effect (n = 11). Together, our data show that NO exerts predominantly an inhibitory effect on SON neurons and may serve as a negative feedback loop in controlling release of oxytocin and vasopressin.
To investigate the consequences of complement activation on neuronal viability, the effects of serum treatment on neuron-rich and mixed neuronal/glial cultures were evaluated. The neurotoxicity observed following treatment with either human or rat serum was variable and did not appear to be mediated through a complement-mediated mechanism. Serum lots lacking CH50 activity induced neurotoxicity, and heat treatment of toxic lots of either human or rat sera did not abolish toxicity. In cases where serum treatment did not induce cell death, treatment with PIPLC to remove endogenous membrane-bound complement inhibitors prior to serum exposure, did not result in cell death.
Unilateral AMPA lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (nbm) produced a nearly complete loss of cholinergic markers in the ipsilateral frontal and parietal cortices with no recovery at 6 months. The loss was associated with compensatory increases in AChE-positive fibre density in the contralateral cortex, in ipsilateral cortical regions not receiving their cholinergic innervation from the nbm and in the size of cholinergic magnocellular neurones in the contralateral nbm. The hypertrophy and increase in AChE-positive fibre density were apparent at 4-6 weeks after lesion and increased with time. Cholinergic transplants to cholinergically deafferented cortex prevented development of the compensatory increases in AChE-positive fibre density and restored AChE-positive fibre density and ChAT activity to control levels in ipsilateral cholinergically deafferented regions, partially after 6-8 weeks and completely after 6 months. In contrast, when cholinergic grafts were placed into unlesioned cortex, axonal outgrowth was localized to the vicinity of the transplant and did not develop with time. These results support the concept that vacant synapses promote and direct axonal outgrowth from transplanted neurones and that grafted cholinergic neurones integrate into the lesioned forebrain cholinergic projections system and prevent the lesion-induced changes in AChE-positive fibre density and ChAT activity.
The aim of the study was to distinguish Benign Focal Epilepsy of Childhood with Occipital Paroxysms (BEOP) from its symptomatic counterpart on the basis of the location of the sources of the interictal EEG spikes. Patients were classified into two groups: idiopathic BEOP and symptomatic occipital lobe epilepsy. Source analysis of the averaged occipital spikes was performed using a homogeneously conducting sphere as the volume conductor model. Results showed a statistically significant difference in the eccentricity, i.e., the distance of the occipital spike focus from the centre of the head. The dipole sources of the occipital spikes in the BEOP group were found to be located more superficially than in the symptomatic group, corresponding in six of the nine cases with a source position estimated to be within the cortical layer just below the skull. The eccentricity of the symptomatic occipital spikes suggests a location deeper than the cortical layer. The results were validated in two patients from the symptomatic group. In one patient the estimated deeper dipole source location corresponded with a deeper location of spike activity observed during ECoG; in the other patient's ECoG, spike activity was observed superficially but over an extended area. The discrepancy between estimated and real location may be explained by the method of dipole source analysis used. It is concluded that the finding of a superficial dipole source location of the occipital spikes provides an indication for the diagnosis BEOP (sensitivity: 67%; specificity: 74%).
This review focuses on the regrowth of respiratory pathways after nerve grafting within the central nervous system of the adult rat. After a general presentation of the background and of the grafting procedure, we summarize our nerve grafting results of while it is now well established that severed axons of adult central neurons can regenerate within segments of peripheral nerve partially implanted within the brain or spinal cord, the functional properties of the regenerating neurons remain generally unknown. With a view to assessing the extent to which the functional capacities of central neurons can be maintained after axonal regeneration, we have carried out experiments on central respiratory neurons which are a good example of a highly organized neuronal network with characteristic patterns of spontaneous discharge. We have shown that axonal regrowth of central respiratory neurons was successfully induced in blind-ended medullary and spinal autografts implanted respectively within the respiratory centers of the medulla oblongata and within the cervical spinal cord at the level of descending respiratory pathways. The grafts consisted of true &quot;supplementary nerve&quot; in which normal afferent and efferent respiratory pathways were confirmed by recording respiratory unitary discharges from teased fibers within the grafts. The efferent discharges reflected the activity of central respiratory neurons that had regenerated axons within the grafts: these neurons manifested spontaneous activity and normal responsiveness to respiratory stimuli that resemble those of normal respiratory cells. In order to evaluate the possibility of experimental nerve banking, the feasibility of using short-term and long-term stored nerves as potential spinal nerve grafts was established using in vitro pre-degenerated nerve and cryopreserved nerve grafts after assessment of Schwann cell viability. The extent of respiratory reinnervation of the different grafts (medullary, spinal and stored nerve grafts) was compared. The discussion focuses on the main data and the strategy for future nerve grafting is evoked: functional characteristics of regenerating respiratory axons, extent of graft reinnervation, functional schwann cell survey within stored/grafted nerve and post-traumatic grafting.
In the adult gerbil inner ear, hair cell microtubules contain predominantly tyrosinated tubulin while supporting cell microtubules contain almost exclusively other isoforms. This cell-type specific segregation of tubulin isoforms is unusual, and in this respect the sensory and supporting cells in this sensory organ differ from other cells observed both in vivo and in vitro. Thus, we hypothesized there must be a shift in the presence and location of tubulin isoforms during development, directly associated with the onset of specialized functions of the cells. We describe the appearance and/or disappearance of tubulin isoforms in sensory hair cells and five different supporting cells (inner and outer pillar cells, Deiters cells, cells of Klliker's organ, and cells of the tympanic covering layer) during development of the gerbil organ of Corti from birth to 14 days after birth. Tyrosinated tubulin was initially present in all cells and remained predominant in cells that decrease in number (Klliker's organ and tympanic covering layer) and exhibit active processes such as secretion and motility (sensory cells). Posttranslational modifications occurred in the supporting cells in a time-dependent manner as the number and length of microtubules increased and development proceeded, but the establishment of elongated cell shape and polarity occurred prior to the appearance of acetylation, detyrosination, and polyglutamylation of tubulin. In the pillar and Deiters cells, posttranslational modifications progressed from cell apex to base in the same direction as microtubule elongation. In the pillar cells, posttranslational modifications occurred first at the apical surfaces. In the pillar cells, the appearance of acetylated tubulin was rapidly followed by the appearance of detyrosinated tubulin. In Deiters cells, the appearance of acetylated tubulin preceded the appearance of detyrosinated tubulin by one or more days. At onset of cochlear function, detyrosinated tubulin and acetylated tubulin had achieved their adult-like pattern, but polyglutamylated tubulin had not.
The Ca2+ stores of digitonin permeabilized chick embryo retina cells in culture were characterized, by using the fluorescence of Fluo-3 potassium salt to follow continuously the free [Ca2+] in the medium. After ATP dependent Ca2+ accumulation, the Ca2+ release was induced by several agents; 10 microM cyclic-ADP-ribose (cADPR), 40 microM Ins (1,4,5)P3 10 microM thapsigargin (Th), 25 microM ionomycin (Ion), 15 microM CCCP together with 4.5 micrograms/ml oligomycin (CCCP/Olig), 50 microM arachidonic acid (AA). Neither Ins(1,4,5)P3 nor cADPR were able to mobilize Ca2+ from internal stores in these cells, but Th and AA were effective in releasing Ca2+. Four major Ca2+ stores in chick embryo retina cells were distinguished: i) the thapsigargin sensitive Ca2+ store, most likely the ER; ii) the Ca2+ store sensitive to oligomycin and CCCP, most likely the mitochondrial Ca2+ store, iii) an AA sensitive Ca2+ store, which is distinct from the previous two; and, iv) the Ca2+ store only sensitive to ionomycin. The capacities of these different Ca2+ stores of the chick embryo retina cells, relative to the total intracellular stores, are: 63.3%, 14.1%, 8.2%, for the ER, the mitochondrial and for the AA sensitive Ca2+ stores, respectively.
The retrosplenial cortex (RSC) receives cholinergic afferent fibers from the medial septal nucleus and diagonal band of Broca (DBB) by way of the cingulate bundle and the fornix. Bilateral lesions of both the cingulate and fornix pathways result in a complete depletion of cholinergic input to the RSC. In the present study we have examined the effects of transplanting cholinergic neurons from fetal rat pups to the RSC of adult rats following lesions of the cingulate bundle and fornix. The animals with lesions exhibited severe spatial memory impairments with a complete loss of extrinsic cholinergic afferents to the RSC. Animals with intraretrosplenial cortical transplants exhibited significant improvements in learning and memory performance as revealed by decreased escape latencies in spatial reference memory tests, increased numbers of platform crossings in spatial navigation tests, and a higher percentage of correct choices in a spatial working memory task. These improvements appeared to be cholinergically mediated because atropine administration significantly disrupted spatial navigation performance. The survival of the transplanted cholinergic neurons and their innervation of the RSC were characterized using a monoclonal antibody to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). The staining of graft-derived ChAT-positive fibers also revealed a pattern of innervation that mimicked that of the cholinergic input in normal animals. These results indicate that intraretrosplenial cortical transplants of cholinergic neurons can rectify spatial memory deficits produced by the loss of intrinsic cholinergic afferents from the medial septal nucleus.
Event-related potentials and behavioral measures were obtained from young and elderly subjects while they performed two different auditory delayed match-to-sample tasks. In each experiment, subjects had to indicate whether an initial and a subsequent test sound were identical in two different conditions: one filled with distracting tone pips and one with no distractors. Electrophysiologically, elderly subjects had reduced attention-related activity over frontal regions. In addition, the distracting stimuli elicited an enhanced primary auditory evoked response in the elderly. The percentage of perseverative errors on the Wisconsin card sorting test, a putative measure of frontal lobe function, was positively correlated with the amplitude of the primary auditory evoked response in elderly subjects. Behaviorally, elderly subjects were impaired by distractors at long but not short delays. Taken together, these results suggest that increased distractibility and impaired sustained attention with aging may be due to altered prefrontal cortex function. These data support the loss of prefrontal suppression over the primary auditory regions with aging.

Novel 9-methyl-4,9-dihydrothiopyrano[2,3-b]indol-4-one derivatives 2b-e, 3-methylene-9-methyl-2,3,4,9-tetrahydrothiopyrano[2,3-b]indol-4-on e derivatives 3b-e and 9-methyl-2,3,4,9-tetrahydrothiopyrano[2,3-b]indol-4-one derivatives 4a-e were prepared. The 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT3) receptor-antagonistic activities of these compounds were evaluated by using the von Bezold-Jarisch reflex test (B. J. reflex, rats) and the contractile response to 5-HT in the isolated distal colon (guinea pig). The 5-ethyl-4-imidazolyl derivative 4d was found to be 79 times more potent than ondansetron 1 in the B. J. reflex test (ID50 = 0.048 microgram/kg, i.v.), and the 5-methyl-4-imidazolyl derivative 4c was found to be 126 times more potent than 1 in the colonic contraction (IC50 = 0.0062 microM) assay.
Telomerase activity is present in most primary human tumours but not in normal somatic tissues except for proliferative cells of renewal tissues (e.g. crypts of the intestine, basal layer of the epidermis, haemopoietic and inflammatory cells). In some instances telomerase activity is detected in preinvasive lesions, whereas in others it is only detected at later stages. Lower telomerase activity levels are detected in some specimens obtained from regions adjacent to primary tumours. The key clinical challenge is to determine if the presence or level of telomerase activity has diagnostic or prognostic utility. Almost any clinical specimen can be used to assay telomerase activity including frozen sections, fine needle aspirates, brushes, washes and sedimented cells in voided urine. In certain cancers increased telomerase activity levels may identify patients that will have either favourable or poor prognostic outcomes, whereas in other instances telomerase activity can distinguish between benign and malignant lesions. New approaches to improve the diagnostic value of telomerase determinations include application of in situ hybridization methods for detecting human telomerase RNA expression on archival paraffin-embedded material. Results show that this assay easily distinguishes cancer from normal cells, and thus may complement the telomerase activity assays.
Anatomical variations may be clinically significant, but many are inadequately described or quantified. Variations in neck anatomy are important to surgeons performing surgical procedures in this region. Thirty-two female and 19 male adult cadavers were studied. The commonly described anatomical relationship of the brachial plexus (BP) lying between the anterior scalene (AS) and middle scalene (MS) muscles was found in only 60% of instances. Scalenus minimus was present in 46% of instances (bilateral in 14 cadavers). The most common variation was the penetration of the AS by the C5 and/or C6 ventral rami. The C5 and C6 roots may fuse before piercing AS (15% cases, bilateral in 4 cadavers), or the C5 root alone pierce the belly of AS (13% cases, bilateral in 3 cadavers). The roots also may pierce AS independently (6% cases, bilateral in 1 cadaver). In 3%, the C5 root was found to be completely anterior to AS.
We examined the metabolism of 6-[18F]fluorodopamine, by assaying arterial plasma concentrations of radioactivity, 6-[18F]fluorodopamine, and 6-[18F]fluorodopamine metabolites in untreated subjects or subjects given desipramine to block neuronal uptake of catecholamines or tyramine to displace vesicular amines. After the 3-min 6-[18F]fluorodopamine infusion, plasma 6-[18F]fluorodopamine levels declined precipitously, total radioactivity declining slowly. After 30 min, the main identified metabolite was 6-[18F]fluorodopamine-sulfate. Desipramine attenuated the rapid increase in plasma 6-[18F]fluorodihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels, and tyramine briefly increased 6-[18F]fluorodopamine levels. Neither drug affected 6-[18F]fluorodopamine-sulfate levels. The results indicate that soon after 6-[18F]fluorodopamine infusion, plasma radioactivity corresponds mainly to 6-[18F]fluorodopamine metabolites; that sympathetic nerves rapidly remove 6-[18F]fluorodopamine, which then undergoes oxidative deamination in the neuronal cytoplasm and sequestration in sympathetic vesicles; and that sulfoconjugation of [18F]fluorodopamine occurs extraneuronally.
1. Arterial baroreceptor denervation produces acute hypertension, but chronically denervated animals have an average arterial pressure that is similar to that of baroreceptor intact animals. 2. Although cardiopulmonary baroreceptors and renal compensations have been suggested to mediate the restoration of a normal average arterial pressure in sino-aortic denervated rats, such mechanisms are inconsistent with the available data. 3. At present the processes involved in the restoration and long-term maintenance of a normal average arterial pressure in chronic baroreceptor denervated animals are not known. An understanding of the regulation of arterial pressure that occurs in the absence of arterial baroreceptor reflexes may provide important new insights into the mechanisms underlying the long-term regulation of arterial pressure.
Hemimegalencephaly (HME), a rare congenital abnormality characterized by unilateral enlargement of the cerebral hemisphere, is one of the less common causes of intractable seizures. We report a 6-month-old infant with uncontrolled seizures who was diagnosed to have a large mass lesion based on a CT scan. Postmortem examination revealed left-sided HME with pachygyria, widened cortex, indistinct grey-white junction, and distorted deep nuclear masses. Histological features included loss of cortical lamination, large atypical neurons with argyrophilic accumulations, ballooned cells, neuronal heterotopia, and astrocytosis with dystrophic calcification. The heterotopic neurons in the white matter were present in a radial pattern suggestive of aberrant neuronal migration. Several large neurons were dystrophic with cytoskeletal abnormalities like phosphorylated high molecular weight neurofilament and ubiquitin in the cytoplasm. However, typical neurofibrillary tangles with Congo red and tau positivity were not observed. Synaptophysin labelling was found to be decreased in the cortex, but some of the abnormal neurons had dense perisomatic label. The majority of the balloon cells were astrocytic in origin, being positive for glial fibrillary acidic protein and negative for the neuronal markers. Although the etiology of HME is not known, it provides an opportunity to study anomalous development of the brain and neuronal developmental abnormalities.
The mechanisms of reperfusion damage following focal cerebral ischemia are not known in detail. Recent results, however, strongly suggest that reactive oxygen species (ROS), generated during the reperfusion period, may trigger the reperfusion injury. Mitochondrial calcium overload and a permeability transition (PT) of the inner mitochondrial membrane have been shown to play an important role in production of ROS by the mitochondria. The immunosuppressant cyclosporin A (CsA), which inhibits mitochondrial PT, protects against delayed neuronal necrosis of the hippocampal CA1 sector following transient forebrain/global ischemia. In focal ischemia (&quot;stroke&quot;), expression of adhesion molecules such as intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) may lead to production of ROS by polymorphonuclear (PMN) leukocytes, which suggests the involvement of inflammatory and immunological reactions in reperfusion damage. The spin trap alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) reduces infarct size and prevents a secondary mitochondrial dysfunction due to reperfusion, probably scavenging free radicals at the blood-endothelial cell interface.
Clinical efforts in stroke prevention have measurably reduced the incidence of stroke in persons experiencing a number of risk factors. Clinical efforts to reduce stroke size once the process starts, however, have been disappointing. A variety of agents aimed at blocking the effects of excitotoxic neurotransmitters or interfering with intracellular calcium entry have been tested but with little success on clinical outcome. Satisfactory explanation of the paradox between animal and clinical outcome studies has not been forthcoming. Accordingly, clinical investigators are exploring the potential value of surgical craniectomy in efforts to improve the presently devastated outcome that marks the course of severe, large acute cerebral infarctions.
Neurophysiological studies of language processing in the intact brain have identified 3 major event-related potential (ERP) components correlating with different aspects of language: (1) an early left anterior negativity (ELAN) obtained in correlation with early syntactic processes, primarily processes of structuring the language input, (2) a centroparietal negativity around 400 ms (N400) reflecting lexicalsemantic integration processes, and (3) a late centroparietal positivity (P600) observed in correlation with secondary syntactic processes such as reanalysis and repair. These components manifest themselves approximately around 200 ms, 400 ms and 600 ms post onset of a critical word. Their variation in latency and magnitude can be used as a diagnostic criterion for language impairment.
The emerging field of clinical neuroscience requires the combination of diverse theoretical and methodological approaches to the study of brain function. The study of neurogenic language disorders has played a central role in the development of models of language/brain relationships. These contributions are reviewed with regard to the study of word processing impairments in aphasia, where data from brain-damaged patients has been used to guide the development of models of lexical/semantic organization. It is argued that the study of aphasic patients will continue to occupy a central role in both neuroscience and clinical research as new technologies are developed for functional brain imaging and as theoretically driven treatments for aphasia are designed and tested.
The outcome of school phobia after age 30 years was studied with the hypothesis that school phobia cases would have persisting psychiatric problems, but would function better than nonschool refusal psychiatric patients. The subjects consisted of three groups. Thirty-five individuals treated for school phobia at ages 7 to 12 years were compared with age- and sex-matched nonschool refusal child psychiatric patients (n = 35) and a sample from the general population (n = 35). School phobia cases had had more psychiatric consultation, lived with their parents more often than the general population group, and had fewer children than both comparison groups. The nonschool refusal child psychiatric patients had poorer psychosocial adjustment and higher rates of criminal offenses. The implications of the findings are discussed.

This article provides a review of the neural mechanisms of spatial cognition in the rat. A survey of the literature shows that the rat has spatial capabilities that can be explained only if one assumes that it possesses a representation of some features of the environment. The scope of such a representation may, however, be more limited than what is implied by the hypothesis of a bird's-eye view of the environment. The best documented spatial ability of the rat is illustrated by its efficiency in performing the water maze navigation task. A review of recent neurobiological data collected while a rat was performing this task suggests that several brain structures make unique contributions to spatial navigation. In particular, the hippocampal formation and the associative (posterior) parietal cortex seem to handle different aspects of navigation and to be differentially involved in the various stages of spatial memory formation. Electrophysiological data support the hypothesis that the hippocampal formation is concerned with rapidly building associative memories of spatial relationships within the environment. In contrast, the associative parietal cortex might be involved in more abstract spatial processing, resulting in a metric representation of spatial information collected during movements.


Although we do not yet have a complete understanding of the molecular mechanisms responsible for the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease, it is clear that a drug such as nicergoline, which may have both acute and longer-term effects on the disease, could offer a beneficial and worthwhile approach to treatment.
We have conducted a preliminary study of the optimum conditions for a therapeutic effect of ganglioside GM1 in Alzheimer's disease. Five patients with the early onset form of Alzheimer's disease (AD type I) received the ganglioside by intracerebroventricular administration for 12 months. Bilateral stereotactic punction of the frontal horns of the ventricular system was performed, and shunt catheters were implanted and connected to a programmable pump. The optimum GM1 dose varied between 20 and 30 mg/24 h. Neurological neuropsychological, psychiatric and neurochemical examinations were performed 7 days before surgery and on days 30, 90, 180 and 360. No patient found the surgery difficult and no patient or relative regretted that they participated in the study. The patients became more active and safer in relation to others and to performance of various activities from day 90. The cerebrospinal fluid level of the monoamine metabolites homovanillic acid and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid and the neuropeptide somatostatin increased.
The literature regarding risk factors for suicidal behavior in the context of major depressive episode is reviewed. An organized framework for prevention strategies is provided. Risk factors for suicide in major depression can be organized according to whether their effect is on the threshold for suicidal acts or whether they serve mainly as triggers or precipitants of suicidal acts. For patients sufficiently depressed to present for evaluation and treatment, severity of depression is a poor guide to risk for suicidal acts. The best predictors relate to the threshold or predisposition to suicidal acts in response to major depression. Although available literature on suicidal behavior focuses on major depression in general, the findings may be usefully applied in refractory depression. Guidelines for assessment and management of suicidal behavior in major depression are offered.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is an essential feature of the microvasculature in neural tissues. Agrin, a synapse organizing molecule at the neuromuscular junction, also accumulates on brain microvasculature and may be involved in BBB formation and function. We investigated the developmental expression of agrin at rat and chick brain capillaries by immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting. Anti-agrin immunoreactivity (IR) completely ensheathes all observed microvessels labeled with anti-von Willebrand factor in adult brains of both species. Brain microvascular agrin IR codistributes with anti-laminin IR, consistent with agrin localization in the microvessel basal lamina. On microvessels in testis and thymus, tissues which also contain blood-tissue barriers, the pattern of IR is indistinguishable from brain microvessels. In contrast, little or no agrin IR is observed on capillaries in muscle and other tissues. During chick and rat development, agrin accumulates on brain microvessels around the time the vasculature becomes impermeable. Differential staining and electroblotting suggest that the agrin isoforms expressed on brain microvessels lack the 8- and 11-amino acid sequences that confer on agrin high potency in acetylcholine receptor clustering. Taken in context with the organizing role of agrin in synaptogenesis, these results indicate that agrins may function as important players in the formation and maintenance of cerebral microvascular impermeability.
In adult rats, kainic acid-induced status epilepticus markedly reduces GluR2 (the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid, AMPA subunit that limits Ca2+ permeability), receptor mRNA in the vulnerable CA3 and may contribute to delayed neurodegeneration. In rat pups resistant to kainate seizure-induced hippocampal neurodegeneration by silver impregnation, glutamate or GABA(A) alpha1-receptor mRNAs were unaltered in CA3 neurons 24 h after status epilepticus. In the dentate gyrus, GluR1 and GluR2 mRNAs were transiently increased in P14 but not P5 pups. Immunocytochemistry revealed no apparent differences in the distribution patterns of GluR1, GluR2, or GluR2/3 receptor proteins in the CA3 or dentate gyrus of P14 pups. Status epilepticus-induced alterations in receptor GluR2 and GABA(A) alphal mRNAs and AMPA protein expression vary with developmental age. Sustained expression at young ages may contribute to the resistance of developing hippocampal neurons to seizure-induced damage.
The expression of the limbic system-associated membrane protein (LAMP), a marker of specific functional regions of the cerebral cortex, has been used to determine the environmental signals that regulate cortical regionalization. Transplant and cell culture studies have shown previously that the fate of precursor cells, based on LAMP expression, is amenable to regulation by exposure to novel environmental stimuli. This has been demonstrated in vitro to be dependent upon exposure to transforming factor-alpha and collagen type IV. Results following exposure to the inductive signals for a specific duration indicate a cell cycle dependence on the decision to become a limbic or nonlimbic cortical neuron. It appears, therefore, that areal and laminar fates are both influenced by mechanisms that specify commitment early in cortical development.
One-day-old rats in a cool environment (25 degrees C) quickly acquired an instrumental response when rewarded with a 20-s warming of the platform (from 25 degrees C to 36 degrees C) on which they lay. The instrumental response, turning the head to one side, was learned within 30 min after the thermal contingency began and extinguished when the contingency was reversed. This experiment demonstrates rapid operant learning by neonates in a task that does not contain a Pavlovian stimulus-reinforcer contingency. The novel experimental method has wide applicability in psychology and neuroscience.
Vertebrate embryos display segmental patterns in many trunk structures, including somites and peripheral nervous system elements. Previous work in avian embryos suggests a role for somite-derived sclerotome in segmental patterning of the peripheral nervous system. We investigated sclerotome development and tested its role in patterning motor axons and dorsal root ganglia in embryonic zebrafish. Individual somite cells labeled with vital fluorescent dye revealed that some cells of a ventromedial cell cluster within each somite produced mesenchymal cells that migrated to positions expected for sclerotome. Individual somites showed anterior/posterior distinctions in several aspects of development: (1) anterior ventromedial cluster cells produced only sclerotome, (2) individual posterior ventromedial cluster cells produced both sclerotome and muscle, and (3) anterior sclerotome migrated earlier and along a more restricted path than posterior sclerotome. Vital labeling showed that anterior sclerotome colocalized with extending identified motor axons and migrating neural crest cells. To investigate sclerotome involvement in peripheral nervous system patterning, we ablated the ventromedial cell cluster and observed subsequent development of peripheral nervous system elements. Primary motor axons were essentially unaffected by sclerotome ablation, although in some cases outgrowth was delayed. Removal of sclerotome did not disrupt segmental pattern or development of dorsal root ganglia or peripheral nerves to axial muscle. We propose that peripheral nervous system segmentation is established through interactions with adjacent paraxial mesoderm which develops as sclerotome in some vertebrate species and myotome in others.

Neuroprotective drugs are known to reduce neurological damage in animal models of stroke, but none are generally accepted for the treatment of patients with acute stroke. Thrombolytic therapy with alteplase (recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator; rt-PA) has been shown to improve outcomes in patients with stroke, but it must be given quite rapidly after stroke onset. The efficacy of alteplase therapy has proven that acute treatment is possible, and methods used in those trials will be applicable to neuroprotective development. A variety of neuroprotective drugs have already been tested and more trials are likely. Glutamate antagonists have been most extensively evaluated, but they are relatively disappointing since they have phencyclidine-like adverse events that limit the tolerable doses. Several other classes of neuroprotectives are in development, although their mechanisms of action are not well established. Combinations of neuroprotectives and thrombolytics are likely to be tested in clinical trials in the near future.


Animals engage in a startlingly diverse array of behaviours that depend critically on the time of day or the ability to time short intervals. Timing intervals on the scale of many hours to around a day is mediated by the circadian timing system, while in the range of seconds to hours a different system, known as interval timing, is used. Recent research has illuminated some of the neural mechanisms underlying the 'internal clocks' of these two different timing systems in both animals and humans. Therapeutic applications for humans with impairments in either timing system may ultimately result from these endeavours.

Animals engage in a startlingly diverse array of behaviours that depend critically on the time of day or the ability to time short intervals. Timing intervals on the scale of many hours to around a day is mediated by the circadian timing system, while in the range of seconds to hours a different system, known as interval timing, is used. Recent research has illuminated some of the neural mechanisms underlying the 'internal clocks' of these two different timing systems in both animals and humans. Therapeutic applications for humans with impairments in either timing system may ultimately result from these endeavours.
Activation of steroid hormone receptors by steroid hormones alters both the physiology and behavior of animals. Steroid hormone receptors (e.g., progestin receptors) can also be activated in the absence of steroid hormones by pharmacological treatment with neurotransmitters or neuropeptides. However, it is not known if progesterone-independent activation of brain progestin receptors occurs under natural, physiological, conditions. We report that increases in reproductive behavior and brain immediate early gene expression in female rats induced by mating stimuli can be blocked by prior treatment with progesterone antagonists in the absence of circulating progesterone. This suggests that progestin receptors are activated in a progesterone-independent manner by a physiologically relevant stimulus in female rats, thus implicating a novel pathway by which mating stimuli and other environmental influences could activate steroid receptors to influence neuronal response and behavior.
The majority of the colon cancers analyzed to-date express insulin-like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP)-4, and antisense inhibition of IGFBP-4 messenger RNA (mRNA) confers a growth advantage to the cells in response to endogenous and exogenous IGFs. We recently reported a significant up-regulation of IGFBP-4 expression in a human colon cancer cell line (CaCo2) on spontaneous differentiation of the cells in culture. This suggests that the expression of IGFBP-4 may be related to growth and differentiation of colon cancer cells. To study the endogenous factors involved in the transcriptional regulation of IGFBP-4, we have isolated and sequenced the human (h) IGFBP-4 promoter. The approximately 1.3 kilobase pair (kb) 5' flanking region of the IGFBP-4 gene is GC rich and possesses several potential regulatory elements. These elements include a typical TATA box with sequence TATAA, located -299 nt from the initiation ATG codon. The cap site is located 14 nt downstream of the TATA box as determined by primer extension analysis. A 1.4-kb DNA fragment including the 1.254 kb 5' flanking region of the hIGFBP-4 gene was subcloned into a luciferase reporter vector (pGL-2 basic) either in the sense (BP-4-S-pGL) (S) or antisense (BP-4-AS-pGL) (AS) (negative control) orientation, relative to the luciferase coding sequence in the vector. CaCo2 cells were transfected with either the S or the AS vectors on days 2-10 of culture; cotransfection with the SV40-beta-Galactidose (Gal) vector was used to correct for transfection efficiency. The ratio of luciferase/beta-Gal expression by CaCo2 cells transfected with the S vectors increased significantly from days 3 and 4 to days 5 and 6 of culture, followed by a sharp decline on days 7-9, resembling the pattern of endogenous expression of IGFBP-4 by the cells; the expression of luciferase by the AS vectors remained low and insignificant. These results thus suggest that the approximately 1.4 kb 5' flanking region of the IGFBP-4 gene contains the cis elements required for regulation of the IGFBP-4 gene. Cloning and sequencing of the functional hIGFBP-4 promoter will enable us, for the first time, to study the endogenous factors/mechanisms responsible for the growth/differentiation (cell density) associated regulation of IGFBP-4 expression in colonic epithelial cells.
The melanotrope cell of Xenopus laevis is innervated by nerve terminals that contain, among other transmitter substances, the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Postsynaptically the melanotrope cell possess both GABAA and GABAB receptors. Activation of either receptor type leads to an inhibition of alpha MSH release from the cell. The present study concerns the functional significance of the existence of two types of GABA receptors on the melanotrope regarding two questions: 1) do the different receptor types have different effects on the melanotrope? and 2) can the endogenous ligand GABA differentially activate these receptors? Concerning the first question, we have tested the hypothesis that the GABAA receptor (a chloride ion channel) and the GABAB receptor (a G protein-coupled receptor negatively linked to adenylyl cyclase) may have differential effects on the sensitivity of the cell to stimulation by cAMP-dependent mechanisms. We show that treatments with either isoguvacine (GABAA agonist) or baclofen (GABAB agonist) inhibit intracellular Ca2+ oscillations and peptide secretion from melanotrope cells. Treatments known to increase intracellular cAMP in the melanotrope (e.g. use of the peptide sauvagine or the cAMP analog 8-bromo-cAMP) completely overcame the inhibition induced by baclofen, but not that caused by isoguvacine. We conclude that the GABAA and GABAB receptors have different effects on the Xenopus melanotrope cell by differentially affecting the sensitivity the cell shows to stimulation by cAMP-dependent mechanisms. Concerning possible differential activation of the receptor types, we found that we could use a membrane potential probe (from the bis-oxonol family) to differentiate between GABAA and GABAB receptor activation. Using this probe we showed that low GABA concentrations (&lt; 10(-7) M) give a response indicative of the GABAB receptor, whereas at high GABA concentrations (&gt; 10(-7) M), the GABAA receptor response predominates. We, therefore, conclude that GABA can differentially activate the two types of GABA receptors on the Xenopus melanotrope cell.
Previous studies demonstrated the involvement of transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha), a member of the epidermal growth factor (EGF) family, in the developmental regulation of hypothalamic LHRH release. Although both TGF alpha and EGF stimulate LHRH release, they do not appear to act directly on LHRH neurons, as no EGF/TGF alpha receptors are detected on these cells in vivo. Instead, the stimulatory effect of TGF alpha on LHRH release seems to require a glial intermediacy. The present study identifies one of the glial molecules involved in this process. In vitro exposure of purified hypothalamic astrocytes to TGF alpha or EGF in a defined medium led to activation of the cyclooxygenase-mediated pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism, as indicated by an increase in PGE2 release, but failed to affect lipooxygenase-mediated metabolism, as assessed by the lack of increase in leukotriene C4 production; addition of TGF alpha- (T-CM) or EGF-conditioned medium to cultures of LHRH-producing GT1-1 cells stimulated LHRH release. In contrast, direct exposure of GT1-1 cells to the growth factors was ineffective. Incubation of the cells in medium conditioned by untreated astrocytes (CM) was also ineffective. Blockade of either EGF receptor signal transduction or cyclooxygenase activity in the astrocytic cultures prevented both TGF alpha-induced PGE2 formation in astrocytes and the stimulatory effect of T-CM on LHRH release. Immunoneutralization of PGE2 actions or selective removal of the PG from T-CM also prevented T-CM-induced LHRH release. Addition of exogenous PGE2 restored the effect. Thus, PGE2 is one of the glial molecules involved in mediating the stimulatory effect of TGF alpha on LHRH release. The effectiveness of PGE2 in eliciting LHRH release was, however, greatly reduced when PG was delivered to GT1-1 cells in astrocyte-defined medium instead of CM. Thus, astrocytes appear to produce a yet to be identified substance(s) that facilitates the stimulatory effect of PGE2 on LHRH output. We postulate that the ability of TGF alpha to enhance LHRH release depends on the potentiating interaction of PGE2 with these additional glial-derived molecules.
Procedures for identifying novel antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) are changing and need to change more. Widespread reliance on two primary screens has led to the identification of novel compounds that resemble either phenytoin (suppressing high-frequency repetitive firing in cultured neurons and prolonging inactivation of voltage-dependent sodium channels identified by the maximal electroshock test) or benzodiazepines (potentiating the inhibitory effect of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), identified by the threshold pentylenetetrazol test). Advances in molecular neurobiology have identified specific molecular targets (subunits of ion channels, neurotransmitter receptors, and transporters) and have made them available in a form permitting high-throughput screening. AEDs can be designed to interact with specific sites on the target molecules. Alternatively, the molecular screens can be used to identify active components in natural products, including folk remedies. Preclinical in vivo screens can be improved by using animals with genetic or acquired epilepsies that have similar modifications in the properties of the target molecules as do human epilepsy syndromes. Future work is likely to define molecular targets for AEDs that will block or reverse chronic epileptogenesis.
In a selected sample of patients affected by juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) little is known about middle ear involvement, even though many synovial joints are affected. Multifrequency tympanometry was used to measure admittance, conductance, susceptance and phase angle at different probe frequencies and resonant frequencies. In all, 35 children with JRA and a control group (30 children) were studied. Findings showed that mean resonant frequency values in all children with JRA were greater than in the control children. The multifrequency tympanometry parameters measured in acute JRA subjects are not different from parameters of remission JRA subjects except for a change in the phase angle. The changes found are due to involvement of the incudomalleolar and incudostapedial joints.
Concentrations of monoamine metabolites (MM) in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) have been used extensively as indirect estimates of monoamine turnover in the brain. We investigated possible relationships between DNA polymorphisms in the tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) and catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) genes and CSF concentrations of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), homovanillic acid (HVA), and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) in healthy volunteers (n = 66). Lower CSF 5-HIAA levels were found in men with the TPH U allele (p = 0.005), but not in women. A similar but less significant pattern was observed for CSF HVA. No relationship was found between the TPH polymorphism and CSF MHPG. COMT genotypes did not relate significantly to MM concentrations. The results suggest that TPH genotypes participate differentially in the regulation of serotonin turnover rate under presumed steady state in the central nervous system of men. Due to the uncertain functional relevance of the DNA polymorphism investigated and the many calculations performed, the results should be interpreted with caution until replicated.
A cross-sectional survey was undertaken to study the aging effect on platelet cytoplasmic membrane outer leaflet fluidity and Na+/H+ antiporter activity, and to investigate the relative influence of membrane order and age on the Na+/H+ exchanger. The study population consisted of 19 healthy subjects (age range 22-83 years, mean age 48.5 +/- 16.5 years; 12 females and 7 males). Washed platelets were used as neuronal models and as eventually contributing to brain pathology by aberrant secretion of their granule content. A significant positive correlation (r = 0.48, p &lt; 0.05) was found between age and the membrane structural order, according to a second-degree equation. Sewall-Wright path coefficient analysis revealed that the age influence on Na+/H+ exchanger activity was unimportant (0.18), but those of cytoplasmic membrane outer leaflet fluidity and mean platelet volume were strong and positive (0.51 and 0.54, respectively). Women presented a marked standard deviation in the countertransporter results. In conclusion, decreased membrane outer leaflet fluidity and unchanged Na+/H+ antiporter activity may contribute to the process of normal brain aging.
We previously described a Swedish set of male schizophrenic monozygotic triplets. In this study the patients as well as their parents were further characterized. By high-resolution chromosomal analysis an extra band at chromosome 15p was found in all the triplets and the father. Microdissection, degenerate oligonucleotide-primed PCR (DOP-PCR) amplification and reverse painting indicates that the extra band probably contains only repetitive DNA sequences with no known effect on the phenotype. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed similar borderline ventricular enlargement and widened subarachnoid spaces over frontoparietal and basal regions as well as around the pituitary gland (empty sella) in all the triplets. The father also had widened subarachnoid spaces over the frontal and basal regions. The mother had an empty sella indicating widened subarachnoid spaces. All the boys also had a right-sided conductive hearing defect, probably due to malformation and fixation of the ossicular chain. The parents did not present any otological abnormalities. Neuropsychological assessment demonstrated similar marked reductions of attentional, mnestic, and executive functions in all the triplets, but the mother showed a normal pattern. Possible joint etiological mechanisms for the psychological and somatic abnormalities recorded in the triplets are discussed.
Positron emission tomography (PET) in combination with receptor-selective high-affinity radioligands allows the characterization of neuroreceptor distributions in the living human brain. Thus far, the visualization and quantification of receptors with PET have been limited to series of two-dimensional (2D) image planes of the anatomic receptor distribution. The development of high-resolution PET has increased the number of planes to approximately 50, supplying an excessive amount of image information from a single experiment. The inherent limitations of 2D techniques make them insufficient to apprehend and efficiently analyze this cumbersome amount of data. In the present communication we describe procedures to visualize and quantify in three dimensions (3D) the total image information from the compound set of 47 2D planes of a PET experiment using commercially available software. Three-dimensional computer graphic and volume rendering techniques were used to analyze and display the results. For the experimental application the benzodiazepine (BZ) antagonist [11C]flumazenil was used as radioligand to visualize the BZ receptor (BZR) population in the brain of a healthy human subject. Three-dimensional images of the radioligand binding receptor population were displayed with regard to volume and form in relation to the corresponding anatomic structures in the brain reconstructed from MR images. The volume-rendering technique allowed the inspection of PET signals representing BZR populations in the interior of the hemisphere as viewed from the medial projection. Thresholding and seeding techniques were used to define volumes and quantities. Using the PET data and volume rendering, the total amount of cerebral BZRs (NCerebrum) and the apparent volume they take into account (V(BZR, Cerebrum)app) could he calculated for the first time using an automated procedure. The cerebrum of the healthy subject contained 17.6 nmol of BZRs in a volume of approximately 1.25 L. The principles and application of the technical development described offer new dimensions to clinical neuroscience and should be practically useful for automated quantitative determination of neuroreceptor number in brain regions of patients with neuropsychiatric disorders and in relation to drug treatment.
Rett syndrome is a disease of neurological development. First reported 30 years ago in 1966, its biological and genetic basis remain obscure. It is commonly thought of as an X-linked dominant disorder lethal to hemizygous males. This paper presents the latest genetic findings reported at the Pre-congress Genetic Seminar.
The purpose of this study was to provide objective information on the involvement of different abdominal and hip flexor muscles during various types of common training exercises used in rehabilitation and sport. Six healthy male subjects performed altogether 38 different static and dynamic training exercises trunk and hip flexion sit-ups, with various combinations of leg position and support, and bi- and unilateral leg lifts. Myoelectric activity was recorded with surface electrodes from the rectus abdominis, obliquus externus, obliquus internus, rectus femoris, and sartorius muscles and with indwelling fine-wire electrodes from the iliacus muscle. The mean electromyogram amplitude, normalised to the highest observed value, was compared between static and dynamic exercises separately. The hip flexors were highly activated only in exercises involving hip flexion, either lifting the whole upper body or the legs. In contrast, the abdominal muscles showed marked activation both during trunk and hip flexion sit-ups. In hip flexion sit-ups, flexed and supported legs increased hip flexor activation, whereas such modifications did not generally alter the activation level of the abdominals. Bilateral, but not unilateral, leg lifts required activation of abdominal muscles. In trunk flexion sit-ups an increased activation of the abdominal muscles was observed with increased flexion angle, whereas the opposite was true for hip flexion sit-ups. Bilateral leg lifts resulted in higher activity levels than hip flexion sit-ups for the iliacus and sartorius muscles, while the opposite was true for rectus femoris muscles. These data could serve as a basis for improving the design and specificity of test and training exercises.


The Right Hemisphere Language Battery (RHLB) (Bryan, 1989) was devised to assess the presence of language disorders in patients with damage to the right cerebral hemisphere and to permit an evaluation of the efficacy of therapeutic techniques. To evaluate the utility and sensitivity of the RHLB in patients with solitary right hemispheric brain tumours 20 patients were assessed before and after neurosurgery. Twenty control subjects with no signs or symptoms of brain disease who were undergoing lumbar spinal surgery were also assessed. On six of the seven RHLB subtests there was no significant difference between the scores obtained preoperatively by patients with right hemispheric brain tumours and the control subjects. There was also no significant change in the scores of the patients with tumours before and after resection of the lesion. The RHLB is therefore not recommended for either evaluating communication deficits or for measuring the efficacy of therapeutic techniques in patients with right hemisphere brain tumours. This study does, however, show that there are statistically significant differences between the control and brain tumour groups on the discourse analysis subtest preoperatively. The implications of the study are discussed together with possible reasons for the findings.
For children to progress in their use of augmentative communication systems, in-service training of staff in schools is required. This paper presents preliminary evaluation of a training package entitled 'My Turn to Speak'. Nineteen participants and 10 comparison staff were filmed before and after a five-session training workshop, interacting in the classroom in naturally occurring situations with a non-speaking physically disabled child. Significant improvements in the quality of adults' facilitation of the children's communication was discernible at follow-up, four months after completion of the training. However, teachers were found to alter their behaviour more quickly after training than non-teaching staff. The requirements for setting up successful multidisciplinary training are discussed.
The newly discovered peptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ has been found to increase reactivity to pain and to influence locomotor activity after intracerebroventricular administration. This study investigated the possible role of hippocampal nociceptin/orphanin FQ in spatial learning and in spontaneous locomotion. Male rats were trained in the Morris water task after microinjection of 10 nmol nociceptin/orphanin FQ or artificial cerebrospinal fluid (as control) into the CA3 region of the dorsal hippocampus. Nociceptin/orphanin FQ was found to severely impair spatial learning without interfering with swimming performance. Intrahippocampal injection of nociceptin/ orphanin FQ markedly decreased exploratory locomotor activity including vertical movements (rearing). The data suggest that nociceptin/orphanin FQ is a potent modulator of synaptic plasticity within the hippocampus.
Previous experiments identified AL-1 as a glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-linked ligand for the Eph-related receptor, REK7, and showed that a REK7-IgG fusion protein blocks axon bundling in co-cultures of cortical neurons on astrocytes, suggesting a role for REK7 and AL-1 in axon fasciculation. Subsequent identification of RAGS, the chick homologue of AL-1, as a repellent axon guidance molecule in the developing chick visual system led to speculation that AL-1, expressed on astrocytes, provides a repellent stimulus for cortical axons, inducing them to bundle as an avoidance mechanism. Using a growth cone collapse assay to test this hypothesis, we show that a soluble AL-1-IgG fusion protein is a potent collapsing factor for embryonic rat cortical neurons. The response is strongly correlated with REK7 expression, implicating REK7 as a receptor mediating AL-1-induced collapse. Morphological collapse is preceded by an AL-1-IgG-induced reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton that resembles the effects of cytochalasin D. This suggests a pathway whereby REK7 activation by AL-1 leads to perturbation of the actin cytoskeleton, possibly by an effect on actin polymerization, followed by growth cone collapse. We further show that AL-1-IgG causes collapse of rat hippocampal neurons and rat retinal ganglion cells. These data suggest a role for REK7 and AL-1 in the patterning of axonal connections in the developing cortex, hippocampus and visual system.
The adult brain contains a small population of central nervous system (CNS) cells in the subependyma which, like embryonic CNS progenitor cells, express the intermediate filament nestin. In this report, the differentiation capacity in vivo of these cells was analysed following a standardized trauma. Before the trauma, the subependymal cells expressed nestin but not the astrocytic and neuronal differentiation markers glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and neurofilament respectively. In response to injury, the majority of the subependymal cells coexpressed nestin and GFAP, but never nestin and neurofilament. Furthermore, cells coexpressing nestin and GFAP were found progressively further away from the subependyma and closer to the lesion at later time points after the injury, indicating that these cells migrate towards the lesion. Nestin was in addition re-expressed in reactive astrocytes near the lesion and in non-reactive astrocytes very far from the lesion throughout the ipsilateral cortex. In conclusion, our data indicate that the nestin-positive subependymal cells are an in vivo source for the generation of new astrocytes but not neurons after injury, and that nestin re-expression in astrocytes following traumatic stimuli can be used as a sensitive marker for astroglial activation.
In order to relate noradrenaline-dependent potentiation in the dentate gyrus to behavioural events, rats were made to explore an environment in which their encounters with novel stimuli could be strictly controlled and monitored. Previous experiments have shown that an encounter with novel objects in a holeboard elicits a burst response in a large population of noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus. Such a burst response has been demonstrated to produce a large and transient potentiation of the population spike in the dentate gyrus. In the present series of experiments, rats were chronically implanted with stimulating electrodes in the perforant pathway and recording electrodes in the dentate gyrus. Evoked potentials were monitored in the awake rat, first while it was resting quietly in a familiar environment and then while it was exploring the holeboard containing a novel object in a specific hole. There was a tonic increase in population spike amplitude when the rat was placed in the novel holeboard environment, but this effect gradually dissipated. This increase was partly blocked by the beta-noradrenergic antagonist propranolol. In addition there was a robust phasic increase in spike amplitude when the rat encountered a novel stimulus. This phasic response lasted approximately 50-75 s and was absent in animals treated with propranolol. These results show that a behavioural encounter with a novel stimulus can transiently enhance information transmission through the hippocampus, and suggest that activation of the noradrenergic system by the novel stimulus mediates this behavior-dependent gating.
Fos oncoprotein expression has been shown to be a sensitive marker for sequential neuronal activation in response to a specific stimulus. The present study investigated the effect of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-A receptor agonist muscimol on kainic acid (KA)-induced limbic seizures and Fos expression in the rat forebrain. One hour after KA injection, a substantial Fos expression was observed in the hippocampal dentate gyrus, whereas only a low level of Fos induction was seen in CA1-3 fields. Six hours post-injection a prominent increase of Fos expression occurred in most forebrain structures, including the whole hippocampus. Following 0.5 mg/kg muscimol treatment a remarkable decrease of Fos expression occurred but only in the caudate putamen and core of the accumbens nucleus. Treatment with 1 mg/kg muscimol led to further significant decreases of Fos expression in CA1-3 pyramidal neurons and the disappearance of Fos induction in the cerebral cortex above the rhinal fissure, reticular thalamic nucleus, claustrum, fundus striati, ventral pallidum, septal nucleus, lateral habenular nucleus, and lateral amygdaloid nucleus. When 2 mg/kg muscimol was injected, animals exhibited &quot;absence seizures' instead of limbic seizures, and Fos expression in the hippocampus was effectively blocked. These results suggest that a reduction of GABAergic inhibition plays a crucial role not only in limbic seizure genesis in the dentate gyrus, but also in the seizure spread mechanism in many brain structures, among which the hippocampal CA1-3 fields are most markedly involved, less marked in the cerebral cortex and some other structures, and least marked in the caudate putamen and core of the accumbens nucleus.
Following peripheral nerve section, injured sensory A-fibres into lamina II of the dorsal horn and form aberrant functional synapses. Such structural changes may underlie some of the sensory abnormalities observed in nerve-injured patients, including neuropathic pain. This study compared the ability of intact and injured A-fibres to sprout in two experimental models of neuropathic pain, where the onset and presence of abnormal behaviours indicative of neuropathic pain have been well described. Rats received either a unilateral chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve (CCI) or lesion of the L5 spinal nerve (SNL). The central distribution of the injured and uninjured afferents labelled with choleragenoid conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (B-HRP) was examined at different postoperative survival times. In both models, the contralateral uninjured side, used for control nerve or ganglion injections, showed labelling of the L3-6 spinal segments in laminae I, III-V, leaving lamina II unlabelled. In CCI rats, injured sciatic afferents sprouted in lamina II of the L4-5 dorsal horn by 10 days postinjury. In SNL rats, injured L5 afferents sprouted into lamina II of the L4-5 dorsal horn by 24 h postinjury and were robust from 3 to 10 days. In both models, the labelling in lamina II was absent by 4 months. Labelling of the adjacent uninjured saphenous or intact L4 spinal nerve afferents did not reveal A-fibre sprouting. As the time-course of sprouting of injured A-fibres parallels the previously described behaviour interpreted as neuropathic pain in these models, this may be a phenomenon that contributes to sensory abnormalities such as ongoing pain and mechanical hypersensitivity.
A 10-year nationwide multicenter prospective study on the long-term efficacy of bromocriptine for Parkinson's disease is reported. Six patients remained on bromocriptine monotherapy for 10 years, while 22 patients achieved good disease control with bromocriptine plus levodopa (added during the course of the study). In the 6 patients on bromocriptine alone, the disease remained in Hoehn and Yahr stage I or II for 10 years. In the other 22 patients on bromocriptine plus levodopa therapy, disease progression was very slow for 7-8 years. None of the 6 patients remaining on bromocriptine monotherapy experienced adverse reactions like the wearing-off phenomenon, dyskinesia, or the on-off phenomenon. Among the 22 patients who started levodopa therapy during the course of the study, these adverse reactions to levodopa were infrequent (10, 3, and 3 patients, respectively). Thus, early introduction and long continuation of bromocriptine therapy with restricted concomitant use of levodopa may have led to very slow disease progression and the suppression of adverse reactions. Although the patients who could be maintained long-term on bromocriptine monotherapy might represent a population who have very slowly progressive disease, their adequate disease control and the low incidence of adverse reactions in the patients who later started concomitant levodopa suggest that the unwanted effects of levodopa may be reduced by early and sustained treatment with bromocriptine. Introduction of bromocriptine monotherapy at an early stage of Parkinson's disease or with restricted use of additional levodopa therapy to bromocriptine when necessary may be a useful strategy for achieving adequate and sustained disease control.
Among many relevant topics concerning pain and its treatments, the following will be considered: (1) definition of pain; (2) physiopathology; (3) methodology for clinical trials in pain research (4) use of drugs and surgical management of pain, and (5) future directions. The definition of pain as an unpleasant subjective, sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage, or described in terms of such damage, does not apply to living people incapable of self-report. Thus, nonverbal behavioral information is often needed and used for pain assessment. Major landmarks concerning physiopathology were: the liberation of substance P and other neuropeptides both at the spinal and peripheral endings, the anatomical and functional analysis of the nociceptive pathways, the characterization of endomorphins ligands and receptors. The difference between 'windup' and central sensitization were emphasized. Models of neuropathic pain have advanced our understanding of its specific pathophysiology. Sensoridiscriminative aspects of pain involve lateral thalamic nuclei and corresponding somesthetic cortices, whereas medial thalamic nuclei encode nociceptive stimuli during attention-directed tasks. Their cortical connections, namely anterior cingular cortex and insular cortex, support the postulate of a role in the affective-motivational dimensions of pain. An impressive increase in the number and quality of randomised clinical trials has been observed since 1950. The use of analgesics, opioids, antidepressants and other drugs is addressed, as well as new aspects concerning surgery or new drugs.
With the aim of assessing dopaminergic responsiveness in essential blepharospasm, we investigated the effects of oral levodopa and subcutaneous apomorphine on blink reflex recovery cycle in 7 blepharospasm patients. We found that in blepharospasm the excitability of the blink reflex recovery cycle was increased compared with control subjects. The oral administration of levodopa/carbidopa (500/50 mg) did not significantly modify the blink reflex recovery cycle. The 50 micrograms/kg dose of apomorphine decreased the amplitude of conditioned responses at 300 and 500 ms, whereas the 10 micrograms/kg dose was ineffective. We conclude that the excitability of the blink reflex recovery cycle in blepharospasm is partly under dopaminergic control. The partial normalization of the blink reflex recovery cycle excitability observed with 50 micrograms/kg apomorphine is consistent with the reported clinical efficacy of the drug in this condition.
The study of dopamine neurotransmission has seen remarkable progress during the past quarter of a century. However, new problems keep arising as more is learned from biochemical analytical studies, necessitating even more detailed investigation in order to understand the relationship between dopamine neurotransmission and motor functions. For better treatment of Parkinson's disease, it is important to solve these problems.
124 carotid arteries of 62 patients with unilateral or bilateral carotid stenosis proven by selective angiography were investigated by transcranial Doppler to detect high-intensity transient signals (HITS) in the middle cerebral arteries (MCAs). HITS identified as embolic signals were detected in 29 of 124 (23.3%) MCAs and in all cases were asymptomatic. HITS were more common in the MCAs on the same side as high-degree (&gt; 70%) carotid stenoses (24 of 57 = 42.2%) compared with low-degree (&lt; 70%) carotid stenoses (5 of 28 = 17.9%, p &lt; 0.05). No HITS were detected in the MCAs on the same side as normal (24) and occluded (15) carotid arteries. About the clinical features related to the stenoses, HITS were detected with a nonsignificant prevalence in the MCAs on the same side as symptomatic stenoses (16 of 43 = 37.2%) compared with asymptomatic stenoses (13 of 42 = 30.9%) and a relationship between HITS number and time elapsed from symptoms was observed. All symptomatic carotid stenoses &gt; 70% (33) underwent endarterectomy and none of them showed HITS after surgical treatment. These results encourage the feasibility of prognostic studies to evaluate the clinical significance of embolic signals and suggest that silent microembolism could be helpful in selecting a high-risk group of asymptomatic or &lt; 70% carotid stenoses for endarterectomy.

In the cynomolgus monkey, motoneurons innervating the levator palpebrae superioris muscle form a nucleus within the oculomotor nuclei called the central caudal nucleus. After double fluorescent neuronal retrograde tracing experiments, using fast blue and diamidino yellow as tracers in the levator palpebrae superior muscles, labelled motoneurons (30%) were found in an unpaired central caudal nucleus. Approximately 2% of the labelled motoneurons were double-labelled. The labelled and double-labelled neurons were distributed randomly over the central caudal nucleus, lateralization of populations of levator motoneurons within this nucleus was not observed. The afferent innervation of the levator palpebrae superioris muscle was restricted to the ophthalmic branch area of the gasserian ganglion. Primary afferent labelled neurons were absent from the mesencephalic nucleus of the fifth nerve. Surprisingly, fast blue was also found in the ophthalmic branch area of the contralateral ganglion of Gasser, while diamidino yellow was present only ipsilaterally. About 1% of the afferent labelled neurons were double-labelled. The results reveal that in the cynomolgus monkey the central caudal nucleus is not only topographically but also functionally one nucleus. Afferent innervation of the levator palpebrae superioris muscle is probably bilaterally organized.
We explored the effects of congeners of nitrogen monoxide (NO) on cultured mesencephalic neurons. Sodium nitroprusside (SNP) was used as a donor of NO, the congeners of which have been found to exert either neurotoxic or neuroprotective effects depending on the surrounding redox milieu. In contrast to a previous report that suggests that the nitrosonium ion (NO+) is neuroprotective to cultured cortical neurons, we found that the nitrosonium ion reduces the survival of cultured dopamine neurons to 32% of control. There was a trend for further impairment of dopamine neuron survival, to only 7% of untreated control, when the cultures were treated with SNP plus ascorbate, i.e. when the nitric oxide radical (NO.) had presumably been formed. We also evaluated the effects of an inhibitor of lipid peroxidation, the lazaroid U-83836E, against SNP toxicity. U-83836E exerted marked neuroprotective effects in both insult models. More than twice as many dopamine neurons (75% of control) survived when the lazaroid was added to SNP-treated cultures and the survival was increased eight-fold (to 55% of control) when U-83836E was added to cultures treated with SNP plus ascorbate. We conclude that the congeners of NO released by SNP are toxic to mesencephalic neurons in vitro and that the lazaroid U-83836E significantly increases the survival of dopamine neurons in situations where congeners of NO are generated.
Astronauts adopt a variety of neuromuscular control strategies during space flight that are appropriate for locomoting in that unique environment, but are less than optimal upon return to Earth. We report here the first systematic investigation of potential adaptations in neuromuscular activity patterns associated with postflight locomotion. Astronaut-subjects were tasked with walking on a treadmill at 6.4 km/h while fixating a visual target 30 cm away from their eyes after space flights of 8-15 days. Surface electromyography was collected from selected lower limb muscles and normalized with regard to mean amplitude and temporal relation to heel strike. In general, high correlations (more than 0.80) were found between preflight and postflight activation waveforms for each muscle and each subject: however relative activation amplitude around heel strike and toe off was changed as a result of flight. The level of muscle cocontraction and activation variability, and the relationship between the phasic characteristics of the ankle musculature in preparation for toe off also were altered by space flight. Subjects also reported oscillopsia during treadmill walking after flight. These findings indicate that, after space flight, the sensory-motor system can generate neuromuscular-activation strategies that permit treadmill walking, but subtle changes in lower-limb neuromuscular activation are present that may contribute to increased lower limb kinematic variability and oscillopsia also present during postflight walking.
Horizontal saccadic reaction times (SRTs) have been extensively studied over the past 3 decades, concentrating on such topics as the gap effect, express saccades, training effects, and the role of fixation and attention. This study investigates some of these topics with regard to vertical saccades. The reaction times of vertical saccades of 13 subjects were measured using the gap and the overlap paradigms in the prosaccade task (saccade to the stimulus) and the antisaccade task (saccade in the direction opposite to the stimulus). In the gap paradigm, the initial fixation point (FP) was extinguished 200 ms before stimulus onset, while, in the overlap paradigm, the FP remained on during stimulus presentation. With the prosaccade overlap task, it was found that most subjects (10/13)-whether they were previously trained making horizontal saccades or naive-had significantly faster upward saccades compared with their downward saccades. One subject was faster in the downward direction and two were symmetrical. The introduction of the gap reduced the reaction times of the prosaccades, and express saccades were obtained in some naive and most trained subjects. This gap effect was larger for saccades made to the downward target. The strength of the updown asymmetry was more pronounced in the overlap as compared to the gap paradigm. With the antisaccade task, up-down asymmetries were much reduced. Express antisaccades were absent even with the gap paradigm, but reaction times were reduced as compared to the antisaccade overlap paradigm. There was a slight tendency for a larger gap effect of downward saccades. All subjects produced a certain number of erratic prosaccades in the antitasks, more with the gap than with the overlap paradigm. There was a significantly larger gap effect for the erratic prosaccades made to the downward, as compared to the upward, target, due to increased downward SRTs in the overlap paradigm. Three subjects trained in both the horizontal and the vertical direction showed faster SRTs and more express saccades in the horizontal directions as compared to the vertical. It is concluded that different parts of the visual field are differently organized with both directional and nondirectional components in saccade preparation.
When patients with Parkinson's disease initially show symptoms, approximately 80-85% of their dopaminergic nerve fibers in the striatum have degenerated. It is thus of importance to develop strategies to try to rescue the remaining dopaminergic neurons and to stimulate them to induce sprouting. In this study the goal was to examine whether the different subgroups of dopaminergic neurons in the ventral mesencephalon projecting to the basal ganglia have different sprouting capacities when stimulated by the trophic effect of a fetal striatal graft. Lateral ganglionic eminence was implanted into the lateral ventricle, the midportion of dorsal striatum, globus pallidus, or ventral striatum. Solid tissue pieces from 13- to 15-mm fetuses were stereotactically implanted into adult female Sprague-Dawley rats. At postgrafting week 4 the animals were perfused and processed for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemistry. Transplants placed in the lateral ventricle were TH-negative, except for two cases with TH-positive fibers where the ependymal layer was disrupted, thereby allowing direct contact between the graft and the adjacent host striatum. The transplants placed into dorsal striatum were innervated by small patches of dopaminergic nerve fibers. Areas between the TH-positive patchy structures remained TH-negative. In grafts placed into globus pallidus, both patchy structures and a less dense TH-positive nerve fiber network was noted. The TH-positive growth pattern in transplants placed in ventral striatum was also divided into patchy and widespread growth. Grafts placed in globus pallidus and ventral striatum revealed significantly larger areas of TH-positive innervation compared with that measured in grafts placed in dorsal striatum and the lateral ventricle. In conclusion, it is possible to induce sprouting of TH-immunoreactive nerve fibers from all areas examined. The most potent areas to initiate dopaminergic growth were the globus pallidus and ventral striatum, where both a patchy dense and a widespread, less dense growth was induced. Thus, if using a trophic stimulus to induce sprouting from remaining dopaminergic nerve fibers in Parkinson's disease, the preferential target to induce sprouting would be ventromedial striatum and growth would be guided toward dorsal striatum owing to the enhanced dopaminergic growth properties in the ventromedial areas.
Olfactory sensory neurons only live for about 1 month in most mammals. It is not fully understood whether the short life span of these neurons is due to necrotic death, or if these cells die by apoptosis. One characteristic of cells undergoing apoptotic cell death is internucleosomal DNA-fragmentation. We have used TdT-mediated dUTP-digoxigenin nick end labeling (TUNEL) to detect cells undergoing DNA-fragmentation in situ. In the intact olfactory epithelium of adult rats a subpopulation of basal immature neuronal progenitor cells, as well as mature olfactory sensory neurons, showed DNA-fragmentation. The number of TUNEL-labeled neurons increased dramatically 1.5 days after transection of the fila olfactoria and declined to control levels by Day 4 after the injury. In order to relate DNA-fragmentation to ultrastructural characteristics of apoptosis we modified the TUNEL-labeling protocol to enable studies of TUNEL-labeled cells in the electron microscope. This confirmed that TUNEL-labeled neurons showed morphological characteristics of apoptosis. The data provide evidence for apoptotic death of neurons in the adult mammalian nervous system. The turnover of olfactory sensory neurons is, at least in part, regulated by apoptosis and disruption of the contact with the olfactory bulb results in massive apoptotic death of neurons in the olfactory epithelium.
The effect of antioxidants and reducing agents on glutamate-induced cytotoxicity was examined using PC12 cells. The antioxidants vitamin E, idebenone, and selegiline protected cells against the cytotoxicity observed 24 h after exposure to 0.5 or 10 mM glutamate, as determined by lactate dehydrogenase leakage, even when added 3 h after glutamate. The reducing agents, glutathione (GSH) and dithiothreitol (DTT), also provided protection against the cytotoxicity of glutamate. Preincubation of PC12 cells with the antioxidants mentioned above, or the incubation with those antioxidants after exposure to glutamate for 3 h, prevented the reduction of viability caused by glutamate. Cystine uptake was inhibited by exposure of cells to glutamate, as determined by L-[35S]-cystine uptake. Incubation of cells with 0.5 or 10 mM glutamate caused a marked decrease in cellular GSH levels, not prevented by antioxidants. The activity of GSSG reductase was decreased by glutamate and this inhibition was reverted in the presence of the reducing agents GSH and DTT. These results indicate that glutamate toxicity on PC12 cells results from the inhibition of cystine uptake with consequent GSH depletion and oxidative stress, suggesting that antioxidants may reduce the cellular damage in pathologic conditions associated with excessive glutamate release.
Free radical damage to cellular membranes appears to underlie alterations in function in aging and various pathological processes, including cardiovascular disease. The objective of this study was to directly characterize changes in the molecular structure of membrane lipid bilayers resulting from oxidative stress. Membrane samples reconstituted from either synthetic or cardiac phospholipids enriched with polyunsaturated fatty acids were examined at high resolution using small-angle x-ray diffraction methods. In this study, Fe2+/ascorbate-induced lipid peroxidation produced significant and dose-dependent alterations in the basic physical structure of the phospholipid bilayer. Electron density profiles (A vs. electrons/A3) calculated from the x-ray diffraction data showed a marked reduction in the hydrocarbon core width of dilinoleoyl phosphatidylcholine (DLPC) bilayers from 36 A to 32 A, and a decrease in overall membrane width, including surface hydration, from 48.7 A to 44.6 A. In addition, a broad decrease in molecular volume was observed +/-3-10 A from the center of the membrane bilayer, along with interdigitation of the terminal methyl segments. Pronounced changes in the lipid bilayer structure following oxidative stress were also observed in membranes reconstituted from cardiac lipids, including a 4 A reduction in hydrocarbon core width from 40 A to 36 A and interdigitation of the terminal methyl segments. These data provide direct evidence for changes in membrane hydrocarbon core width and molecular volume resulting from phospholipid peroxidation, which may contribute to perturbations in membrane structure/function relationships associated with aging and cardiovascular disease.


Two treatments, based on either ticlopidine or indobufen at their optimal individual daily dose (median dose: 250 and 200 mg/day, respectively), were compared in an open randomized multicenter trial in patients at risk of cerebral ischemia (men and women, aged 39 to 80 years, who had experienced in the month before entry into the study transient ischemic attack or amaurosis fugax or minor stroke). The total number of patients screened was 4033; 1632 were enrolled, 821 randomized to ticlopidine, 811 to indobufen. The overall frequency of the composite primary end-point (stroke, myocardial infarction, and death from any cause) was 4.4%. The ticlopidine-based regimen proved significantly better than the indobufen one in preventing the composite of fatal and non fatal events (49.6% relative risk reduction), or death alone (54.4% relative risk reduction). The two groups had similar percentages of adverse events (5.5% and 6.4% for ticlopidine and indobufen group, respectively) with withdrawals because of adverse events in 3.4% and 2.5%; gastrointestinal disorders and bleeding were more frequent in the indobufen group, whereas rash and abnormal liver function were more frequent in the ticlopidine one.
In this study, we have evaluated the capacity of recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) vectors, containing cell type-specific promoters, to transduce neurons in vivo in the normal adult rat spinal cord. The neuron-specific enolase (NSE) promoter and the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) B-chain promoter were used to direct expression of a 'humanized' form of the gene for green fluorescent protein (GFP). Neuron-specific rAAVs were injected into the mid-cervical regions of adult rat spinal cords. At 10-14 days, expression was detected in all animals and persisted for up to 15 weeks. Immunocytochemical and morphological profiles of transduced cells were consistently neuronal, and there was no evidence of transgene expression in glial elements. Transduction efficiencies for the NSE and PDGF rAAVs were estimated at 15 and 45 infectious particles per GFP-positive neuron, respectively, in the absence of detectable adenovirus. This study strongly supports a role for rAAV vectors in CNS gene therapy and lays the groundwork for delivery of more functional genes to spinal cord neurons as a possible way to enhance spinal cord repair following injury.
The definition of phenotype is a major problem in genetic studies of psychiatric disorders. Most linkage studies in bipolar disorder have defined the phenotype as a dichotomous trait and have usually employed different hierarchical classifications in order to overcome uncertainty resulting from phenotypic variability. In this study we explored the advantages of maximizing the evidence for linkage over different phenotypic definitions when conducting parametric linkage analysis of a complex trait. The GAW10 Problem 1 was used, focusing on chromosome 18 data sets. Three major phenotypic models were analyzed: quasi-quantitative, liability-based and affection-status models. Overall, no single phenotypic model performed consistently better than the others (i.e., lod scores greater than 1.0). Each model yielded higher lod scores than the others in particular instances, suggesting that it might be useful in exploratory data analysis, where the phenotype is variable, to maximize evidence for linkage over different phenotypic models.
On first impression, the disciplines of genetics and political science would appear to be unrelated. And yet, commencing more than 30 years ago, the interdisciplinary field known as Biopolitics has now taken hold. This essay traces the central thrust of the biopolitical research agenda. It describes, analyzes, and assesses how political scientists have sought to show connections between our species' genetic constitution and our species' political behavior. Important bridges between the two are the neurophysiology of the human brain and the role of evolutionary theory in charting man's adaptational political profile. The parameters of the emerging biopolitical literature raise profound policy questions, some of which are also characterized.
Reactive glial cells are consistently found in the brain tissue of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Both clustered and scattered glial cells occur in AD brain. A number of clustered microglial cells, but not astrocytes, had a positive correlation with neurite plaque numbers, suggesting that clustered micro-glial cells are uniquely associated with plaques whereas clustered astrocytes may have functions outside the plaques as well. APOE epsilon 4, the major genetic risk factor for AD, had a dose-dependent effect to increase the numbers of scattered microglial cells whereas the APOE risk showed no correlation with any of the clustered glial cells or scattered astrocytes. These findings raise the possibility that the increased levels of scattered, but not clustered, microglial cells are the immediate response to APOE risk and might be primarily involved in AD pathogenesis.
It was shown previously (Rosenbluth et al.: J. Neurosci. 16:2635-2641, 1996) that implantation of hybridoma cells that produce an IgM antigalactocerebroside into the spinal cord of young rats results in the development of myelin sheaths with a repeat period approximately 2-3x normal, similar to the abnormal peripheral myelin sheaths seen in human IgM gammopathies. We now present evidence that this effect can be reproduced in the spinal cord by implanting either of two other hybridomas, O4 and A2B5, that secrete, respectively, antisulfatide and antiganglioside IgM antibodies. The formation of expanded CNS myelin thus does not depend on antibodies to galactocerebroside specifically but can be mediated by IgM antibodies that react with other myelin glycolipids as well.
Leptomeningeal cells migrate into the lesion cavity after stab wounds to the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS) and interact with astrocytes that form a new glia limitans. However, it is not known if leptomeningeal cells alter the ability of astrocytes near the lesion to support axon growth. In this study, we have used an in vitro approach to assess leptomeningeal cell-astrocyte interactions in a model that resembles the interactions of these cells in vivo. We cultured rat cortical astrocytes on top of monolayers of leptomeningeal cells or astrocytes. Differences in the morphology, neurite growth promoting properties, and expression of various extracellular matrix molecules and beta 1-integrin were assessed. Astrocytes acquired a long slender morphology when plated on leptomeningeal cells. Functionally, astrocytes cultured on top of leptomeningeal monolayers supported less neurite growth. Similar results were also obtained when astrocyte monolayers were treated with leptomeningeal cell-conditioned medium. Quantitative immunofluorescence labeling showed a reduction in cell surface bound laminin on astrocytes plated on leptomeningeal monolayers. Qualitative assessment of the immunofluorescence labeling showed an increase in matrix-like deposits of tenascin-C and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan under similar culture conditions. This study provides the first direct evidence that leptomeningeal cells reduce the neurite growth promoting properties of astrocytes. These results suggest that interactions with leptomeningeal cells may 1) induce the formation of the slender astrocyte processes that form parallel to the lesion wall after penetrating injuries to the CNS; and 2) contribute along with other factors to alter astrocytes near the site of injury to a state that is less permissive for axon growth and regeneration.
Vascular endothelial cells (EC) exhibit organ-to-organ heterogeneity in their functions and morphologies. In particular, brain capillary EC have unique characteristics exemplified by the blood-brain barrier (BBB). The formation and the maintenance of BBB have been ascribed to EC responses to inductive signal(s) or factor(s) from astrocytes that encircle microvessels in the central nervous system. These EC responses were demonstrated in numerous in vivo studies, exemplified by those of Janzer and Raff (Nature 325:253, 1987) and Tout et al. (Neuroscience 55:291, 1993) showing that transplanted astrocytes induced BBB properties in non-neural vascular EC. In this study, we constructed a heterologous co-culture system, in which rat fetal brain astrocytes were cultivated on one surface of a porous membrane and human umbilical vein EC on the opposite surface. Electron microscopic examination revealed that astrocytes passed their endfeet through the pores, making contact with EC. In this system, gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (gamma-GTP) activity in EC was found to be significantly increased by contacting astrocytes in a density- and time-dependent manner, but not when the astrocyte feeder layer was apart from EC or replaced by COS cells; astrocyte-derived extracellular matrix partially activated gamma-GTP. mRNAs for some of the representative BBB markers, including transferrin receptor, P-glycoprotein, brain-type glucose transporter (GLUT-1), and gamma-GTP were also demonstrated by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction to be upregulated in EC co-cultured with astrocytes. Astrocyte inductions of close membrane apposition resembling a zonula occludens and of an increase in the content of mitochondria in EC were also noted in electron micrographs. Furthermore, an increased barrier activity against inulin was conferred on EC when they were lined with astrocytes. The results obtained with this heterologous co-culture system thus indicate that through contact with their feet, astrocytes are capable of transdifferentiating non-neural EC into the brain type, endowing them with the BBB properties.
Earlier we presented data (Scharf et al. (1994) Hear. Res. 75, 11-26) from a young patient (S.B.) who had undergone a vestibular neurotomy, during which the olivocochlear bundle (OCB) was severed. Those data are complemented by measurements on 15 other patients-some like S.B. with normal audiometric thresholds, none with a loss greater than 35 dB at experimental frequencies. Comparisons of performance for the same ear before and after surgery or between the operated and healthy ears do not provide evidence that the lack of OCB input impairs the following psychoacoustical functions: (1) detection of tonal signals, (2) intensity discrimination, (3) frequency selectivity, (4) loudness adaptation, (5) frequency discrimination within a tonal series, (6) in-head lateralization. Data on single-tone frequency discrimination are equivocal. These mostly negative results apply to listening both in the quiet and, where relevant, in noise. The only clear change in hearing after a vestibular neurotomy is that most patients detect signals at unexpected frequencies better than before. This change suggests an impaired ability to focus attention in the frequency domain. Although limited in scope, our finding that human hearing without OCB input is essentially normal agrees with much of the relevant literature on animal behavior and with the patients' self-reports.
Hair cells in the bullfrog vestibular otolith organs were immunolabeled by monoclonal and polyclonal antisera against calbindin (CaB), calmodulin (CaM), calretinin (CaR), and parvalbumin (PA). S-100, previously shown to immunolabel striolar hair cells in fish vestibular organs, only weakly immunolabeled hair cells in the bullfrog vestibular otolith organs. Immunolabeling was not detected in supporting cells. With the exception of CaR, myelinated axons and unmyelinated nerve terminals were immunolabeled by all of the above antisera. Immunolabeling was seen in all saccular hair cells, although hair cells at the macular margins were immunolabeled more intensely for CaB, CaM, and PA than more centrally located hair cells. As the macula margins are known to be a growth zone, this labeling pattern suggests that marginal hair cells up-regulate their calcium-binding proteins during hair cell development. In the utriculus, immunolabeling for CaM and PA was generally restricted to striolar hair cells. CaR immunolabeling was restricted to the stereociliary array. Immunolabeling for other calcium-binding proteins was generally seen in both the cell body and hair bundles of hair cells, although this labeling was often localized to the stereociliary array and the apical portion of the cell body. CaM and PA immunolabeling in the stereociliary array in saccular and utricular striolar cells suggests a functional role for these proteins in mechanoelectric transduction and adaptation.
The extent to which small ensembles of neighboring hippocampal neurons alter their spatial firing patterns concurrently in response to stimulus manipulations was examined in young adult rats as well as in aged rats with and without memory impairment. Recordings from CA1 and CA3 cells were taken as rats performed a spatial radial-maze task that employed prominent distal visual stimuli attached to dark curtains surrounding the maze and local cues on each maze arm provided by inserts with distinctive visual, tactile, and olfactory stimuli. To test the influence of the different stimulus subsets, the distal and local cues were rotated 90 degrees in opposite directions (a Double Rotation). In response to this manipulation, place fields could maintain a fixed position to room coordinates, rotate with either the local or the distal cues, disappear, or new fields could appear. On average 79% of the cells within an ensemble responded in the same way, but only 37% of all ensembles were fully concordant. Typically discordant ensembles had place fields that rotated with one set of cues, whereas the other fields disappeared or new fields appeared. Ensembles in which the place fields rotated in two opposite directions were less frequent in young rats than would be expected by the occurrence of the individual responses, indicating selective competition between directly conflicting representations and ultimate suppression of one. These findings indicate that hippocampal neurons independently encode distinct subsets of the cues in a complex environment, although processing within the hippocampal network may actively reduce the simultaneous representation of conflicting orientation information. This kind of population activity might reflect the higher-order organization of new memories within an established knowledge framework or schema. Concordance was higher in aged memory-impaired rats than in young rats, and the suppression of conflicting representations was absent in these rats. These findings suggest that age-related memory impairment is at least in part associated with a decrease in the scope of information coded and in the coordination of encoded representations.
The involvement of structures in the medial temporal lobe during the encoding of visual associations was studied with functional magnetic resonance imaging. In 11 out of 12 normal healthy volunteers this task resulted in activation in posterior portions of the parahippocampal region, close to the collateral sulcus. In seven subjects activation was encountered in the hippocampal formation. The visual association task as adapted for this study may provide a sensitive measure to study anterograde amnesia prevalent in Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, the present paradigm enables the study of individual changes in learning and memory capacities over time.
Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) is reduced in aged relative to young F-344 rats when peri-threshold stimulation protocols (several stimulus pulses at 100-200 Hz) are used. The present study was designed to examine the possibility that this LTP-induction deficit is caused by a reduced overlap of Schaffer-collateral inputs onto CA1 pyramidal cells (input cooperativity). This reduced input cooperativity would decrease the levels of postsynaptic depolarization during LTP induction, which might account for the age-related LTP deficit. Both behavioral data (Morris Water Maze) and electrophysiological data (intracellular recordings from hippocampal slices) were collected from adult and aged F-344 rats. To counter the effects of reduced input cooperativity, stimulus intensities were adjusted to elicit baseline excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) of equivalent amplitude in aged and young rats. Contrary to expectations, however, an age-related LTP-induction deficit was still observed. Further evaluation of the electrophysiological data revealed that temporal summation of multiple EPSPs during high-frequency stimulation was impaired in the aged rats. Thus, despite the equalization across age groups of the baseline EPSP amplitudes, the cells of aged rats were less depolarized during the LTP-inducing stimulation than were those of young rats. This reduced total depolarization was not an artifact of the higher stimulus intensity used on aged animals, nor was it caused by a failure of aged rats' CA1 afferents to follow high-frequency stimulation. The present data therefore suggest that there is a deficit in the ability of aged rats' synapses to provide the sustained depolarization necessary to active the LTP-induction cascade.
Intermittently occurring field events, dentate spikes (DS), and sharp waves (SPW) in the hippocampus reflect population synchrony of principal cells and interneurons along the entorhinal cortex-hippocampus axis. We have investigated the cellular-synaptic generation of DSs and SPWs by intracellular recording from granule cells, pyramidal cells, and interneurons in anesthetized rats. The recorded neurons were anatomically identified by intracellular injection of biocytin. Extracellular recording electrodes were placed in the hilus to record field DSs and multiple units and in the CA1 pyramidal cell layer to monitor SPW-associated fast field oscillations (ripples) and unit activity. DSs were associated with large depolarizing potentials in granule cells, but they rarely discharged action potentials. When they were depolarized slightly with intracellular current injection, bursts of action potentials occurred concurrently with extracellularly recorded DSs. Two interneurons in the hilar region were also found to discharge preferentially with DSs. In contrast, CA1 pyramidal cells, recorded extracellularly and intracellularly, were suppressed during DSs. In association with field SPWs, extracellular recordings from the CA1 pyramidal layer and the hilar region revealed synchronous bursting of these cell populations. Intracellular recordings from CA3 and CA1 pyramidal cells, granule cells, and from a single CA3 region interneuron revealed SPW-concurrent depolarizing potentials and action potentials. These findings suggest that granule cells may be discharged anterogradely by entorhinal input or retrogradely by the CA3-mossy cell feedback pathway during DSs and SPWs, respectively. Although both of these intermittent population patterns can activate granule cells, the impact of DSs and SPWs is diametrically opposite on the rest of the hippocampal circuitry. Entorhinal cortex activation of the granule cells during DSs induces a transient decrease in the hippocampal output, whereas during SPW bursts every principal cell population of the hippocampal formation may be recruited into the population event.
Previous reports have demonstrated a striking increase of the immunoreactivity of the gamma-isoform of protein kinase C (PKCgamma-ir) in Ammon's horn and dentate gyrus (DG) of rodent hippocampus after training in a spatial orientation task. In the present study, we investigated how 8 days of psychosocial stress affects spatial discrimination learning in a hole board and influences PKCgamma-ir in the hippocampal formation. The acquisition of both reference memory and working memory was significantly delayed in the stressed animals during the entire training period. With respect to cellular plasticity, the training experience in both nonstressed and stressed groups yielded enhanced PKCgamma-ir in the CA1 and CA3 regions of the posterior hippocampus but not in subfields of the anterior hippocampus. Stress enhanced PKCgamma-ir in the DG and CA3 pyramidal cells of the anterior hippocampus. In stressed animals that were subsequently trained, the PKCgamma-ir was increased in the posterior CA1 region to the same level as that found in nonstressed trained animals. Stress apparently abrogated the PKCgamma-ir training response in the CA3 region. In a second experiment, the elevation of plasma corticosterone levels to values that are found during stress did not significantly influence reference memory scores but slightly and temporarily affected working memory. The training-induced enhancement of PKCgamma-ir in the CA1 region was similar in trained and corticosterone-treated trained animals, but the learning-induced PKCgamma-ir response in the posterior CA3 area was absent after corticosterone pretreatment. These results reveal that prolonged psychosocial stress causes spatial learning deficits, whereas artificial elevation of corticosterone levels to the levels that occur during stress only mildly affects spatial memory performance. The spatial learning deficits following stress are reflected only in part in the redistribution of hippocampal PKCgamma-ir following training.
Projections from the hippocampal formation to the medial prefrontal cortex are well known. In this report we used two retrogradely transported tracers to show that a small but significant subpopulation of pyramidal neurons in area CA1 and subiculum of the hippocampal formation projects to the lateral prefrontal cortex. About half of these neurons also possess collateral projections to the medial prefrontal cortex. The neurons projecting only to the lateral PFC are found in the intermediate hippocampal formation and in the most ventral part of the temporal subdivision. On the other hand, most of the neurons projecting to the medial prefrontal cortex only are present in the temporal and ventral intermediate hippocampal formation, and their number decreases in the dorsal intermediate subdivision. The distribution of neurons having collateral projections is comparable to that of neurons projecting to the medial prefrontal cortex only. In view of proposed functional differences between the septal one-third and the temporal two-third of the hippocampal formation, it is of interest that the neurons projecting to the prefrontal cortex are only present in the temporal two-thirds.
Previous anatomical research has demonstrated that the perirhinal cortex (PRC) projects to the dorsal hippocampal CA1 field. We have recently presented data (Liu and Bilkey, Hippocampus 1996; 6:125-135) which suggests that this pathway courses via the lateral perforant path (LPP). In the present study, laminar profiles of the average evoked potentials and current source density (CSD) analysis were used to study the input from the perirhinal cortex to the dorsal hippocampus in the urethane-anaesthetized rat. Stimulation of the lateral perforant path activated a current sink in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare of CA1 and the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus with an onset latency of 3.5 ms. Stimulation of the perirhinal cortex produced a very similar sink-source pattern with an onset latency of 4.0 ms. Higher-intensity stimulation of lateral entorhinal cortex also produced a similar pattern with an onset latency of 4.5 ms. Electrolytic lesions of PRC conducted 4-5 days prior to testing resulted in a major decrease (58%) in the amplitude of the LPP-elicited potentials and a corresponding reduction across the whole source-sink pattern. A similar result was observed following ibotenic acid lesions of PRC. In contrast, similar-sized electrolytic lesions of lateral entorhinal cortex produced a much smaller (16%) decrease in potential amplitude and little change in the source-sink pattern. These data provide further support for the hypothesis that perirhinal cortex projects to both the dentate gyrus and CA1 regions of the hippocampus via the lateral perforant path.
Animals with damage to the fimbria-fornix (FF) or cells of the hippocampus (HIP) can learn a place problem but cannot learn matching-to-place problems, which feature a series of place &quot;reversals.&quot; The two experiments described in the present report were designed to examine the causes of impairment on reversal learning. In experiment 1, control, HIP, and FF groups were trained to asymptote on a place problem, and then the location of the platform was moved. Control rats learned the reversal response more quickly than the initial response; the HIP rats learned both problems at the same rate. Swim analysis showed that the impairment in the lesion group on the reversal response was aggravated by perseverative returns to the first learned place. In experiment 2, control and FF groups were trained on a task in which the platform was visible on three daily trials and hidden on one daily trial. After 10 days, the platforms were moved. In the reversal response, the FF group showed enhanced performance on the cue trials and severely impaired performance on the place trials relative to initial learning and control performance. Swim analysis showed that FF rats perseverated on the initial place response in place trials. These experiments provide further evidence for place learning in hippocampal rats and show that perseverative responses contribute to impairments in new learning. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that the hippocampus mediates spatial mapping and/or uses self-movement cues to solve spatial problems.
Mice with radiofrequency (RF) lesions of the posterior (PC) or anterior (AC) cingulate cortex were trained on spatial discrimination reversal learning in a T-maze. The results were compared with those obtained in an earlier study after ibotenic acid (IBO) cingulate lesions. PC-RF lesions facilitated the initial discrimination and first reversal, whereas they retarded subsequent reversals; in contrast, PC-IBO lesions yielded a deficit on the initial discrimination and first reversal, but had no effect on subsequent reversals. AC-IBO, but not AC-RF lesions, precluded the formation of a learning set across reversals. These data suggest that cingulum transection, which accompanies RF but not IBO lesions, can mask or even antagonize the specific effects of cingulate damage. Consequently, inferences made from the effects of conventional lesions to assess and distinguish the functions of the two cingulate areas appear subject to caution.
Long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic strength is induced by glutamate-triggered increases in postsynaptic [Ca2+], through either influx or release from intracellular stores. Induction of LTD has also been reported to require release of Ca2+ from presynaptic stores and activation of presynaptic Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. This finding leads to the hypothesis that the intercellular messenger nitric oxide (NO) may be a means by which postsynaptic Ca2+ triggers changes expressing LTD in presynaptic terminals. We report that bath application of the oxadiazoloquinoxalone derivative ODQ (4 microM), a selective inhibitor of NO-sensitive guanylyl cyclase (NOGC), markedly attenuated (90%) the magnitude of LTD induced by low-frequency stimulation (LFS; 1 Hz/15 min) of Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in hippocampal slices in vitro. Both the NO donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (100 microM) and the membrane-permeant cyclic guanine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP) analogue 8-(-4-chlorophenylthio) guanosine (8-pCPT)-cGMP (50 microM) enhanced the magnitude of LTD, which is consistent with he hypothesis that activation of NOGC plays a role in the induction of LTD. Nicotinamide (20 mM), an inhibitor of NO-activated ADP ribosyltransferase, did not impair the induction of LTD. In contrast to de novo LTD, the reversal of long-term potentiation by LFS (depotentiation) was only partially blocked (55%) by ODQ, and heterosynaptic LTD was not impaired at all, suggesting that there are both NOGC-dependent and -independent forms of LTD. Because postsynaptic intracellular infusion of ODQ (500 microM) failed to block the induction of LTD, we conclude that activation of presynaptic NOGC is a necessary step in the induction of an NOGC-dependent component of LTD.
We have previously shown that kappa opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity (KT-LI) is present in axons and terminals in the granule cell layer and inner molecular layer of the guinea pig dentate gyrus. The distribution and ultrastructural appearance of processes with KT-LI were similar to those of the substance P (SP)-containing afferents which arise from the supramammillary region of the hypothalamus (SUM) and enter the hippocampal formation through the fimbria-fornix. The objective of the present study was to determine whether the terminals with KT-LI are likely to be SUM afferents. To accomplish this we 1) compared the intensity of KT- and SP-immunolabeling in the dentate gyrus ipsilateral and contralateral to a unilateral fornix transection and 2) used dual-labeling electron microscopy to determine whether terminals with KT-LI colocalize SP-LI in the dentate gyrus. Light microscopic examination of the dentate gyrus demonstrated that KT-LI and SP-LI were in thin processes with overlapping distributions in strata granulosum and moleculare. Following fornix transection, both KT-LI and SP-LI were dramatically reduced in these regions of the dentate gyrus ipsilateral to the transection, consistent with an SUM origin. By electron microscopy, most (71%) terminals with KT-LI also contained detectable SP-LI in single-section analysis. Many dual-labeled terminals formed thick asymmetric synaptic contacts with large dendritic shafts (2-5 microns) or granule cell perikarya, and a smaller proportion contacted dendritic spines; these characteristics resembled those of identified SUM afferents in other species. The demonstrations that 1) KT-LI colocalizes with SP-LI in a morphologically distinctive population of axon terminals and 2) most of the processes with KT-LI enter through the fimbria-fornix suggest that kappa opioid receptors are present in the SUM projection to the dentate gyrus.
Dystroglycan was originally identified as the extracellular and transmembrane constituents of a large oligomeric complex of sarcolemmal proteins associated with dystrophin, the protein product of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) gene. During the last few years, dystroglycan has been demonstrated to be a novel receptor of not only laminin but also agrin, two major proteins of the extracellular matrix having distinct biological effects. The fact that the drastic reduction of dystroglycan in the sarcolemma, caused by the absence of dystrophin, leads to muscle cell death in DMD patients and mdx mice indicates that, as a laminin receptor, dystroglycan contributes to sarcolemmal stabilization during contraction and stretch of striated muscle cells. Dystroglycan is also expressed in the neuromuscular junction and non-muscle tissues such as kidney, brain and peripheral nerve, and, as a receptor of laminin/agrin, has been implicated in such diverse and specific developmental processes as epithelial morphogenesis, synaptogenesis and myelinogenesis. These findings point to the fundamental role of dystroglycan in the cellular differentiation process shared by many different cell types. In this paper, we review the recent publications on the biological functions of dystroglycan and discuss its roles in cell differentiation.
Numerous studies have demonstrated that the cerebellum is highly compartmentalized. In most cases, compartmentation involves the Purkinje cells and the molecular layer, but there is also substantial evidence that the granular layer is subdivided into a large number of highly reproducible modules. We first review the evidence for a modular granular layer. Compartmentation of the granular layer has been revealed both functionally and structurally. First, tactile receptive field mapping has revealed numerous discrete functional modules within the granular layer. The molecular correlates of the receptive fields may be the compartments revealed by histological staining of the cerebellum for several enzymes and antigens. The structural substrate of the receptive fields is the mossy fiber afferent projection map, and anterograde tracing of various mossy fiber projections shows afferent terminals in parasagittal bands within the granular layer that are topographically aligned with the Purkinje cell compartments. Based on this evidence we argue that the cerebellum consists of many hundreds of reproducible structural/functional modules, and that a modular organization is a prerequisite for the efficient parallel processing of information during motor control. The complex organization of the adult granular layer implies elaborate developmental mechanisms. In the second part of the review we consider five developmental models to generate the modular organization of the adult granular layer: 1) the external granular layer is heterogeneous, and its topography translates directly into a modular granular layer; 2) granular layer modules are clones, derived from single external granular layer precursors; 3) modules in the granular layers are a secondary epigenetic response to the compartmentation of the Purkinje cells; 4) modules are secondary to the compartmentation of the afferent terminal fields; 5) modules are sculpted by activity-dependent processes.
There is substantial evidence for interactions between the immune and endocrine systems at different levels. In the present study we investigated whether human growth hormone (hGH) could stimulate proliferation of interferon-gamma-secreting cells (IFN-gamma-SC), and production of IFN-gamma. Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) taken from 15 normal subjects were incubated with varying doses (200,400,600 and 800 ng/ml) of recombinant hGH. Samples of cells were also incubated with PBS buffer (without hGH) to serve as controls. Effects of hGH were studied by enumerating IFN-gamma-SC and by measuring the concentration of IFN-gamma using an Immunospot assay and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, respectively. The results showed that hGH significantly increased both the number of IFN-gamma-SC and the concentration of IFN-gamma in a dose-dependent manner. The maximum effects were obtained in the presence of (400 ng/ml) hGH (15 +/- .5 IFN-gamma-SC/10(6) PBMC and 300 +/- 55 U/ml IFN-gamma) compared to controls (4 +/- 2 IFN-gamma-SC/10(6) PBMC and 50 +/- 10 U/ml IFN-gamma). The results of the present study suggest that hGH might influence the immune system by stimulating the proliferation of IFN-gamma-SC and the production of IFN-gamma.
Brain activity was studied with fMRI and steady-state visual evoked potentials (SSVEPs) in separate sessions as subjects attended to letter sequences in either the right or left visual field. The two letter sequences were superimposed on small square backgrounds that flickered at 8.6 and 12.0 Hz, respectively, and elicited SSVEPs at the flicker frequencies. The amplitude of the frequency-coded SSVEP elicited by either of the flickering backgrounds was enlarged when attention was focused upon the letter sequence at the same location. Source analysis of the SSVEP waveforms localized the attentional modulation to ventral and lateral extrastriate visual cortex, which corresponded to zones of activation observed with fMRI.
In a previous study using positron emission tomography (PET), we demonstrated that focused attention to a location in the visual field produced increased regional cerebral blood flow in the fusiform gyrus contralateral to the attended hemifield (Heinze et al. [1994]: Nature 372:543). We related these effects to modulations in the amplitude of the P1 component (80-130 msec latency) of the visual event-related brain potentials (ERPs) recorded from the same subjects, under the identical stimulus and task conditions. Here, we replicate and extend these findings by showing that attention effects in the fusiform gyrus and the P1 component were similarly modulated by the perceptual load of the task. When subjects performed a perceptually demanding symbol-matching task within the focus of spatial attention, the fusiform activity and P1 component of the ERP were of greater magnitude than when the subjects performed a less perceptually demanding task that required only luminance detection at the attended location. In the latter condition, both the PET and ERP attention effects were reduced. In addition, in the present data significant activations were also obtained in the middle occipital gyrus contralateral to the attended hemifield, thereby demonstrating that multiple regions of extrastriate visual cortex are modulated by spatial attention. The findings of covariations between the P1 attention effect and activity in the posterior fusiform gyrus reinforce our hypothesis that common neural sources exist for these complementary, but very different measures of human brain activity.
The remarkable intersubject variability of the human cerebral cortex poses major problems for the systematic study of functional-structural relationships. Lack of homology and macroscopical landmarks between brains implies that one cannot in three or two dimensions find which part of one gyrus or sulcus matches which part of another subject's cerebral cortex. Furthermore, the frequent lack of correspondence between cytoarchitectural borders and the bottom of sulci invalidates correlations between gross morphology and microstructure. Therefore, we proposed that microstructural criteria should be used to define an anatomical space for comparison of individual brains and for establishing a probability map for each cytoarchitecturally defined area by quantitative means [Roland and Zilles, 1994; Trends Neurosci 17:458-467]. Here we examined the mapping of cytoarchitectural areas 4a, 4p, 3a, 3b, V1, and V2 into two commonly used anatomical standard reference spaces. Linear global transformations into Talairach space produced minimal overlap of corresponding cytoarchitectural areas. Global affine and nonaffine transformations into the anatomical space of the Human Brain Atlas (HBA) gave significantly larger volumes of overlap of corresponding cytoarchitectural areas. It is expected that local transformations can further improve the registration of corresponding cytoarchitectural areas and thereby define a common standard anatomical space in which to study variations in gross anatomical structure and function.
Tonotopic organization within the human auditory cortex was investigated with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) using the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) contrast mechanism. Single-frequency pulsed tones were alternated with no-tone conditions to elicit stimulus-specific functional activity. Differential frequency-specific activity was imaged within the auditory cortex Activations for high-frequency tones were located more posteriorly and medially than those for low-frequency tones. Such a pattern is consistent with descriptions of tonotopic organization suggested by other nonneuroimaging methodologies used with human and nonhuman primates. Furthermore, these results demonstrate that fMRI can be used to reliably investigate functional organization of the human auditory cortex. Hum. Brain Mapping 4:18-25, 1997. (c) 1997 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
We used surface-based representations to analyze functional specializations in the human cerebral cortex. A computerized reconstruction of the cortical surface of the Visible Man digital atlas was generated and transformed to the Talairach coordinate system. This surface was also flattened and used to establish a surface-based coordinate system that respects the topology of the cortical sheet. The linkage between two-dimensional and three-dimensional representations allows the locations of published neuroimaging activation foci to be stereotaxically projected onto the Visible Man cortical flat map. An analysis of two activation studies related to the hearing and reading of music and of words illustrates how this approach permits the systematic estimation of the degree of functional segregation and of potential functional overlap for different aspects of sensory processing.
HLA-DQ8 (DQA1*0302-DQB1*0302: DQ beta 57 Ala) and (DQA1*0302-DQB1*0303: DQ beta 57 Asp) differ only at beta 57, at which polymorphism reportedly confers distinct susceptibility to insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM). To identify the differential peptide binding affected by beta 57, we determined DQ9-binding peptides by affinity-based selection of a phage random peptide library using the biotinylated DQ9 complex. Nonconservative single-residue substitution of high-affinity DQ8- and DQ9-binding peptide (1KLPDYVLWSSSTVVGLGAAGA21) at the underlined residues significantly decreased the peptide binding to DQ8 and DQ9. Affinities of the wild-type 21-mer K4DYVLWSSSTV13 and K4AYAAWAAATA13 to DQ8 and DQ9 were practically the same. The K4DYVLWSSSTV13-based analogue peptides with substitutions at 12T showed that residues R, K, H, E, D, Q, N, T, S, V, L, I, F, M, W, and Y permitted binding to DQ8, whereas only R, T, V, L, I, F, M, W, and Y did so to DQ9. Thus, significant differences exist between DQ9 and DQ8, in that the majority of polar residues, regardless of their static charges at the residue 12, permitted binding to IDDM-susceptible DQ8, which is not the case for DQ9. The affinities of K4DYVLWSSSXV13 AND K4AYAAWAAAAX13 (where X is T, A, K, D, or I) were almost equal to DQ8 and DQ9, suggesting the DQ8- and DQ9-binding peptide motifs could accept both the 8-mer and 9-mer frames depending on intervening sequences between N- and C-terminal anchor residues. The biochemical basis of peptide-HLA interactions determined by DQ beta 57 is discussed.
T-cells that recognize mutated p21 Ras are relevant to immune surveillance systems against cancer. We report here evidence that immune responses of a T-cell clone recognizing mutated p21 Ras can be augmented by an analog peptide. Using spleen cells from a gastric cancer patient, we established the CD4+ alpha beta Th1-like clone C27 that recognizes wild-type (3EYKLVVVGAGGVGKS17) and mutated p21 Ras protein molecules and peptides, in an HLA-DR1-restricted manner. C27 responded prominently to mutated Ras peptides carrying Val or Ala at position 12, as compared to wild-type and other mutated peptides. C27 also exhibited a much stronger response to a mutated p21 Ras whole-protein molecule-carrying Val at position 12, as compared with the wild-type protein. The proliferative response and production of GM-CSF, TNF-alpha, and IFN-gamma by C27 were further augmented by replacing the possible first DR anchor 4Tyr of the mutated Ras peptide with Trp, a more potent anchor residue for the DR1 molecule. Enhancement of peptide antigenicity by substituting the HLA anchor residue of an antigenic peptide recognized by tumor-reactive T-cells may prove to be a novel strategy for antigen-specific cancer immunotherapy.
We report the ultrastructural abnormalities of the leukocyte granules and the cytogenetic findings in a patient of Chediak-Higashi syndrome (CHS), who presented with cutaneous melanosis as the only clinical feature. The diagnosis of CHS was established by peripheral smear and bone marrow examination. Chediak-Higashi syndrome, a rare autosomal recessive disorder is characterized by enlarged abnormal organelles in leukocytes and other cells. An interesting aspect of our patient was the absence of recurrent infections or any other clinical stigmata. Ultrastructurally, the leukocytes and their precursors in the bone marrow showed characteristic homogenous and heterogenous giant inclusions of variable sizes and shapes. These represent the primary granules which enlarge to attain the giant abnormal size by fusion with other primary or secondary granules. Cytogenic study of the bone marrow cells showed monosomy of chromosomes 8 and 17 in 20 percent of the metaphases. Neither the gene nor the chromosomal abnormalities specific for CHS have been identified as yet and thus the significance of our cytogenetic finding is presently not clear.
Clinical and pharmacological evidences support the hypothesis of a hypersensitivity of dopamine (DA) receptors in migraine patients. The aim of our single-blind and placebo-controlled study is to evaluate the presence of this hypersensitivity and to desensitize the DA system with apomorphine, a classical DA receptor agonist. We studied six patients suffering from migraine without aura resistant to the prophylactic treatment and with high frequency of attacks. In these patients, we first tested individual sensitivity by a single i.m. low dose of apomorphine to assess the lowest effective dose to be administered s.c. in continuous infusion without side-effects. We used the response of growth hormone (GH) to apomorphine as a marker of DA2-receptor function. Clinical evaluation, blood pressure and heart rate were recorded before placebo or apomorphine administration and monitored every 15 min for 1 h after each injection. The treatment consisted of the continuous subcutaneous infusion of apomorphine for three weeks at the dosage previously assessed by the test. No difference in blood pressure and heart rate was found during test and treatment. The treatment was effective in reducing the frequency and the severity of migraine attacks.

It has long been recognized that cognitive impairment occurs in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) particularly among patients with a chronic progressive course. MS is considered a type of &quot;subcortical dementia&quot; in which cognitive and behavioral abnormalities resemble those observed in patients with a frontal lobe syndrome. The Bicycle Drawing Test is employed for the neuropsychological assessment of cognitive impairment specifically that of mechanical reasoning and visuographic functioning. It also provides clues concerning the patient's organizational skills which are subserved by the frontal lobes. Extracerebral pulsed applications of picotesla flux intensity electromagnetic fields (EMFs) have been shown to improve cognitive functions in patients with MS. I present three patients with long standing symptoms of MS who, on the initial baseline, pretreatment Bicycle Drawing Test, exhibited cognitive impairment manifested by omissions of essential details and deficient organizational skills. All patients demonstrated progressive improvement in their performance during treatment with EMFs lasting from 6-18 months. The improvement in cognitive functions, which occurred during the initial phases of the treatment, was striking for the changes in organizational skills reflecting frontal lobe functions. These findings demonstrate that progressive recovery of cognitive functions in MS patients are observed over time through continued administration of picotesla flux intensity EMFs. It is believed that the beneficial cognitive effects of these EMFs are related to increased synaptic neurotransmission and that the progressive cognitive improvement noted in these patients is associated with slow recovery of synaptic functions in monoaminergic neurons of the frontal lobe or its projections from subcortical areas.
In vivo functional brain imaging provides an opportunity to quantify and localize functional deficits associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), in relation to dementia severity and heterogeneous cognitive profiles. Such imaging also provides a basis for distinguishing AD from other causes of dementia and for making an early diagnosis of disease. One imaging modality that can elucidate AD is positron emission tomography (PET), which is used to measure regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). Resting-state measurements with PET, when related to cognitive profiles in longitudinal studies, indicate that specific cognitive defects are preceded and predicted by reductions in rCMRglc in regions subserving the cognitive functions tested. Metabolic reductions and right/left metabolic asymmetries can be used to convert a &quot;possible&quot; to a &quot;probable&quot; diagnosis of AD by the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association (NINCDS-ADRDA) criteria. Furthermore, discriminant analyses of PET metabolic patterns can identify patients at risk for AD with mild memory deficits as having probable AD. In the future, stimulation PET studies should augment the power of this discriminant analysis.
The study of the cerebellum has been dominated by interest in its role in movement and motor control. From the earliest days of the neuroscientific era, however, clinical reports and physiological and behavioral investigations have suggested that overt motor dysfunction is but one manifestation of cerebellar disease. The nature of cerebellar involvement in autonomic, sensory, and cognitive functions has been investigated for many years, and possible mechanisms that could subserve this relationship have been specifically addressed. This work has not been incorporated into the mainstream of neuroscience or clinical neurological thinking. This chapter traces the history of these early investigations that demonstrated the need to revise the notion that cerebellar function is confined to the motor realm. The collaboration across disciplines and the advances in the methods and concepts of contemporary neuroscience have facilitated the maturation of this field of inquiry. The &quot;new&quot; story of the cerebellum and cognition, in fact, represents the evolution of a century-old revolutionary concept.
This chapter reviews evidence demonstrating the essential role of the cerebellum and its associated circuitry in the learning and memory of classical conditioning of discrete behavioral responses (e.g., eyeblink, limb flexion, head turn). It now seems conclusive that the memory traces for this basic category of associative learning are formed and stored in the cerebellum. Lesion, neuronal recording, electrical microstimulation, and anatomical procedures have been used to identify the essential conditioned stimulus (CS) circuit, including the pontine mossy fiber projections to the cerebellum; the essential unconditioned stimulus (US) reinforcing or teaching circuit, including neurons in the inferior olive (dorsal accessory olive) projecting to the cerebellum as climbing fibers; and the essential conditioned response (CR) circuit, including the interpositus nucleus, its projection via the superior cerebellar peduncle to the magnocellular red nucleus, and rubral projections to premotor and motor nuclei. Each major component of the eyeblink CR circuit was reversibly inactivated both in trained animals and over the course of training. In all cases in trained animals, inactivation abolished the CR (and the UR as well when motor nuclei were inactivated). When animals were trained during inactivation (and not exhibiting CRs) and then tested without inactivation, animals with inactivation of the motor nuclei, red nucleus, and superior peduncle had fully learned, whereas animals with inactivation of a very localized region of the cerebellum (anterior interpositus and overlying cortex) had not learned at all. Consequently, the memory traces are formed and stored in the cerebellum. Several alternative possibilities are considered and ruled out. Both the cerebellar cortex and the interpositus nucleus are involved in the memory storage process, suggesting that a phenomenon-like long-term depression (LTD) is involved in the cerebellar cortex and long-term potentiation (LTP) is involved in the interpositus. The experimental findings reviewed in this chapter provide perhaps the first conclusive evidence for the localization of a basic form of memory storage to a particular brain region, namely the cerebellum, and indicate that the cerebellum is indeed a cognitive machine.
The cerebellum not only modulates the systemic circulation, but also profoundly influences cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and metabolism (rCGU), and initiates long-term protection of the brain from ischemia. Electrical stimulation of the rostral ventral pole of the fastigial nucleus (FN), elevates arterial pressure (AP), releases vasoactive hormones, elicits consummatory behavioral and other autonomic events and site specifically elevates rCBF independently of changes in rCGU. Cerebral vasodilation results from the antidromic excitation of axons of brain stem neurons which innervate cerebellum and, through their collaterals, neurons in the rostral ventrolateral reticular nucleus (RVL). RVL neurons initiate cerebral vasodilation over polysynaptic vasodilator pathways which engage a population of vasodilator neurons in the cerebral cortex. In contrast, intrinsic neurons of FN, when excited, elicit widespread reductions in rCGU and, secondarily, rCBF, along with sympathetic inhibition. Electrical stimulation of FN can reduce the volume of a focal cerebral infarction produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery by 50%. This central neurogenic neuroprotection is long lasting (weeks) and is not due to changes in rCBF or rCGU. Rather, it appears to reflect alterations in neuronal excitability and/or downregulation of inflammatory responses in cerebral vessels. The FN, therefore, appears to be involved in widespread autonomic, metabolic, and behavioral control, independent of motor control. The findings imply that the FN receives inputs from neurons, probably widely represented in the central autonomic core, which may provide continuing information processing of autonomic and behavioral states. The cerebellum may also widely modulate the state of cortical reactivity to ischemia, hypoxia, and possibly other neurodegenerative events.


This study examined the prevalence of self-reported depressive symptoms in a Swedish urban school sample (n = 524) aged 13-18 years using the Birleson Depression Self-Rating Scale (DSRS). Normative data are presented. The DSRS had high internal consistency. Factor analysis showed one single factor comprising almost exactly the same items that had been found to best reflect depressive phenomena in a previous clinical study. Items particularly endorsed by high scoring adolescents (above the 95th percentile) indicated a symptom constellation with 'endogenous' features. The frequencies of reported suicidal ideation and suicide attempts were 4% and 5%, respectively. Female gender and suicide attempt, but not age were associated with higher scores on the DSRS. Our results-indicate that, despite its shortcomings, the DSRS is a reliable and valid measure of depression in adolescence.
Multiple sclerosis is the third most common cause of severe disability in patients between the ages of 15 and 50 years. The cause of the disease and its pathogenesis remain unknown. The last 20 years have seen only meager advances in the development of effective treatments for the disease. No specific treatment modality can cure the disease or alter its long-term course and eventual outcome. Moreover, there are no agents or treatments that will restore premorbid neuronal function. A host of biological phenomena associated with the disease involving interactions among genetic, environmental, immunologic, and hormonal factors, cannot be explained on the basis of demyelination alone and therefore require refocusing attention on alternative explanations, one of which implicates the pineal gland as pivotal. The pineal gland functions as a magnetoreceptor organ. This biological property of the gland provided the impetus for the development of a novel and highly effective therapeutic modality, which involves transcranial applications of alternating current (AC) pulsed electromagnetic fields in the picotesla flux density. This review summarizes recent clinical work on the effects of transcranially applied pulsed electromagnetic fields for the symptomatic treatment of the disease.
Nonlethal forms of self-injury are often discussed together with suicide attempts as though they belonged on a continuum of self-harm. Both types of self-injury are common in prisons, which have a predominantly male population; however, most studies of nonlethal self-injury have been done with female subjects. This exploratory study tested the hypothesis that prisoners who injured themselves without intending to die would differ clinically from prisoners who had attempted suicide. Inmates admitted to the prison unit of a public hospital for treatment of self-inflicted wounds or who had a history of previous self-injury were administered a standardized intake protocol by the first author, which included asking about their intent at the time they injured themselves. Patients were classified as self-mutilators or suicide attempters on the basis of intent. Fifteen patients reported that they had attempted to take their own lives, while 16 reported other reasons for harming themselves. Suicide attempt was associated with adult affective disorder 13/15 versus 2/16 mutilators); self-mutilation with a history of childhood hyperactivity (12/16 versus 1/15 suicide attempters) and a mixed dysthymia/anxiety syndrome that began in childhood or early adolescence (9/16). Prison self-mutilators and suicide attempters had very different clinical presentations and histories. The history of childhood hyperactivity in self-mutilators deserves further study in both correctional and noncorrectional populations.
Fromm's Aristotelian statement that &quot;Dreaming is a meaningful expression of any kind of mental activity under the condition of sleep&quot; (Fromm, 1951, p. 25) is similar to a modern neurobiological conclusion about the dreaming process. The current data from the neurosciences lead to the definition of dreams as a neuropsychological event during sleep whose manifest contents are affect laden, visual, auditory, and kinesthetic. Their functions are adaptive and problem solving in themselves. They are part of the brain's connectionist information-processing system which channel, compare, and integrate current affect-laden memories with memories of past successful strategies. Thus, the neurobiological perspective of dreams provides an underlying neuroanatomical and information-processing matrix for the dream process that further supports the current psychoanalytic view concerning their assimilative and accommodative functions. In conclusion, I would like to return to the termination phase of Mr. M's therapy. This patient planned to leave therapy approximately 22 months after the occurrence of Dream 2, as this dream had predicted. He was to be married and move to another city. Although I felt somewhat anxious about his leaving, despite his significant progress, we agreed to a termination date. Just prior to the second-to-last session Mr. M had the following dream: It took place in a large gothic building in a zoo. It is dark and depressing and filled with cages of rhesus monkeys. I go around with a nurse to inoculate the monkeys. I am scared of the virus. My future wife appears. She is immune to the virus. She is brave and she rescues me. The patient seemed pleased in relating his dream, and it offered resolution and closure for both of us despite a paucity of discussion. Two years later I received a letter from him in which he stated that he was well and had no additional &quot;monkey dreams.&quot;
Recent advances in human molecular genetics are rapidly producing clinical genetic tests for a variety of conditions. In addition to tests for rare genetic disorders, tests for common illnesses with mixed genetic and environmental etiologies are being developed. While practice guidelines for test utilization are being developed, many physicians would benefit from additional knowledge about the design and limitations of these tests. This article reviews the genetic background necessary to understand linkage-based and direct mutations tests and discusses some of the issues physicians must consider when selecting an appropriate test for a given clinical situation.
In his 1895 &quot;Project for a Scientific Psychology&quot; Freud attempted to construct a model of the human mind in terms of its underlying neurobiological mechanisms. In this endeavor &quot;to furnish a psychology which shall be a natural science,&quot; Freud introduced the concepts that to this day serve as the theoretical foundation and scaffolding of psychoanalysis. As a result, however, of his ensuing disavowal of the Project, these speculations about the fundamental mechanisms that regulate affect, motivation, attention, and consciousness were relegated to the shadowy realm of &quot;metapsychology.&quot; Nonetheless, Freud subsequently predicted that at some future date &quot;we shall have to find a contact point with biology.&quot; It is argued that recent advances in the interdisciplinary study of emotion show that the central role played by regulatory structures and functions represents such a contact point, and that the time is right for a rapprochement between psychoanalysis and neuroscience. Current knowledge of the psychobiological mechanisms by which the right hemisphere processes social and emotional information at levels beneath conscious awareness, and by which the orbital prefrontal areas regulate affect, motivation, and bodily state, allows for a deeper understanding of the &quot;psychic structure&quot; described by psychoanalytic metapsychology. The dynamic properties and ontogenetic characteristics of this neurobiological system have important implications for both theoretical and clinical psychoanalysis.
In the past few years scientists and scholars in a variety of disciplines have been making concerted efforts to answer an ancient question, namely, How exactly do the physical processes in the brain cause consciousness? What is distinctive about the way in which modern scientists and scholars are approaching this question is that they are treating it as a scientific problem rather than a metaphysical one. This transition reflects the air of expectation in contemporary cognitive science to the effect that an empirical solution is imminent to a philosophical problem that previously was considered insoluble. Nevertheless, a recent authoritative review of the publications of such leading contemporary workers in the field as Francis Crick, Daniel Dennett, Gerald Edelman, Roger Penrose, and Israel Rosenfield has concluded that they have all failed to provide a satisfactory answer to the question (Searle 1995a). The present paper makes a psychoanalytic contribution to this interdisciplinary effort and provides an alternative answer to the question, based on Freud's conceptualization of the problem of consciousness. The paper takes a concrete example from Searle's review, reanalyses it within Freud's metapsychological frame of reference, and shows how this frame provides a radical solution to the problem. This implication of Freud's work has not hitherto been recognized and so has not received the attention it deserves.
A close look at Gedo's recent paper on working through reveals a number of devices used in the development of competing psychoanalytic theories, devices which result in analysts talking past each other. Starting with the notion that all theorists &quot;misread&quot; their predecessors, the author examines how different views of the past create confusion in the dialogue between Gedo and his commentators. He then takes up the issue of how data emerging from the neurosciences can be used to support many different psychoanalytic theories and suggests that there will always be a &quot;metaphorical leap&quot; from one frame of reference to the other. Finally, he examines how the drawing of sharp dichotomies both within a theory and between one theory and another misrepresents analytic work and exaggerates differences between one point of view and another. Thus, various devices that are used to buttress one version of analytic theory make it more difficult to develop a more integrated theory and to correlate psychoanalytic data with those emerging from the neurosciences.
Behavior problems in children and adolescents have traditionally been blamed on the family. Recent information from neuroscience research challenges this assumption. Increased understanding of childhood behavior and psychiatric disorders has the potential to enhance treatment effectiveness and outcome. Changes in mental health delivery systems toward culturally competent, community-based systems of care are likely to improve the access of minority children to mental health care. Specific diagnoses and new medications may help children who have severe disorders avoid placement out of the home. Families have been instrumental in these advances by advocating better services and treatments for their children.
We present a simple way of assessing dynamic or time-dependent changes in displacement during single-subject radioligand positron emission tomography (PET) activation studies. The approach is designed to facilitate dynamic activation studies using selective radioligands. These studies are, in principle, capable of characterising functional neurochemistry by analogy with the study of functional neuroanatomy using rCBF activation studies. The proposed approach combines time-dependent compartmental models of tracer kinetics and the general linear model used in statistical parametric mapping. This provides for a comprehensive, voxel-based and data-led assessment of regionally specific effects. The statistical model proposed in this paper is predicated on a single-compartment model extended to allow for time-dependent changes in kinetics. We have addressed the sensitivity and specificity of the analysis, as it would be used operationally, by applying the analysis to 11C-Flumazenil dynamic displacement studies. The activation used in this demonstration study was a pharmacological (i.v. midazolam) challenge, 30 min after administration of the tracer. We were able to demonstrate, and make statistical inferences about, regional increases in k2 (or decreases in the volume of distribution) in prefrontal and other cortical areas.
Fifteen children ranging in age from 4 to 18 years with leptomeningeal metastases were evaluated for extent of tumor and treated with radiotherapy or chemotherapy. Histologic diagnosis included: acute lymphoblastic leukemia (4); anaplastic astrocytoma (1); ependymoma (2); nonseminomatous germ cell tumor (1); non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (1); pineoblastoma (1); and primitive neuroectodermal tumor not otherwise specified (2). Pretreatment imaging studies demonstrated recurrent intracranial parenchymal disease in nine, spinal disease in four, and abnormal radioisotope ventriculography in six. Systemic disease was seen in four children (3 leukemia; 1 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma). All children were treated with systemic chemotherapy and intraventricular chemotherapy. Nine children received radiotherapy to bulky or symptomatic leptomeningeal disease. Median survival was 6 months (range, 4-18 months). Children with hematologic malignancies had superior outcomes compared to children with solid tumors. Three children with leukemic or lymphomatous meningitis are alive and disease free whereas all children with carcinomatous meningitis died. In conclusion, leptomeningeal metastases in children portends a limited survival, and therapies at this time remain palliative except in children with hematologic malignancies.
We review many of the recent findings concerning mechanisms and pathways for pain and its modulation, emphasizing sensitization and the modulation of nociceptors and of dorsal horn nociceptive neurons. We describe the organization of several ascending nociceptive pathways, including the spinothalamic, spinomesencephalic, spinoreticular, spinolimbic, spinocervical, and postsynaptic dorsal column pathways in some detail and discuss nociceptive processing in the thalamus and cerebral cortex. Structures involved in the descending analgesia systems, including the periaqueductal gray, locus ceruleus, and parabrachial area, nucleus raphe magnus, reticular formation, anterior pretectal nucleus, thalamus and cerebral cortex, and several components of the limbic system are described and the pathways and neurotransmitters utilized are mentioned. Finally, we speculate on possible fruitful lines of research that might lead to improvements in therapy for pain.
A 38-year-old woman suffered a spontaneous basilar artery dissection leading to bilateral occipital, right thalamic and cerebellar infarction and a dorsal midbrain syndrome. Computerized tomography showed left cerebellar, right thalamic and bilateral occipital infarctions and selective angiography showed a narrowed segment in the basilar artery, absent filling of the right superior cerebellar artery and narrowing of the right posterior cerebral artery. She improved rapidly without specific therapy and made a near full recovery. Basilar artery dissection, while often fatal, may have a benign outcome and we review the literature in this regard.

Although epilepsy is a well recognized complication of brain abscess, the true incidence of seizures and the factors which predispose to seizure occurrence and recurrence are not well established. This study retrospectively assessed the incidence of seizures and seizure recurrence in 35 consecutive adult patients diagnosed surgically with brain abscess between 1984 and 1994. Following diagnosis, all patients were treated with phenytoin. There was no relationship between the site of the abscess, organism cultured, surgical treatment, presumed aetiology, age or sex of the patient and seizure occurrence. It is concluded that epilepsy is a common complication of cerebral abscess, frequently occurring at presentation. Early seizures predispose to late seizures and in these patients long-term anticonvulsant treatment should be considered. If a patient remains seizure free at discharge, the chance of developing seizures is relatively small.
Transcranial magnetic cortical stimulation provides the clinical neurophysiologist with a method to examine alterations in the function of central motor pathways in diseases affecting the motor system. The technique has great research potential and has led to increased understanding of intracortical physiology, corticospinal tract function, motor system plasticity and motor control. Subclinical cerebral and spinal cord lesions may be demonstrated, and the technique has a potential role for quantification and monitoring of disease progression, and for early prognostication after stroke. Intraoperative monitoring of motor evoked potentials (MEP) is of value during spinal cord surgery, but due to attenuation of magnetic MEPs during anaesthesia, transcranial electrical stimulation is more appropriate for intraoperative recordings.


The desire to understand the pathophysiology of schizophrenia has inspired an explosion in research over the past decade. This review highlights some key studies that have led to fundamental changes in our understanding of this disorder, focusing on the search for genes in schizophrenia, as well as several recent alternatives to the original dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia. Advances in genetic methodology have allowed schizophrenia researchers to conduct genome-wide searches for susceptibility genes. Although these studies have identified several regions that demonstrate potential linkage with schizophrenia, a definitive genetic cause has not yet been proved. Recent neurochemical hypotheses have focused on the cortical amino acid neurotransmitter systems (i.e., glutamate and GABA), while anatomical studies suggesting abnormal brain development and premorbid functional deficits have led some researchers to propose a neurodevelopmental origin for schizophrenia. A sizable database can be marshaled in support of each of these ideas, but none as yet fully explain the biological basis of schizophrenia.
Neuroimaging is a powerful and innovative tool for studying the pathology of psychiatric diseases and, more recently, for studying the drugs used in their treatment. Technological advances in imaging have made it possible to noninvasively extract information from the human brain regarding a drug's mechanism and site of action. Until now, our understanding of human brain pharmacology has depended primarily on indirect assessments or models derived from animal studies. However, the advent of multiple techniques for human brain imaging allows researchers to focus directly on human pharmacology and brain function. This review outlines available neuroimaging techniques and examines how these various methods have already been applied to the drug development process, as well as how they might be applied in the future.
Although depressive and anxious symptoms frequently coexist, most studies tend to dichotomize anxiety disorders from depression. Consequently, pharmacologic agents are designated as antidepressants or anxiolytics. A number of developments are reversing this trend. One is changes in conceptualization of generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) and major depressive disorder to recognize the frequent existence of simultaneous symptoms of anxiety and depression in patients with related affective and anxiety disorders. A second is the increasing recognition that subsyndromal symptoms of anxiety and depression frequently exist that do not reach thresholds for GAD or depression but that may decompensate to overt anxiety disorder or depression. A third is the discovery of partial agonists for serotonin1A receptor subtypes that have promising efficacy in mixed depression and anxiety.
Panic disorder is a common psychiatric illness that causes considerable short- and long-term morbidity. Although drug treatment and cognitive behavior therapy are beneficial, the etiology of panic disorder and the mechanisms of effective treatment remain unclear. Developments in the preclinical neuroanatomy and neurophysiology of neuronal structures relevant to fear and anxiety promise to provide fresh insights into the neurobiology of panic. In this article, we propose a functional neuroanatomic model of fear and anxiety and review brain imaging studies of panic disorder with this model in mind. In addition, we discuss the implications of integrating functional neuroanatomy and the clinical neurochemistry of panic disorder. An integrated neurobiology of panic disorder will provide a broader conceptual framework with which to tackle the complex questions about the pathophysiology and treatment of this condition.
Depression is a socially important condition that is often undertreated. This article reviews data from the Medical Outcomes Study illustrating the policy importance of depression, highlighting style of treatment under prepaid managed or fee-for-service care and strategies to improve the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of care.
In this study the N400 component of the event-related potential was used to investigate spoken sentence understanding in Broca's and Wernicke's aphasics. The aim of the study was to determine whether spoken sentence comprehension problems in these patients might result from a deficit in the on-line integration of lexical information. Subjects listened to sentences spoken at a normal rate. In half of these sentences, the meaning of the final word of the sentence matched the semantic specifications of the preceding sentence context. In the other half of the sentences, the sentence-final word was anomalous with respect to the preceding sentence context. The N400 was measured to the sentence-final words in both conditions. The results for the aphasic patients (n = 14) were analyzed according to the severity of their comprehension deficit and compared to a group of 12 neurologically unimpaired age-matched controls, as well as a group of 6 nonaphasic patients with a lesion in the right hemisphere. The nonaphasic brain damaged patients and the aphasic patients with a light comprehension deficit (high comprehenders, n = 7) showed an N400 effect that was comparable to that of the neurologically unimpaired subjects. In the aphasic patients with a moderate to severe comprehension deficit (low comprehenders, n = 7), a reduction and delay of the N400 effect was obtained. In addition, the P300 component was measured in a classical oddball paradigm, in which subjects were asked to count infrequent low tones in a random series of high and low tones. No correlation was found between the occurrence of N400 and P300 effects, indicating that changes in the N400 results were related to the patients' language deficit. Overall, the pattern of results was compatible with the idea that aphasic patients with moderate to severe comprehension problems are impaired in the integration of lexical information into a higher order representation of the preceding sentence context.
Explicit memory declines with age while implicit memory remains largely intact. These experiments extended behavioral findings by recording event-related potentials (ERPs) in young and elderly adults during repetition priming and recognition memory paradigms. Words and pronounceable nonwords repeated after 1 of 3 delays. Stimuli were categorized as either word-nonword or old-new. Repeated items elicited more positive-going potentials in both tasks. Hemispheric asymmetries for word and nonword processing were observed during lexical decision: Repetition effects were larger over the left hemisphere for words and over the right hemisphere for nonwords. For the young, ERP repetition effects were larger during recognition memory. For old adults, conversely, repetition produced more positive-going waveforms during lexical decision. The elderly had ERP and behavioral deficits at long recognition delays. ERP repetition effects in the elderly, like behavioral performance, were preserved in an implicit task but impaired in an explicit memory task.
Sequence variations are seen in the JC virus promoter/enhancer in virus taken from progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) brains and it has been hypothesized that the variations arise in the host at some point in the development of PML. These rearrangements may be adaptations for enhanced growth in glial cells; if so, transcription or replication levels should differ between archetypal and rearranged PML-type promoters. The archetype and four PML-type promoters were analysed in human glial cells for early and late transcriptional activity in the absence or presence of virus T antigen, and for DNA replication. CAT reporter expression differed within a fivefold range and the archetype was intermediate in strength to the PML-type regulatory regions. The archetype differed from rearranged promoters in that the late promoter was less responsive to T antigen and the shift from early to late activity with T antigen was less pronounced. All five regulatory regions demonstrated similar levels of DNA replicating activity. Rearrangement of the archetype was not required for activity in glial cells, but the potential for differences in the regulation of the late capsid genes was found.
Intraocular injections of rhodamine and horseradish peroxidase in chameleon, labelled retrogradely neurons in the ventromedial tegmental region of the mesencephalon and the ventrolateral thalamus of the diencephalon. In both areas, staining was observed contralaterally to the injected eye. Labelling was occasionally observed in some rhombencephalic motor nuclei. These results indicate that chameleons, unlike other reptilian species, have two retinopetal nuclei.
Compared to attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children, relatively little is known about the clinical characteristics of adults with persistent ADHD. We elected to use established tests with age-corrected norms to compare the battery of psychological and neuropsychological tests conducted on outpatients admitted to our Adult ADHD clinic. ADHD patients scored significantly higher than norms on the TPQ novelty seeking and harm avoidance scales and MMPI-2 scales F, 2, 4, 7, and 8. Further, these patients were impaired on the California verbal learning test, the attentional capacity test, and the omissions and variability subtests of the test of variables of attention. Adult ADHD had high comorbidity with current depressive disorder, antisocial personality disorder, and alcohol and drug abuse/dependence. High correlations were found between patients' and independent observers' reports of ADHD symptom severity. Implications for further research are discussed.
Previous studies have shown that activities of the protein phosphatases PP-2A and PP-2B towards the microtubule associated protein tau are reduced in Alzheimer's disease (AD) frontal cortex (Gong et al., 1993, 1995), suggesting that PP-2A and PP-2B are involved in the hyperphosphorylation of tau in AD. Most recently, we found that protein levels of PP-2A and PP-2B are elevated in postsynaptic supernatant (S2) fractions prepared from AD temporal cortex, and that the activities of these enzymes were not significantly different between AD and control cases (Pei et al., in press). In the present study, we found that astroglia positive for PP-2A and PP-2B immunoreactivities were greater in numbers in AD medial temporal cortex, compared to controls. GFAP levels, as determined by indirect ELISA, were approximately 1.5 times greater in the P1 (500 x g) fraction from AD temporal cortex, compared to controls. GFAP levels in the P1 fraction showed significant correlations with PP-2A and PP-2B levels in the postsynaptic S2 (20,000 x g) fraction from the same brains. These results suggest that astrogliosis probably accounts for the increased levels of PP-2A and PP-2B in the S2 fraction in AD brain and that the levels of these enzymes per neuron are likely to be decreased.
