Motor-evoked potentials (MEP) in the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle were shown to be facilitated by repetitive electrical stimulation of the common peroneal (CP) nerve at intensities above motor threshold. The TA electromyogram (EMG) and ankle flexion force were recorded in response to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the leg area of the motor cortex to evaluate the excitability of cortico-spinal-muscular pathways. Repetitive stimulation of the CP nerve at 25 Hz for 30 min increased the MEP by 50.3 +/- 13.6% (mean +/- S.E.) at a TMS intensity that initially gave a half-maximum MEP (MEPh). In contrast the maximum MEP (MEPmax) did not change. Ankle flexion force (103 +/- 21.9%) and silent period duration (75.3 +/- 12.9%) also increased. These results suggest an increase in corticospinal excitability, rather than total connectivity due to repetitive CP stimulation. Facilitation was evident after as little as 10 min of stimulation and persisted without significant decrement for at least 30 min after stimulation. The long duration of silent period following CP stimulation (99.2 +/- 14.8 ms) suggests that this form of stimulation may have effects on the motor cortex. To exclude the possibility that MEPh facilitation was primarily due to sensory fibre activation, we performed several control experiments. Preferentially activating Ia muscle afferents by vibration in the absence of motor activity had no significant effect. Cutaneous afferent activation via stimulation of the superficial peroneal nerve increased the amplitude of responses at MEPmax rather than MEPh. Concurrent tendon vibration and superficial peroneal nerve stimulation failed to facilitate TA MEP responses. In summary, repetitive electrical stimulation of the CP nerve elicits lasting changes in corticospinal excitability, possibly as a result of co-activating motor and sensory fibres.
The general goal of the present study was to assess the response properties to tones of single neurons in the auditory cortex (primary auditory area, A1, and middle lateral auditory belt, ML) of two macaque monkeys while performing an acousticomotor discrimination task requiring a controlled level of attention and motivation. For each neuron, an approximation of the frequency receptive field (FRF) was first established. Second, based on the FRF, sets of paired tone frequencies were defined in which two different tone frequencies had to be associated by the monkey, following a trial and error strategy, to a left or a right key-press with the left arm. After acquisition of the association, the two tones of the pair were presented randomly (&quot;instruction stimulus&quot;) and, if the monkey touched the correct key, the stimulus was repeated (&quot;confirmation stimulus&quot;) and a reward was delivered. The majority of units (63%) had a FRF formed by multiple peaks, whereas 25% and 12% of units exhibited a simple U-shaped FRF and a &quot;mosaic&quot; FRF, composed of several separated zones of response, respectively. Five principal response patterns were observed: On, Off, On-Off, Sustained, and Inhibition. In relation to the acousticomotor association task, some auditory cortical neurons (33%) exhibited a different response to the same stimulus when presented, in the same trials, as instruction or as confirmation. It was also observed that the response to the same instruction stimulus could differ when comparing correct trials with erroneous trials (wrong motor response). In conclusion, the response properties of auditory cortical neurons in behaving monkeys are strongly dependent on the physical parameters of sounds (frequency, intensity, etc.) as indicated by FRF characteristics, but a substantial influence of the behavioral context and performance may also play an important role.
The goal of this review is twofold. First, it aims to describe the dynamic regulation that constantly shapes the receptive fields (RFs) and maps in the thalamo-cortical sensory systems of undrugged animals. Second, it aims to discuss several important issues that remain unresolved at the intersection between behavioral neurosciences and sensory physiology. A first section presents the RF modulations observed when an undrugged animal spontaneously shifts from waking to slow-wave sleep or to paradoxical sleep (also called REM sleep). A second section shows that, in contrast with the general changes described in the first section, behavioral training can induce selective effects which favor the stimulus that has acquired significance during learning. A third section reviews the effects triggered by two major neuromodulators of the thalamo-cortical system--acetylcholine and noradrenaline--which are traditionally involved both in the switch of vigilance states and in learning experiences. The conclusion argues that because the receptive fields and maps of an awake animal are continuously modulated from minute to minute, learning-induced sensory plasticity can be viewed as a &quot;crystallization&quot; of the receptive fields and maps in one of the multiple possible states. Studying the interplays between neuromodulators can help understanding the neurobiological foundations of this dynamic regulation.
The commissure of the inferior colliculus (CoIC) interconnects corresponding frequency-band laminae in the two inferior colliculi (ICs). Although the CoIC has been studied neurophysiologically in vitro, the effect of the CoIC on the responses of IC neurons to physiological stimuli has not been addressed. In this study, we injected the glutamate receptor blocker kynurenic acid into one IC while recording the frequency response areas (FRAs) of neurons in the other, to test the hypothesis that frequency response properties of IC neurons are influenced by commissural inputs from the contralateral IC. Following blockade of the commissure, 10 of 12 neurons tested exhibited an increase or a decrease in their FRAs. In most neurons (9/12) the response area changed in the same direction, irrespective of whether the neuron was stimulated monaurally (at the ear contralateral to the recorded IC) or binaurally. In one neuron, blockade of the CoIC resulted in an expansion of the response area under binaural stimulation and a contraction under monaural stimulation. In the remaining two units, no effect was observed. Changes in response areas that exceeded the criterion ranged between 17 and 80% of control values with monaural stimulation, and 35 and 77% with binaural stimulation. Area changes could also be accompanied by changes in spike rate and monotonicity. From our observation that FRAs contract following commissure block, we infer that the commissure contains excitatory fibres. The expansion of response areas in other cases, however, suggests that the commissure also contains inhibitory fibres, or that its effects are mediated by disynaptic as well as monosynaptic circuits. The small sample size precludes a definitive conclusion as to which effect predominates. We conclude that inputs from the contralateral IC projecting via the CoIC influence the spectral selectivity and response gain of neurons in the IC.
During trunk-assisted reaching to targets placed within arm's length, the influence of trunk motion on the hand trajectory is compensated for by changes in the arm configuration. The role of proprioception in this compensation was investigated by analyzing the movements of 2 deafferented and 12 healthy subjects. Subjects reached to remembered targets (placed approximately 80 degrees ipsilateral or approximately 45 degrees contralateral to the sagittal midline) with an active forward movement of the trunk produced by hip flexion. In 40% of randomly selected trials, trunk motion was mechanically blocked. No visual feedback was provided during the experiment. The hand trajectory and velocity profiles of healthy subjects remained invariant whether or not the trunk was blocked. The invariance was achieved by changes in arm interjoint coordination that, for reaches toward the ipsilateral target, started as early as 50 ms after the perturbation. Both deafferented subjects exhibited considerable, though incomplete, compensation for the effects of the perturbation. Compensation was more successful for reaches to the ipsilateral target. Both deafferented subjects showed invariance between conditions (unobstructed or blocked trunk motion) in their hand paths to the ipsilateral target, and one did to the contralateral target. For the other deafferented subject, hand paths in the two types of trials began to deviate after about 50% into the movement, because of excessive elbow extension. In movements to the ipsilateral target, when deafferented subjects compensated successfully, the changes in arm joint angles were initiated as early as 50 ms after the trunk perturbation, similar to healthy subjects. Although the deafferented subjects showed less than ideal compensatory control, they compensated to a remarkably large extent given their complete loss of proprioception. The presence of partial compensation in the absence of vision and proprioception points to the likelihood that not only proprioception but also vestibulospinal pathways help mediate this compensation.
Previous studies have shown that: (1) raphe neurons respond to acoustic and vestibular stimuli, some with a latency of 10-15 ms; (2) alterations of the raphe nuclei alter the acoustic startle reflex; (3) the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) is the major source of serotonergic neurons; and (4) approximately 57% of the DRN neurons are nonserotonergic. In the present study, cholera toxin subunit-B (CTB) was injected into cat cochleas, and the brain tissue was examined after a survival period of 5-7 days. Aside from neurons which were known to project to the inner ear, i.e., olivocochlear and vestibular efferent neurons, a surprising new finding was made that somata of a subpopulation of DRN neurons were intensely labeled with CTB. These CTB-labeled neurons were densely distributed in a dorsomedian part of the DRN with some in a surrounding area outside the DRN. The present results suggest that a novel raphe-labyrinthine projection may exist. A future study of anterograde labeling with injections of a tracer in the DRN will be needed to establish the existence of a raphe-labyrinthine projection more thoroughly. A raphe-labyrinthine descending input, together with an ascending input from the inner ear to the DRN through intervening neurons, such as the juxta-acousticofloccular raphe neurons (JAFRNs) described by Ye and Kim, may mediate a brain stem reflex whereby a salient multisensory (including auditory and vestibular) stimulus may alter the sensitivity of the inner ear. As a mammal responds to a biologically important auditory-vestibular multisensory event, the raphe projections to the inner ear and other auditory and vestibular structures may enhance the mammal's ability to localize and recognize the sound and respond properly. The raphe-labyrinthine projection may also modulate the inner ear's sensitivity as a function of the sleep-wake arousal state of an organism on a slower time course.
Thalamic nuclei of the mammalian auditory system exhibit remarkable parallelism in their anatomical pathways and the patterns of synaptic signalling. This has led to the theory that lemniscal, or core thalamocortical projection, carries tonotopically organized and auditory specific information whereas the nonlemniscal thalamocortical pathway forms part of an integrative system that plays an important role in polysensory integration, temporal pattern recognition, and certain forms of learning. Recent experimental evidence derived from molecular, cellular and behavioural studies indeed supports the conjecture that lemniscal and nonlemniscal pathways are involved in distinctive auditory functions.
Many object-related actions can be recognized both by their sound and by their vision. Here we describe a population of neurons in the ventral premotor cortex of the monkey that discharge both when the animal performs a specific action and when it hears or sees the same action performed by another individual. These 'audiovisual mirror neurons' therefore represent actions independently of whether these actions are performed, heard or seen. The magnitude of auditory and visual responses did not differ significantly in half the neurons. A neurometric analysis revealed that based on the response of these neurons, two actions could be discriminated with 97% accuracy.
Attached glial-like cell cultures were established from the lateral and medial ganglionic eminences (LGE and MGE) and from the neocortex (Cx) of E13.5 mouse embryos, and expanded over four to five passages under epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulation. Following removal of EGF and serum, we analysed the generation of neurons and glial cells within the cultures. Significant numbers of betaIII-tubulin-positive neurons were generated in both the LGE (about 7% of total cell numbers) and the MGE (around 2%). However, only few betaIII-tubulin-positive cells with neuronal morphologies were detected in the differentiated Cx cultures. The newly formed neurons were to a large extent GABAergic, and many of the MGE-derived, but not the LGE-derived, cells expressed the MGE-marker NKX2.1. Most cells in all cultures still appeared astroglial-like, expressing glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), but in addition, CNPase-positive cells with oligodendroglial morphologies were present in the MGE (0.68%), and, to a lesser extent (0.2%), in the LGE cultures. The present results demonstrate that cells of expanded glial cultures from both the LGE and MGE can give rise to significant and, to a certain extent, region-specific neuronal and glial cell types under differentiating conditions.
The molecular mechanisms underlying peripheral neuropathies have only been partially elucidated. In particular, the regulatory factors that control the stability and turnover of mature myelin are largely unknown. Transforming growth factor beta 1 (TGF-beta1), and its associated receptors, are expressed by mature Schwann cells. On this basis, we postulated that TGF-beta1 may be an autocrine regulator of mature myelin. This hypothesis was tested by examining the ultrastructure of myelin in adult mice that have a null mutation of their TGF-beta1 gene. We report here that the myelin of these mice is grossly abnormal. At the nodes of Ranvier, the cytoplasmic collars of the Schwann cells were expanded and the myelin had a honeycomb appearance. Focal (tomacula-like) hypermyelin structures were observed in the internodal regions of a significant number of axons in mutant nerve, and were not observed in littermate controls. Axon diameters were within the normal range and no axonal pathology was evident in mutant nerve and macrophages were absent. Results imply that lack of TGF-beta1 may have a direct effect on Schwann cells. We suggest that TGF-beta1 may stabilise compact myelin via an autocrine mechanism.
We examined the influence of initial graft composition on the number, type, and distribution of human progenitor cells after transplantation into the anterior subventricular zone (SVZa) of normal adult rats. The grafted populations were derived from 19-week-old human cortical tissue grown under adherent conditions in the presence of fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and from a subpopulation of nestin-expressing cells, isolated using negative immunoselection methods, which exhibited properties of neural progenitors. Identical numbers of each were transplanted and the number and location of engrafted cells were compared 4 weeks later. We found a significantly greater number of presumptive neurons and astrocytes in animals that received mixed grafts compared to those enriched for progenitors. In addition, the number of human cells undergoing division was significantly greater in animals that received mixed grafts. The spatial distribution of grafted cells was not significantly different, suggesting that the patterns of cell migration were unaffected by transplant composition, whereas, a greater proportion of neurons was observed in the neurogenic areas of animals that received progenitor-enriched grafts. From a clinical perspective, our results suggest that the cellular composition of human fetal-derived transplants may be an important parameter that influences the number and pattern of differentiation of engrafted cells following transplantation in the mature CNS.
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration stimulates immune activation, inflammation and deterioration in cell function. Neuronal tissue in cortex and hippocampus are particularly susceptible. In this study, we report that LPS induces cell death as measured by caspase-3 activation and DNA fragmentation and that this is coupled with stimulation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase, p38. We provide evidence of co-localization of activated p38 and caspase-3 in cells prepared from cortical and hippocampal tissue after LPS treatment. Furthermore, administration of the p38 inhibitor, SB203580, abolished the LPS-induced increase in caspase-3 activation. We observed that LPS treatment provoked accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) while in vitro incubation of cortical and hippocampal tissue with H(2)O(2) increased p38 activity. In addition, H(2)O(2)-induced activation of caspase-3 was abrogated by SB203580. We propose, based on the data presented, that the action of LPS to induce cell death in cortex and hippocampus may be mediated by ROS accumulation and activation of p38.
Using the 2DG/immunostaining method [McCasland, J.S., Graczyk, G.M., 2000. Metabolic mapping-Unit 1.6. In: Gerfen, C.R. (Ed.), Current Protocols in Neuroscience. Wiley, New York, pp 1.6.1-1.6.15], we have previously demonstrated large-scale plasticity in whisker/barrel fields of young adult hamsters subject to follicle ablation on postnatal day 7 (P7) [Somatosens. Motor Res. 13 (1996) 245]. This plasticity occurs after the barrel field has formed, but before neuronal differentiation and synaptogenesis are complete. The present study tested for similar large-scale plasticity following whisker deprivation in young adult hamsters, when neuronal and synaptic development are more mature. Beginning around P40, animals had all whiskers except row C trimmed on alternating days for periods ranging from 1 h to 2 weeks, after which they were administered (3)H 2DG (i.p.) and allowed to explore a fresh empty cage. Autoradiograms from these animals showed a clear expansion in the zone of heavy 2DG labeling with continued whisker trimming. Hamsters with row C spared overnight showed markedly higher labeling in the row C barrels, as expected. After 2 weeks of repeated trimming, the pattern of 2DG labeling in the barrel field ranged from complete activation of all large-whisker columns, as in a previous study of P7 follicle ablation, down to a more localized activation of rows B, C, and D. Intermediate periods of trimming produced more localized label in the region of row C. There was a clear trend toward larger areas of activation with longer periods of trimming. Because inhibitory neurons are strongly activated in all cases, this large-scale neuronal plasticity must take place in the presence of strong inhibition. The data show that simple trimming of all but a few whiskers in normally reared adults leads to abnormally widespread metabolic labeling encompassing virtually the entire barrel field. Taken together, our findings suggest that a large-scale synaptic reorganization occurs in barrel fields deprived of normal sensory input in the adult as well as during postnatal development.
In this study, we examined the effect BRX-220, a co-inducer of heat shock proteins, in injury-induced peripheral neuropathy. Following sciatic nerve injury in adult rats and treatment with BRX-220, the following features of the sensory system were studied: (a) expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP); (b) binding of isolectin B4 (IB4) in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cord; (c) stimulation-evoked release of substance P (SP) in an in vitro spinal cord preparation and (d) nociceptive responses of partially denervated rats. BRX-220 partially reverses axotomy-induced changes in the sensory system. In vehicle-treated rats there is a decrease in IB4 binding and CGRP expression in injured neurones, while in BRX-220-treated rats these markers were better preserved. Thus, 7.0 +/- 0.6% of injured DRG neurones bound IB4 in vehicle-treated rats compared to 14.4 +/- 0.9% in BRX-220-treated animals. Similarly, 4.5 +/- 0.5% of DRG neurones expressed CGRP in the vehicle-treated group, whereas 9.0 +/- 0.3% were positive in the BRX-220-treated group. BRX-220 also partially restored SP release from spinal cord sections to electrical stimulation of primary sensory neurones. Behavioural tests carried out on partially denervated animals showed that BRX-220 treatment did not prevent the emergence of mechanical or thermal hyperalgesia. However, oral treatment for 4 weeks lead to reduced pain-related behaviour suggesting either slowly developing analgesic actions or enhancement of recovery processes. Thus, the morphological improvement seen in sensory neurone markers was accompanied by restored functional activity. Therefore, treatment with BRX-220 promotes restoration of morphological and functional properties in the sensory system following peripheral nerve injury.
In vitro, expanded neurospheres exhibit multipotent properties and can differentiate into neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. In vivo, cells from neurospheres derived from mouse fetal forebrain have previously been reported to predominantly differentiate into glial cells, and not into neurons. Here we isolated stem/progenitor cells from E13.5 lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE), medial ganglionic eminence (MGE) and cortical primordium, of a green fluorescent protein (GFP)-actin transgenic mouse. Free-floating neurospheres were expanded in the presence of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and implanted after five to six passages into the striatum, hippocampus and cortex of neonatal rats. Cell suspensions of primary LGE tissue were prepared and grafted in parallel. Grafted cells derived from the primary tissue displayed widespread incorporation into all regions, as visualized with the mouse-specific antibody M2, or mouse satellite DNA in situ hybridization, and differentiated into both neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Grafts of neurosphere cells derived from the LGE, MGE and cortical primordium differentiated primarily into astrocytes, but contained low but significant numbers of GFP-immunoreactive neurons. Neurons derived from LGE neurospheres were of three types: cells with the morphology of medium-sized densely spiny projection neurons in the striatum; cells with interneuron-like morphologies in striatum, cortex and hippocampus; and cells integrating into SVZ and migrating along the RMS to the olfactory bulb. MGE- or cortical primordium-derived neurospheres differentiated into interneuron-like cells in both striatum and hippocampus. The results demonstrate the ability of in vitro expanded neural stem/progenitor cells to generate both neurons and glia after transplantation into neonatal recipients, and differentiate in a region-specific manner into mature neurons with morphological features characteristic for each target site.

Neuronal KCNQ (Kv7) channels (KCNQ2-5 or Kv7.2-7.5, disclosed to date) were discovered by virtue of their homology with a known cardiac channel involved in long QT syndrome (KvLQT or KCNQ1, Kv7.1) and first disclosed in 1998. The involvement of KCNQ2 (Kv7.2) and KCNQ3 (Kv7.3) in a benign idiopathic neonatal epilepsy, KCNQ4 (Kv7.4) in a form of congenital deafness, and the discovery that neuronal KCNQ heteromultimers were among the molecular substrates of M-channels, resulted in a high level of interest for potential drug development strategies. A number of small-molecule modulators were quickly identified, including openers or activators such as the antiepileptic drug candidate retigabine and the structurally-related analgesic drug flupirtine (Katadolon trade mark Asta Medica), and a group of KCNQ channel inhibitors/blockers originally developed for cognition enhancement. All of these data have suggested a rich target profile for modulators of neuronal KCNQ channels, including a variety of neuronal hyperexcitability disorders and conditions for openers, such as the epilepsies, acute pain, neuropathic pain, migraine pain and some neurodegenerative and psychiatric disorders. KCNQ blockers could likewise have utility in disorders characterised by neuronal hypoactivity, including cognition enhancement and perhaps disorders of mood. Emerging patent literature suggests significant interest in neuronal KCNQ modulation in the pharmaceutical industry and significant chemical diversity concerning KCNQ modulation.
In this study, we investigated the involvement of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and calcium in staurosporine (STS)-induced apoptosis in cultured retinal neurons, under conditions of maintained membrane integrity. The antioxidants idebenone (IDB), glutathione-ethylester (GSH/EE), trolox, and Mn(III)tetrakis (4-benzoic acid) porphyrin chloride (MnTBAP) significantly reduced STS-induced caspase-3-like activity and intracellular ROS generation. Endogenous sources of ROS production were investigated by testing the effect of the following inhibitors: 7-nitroindazole (7-NI), a specific inhibitor of the neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase (nNOS); arachidonyl trifluoromethyl ketone (AACOCF(3)), a phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) inhibitor; allopurinol, a xanthine oxidase inhibitor; and the mitochondrial inhibitors rotenone and oligomycin. All these compounds decreased caspase-3-like activity and ROS generation, showing that both mitochondrial and cytosolic sources of ROS are implicated in this mechanism. STS induced a significant increase in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)), which was partially prevented in the presence of IDB and GSH/EE, indicating its dependence on ROS generation. These two antioxidants and the inhibitors allopurinol and 7-NI also reduced the number of TdT-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling-positive cells. Thus, endogenous ROS generation and the rise in intracellular calcium are important inter-players in STS-triggered apoptosis. Furthermore, the antioxidants may help to prolong retinal cell survival upon apoptotic cell death.
The pathophysiological sequelae of oxidative/nitrosative stress are notoriously difficult to quantify. Despite these impediments, the medical significance of oxidative/nitrosative stress has become increasingly recognized to the point that it is now considered to be a component of virtually every disease. The level of oxidative stress can be quantified in blood by the measurement of the increase in glutathione disulfide (GSSG) and the decrease in the GSH/GSSG ratio, which has been shown to be altered in a variety of human diseases such as lung inflammation, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, chronic renal failure, malignant disorders, and diabetes. Among the proposed methods for GSH/GSSG detection, the amino group derivatization with 2,4-dinitrofluorobenzene followed by HPLC separation has the advantage of allowing evaluation of both parameters within a single run contemporaneously. However, it has been shown that the application of this method on blood samples is not reproducible. In this report, we offer an explanation for these experimental limits and suggest some modifications that allow the application of this method to blood samples. The modified method has a low detection limit (0.5 microM, i.e., 1.4 pmoles) and a high reproducibility with a within-run imprecision of less than 2%. It could have a wide application as it is simple, virtually artifact-free, and not time-consuming, especially for large-scale screening studies.
To determine why parkinsonian patients (PP) present some difficulties to initiate locomotion, a diagonal step has been investigated in two tasks in five control subjects (CS) and in ten PP. In the first task, the subjects had to perform one diagonal step without change in their orientation (WR); in the second task, they had to perform one diagonal step with a body rotation in the step direction (RO). The defended hypothesis is that the gait initiation deficits in Parkinson disease are a consequence of their difficulties to coordinate al the component of a complex movement. The analysed parameters were the duration of the postural and movement phases, the step length and velocity, and the amplitude of the horizontal ground reaction forces during each phase. Compared to CS, the PP showed a lengthening of the postural phase, a decrease in the step length and velocity and a reduction of the horizontal forces. The comparisons between the performances obtained in the WR versus those obtained the RO show in CS that the performances remained unchanged, whereas in PP the performances were significantly more altered in the RO. It illustrates the specific deficit occurring in PP while performing complex tasks where coordination between several components has to be achieved simultaneously.
Intestinal pseudoobstruction is a clinical syndrome characterized by impairment of intestinal propulsion, which may resemble intestinal obstruction, in the absence of a mechanical cause. It usually affects the colon but the small intestine may also be involved, and may present in acute, subacute or chronic forms. We have performed a systematic review of the acute form of pseudoobstruction, also referred to as Ogilvie's syndrome. We discuss proposed pathophysiological mechanisms, manifestations and management of this clinical condition in post-surgery and critically ill patients. The hallmark of the syndrome is massive intestinal distension, which is detected on clinical inspection and plain abdominal radiography. The underlying pathophysiological mechanisms are not fully understood. Therefore, treatment has focussed on preventing intestinal perforation, which is associated with a 21% mortality rate.

We propose to use the zebrafish (Danio rerio) as a vertebrate model to study the role of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) in development. As a first step toward using zebrafish as a model, we cloned three zebrafish cDNAs with a high degree of sequence similarity to nAChR beta3, alpha2 and alpha7 subunits expressed in other species. RT-PCR was used to show that the beta3 and alpha2 subunit RNAs were present in zebrafish embryos only 2-5hours post-fertilization (hpf) while alpha7 subunit RNA was not detected until 8hpf, supporting the differential regulation of nAChRs during development. In situ hybridization was used to localize zebrafish beta3, alpha2, and alpha7 RNA expression. nAChR binding techniques were used to detect the early expression of two high-affinity [3H]-epibatidine binding sites in 2 days post-fertilization (dpf) zebrafish embryos with IC(50) values of 28.6pM and 29.7nM and in 5dpf embryos with IC(50) values of 28.4pM and 8.9nM. These studies are consistent with the involvement of neuronal nAChRs in early zebrafish development.
Serotonin transporter (5-HTT) null mutant mice provide a model system to study the role genetic variation in the 5-HTT plays in the regulation of emotion. Anxiety-like behaviors were assessed in 5-HTT null mutants with the mutation placed on either a B6 congenic or a 129S6 congenic background. Replicating previous findings, B6 congenic 5-HTT null mutants exhibited increased anxiety-like behavior and reduced exploratory locomotion on the light &lt;--&gt; dark exploration and elevated plus-maze tests. In contrast, 129S6 congenic 5-HTT null mutant mice showed no phenotypic abnormalities on either test. 5-HTT null mutants on the 129S6 background showed reduced 5-HT(1A) receptor binding (as measured by quantitative autoradiography) and reduced 5-HT(1A) receptor function (as measured by 8-OH-DPAT-induced hypothermia). These data confirm that the 5-HTT null mutation produced alterations in brain 5-HT function in mice on the 129S6 background, thereby discounting the possibility that the absence of an abnormal anxiety-like phenotype in these mice was due to a suppression of the mutation by 129 modifier genes. Anxiety-like behaviors in the light &lt;--&gt; dark exploration and elevated plus-maze tests were significantly higher in 129S6 congenic +/+ mice as compared to B6 congenic +/+ mice. This suggests that high baseline anxiety-like behavior in the 129S6 strain might have precluded detection of the anxiety-like effects of the 5-HTT null mutation on this background. Present findings provide further evidence linking genetic variation in the 5-HTT to abnormalities in mood and anxiety. Furthermore, these data highlight the utility of conducting behavioral phenotyping of mutant mice on multiple genetic backgrounds.
Process outgrowth is crucial in oligodendrocyte (OL) development and myelination. It is well accepted that increased levels of proteins affecting the polymerization of cytoskeletal components promote branching. Interestingly, we have suggested that other mechanisms may contribute to oligodendrocyte process outgrowth. We have previously shown that pharmacological inhibitors of histone deacetylation prevent oligodendrocyte branching and we now seek to explore in detail the relationship between these two events. The results presented here indicate that pharmacological inhibitors of histone deacetylation prevent branching, similar to the effect of low doses of cytoskeletal depolymerizing agents. The lack of process outgrowth does not correlate with changes in the levels of tubulin or actin, but correlates with increased levels of microtubule (i.e., stathmin) and microfilaments (i.e., gelsolin) depolymerizing proteins. These data suggest that in OL progenitors, the high levels of depolymerizing proteins maintain a simple morphology, while branching is favored by reduced levels of these cytoskeletal components, consequent to the effect of histone deacetylation on gene expression. We therefore hypothesize that epigenetic regulation of stathmin and gelsolin is a novel regulatory mechanism contributing to OL process outgrowth. In conclusion, our results suggest that process outgrowth in vitro is regulated not only by increased levels of proteins affecting polymerization, but also by decreased levels of proteins affecting depolymerization. The levels of these severing proteins are regulated by chromatin modifiers and therefore suggest that their expression in developing OL is decreased by an epigenetic mechanism.
Extracellular nucleotides, including ATP, have been demonstrated to transmit important physiological signals in the brain through either G-protein-coupled P2Y receptors or P2X receptors, which are ligand-gated ion channels. In this study, we performed a detailed analysis of the expression of the Gi/o-coupled receptor P2Y12 in the brain. Northern blot analysis demonstrated that P2Y12 is expressed predominantly in the brain, and to a lesser extent in the spleen. The cellular localization of P2Y12 was investigated by in situ hybridization, and P2Y12 mRNA was detected in small cells distributed throughout the brain, including the hippocampus. Expression of P2Y12 was also observed in naive and axotomized facial nuclei, and the number of P2Y12-expressing cells increased following facial nerve axotomy. Selective expression of P2Y12 mRNA in microglia was confirmed by double-label in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry with antibodies against NeuN and Iba1 as an immunohistochemical marker for neurons and microglia, respectively. Hardly any P2Y12 mRNA was detected in macrophages obtained from the spleen and abdominal cavity, which share many surface molecules with microglia.
Pretreatment of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) with Pertussis toxin increased the number of subsequently cocultured adult retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) regrowing neurites without affecting neuronal survival. Pertussis toxin (PTx) inactivated an OEC G(i/o) protein as pretreating OECs with the PTx B-oligomer subunit had no effect on RGC neurite regrowth. However, the B-oligomer was responsible for decreasing the marked orientation of neurite regrowth on the OEC substrate. Simultaneous incubation of OECs with PTx and a depolarizing concentration of KCl abolished the increase in neurite regrowth from cocultured RGCs, but exposure to a depolarizing KCl concentration after OECs had been PTx-treated had no effect. Our evidence supports the hypothesis that G-protein-regulated calcium signaling plays a significant role in OEC support for CNS axonal regeneration.
We report the molecular cloning of a new member of the transmembrane-type immunoglobulin superfamily and designate the encoded protein as limitrin, since it localized selectively to glia limitans in mouse brain. Limitrin cDNA was obtained using a subtractive hybridization procedure designed to identify molecules responsible for blood-brain barrier function. Western blots using a limitrin-specific antibody demonstrated that the gene product is expressed significantly in mouse brain and primary murine astrocytes and is distributed in the plasma membrane. Immunohistochemical studies using confocal and electron microscopy clearly demonstrated highly polarized localization in astroglial endfeet in the perivascular region and under the pia mater in vivo. Limitrin is expressed in the spinal cord and in many areas of the brain, but not in the median eminence or subfornical organ (the circumventricular organs), where the blood-brain barrier is lacking. Disruption of the blood-brain barrier by cold injury resulted in a drastic reduction in limitrin expression. Furthermore, during retrieval from cold injury, the increased expression of limitrin in perivascular endfeet correlated with the recovery of angiogenesis in capillaries within the lesion margins. Our results suggest that limitrin is physically and functionally associated with the blood-brain barrier, implying that this protein may be useful as a diagnostic tool of barrier integrity.
Early-stage nondemented Parkinson's disease (PD(es)) patients can learn short but not long sequences as well as controls. We have previously shown that to achieve normal performance, PD(es) patients activated the same right-sided cortical regions as controls plus the homologous left sided cortex and bilateral cerebellum. In this study, we evaluated two related hypotheses to explain the behavioral abnormalities and the increased bilateral brain activation observed in the PD(es) group. Hypothesis 1 proposed that PD(es) patients recruit regions from a normal bilateral network specialized for sequence learning that healthy controls would activate if performing difficult tasks. Thus, PD(es) patients can learn short sequences as well as controls. Hypothesis 2 proposed that information processing within the network in the PD(es) group is impaired. Thus, PD(es) patients cannot learn as difficult a sequence as controls. To test hypothesis 1, we increased task difficulty and statistical power in the control group and showed that the control and the PD(es) groups activated the same regions. To test hypothesis 2, we analyzed the equal performance data using two partial least squares (PLS) multivariate analyses. The task-PLS analysis showed that to perform equally with controls, the PD(es) group expressed the normal bilateral network more than the control group. The behavior-PLS analysis showed that the correlation between learning performance and regional activation was significantly different between the groups. We conclude that PD(es) patients have near normal learning if task difficulty is moderate because they can recruit additional regions from a normal bilateral network specialized for sequence learning. However, when a difficult task would normally require bilateral activation, PD(es) patients fail to learn because information processing within the network is impaired. Hum. Brain Mapp. 20:246-258, 2003.
Using plasma amyloid beta protein (Abeta42) levels as an intermediate, quantitative phenotype for late onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD), we previously obtained significant linkage at approximately 80 cM on chromosome 10. Linkage to the same region was obtained independently in a study of affected LOAD sib-pairs. Together, these two studies provide strong evidence for a novel LOAD locus on chromosome 10 that acts to increase Abeta42. VR22 is a large (1.7 Mb) gene located at 80 cM that encodes alpha-T catenin, which is a binding partner of beta catenin. This makes VR22 an attractive candidate gene because beta catenin interacts with presenilin 1, which has many mutations that elevate Abeta42 and cause early onset familial AD. We identified two intronic VR22 SNPs (4360 and 4783) in strong linkage disequilibrium (LD) that showed highly significant association (P=0.0001 and 0.0006) with plasma Abeta42 in 10 extended LOAD families. This association clearly contributed to the linkage at approximately 80 cM because the lod scores decreased when linkage analysis was performed conditional upon the VR22 association. This association replicated in another independent set of 12 LOAD families (P=0.04 for 4783 and P=0.08 for 4360). Bounding of the association region using multiple SNPs showed VR22 to be the only confirmed gene within the region of association. These findings indicate that VR22 has variant(s) which influence Abeta42 and contribute to the previously reported linkage for plasma Abeta42 in LOAD families.
Brain edema and consequent increase in intracranial pressure is a major complication of acute liver failure (ALF) and is a major cause of death in this condition. Rapid accumulation of ammonia in brain has been implicated in the pathogenesis of brain edema in ALF. Increased brain ammonia may cause brain swelling via the osmotic effects of an increase in astrocytic glutamine concentration or by inhibition of glutamate removal from brain extracellular space. Acute liver failure results in altered expression of several genes in the brain, some of which code for proteins involved in central nervous system function such as the glutamate transporter GLT-1, the astrocytic structural protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein, and the water channel protein, aquaporin IV. Loss of expression of GLT-1 results in increased extracellular brain glutamate. Therapeutic measures currently used to prevent and treat brain edema in acute liver failure include mannitol; strategies aimed at lowering of gut ammonia production are generally ineffective. Studies in experimental animals suggest that mild hypothermia or the use of L-ornithine-L-aspartate may be useful in the prevention of brain edema in these patients.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a major neuropsychiatric complication of acute and chronic liver failure. Neuropathologically, HE in chronic liver failure is characterized by astrocytic (rather than neuronal) changes known as Alzheimer type II astrocytosis and in altered expression of key astrocytic proteins. Magnetic resonance imaging in cirrhotic patients reveals bilateral signal hyperintensities in globus pallidus on T1-weighted imaging, which appear to result from manganese deposition. Proton (1H) magnetic resonance spectroscopy shows an increase in glutamine resonance in brain, a finding that confirms previous biochemical studies and is consistent with increased uptake of ammonia by the brain (glutamine synthesis). Recent molecular biological studies show an increased expression of several genes coding for neurotransmitter-related proteins in chronic liver failure. Such genes include those for monoamine oxidase (MAO-A isoform), nitric oxide synthase (nNOS isoform) and the peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor. Activation of these systems may lead to alterations of monoamine and amino acid neurotransmitter function and changes in cerebral blood flow in chronic liver failure.
Lyme borreliosis is a multisystemic disease caused by various genospecies of the spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi. To investigate muscle involvement in the nonhuman primate (NHP) model of Lyme disease, 16 adult Macaca mulatta animals inoculated with strain N40 of B. burgdorferi sensu strictu by syringe or by tick bite or with strain Pbi of B. burgdorferi genospecies garinii by syringe were studied. Animals were necropsied while immunosuppressed on day 50 (two animals each inoculated with B. burgdorferi N40 by syringe and with B. garinii Pbi by syringe) or on day 90, 40 days after immunosuppression had been discontinued (four animals each inoculated with strain N40 by syringe, with strain N40 by tick bite, and with strain Pbi by syringe). Skeletal muscles removed at necropsy were studied by (i) microscopic examination of hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections for inflammation and tissue injury; (ii) immunohistochemical and digital image analyses for antibody and complement deposition and cellular inflammation; (iii) Western blot densitometry for the presence of antibodies; and (iv) reverse transcription-PCR for measurement of the spirochetal load or C1q (the first component of the complement cascade) synthesis. The results showed that N40 was more infectious for NHPs than Pbi. NHPs inoculated with N40 but not with Pbi developed myositis. The inflammation in skeletal muscle was more severe in NHPs inoculated with N40 by syringe than in those inoculated by tick bite. The predominant cells in the inflammatory infiltrate were T cells and plasma cells. The deposition of antibody and complement in inflamed muscles from N40-inoculated NHPs was significantly higher than that in Pbi-inoculated NHPs. The spirochetal load was very high in the two N40-inoculated NHPs examined while they were immunosuppressed but decreased to minimal levels in the NHPs when immunocompetence was restored. We conclude that myositis can be a prominent feature of Lyme borreliosis depending on the infecting organism and host immune status.
Olfaction influences many insect behaviours including mate seeking and host selection. The molecular machinery underlying insect olfactory systems is a G protein-coupled receptor pathway that, in addition to activation, requires adaptation for olfactory sensitivity and discrimination. We have previously identified ARR1 (henceforth AgARR1), a sensory arrestin from the malaria vector mosquito Anopheles gambiae that has been postulated to modulate olfactory adaptation. This report describes three additional arrestin family members including ARR2 (henceforth AgARR2), which is similar to previously characterized insect sensory arrestins and is expressed at significantly higher levels in the antennae of male vs. female A. gambiae mosquitoes. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that AgARR2 may be important for the regulation of olfactory-driven behaviours particular to male mosquitoes.
We performed a genome-wide analysis for candidate odorant-binding protein (OBP) genes in the malaria vector Anopheles gambiae (Ag). We identified fifty-seven putative genes including sixteen genes predicted to encode distinct, higher molecular weight proteins that lack orthologues in Drosophila. Expression analysis indicates that several of these atypical AgOBPs are transcribed in chemosensory organs in adult and immature stages. Phylogenetic analysis of the Anopheles and Drosophila OBP families reveals these proteins fall into several clusters based on sequence similarity and suggests the atypical AgOBP genes arose in the mosquito lineage after the divergence of mosquitoes and flies. The identification of these AgOBP genes is the first step towards determining their biological roles in this economically and medically important insect.
The present study concerns a general adult population in Sweden, not exposed to hazardous occupational noise. Tympanometry and spontaneous (SOAE), transient evoked (TEOAE) and distortion-product (DPOAE) otoacoustic emissions were investigated in 493 randomly selected men and women aged from 20 to 79 years. Effects of gender, age, ear side and middle ear state were determined, with and without adjusting for hearing threshold level. No statistically significant effects on middle ear pressure or compliance were present. For TEOAEs and DPOAEs, the effect of gender and age was statistically significant (p &lt; 0.01), with larger signal levels for female subjects and young subjects, even after adjusting for hearing threshold level. No effect of middle ear pressure on otoacoustic emissions was present, but high middle ear compliance was associated with low emission levels (p &lt; 0.01). Reference data for middle ear compliance and pressure and prevalence data on SOAEs, TEOAEs and DPOAEs for male and female subjects in different age groups were determined. Mean signal levels of TEOAEs and DPOAEs are presented.
The color and odor of cosmetics have been shown to be crucial for affective states and able to influence autonomic responses. We report an original procedure to measure the effect on subjects of the color and odor of cosmetic products, and to quantify the correlation between objective (psychophysiological recording) and subjective (psychophysics) responses. Several cosmetic products (lipsticks and nail varnishes) of different colors (white, brown, red, orange, and pink) and odors (two per product) were presented. In a first step, autonomous parameters (skin conductance (SC) and heart rate (HR)) were recorded, and in the second step, subjects rated their sensations on subjective scales (overall appreciation, pleasantness, and emotional arousal). Results indicated that certain color and odor additives in cosmetics act on relaxation, excitation, perceived pleasantness, and emotional arousal. It was also found that certain colors, perceived as pleasant, decreased HR, and that the perception of an 'arousing' perfume significantly increased SC.
We used a simple commercial magnetic immunobead method for the preparation of acutely isolated microglial cells from postnatal days 1-3 rat brain. With the exception of a 15 min enzyme incubation, all stages are carried out at 4 degrees C, minimizing the opportunity for changes in gene expression during the isolation to be reflected in changes in accumulated mRNA. The composition of the isolated cells was compared with that of microglial cultures prepared by conventional tissue culture methods, and the purity of microglia was comparable between the two preparations. RT-PCR analysis of several genes related to inflammatory products indicated that the acutely prepared cells were in a less activated condition than the conventionally tissue cultured cells. We examined the pattern of expression of receptors for lysophosphatidic acid (lpa) and sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) using quantitative real-time PCR (TaqMan PCR) techniques. mRNA for LPA1, S1P1, S1P2, S1P3 and S1P5 was detected in these preparations, but the levels of the different receptor mRNAs varied according to the state of activation of the cells. mRNA for LPA3 was only detected significantly in cultured cell after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation, being almost absent in cultured microglia and undetectable in the acutely isolated preparations. The levels of mRNA of LPA1 and S1P receptors was reduced by overnight exposure to S1P, while the same treatment significantly up-regulated the level of LPA3 mRNA.
The thalamus is a neuroanatomic structure that has reciprocal connections with several brain regions suggested to be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Recent studies have reported structural as well as functional abnormalities of the thalamus in schizophrenia. The aim of the present exploratory study was to examine D2/D3 dopamine receptors in the thalamus as well as the anterior cingulate and the frontal and temporal cortices by using the high-affinity radioligand [11C]FLB 457 and positron emission tomography (3D PET) and to explore the data in relation to disease, age and psychopathology. Nine drug-naive patients with schizophrenia and eight control subjects were examined. Regional binding potential (BP) values were calculated using the simplified reference tissue model. The D2/D3 receptor binding was significantly lower in the right medial thalamus in the schizophrenia patients compared to control subjects. In addition, we found a significant negative age effect on the D2/D3 BP in the frontal and temporal cortex for both groups. There was no significant age effect on the D2/D3 BP in the thalamus or in the anterior cingulate. The result provides additional support to the view that the age effect on D2/D3 receptors differ between brain regions. The preliminary finding of low thalamic D2/D3 BP in patients strengthens the hypothesis that the thalamus is a key region in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
It has become evident that multiple sclerosis (MS) has significant neurodegenerative components. An increasing number of reports show neuronal and axonal damage in MS patients and experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) in an animal model of MS. The mechanisms behind this neurodegeneration are unknown, but evidence suggests immune-mediated damage. In this review we analyse the findings of immune-mediated injury in MS and focus on axonal and neuronal injury. The potential neuroprotective role of some currently available MS drug treatments is also discussed.

Clearly the brain controls behavior but can behavior also &quot;control&quot; the brain? On an evolutionary time scale, selective ecological pressures shape the sensory and motor capacities as well as the body and behavior. Correspondingly, in development, behavior acts in concert with the environment to cause structural changes in the brain lasting a lifetime. Surprisingly, in &quot;real time&quot; social behavior can also cause changes, typically reversible, in the brain in adult animals. Changes caused by behavioral interactions can be dramatic, and in many instances, these interactions are directly related to reproductive behavior. Understanding how behavior sculpts the brain in the course of behavioral interactions is a major challenge. Analyzing such changes requires a model system allowing control of the biological and behavioral environment of many animals simultaneously yet allowing access to physiological, cellular and molecular processes being regulated. The mouthbrooding cichlid Haplochromis (Astatotilapia) burtoni (Gnther) from Lake Tanganyika lends itself to the study of social influences on the brain. It has complex, though easily observable individual and social behaviors regulated by two distinct classes of males, those with territories and those without. Many features of the animals are shaped by social encounters including the maturation of juveniles, the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, the growth rate, the basal stress level among others. How does social information effect change in the brain and body? Animals must attend to the social scene to identify their chances. Learning how social information is transduced into cellular changes in this species should help understand how this happens in other social animals.



Auditory neurobiology has benefited significantly from ethological approaches using acoustic communication signals. Developing an ethological model in a genetically manipulable system such as the mouse would enhance the ability to investigate the processing, learning, and recognition of sounds. Characterizing the basic acoustic structure of mouse vocalizations would help lay a foundation for such a future study. Towards this goal, ultrasound vocalizations emitted by isolated mouse pups and pairs of adult males and females have been digitally recorded and examined. Previous work suggests that these calls may have communicative significance. An analysis of the natural variability in their spectral content, median frequency, duration, and repetition period reveals acoustic structure that could be used for recognizing the calls. Other parameters, like the rate of frequency modulation, may also be informative, but have not been examined. Pup isolation calls develop systematically between postnatal day 5 and 12 towards a more stereotyped vocalization--contracting from a wide range of values into narrower clusters of frequency and duration, and shifting from longer to shorter repetition periods. Most significantly, pup isolation and adult encounter calls fall into two distinct spectral and temporal categories, making it possible for a receiver to acoustically distinguish between them, and to potentially categorically perceive them along those dimensions.
The modulation statistics of natural sound ensembles were analyzed by calculating the probability distributions of the amplitude envelope of the sounds and their time-frequency correlations given by the modulation spectra. These modulation spectra were obtained by calculating the two-dimensional Fourier transform of the autocorrelation matrix of the sound stimulus in its spectrographic representation. Since temporal bandwidth and spectral bandwidth are conjugate variables, it is shown that the joint modulation spectrum of sound occupies a restricted space: sounds cannot have rapid temporal and spectral modulations simultaneously. Within this restricted space, it is shown that natural sounds have a characteristic signature. Natural sounds, in general, are low-passed, showing most of their modulation energy for low temporal and spectral modulations. Animal vocalizations and human speech are further characterized by the fact that most of the spectral modulation power is found only for low temporal modulation. Similarly, the distribution of the amplitude envelopes also exhibits characteristic shapes for natural sounds, reflecting the high probability of epochs with no sound, systematic differences across frequencies, and a relatively uniform distribution for the log of the amplitudes for vocalizations. It is postulated that the auditory system as well as engineering applications may exploit these statistical properties to obtain an efficient representation of behaviorally relevant sounds. To test such a hypothesis we show how to create synthetic sounds with first and second order envelope statistics identical to those found in natural sounds.

Functional voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel complexes are assembled by three to four subunits: alpha1, beta, alpha2delta subunits (C. Leveque et al., 1994, J. Biol Chem. 269, 6306-6312; M. W. McEnery et al., 1991, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 88, 11095-11099) and at least in muscle cells also y subunits (B. M. Curtis and W. A. Catterall, 1984, Biochemistry 23, 2113-2118). Ca2+ channels mediate the voltage-dependent Ca2+ influx in subcellular compartments, triggering such diverse processes as neurotransmitter release, dendritic action potentials, excitation-contraction, and excitation-transcription coupling. The targeting of biophysically defined Ca2+ channel complexes to the correct subcellular structures is, thus, critical to proper cell and physiological functioning. Despite their importance, surprisingly little is known about the targeting mechanisms by which Ca2+ channel complexes are transported to their site of function. Here we summarize what we know about the targeting of Ca2+ channel complexes through the cell to the plasma membrane and subcellular structures.
Voltage-gated Ca2+ channels are targets of the number of naturally occurring toxins, therapeutic agents as well as environmental toxicants. Because of similarities of their chemical structure to Ca2+ in terms of hydrated ionic radius, electron orbital configuration, or other chemical properties, polyvalent cations from aluminum to zinc variously interact with multiple types of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. These nonphysiological metals have been used to study the structure and function of the Ca2+ channel, especially its permeability characteristics. Two nonphysiological cations, Pb2+ and Hg2+, as well as their organic derivatives, are environmental neurotoxicants which are highly potent Ca2+ channel blockers. These metals also apparently gain intracellular access in part by permeating through Ca2+ channels. In this review the history of Ca2+ channel block produced by Pb2+ and Hg2+ as well as other nonphysiological cations is traced. In particular the characteristics of Ca2+ channel block induced by these environmental neurotoxic metals and the consequences of this action for neuronal function are discussed.
Although impressive progress has been made in understanding the molecular basis of pacemaker function in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), fundamental questions about cellular and regional heterogeneity within the SCN, and how this heterogeneity might contribute to SCN pacemaker function at a tissue level, have remained unresolved. To reexamine cellular and regional heterogeneity within the SCN, the authors have focused on two key questions: which SCN cells are endogenously rhythmic and/or directly light responsive? Observations of endogenous rhythms of electrical activity, gene/protein expression, and protein phosphorylation suggest that the SCN in mammals examined to date is composed of anatomically distinct rhythmic and nonrhythmic components. Endogenously rhythmic neurons are primarily found in rostral, dorsomedial, and ventromedial portions of the nucleus; at mid and caudal levels, the distribution of endogenously rhythmic cells in the SCN has the appearance of a &quot;shell.&quot; The majority of nonrhythmic cells, by contrast, are located in a central &quot;core&quot; region of the SCN, which is complementary to the shell. The location of light-responsive cells, defined by direct retinohypothalamic input and light-induced gene expression, largely overlaps the location of nonrhythmic cells in the SCN core, although, in hamsters and mice light-responsive cells are also present in the ventral portion of the rhythmic shell. While the relative positions of rhythmic and light-responsive components of the SCN are similar between species, the precise boundaries of these components, and neurochemical phenotype of cells within them, are variable. Intercellular communication between these components may be a key feature responsible for the unique pacemaker properties of the SCN observed at a tissue and whole animal level.
To study the biology of regulators of G-protein signaling (RGS) proteins and to facilitate the identification of small molecule modulators of RGS proteins, the authors recently developed an advanced yeast 2-hybrid (YTH) assay format for GalphaZ and RGS-Z1. Moreover, they describe the development of a multiplexed luciferase-based assay that has been successfully adapted to screen large numbers of small molecule modulators of protein-protein interactions. They generated and evaluated 2 different luciferase reporter gene systems for YTH interactions, a Gal4 responsive firefly luciferase reporter gene and a Gal4 responsive Renilla luciferase reporter gene. Both the firefly and Renilla luciferase reporter genes demonstrated a 40- to 50-fold increase in luminescence in strains expressing interacting YTH fusion proteins versus negative control strains. Because the firefly and Renilla luciferase proteins have different substrate specificity, the assays were multiplexed. The multiplexed luciferase-based YTH platform adds speed, sensitivity, simplicity, quantification, and efficiency to YTH high-throughput applications and therefore greatly facilitates the identification of small molecule modulators of protein-protein interactions as tools or potential leads for drug discovery efforts.
The graphical analysis uses an ordinary least squares (OLS) fitting of transformed data to determine the total volume of distribution (VT) and is not dependent upon a compartmental model configuration. This method, however, suffers from a noise-dependent bias. Approaches for reducing this bias include incorporating a presmoothing step, minimizing the squared perpendicular distance to the regression line, and conducting multilinear analysis. The solution proposed by Ogden, likelihood estimation in graphical analysis (LEGA), is an estimation technique in the original (nontransformed) domain based upon standard likelihood theory that incorporates the specific assumptions made on the noise inherent in the measurements. To determine the impact of this new method upon the noise-dependent bias, we compared VT determinations by compartmental modeling, graphical analysis (GA), and LEGA in 36 regions of interest in dynamic PET data from 25 healthy volunteers injected with [11C]-WAY-100635 and [11C]-McN-5652, which are agents used to image the serotonin 1A receptor and serotonin transporter, respectively. As predicted by simulations, LEGA eliminates the noise-dependent bias associated with GA using OLS. This method is a valuable addition to the tools available for the quantification of radioligand binding data in PET and SPECT.
Diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provides a surrogate marker of acute brain pathology, yet few studies have resolved the evolution of water diffusion changes during the first 8 hours after acute injury, a critical period for therapeutic intervention. To characterize this early period, this study used a 17.6-T wide-bore magnet to measure multicomponent water diffusion at high b-values (7 to 8,080 s/mm(2)) for rat hippocampal slices at baseline and serially for 8 hours after treatment with the calcium ionophore A23187. The mean fast diffusing water fraction (Ffast) progressively decreased for slices treated with 10-microM/L A23187 (-20.9 +/- 6.3% at 8 hours). Slices treated with 50-micromol/L A23187 had significantly reduced Ffast 80 minutes earlier than slices treated with 10-microM/L A23187 (P &lt; 0.05), but otherwise, the two doses had equivalent effects on the diffusion properties of tissue water. Correlative histologic analysis showed dose-related selective vulnerability of hippocampal pyramidal neurons (CA1 &gt; CA3) to pathologic swelling induced by A23187, confirming that particular intravoxel cell populations may contribute disproportionately to water diffusion changes observed by MRI after acute brain injury. These data suggest diffusion-weighted images at high b-values and the diffusion parameter Ffast may be highly sensitive correlates of cell swelling in nervous issue after acute injury.
This short review deals with observations on the gross morphology and internal structure of the human cerebellum, and with studies of cerebellar fiber connections in non-human primates. Attention is focussed on its gross anatomy, the zonal organization of the primate cerebellum, the brain stem, thalamic and cortical connections of the cerebellar nuclei and on the cortico-ponto-cerebellar pathway. The presence of important reciprocal nucleo-mesencephalo-olivary loops as part of the circuitry of the dentate and globose (posterior interposed) nuclei and their absence among the connections of other cerebellar nuclei is emphasized.

The efficacy of oral inosiplex alone (group A) versus combined treatment of inosiplex (Isoprinosine) and intraventricular interferon-alpha2b (Intron A) (group B) in patients with subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) was compared. One hundred and twenty-one patients who met the diagnostic criteria for subacute sclerosing panencephalitis and presented at stage 2 or less were randomized into group A or B. Data were analyzable on 67 patients who met the inclusion criteria and adhered to the protocol. The inosiplex dosage was 100 mg/kg/day to a maximum of 3 g/day, taken orally in three divided doses for 6 months. Interferon-alpha2b started with 100,000 U/m2 and escalated to 1,000,000 U/m2 over 5 inpatient days and then 1,000,000 U/m2 twice a week for 6 months. Neurologic status was rated by the Neurological Disability Index, Brief Assessment Examination, and stages. Kaplan-Meier survival rates were not statistically significant between group A and group B (log-rank test chi2 = .1374, P = .7109). In longitudinal morbidity analyses, regression results were fitted to three outcome measures: the Neurological Disability Index, the Brief Assessment Examination, and stage. Group medians of the estimated regression slopes were then compared using the Wilcoxon rank-sum test. There was no statistically significant difference between the two groups on any of these three measures. Morbidity comparisons of clinical classification of outcomes (improvement, stabilization, worsening after treatment stopped, deterioration) also showed no statistically significant difference between groups. There were no statistically significant differences between the two treatment groups on any efficacy measure. However, the observed rates of satisfactory outcome (stabilization, improvement) of 34% in group A and 35% in group B were higher than the spontaneous remission rates of 5 to 10% reported in the literature, suggesting that treatment was superior to no treatment.
Coexistence of myasthenia gravis with an immunologically mediated neuropathy syndrome is rare. We present a young male patient with a history of generalized muscle weakness and fatigue with electrophysiological evidence of both a motor neuron syndrome and a neuromuscular junction abnormality accompanied by pathologic evidence of denervation with muscle biopsy. Laboratory evidence for both acetylcholine receptor (AchR) antibodies and anti-asialo GM1 antibodies, both of high levels, was found. The patient's fatigue and weakness showed an objective response to pyridostigmine, prednisone, and immunoglobulin therapy over a period of 9 months.
Pain is a disabling symptom for many patients with peripheral neuropathy. The mechanisms responsible for neuropathic pain are not fully understood. Theories include ectopic discharges of damaged fibers and dorsal root ganglia, sensitization of nociceptors, central sensitization of dorsal horn neurons, loss of inhibitory neurons, and sprouting of afferent fibers after nerve injury into new regions of the nervous system. Several drugs have been effective in controlled clinical trials, but not all patients respond or tolerate the available agents.




Lateral somatosensory areas have not been explored in detail in rats, and theories on the organization of this region are based largely on anatomical tracing experiments. We investigated the topography of this region by using microelectrode recordings, which were related to flattened cortical sections processed for cytochrome oxidase (CO). Two lateral somatosensory areas were identified, each containing a complete representation of the body. A larger, more medial representation formed a mirror image of S1 along the rostrocaudal axis of the head region corresponding to the previously identified secondary somatosensory area (S2). A smaller, more lateral representation formed a mirror image of S2 along the rostrocaudal axis of the forelimb and hindlimb regions and likely corresponds to the parietal ventral area (PV) identified in other mammals. We also investigated the representation of the dentition and identified regions of cortex responsive to tooth stimulation. The lower incisor representation was rostral to the lower lip region of S1, and the upper incisor representation was lateral to the buccal pad region of S1. The upper and lower incisors flanked the tongue representation. An additional large region of far lateral cortex responded to both incisors. Finally, five CO-dense modules were consistently identified rostral and lateral to the S1 face representation, which we refer to as OM1, OM2, OM3, FM, and HM. These modules closely correspond to the physiologically identified areas representing the lower incisor (OM1) and tongue (OM2) regions of S1 and the mixed tooth (OM3), forelimb (FM1), and hindlimb (HM) representations of S2 and PV.
Cell surface carbohydrates have been implicated in axon guidance and targeting throughout the nervous system. We have begun to test the hypothesis that, in the olfactory system, a differential distribution of cell surface carbohydrates may influence olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) axon targeting. Specifically, we have examined the spatial distribution of two different plant lectins, Ulex europaeus agglutinin (UEA) and Dolichos biflorus agglutinin (DBA), to determine whether they exhibit differential and reproducible projections onto the main olfactory bulb. Each lectin exhibited a unique spatial domain of glomerular labeling that was consistent across animals. UEA labeling was strongest in the ventral aspect of the olfactory bulb; DBA labeling was strongest in the dorsal aspect of the olfactory bulb. Some evidence for colocalization was present where these two borders intersected. Large areas of the glomerular layer were not labeled by either lectin. To determine whether patterns of lectin labeling were reproducible at the level of individual glomeruli, UEA labeling was assessed relative to M72-IRES-taulacZ- and P2-IRES-taulacZ-labeled axons. Although glomeruli neighboring these two identified glomeruli were consistently labeled with UEA, none of the lacZ positive axons was lectin labeled. Labeling of vomeronasal sensory neuron axons in the accessory olfactory bulb was more uniform for the two lectins. These data are the first to show a differential distribution of UEA vs. DBA labeling in the main olfactory bulb and are consistent with the hypothesis that a differential distribution of cell surface carbohydrates, a glycocode, may contribute to the targeting of OSN axons.

A picture archive and communications system (PACS) is a rich source of images and data suitable for creating electronic teaching files (ETF). However, the potential for PACS to support nonclinical applications has not been fully realized: at present there is no mechanism for PACS to identify and store teaching files; neither is there a standardized method for sharing such teaching images. The Medical Image Resource Center (MIRC) is a new central image repository that defines standards for data exchange among different centers. We developed an ETF server that retrieves digital imaging and communication in medicine (DICOM) images from PACS, and enables users to create teaching files that conform to the new MIRC schema. We test-populated our ETF server with illustrative images from the clinical case load of the National Neuroscience Institute, Singapore. Together, PACS and MIRC have the potential to benefit radiology teaching and research.
Relative merits of interval and entrainment conceptions of the internal clock were assessed within a common theoretical framework by 4 time-judgment experiments. The timing of tone onsets marking the beginning and ending of standard and comparison time intervals relative to a context rhythm were manipulated: onsets were on time, early, or late relative to the implied rhythm, and 2 distinct accuracy patterns emerged. A quadratic ending profile indicated best performance when the standard ended on time and worst performance when it was early or late, whereas a flat beginning profile (Experiments 1-3) indicated uniform performance for the 3 expectancy conditions. Only in Experiment 4, in which deviations from expected onset times were large, did significant effects of beginning times appear in time-discrimination thresholds and points of subjective equality. Findings are discussed in the context of theoretical assumptions about clock resetting, the representation of time, and independence of successive time intervals.
Photoreceptors of the retina adapt to ambient light in a manner that allows them to detect changes in illumination over an enormous range of intensities. We have discovered a novel form of adaptation in mouse rods that persists long after the light has been extinguished and the rod's circulating dark current has returned. Electrophysiological recordings from individual rods showed that the time that a bright flash response remained in saturation was significantly shorter if the rod had been previously exposed to bright light. This persistent adaptation did not decrease the rate of rise of the response and therefore cannot be attributed to a decrease in the gain of transduction. Instead, this adaptation was accompanied by a marked speeding of the recovery of the response, suggesting that the step that rate-limits recovery had been accelerated. Experiments on knockout rods in which the identity of the rate-limiting step is known suggest that this adaptive acceleration results from a speeding of G protein/effector deactivation.
The X-ray crystallographic structure of KvAP, a voltage-gated bacterial K channel, was recently published. However, the position and the molecular movement of the voltage sensor, S4, are still controversial. For example, in the crystallographic structure, S4 is located far away (&gt;30 A) from the pore domain, whereas electrostatic experiments have suggested that S4 is located close (&lt;8 A) to the pore domain in open channels. To test the proposed location and motion of S4 relative to the pore domain, we induced disulphide bonds between pairs of introduced cysteines: one in S4 and one in the pore domain. Several residues in S4 formed a state-dependent disulphide bond with a residue in the pore domain. Our data suggest that S4 is located close to the pore domain in a neighboring subunit. Our data also place constraints on possible models for S4 movement and are not compatible with a recently proposed KvAP model.
Neural stem cells are present not only in the developing nervous systems, but also in the adult central nervous system of mammals, including humans. The mature central nervous system has been traditionally regarded as an unfavorable environment for the regeneration of damaged axons of mature neurons and the generation of new neurons. In the adult central nervous system, however, newly generated neurons from adult neural stem cells in specific regions exhibit a striking ability to migrate, send out long axonal and dendritic projections, integrate into pre-existing neuronal circuits, and contribute to normal brain functions. Adult stem cells with potential neural capacity recently have been isolated from various neural and nonneural sources. Rapid advances in the stem cell biology have raised exciting possibilities of replacing damaged or lost neurons by activation of endogenous neural stem cells and/or transplantation of in vitro-expanded stem cells and/or their neuronal progeny. Before the full potential of adult stem cells can be realized for regenerative medicine, we need to identify the sources of stem cells, to understand mechanisms regulating their proliferation, fate specification, and, most importantly in the case of neuronal lineages, to characterize their functional properties. Equally important, we need to understand the neural development processes in the normal and diseased adult central nervous system environment, which is quite different from the embryonic central nervous system, where neural development has been traditionally investigated. Here we will review some recent progress of adult neural stem cell research that is applicable to developmental neurobiology and also has potential implications in clinical neuroscience.
As aging progresses, there is a decline in the brain's capacity to produce new neurons in the two neurogenic regions, the subventricular zone surrounding the lateral ventricles and the subgranular layer of the hippocampal dentate gyrus. The underlying cause of the declining neurogenesis is unknown, but is presumably related to age-related changes that occur during normal aging of the brain. It is exacerbated by age-related neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Stem cell-based therapy to replace lost and/or damaged cells in the aging brain is currently the focus of intense research. The two most promising approaches involve transplantation of exogenous tissue and promoting proliferation of endogenous cells. However, age-related changes in the brain environment, including elevated oxidative stress and accumulation of protein and lipid by-products, present several unique challenges that must be addressed before cell-based therapy can be used as a viable option. Although progress has been made toward replacement of lost cells and recovery of lost function, there are fundamental issues that need to be addressed for stem cell therapy to be successful in the aging brain. In this review, we focus on recent progresses made toward understand the biology of neural stem cells in the aging brain, as well as progress toward using stem cells to replace cells lost during disease.

The concept of neuronal plasticity is widely used, but seldom defined in the neurosciences. It can signify many different occurrences, such as structural alterations of axons and dendrites (Cotman &amp; Nadler, 1978), behavioural adaptations (Rosenzweig &amp; Bennett, 1996), or physiological changes in synapse formation (Martin et al., 2000) at different stages of health and disease. Although there is such a wealth of research from many disciplines, the neuroanatomical aspects of plasticity are the focus of this paper. It seeks to illuminate the evolution of different concepts of plasticity concerning the structure and circuitry of the central nervous system (CNS). Early modern morphological research on de- and regeneration phenomena in the 19th- and early 20th-century is well documented. These studies, however, almost exclusively concentrated on the peripheral nervous system (PNS). It was one of the major contributions of Santiago Ramn y Cajal (1852-1934), that he applied the concept of regenerative capacities to the CNS. But the term plasticity seemed to have disappeared for about two decades after his death. The ensuing comeback of the expression may be attributed, at least in part, to new neuroanatomical staining and tracing methods. The pursuit of these techniques will serve as a guidepost through varying approaches in different times: It was the 1950s which seemed to spawn the time for new departures in structural investigations of neuronal plasticity.

The initial interpretations of motion phenomena are often in terms of eye movements. It reflects a desire to link an objective expression of motion (of the eyes) with a subjective experience of motion. This approach is examined historically with respect to induced motion, motion aftereffects, visual vertigo, autokinetic effects and stroboscopic motion. All but one of these phenomena were initially observed in the natural environment and they have subsequently been studied under laboratory conditions. Eye movements are not correlated with induced motion, the motion aftereffect, or stroboscopic motion, but they do correspond to the direction and extent of visual vertigo. The extent of apparent visual motion in the autokinetic effect far exceeds that of involuntary eye movements but there might be a weak relation between them. If eye movements are to provide a reasonable account of motion illusions then they should apply to all the contours that are visible. This does apply to visual vertigo, but not to induced motion, the motion aftereffect and stroboscopic motion, all of which involve relative motion in a visible display. The autokinetic phenomenon involves the perception of isolated stimuli, and so interpretations in terms of some internal eye movement signals remain sustainable.
In the February and March 1894 pages of The Lancet and in private letters, Charles Sherrington and Victor Horsley exchanged angry accusations pertaining to primacy of research on the course of the pyramidal fiber tract as determined from studies in monkeys. The polemics appear not to have ended in a manner satisfactory to either one. Moreover, the dispute allegedly led to a remarkable delay in publication of one of Sherrington's major contributions, which pertained to the localization of the motor cortex in apes that was published in 1917. Here we examine the argument in detail including the comments of an intermediary, Professor Rubert Boyce. We also examine the evidence for the supposed delay in publication, and conclude that the account of the delay originated in John Fulton's 1952 obituary of Sherrington, and is not true. We suggest it has become a fable that should no longer be repeated.
Thomas Willis (1621-1675) is regarded as a founder of modern clinical neuroscience. He conceived the word &quot;neurology&quot; and left a body of work that defined mid-seventeenth-century medicine. Recent interpretations of Willis's work have led to a growing appreciation of his significant contributions to paediatric neurology, a speciality founded properly some three centuries after his death. This paper presents abstracts and plates taken from Willis's major published works, together with student notes by John Locke (1632-1704) and Robert Boyle (1627-1691) taken from lectures delivered by Willis in Oxford in the 1660s. The material embraces a wide variety of conditions now managed within modern paediatric neurology and neurodisability. In several cases, these are the first descriptions recorded in the medical literature. Willis fused astute history taking and clinical observation (sometimes supported by subsequent post-mortem studies) into a structured medical intervention. Willis's practice was state of the art, being based on acceptance of Harvey, a traditional Galenic infrastructure, iatrochemistry and Gassendi's &quot;psychology&quot;. Although Willis's discoveries became a cornerstone of modern medical science, his medical practice did not lead to any therapeutic advances. However, up to the mid-eighteenth century his works were internationally accepted for their practical usefulness. The corpus of material left by Willis affords a fascinating insight into the clinical rationale of a seventeenth century physician in his management of paediatric cases.

Neuronal cellular and intracellular membranes are rich in specialized phospholipids that are reservoirs of lipid messengers released by specific phospholipases and stimulated by neurotransmitters, neurotrophic factors, cytokines, membrane depolarization, ion channel activation, etc. Secretory phospholipases A2 may be both intercellular messengers and generators of lipid messengers. The highly networked nervous system includes cells (e.g., astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, microglial cells, endothelial microvascular cells) that extensively interact with neurons; several lipid messengers participate in these interactions. This review highlights modulation of postsynaptic membrane excitability and long-term synaptic plasticity by cyclooxygenase-2-generated prostaglandin E2, arachidonoyldiacylcylglycerol, and arachidonic acid-containing endocannabinoids. The peroxidation of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), a critical component of excitable membranes in brain and retina, is promoted by oxidative stress. DHA is also the precursor of enzyme-derived, neuroprotective docosanoids. The phospholipid platelet-activating factor is a retrograde messenger of long-term potentiation, a modulator of glutamate release, and an upregulator of memory formation. Lipid messengers modulate signaling cascades and contribute to cellular differentiation, function, protection, and repair in the nervous system. Lipidomic neurobiology will advance our knowledge of the brain, spinal cord, retina, and peripheral nerve function and diseases that affect them, and new discoveries on networks of signaling in health and disease will likely lead to novel therapeutic interventions.

Developing neural networks follow common trends such as expression of spontaneous, recurring activity patterns, and appearance of neuromodulation. How these processes integrate to yield mature, behaviorally relevant activity patterns is largely unknown. We examined the integration of serotonergic neuromodulation and its role in the functional organization of the accessible locomotor network in developing zebrafish at behavioral and cellular levels. Locally restricted populations of serotonergic neurons and their projections appeared in the hindbrain and spinal cord of larvae after hatching (approximately day 2). However, 5-HT affected the swimming pattern only from day 4 on, when sustained spontaneous swimming appeared. 5-HT and its agonist quipazine increased motor output by reducing intervals of inactivity, observed behaviorally (by high-speed video) and in recordings from spinal neurons during fictive swimming (by whole-cell current clamp). 5-HT and quipazine had little effect on the properties of the activity periods, such as the duration of swim episodes and swim frequency. Further, neuronal input resistance, rheobasic current, and resting potential were not affected significantly. The 5-HT antagonists methysergide and ketanserin decreased motor output by prolonging the periods of inactivity with little effect on the active swim episode or neuronal properties. Our results suggest that 5-HT neuromodulation is integrated early in development of the locomotor network to increase its output by reducing periods of inactivity with little effect on the activity periods, which in contrast are the main targets of 5-HT neuromodulation in neonatal and adult preparations.
Gonadal steroid hormones play an important role in the proliferation, survival, and activation of neurons. The present study was performed to examine the effects of testosterone and its metabolites on newly proliferated cells in the amygdala of adult male meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus). Treatment with testosterone propionate (TP) in castrated males resulted in plasma testosterone levels similar to males following mating. TP-treated males displayed a significant increase in the density of cells labeled with a cell proliferation marker (BrdU) in the amygdala. Treatment with estradiol benzoate (EB) exerted a similar effect as TP on the density of BrdU-labeled cells, whereas 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) was ineffective. A larger proportion (approximately 44%) of the BrdU-labeled cells in the amygdala displayed a neuronal phenotype, and a lesser percentage (approximately 35%) displayed a glial progenitor phenotype; however, treatment effects were not found in either population of cells. Hormonal effects appeared to be site-specific as no group differences were found in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus or ventromedial hypothalamus. Finally, a time course study indicated that BrdU-labeled cells in the amygdala are present as early as 30 min following an acute injection of BrdU. Together, these data suggest that gonadal steroid hormones influence the number of newly proliferated cells in the amygdala, most likely by acting through an estrogenic mechanism, and these effects may be exerted on locally proliferating progenitors within the amygdala.
Adenosine A1 receptor (A1) protein and mRNA is increased in the nucleus accumbens following repeated cocaine treatment. In spite of this protein up-regulation, A1 agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding was attenuated in accumbens homogenates of rats withdrawn for 3 weeks from 1 week of daily cocaine injections. Cellular subfractionation revealed that the discrepancy between total A1 protein and G protein coupling resulted from a smaller proportion of receptors in the plasma membrane. The decrease in functional receptor in the plasma membrane was further indicated by diminished formation of heteromeric receptor complex consisting of A1 and dopamine D1A receptors. To explore the functional significance of the altered distribution of A1 receptors, at 3 weeks after discontinuing repeated cocaine or saline, animals were injected with cocaine and 45 min later the subcellular distribution of A1 receptors quantified. Whereas a cocaine challenge in repeated saline-treated animals induced a marked increase in membrane localization of the A1 receptor, the relative distribution of receptors in repeated cocaine rats was not affected by acute cocaine. These data suggest that the sorting and recycling of A1 receptors is dysregulated in the nucleus accumbens as the consequence of repeated cocaine administration.
The effects of raised brain lactate levels on neuronal survival following hypoxia or ischemia is still a source of controversy among basic and clinical scientists. We have sought to address this controversy by studying the effects of glucose and lactate on neuronal survival in acute and cultured hippocampal slices. Following a 1-h hypoxic episode, neuronal survival in cultured hippocampal slices was significantly higher if glucose was present in the medium compared with lactate. However, when the energy substrate during the hypoxic period was glucose and then switched to lactate during the normoxic recovery period, the level of cell damage in the CA1 region of organotypic cultures was significantly improved from 64.3 +/- 2.1 to 74.6 +/- 2.1% compared with cultures receiving glucose during and after hypoxia. Extracellular field potentials recorded from the CA1 region of acute slices were abolished during oxygen deprivation for 20 min, but recovered almost fully to baseline levels with either glucose (82.6 +/- 10.0%) or lactate present in the reperfusion medium (108.1 +/- 8.3%). These results suggest that lactate alone cannot support neuronal survival during oxygen deprivation, but a combination of glucose followed by lactate provides for better neuroprotection than either substrate alone.
Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) consisting of the hyperphosphorylated microtubule-associated protein tau are a defining pathological characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Hyperphosphorylation of tau is hypothesized to impair the microtubule stabilizing function of tau, leading to the formation of paired helical filaments and neuronal death. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) has been shown to be one of several kinases that mediate tau hyperphosphorylation in vitro. However, molecular mechanisms underlying overactivation of GSK-3 and its potential linkage to AD-like pathologies in vivo remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate that injection of wortmannin (a specific inhibitor of phosphoinositol-3 kinase) or GF-109203X (a specific inhibitor of protein kinase C) into the left ventricle of rat brains leads to overactivation of GSK-3, hyperphosphorylation of tau at Ser 396/404/199/202 and, most significantly, impaired spatial memory. The effects of wortmannin and GF-109203X are additive. Significantly, specific inhibition of GSK-3 activity by LiCl prevents hyperphosphorylation of tau, and spatial memory impairment resulting from PI3K and PKC inhibition. These results indicate that in vivo inhibition of phosphoinositol-3 kinase and protein kinase C results in overactivation of GSK-3 and tau hyperphosphorylation and support a direct role of GSK-3 in the formation of AD-like cognitive deficits.

Ras-related GTPases of the Rho family, such as RhoA and RhoB, are well-characterised mediators of morphological change in peripheral tissues via their effects on the actin cytoskeleton. We tested the hypothesis that Rho family GTPases are involved in synaptic transmission in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. We show that GTPases are activated by synaptic transmission. RhoA and RhoB were activated by low frequency stimulation, while the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) by high frequency stimulation was associated with specific activation of RhoB via NMDA receptor stimulation. This illustrates that these GTPases are potential mediators of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus, and raises the possibility that RhoB may play a role in plasticity at hippocampal synapses during LTP.
The fundamental process that underlies volume transmission in the brain is the extracellular diffusion of neurotransmitters from release sites to distal target cells. Dopaminergic neurons display a range of activity states, from low-frequency tonic firing to bursts of high-frequency action potentials (phasic firing). However, it is not clear how this activity affects volume transmission on a subsecond time scale. To evaluate this, we developed a finite-difference model that predicts the lifetime and diffusion of dopamine in brain tissue. We first used this model to decode in vivo amperometric measurements of electrically evoked dopamine, and obtained rate constants for release and uptake as well as the extent of diffusion. Accurate predictions were made under a variety of conditions including different regions, different stimulation parameters and with uptake inhibited. Second, we used the decoded rate constants to predict how heterogeneity of dopamine release and uptake sites would affect dopamine concentration fluctuations during different activity states in the absence of an electrode. These simulations show that synchronous phasic firing can produce spatially and temporally heterogeneous concentration profiles whereas asynchronous tonic firing elicits uniform, steady-state dopamine concentrations.
Previous in vitro studies have shown that group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) regulate synaptic glutamate release. The present study used microdialysis to characterize this regulation in vivo in rat nucleus accumbens. Reverse dialysis of the group III mGluR agonist l-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4) decreased, whereas the antagonist (R,S)-alpha-methylserine-O-phosphate (MSOP) increased the extracellular level of glutamate. The decrease by L-AP4 or the increase by MSOP was antagonized by co-administration of MSOP or L-AP4, respectively. Activation of mGluR4a by (1S,3R,4S)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,2,4-tricarboxylic acid or mGluR6 by 2-amino-4-(3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazol-4-yl)butyric acid had no effect on extracellular glutamate. (R,S)-4-Phosphonophenylglycine (PPG), another group III agonist with high affinity for mGluR4/6/8, reduced extracellular glutamate only at high concentrations capable of binding to mGluR7. The increase in extracellular glutamate by MSOP was tetrodotoxin-independent, and resistant to both the L-type and N-type Ca2+ channel blockers. L-AP4 failed to block 30 mm K+-induced vesicular glutamate release. Blockade of glutamate uptake by d,l-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate caused a Ca2+-independent elevation in extracellular glutamate that was reversed by L-AP4. Finally, (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine, an inhibitor of cystine-glutamate antiporters, attenuated the L-AP4-induced reduction in extracellular glutamate. Together, these data indicate that group III mGluRs regulate in vivo extracellular glutamate in the nucleus accumbens by inhibiting non-vesicular glutamate release.
During inflammatory or degenerative processes microglial cells are likely to be exposed to activating agents that persist in brain parenchyma for prolonged periods. As our knowledge on microglial activation is largely based on in vitro studies in which microglial cultures are activated by a single administration of pro-inflammatory stimuli, we investigated the effects of repeated endotoxin (LPS) challenges on microglial functional state. Primary rat microglial cultures were subjected to one, two or three consecutive LPS-stimulation and the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), nitric oxide (NO), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and 15-deoxy-Delta12,14-PGJ2 (15d-PGJ2) measured. The ability of microglial cells to produce NO, TNF-alpha and 15d-PGJ2 upon the first LPS challenge rapidly declined after the second and the third stimulations, whereas PGE2 synthesis remained constantly elevated. Accordingly, the expression of inducible NO synthase decreased whereas cyclooxygenase-2 and microsomal PGE synthase remained up-regulated. The signaling pathways evoked by single or multiple LPS-stimulation were also profoundly different, when considering the activation of the transcription factors nuclear factor-kappa B and CREB, and of the p38 MAPK. Our observations suggest that prolonged exposure to LPS, and likely other activating agents, induces in microglia a functional state clearly distinct from that triggered by acute stimulation. The progressive down-regulation of pro-inflammatory molecules and the sustained release of PGE2 could have important implications for the resolution of brain inflammation.
We use a transgenic mouse model system to elucidate the regulatory regions within the human cholinergic gene locus responsible for vesicular acetylcholine transporter gene expression in vivo. In this report we characterized two transgenes for their ability to confer cholinergic-specific expression of the encoded vesicular acetylcholine transporter. An 11.2 kb transgene (named hV11.2) that spanned from about 5 kb upstream of the start of vesicular acetylcholine transporter translation down to the first choline acetyltransferase coding exon gave expression in the somatomotor neurons and a subpopulation of cholinergic neurons in the medial habenular nucleus. The second transgene (named hV6.7), a 5-prime truncated version of hV11.2 that was devoid of 4.5 kb of gene-regulatory sequences completely lacked vesicular acetylcholine transporter expression in vivo. Our data indicate that vesicular acetylcholine transporter expression in somatomotor neurons and in the medial habenular nucleus is uniquely specified within the cholinergic gene locus, and separable from cholinergic expression elsewhere. The identification of these two subdivisions of the cholinergic nervous system suggests that other cholinergic neurons in the CNS and PNS are similarly regulated by additional discrete domains within the cholinergic gene locus.
Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) activates receptors coupled to cAMP production and calcium influx in pancreatic cells, resulting in enhanced glucose sensitivity and insulin secretion. Despite evidence that the GLP-1 receptor is present and active in neurons, little is known of the roles of GLP-1 in neuronal physiology. As GLP-1 modulates calcium homeostasis in pancreatic beta cells, and because calcium plays important roles in neuronal plasticity and neurodegenerative processes, we examined the effects of GLP-1 on calcium regulation in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. When neurons were pre-treated with GLP-1, calcium responses to glutamate and membrane depolarization were attenuated. Whole-cell patch clamp analyses showed that glutamate-induced currents and currents through voltage-dependent calcium channels were significantly decreased in neurons pre-treated with GLP-1. Pre-treatment of neurons with GLP-1 significantly decreased their vulnerability to death induced by glutamate. Acute application of GLP-1 resulted in a transient elevation of intracellular calcium levels, consistent with the established effects of GLP-1 on cAMP production and activation of cAMP response element-binding protein. Collectively, our findings suggest that, by modulating calcium responses to glutamate and membrane depolarization, GLP-1 may play important roles in regulating neuronal plasticity and cell survival.
Endosulfine (EDSF) belongs to a highly conserved cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein (ARPP) family and was first isolated from ovine brain as a possible endogenous ligand for sulfonylurea receptors. To explore its involvement in brain functions, we investigated regional distribution of alpha-EDSF gene expression in the rat brain, and its regulation under physiological and pathological conditions. The majority of alpha-EDSF gene was expressed in the pyramidal neurons, which represent the principal excitatory neurons in various brain regions. Down-regulation of alpha-EDSF mRNA was detected in the rat hippocampus during long-term memory consolidation following a spatial learning experience, whereas swimming-related stress caused persistent up-regulation of alpha-EDSF gene expression in several brain regions. These changes, however, were absent from brains of diabetic rats that were subjected to the same behavioral treatments. Intracerebroventricular injection of streptozocin with a toxic dose induced severe learning deficits and brain structure alteration accompanied by a massive increase of alpha-EDSF mRNA in the somatosensory cortex. These results suggest that alpha-EDSF gene expression is differentially regulated by distinct brain processes involving excitatory neuronal activities.
The translational activity of the NMDA subunit 1 (NR1) mRNA was examined in the developing rat brain by sucrose gradient fractionation. One translationally-active pool of NR1 mRNA was associated with large polyribosomes (polysomes) over the entire developmental period examined. A second NR1 mRNA pool, approximately half of the NR1 mRNA at post-natal day 4, sedimented only within the two to three ribosome range, indicating that it was translationally blocked during early brain development despite active translation of mRNAs coding for the NR2 subunits of the receptor. At post-natal day 4, both NR1 mRNA pools were distributed throughout the brain and contained similar profiles of NR1 mRNA splice variants, except that NR1-3 appeared to be present only in the translationally-blocked NR1 pool. After post-natal day 8, the translationally-blocked NR1 mRNA pool became progressively active within a background of globally-decreasing brain translational activity.
It has long been known that under intracellular conditions vasopressin associates tightly to neurophysin, which is present in the same prohormone. As the association has been suggested to play a role during hormone biosynthesis, its role was studied in a cellular context by expressing mutant vasopressin precursors in Neuro2A cells. Mutant vasopressin precursors, in which the association between the vasopressin and neurophysin domains was prevented either by deleting the vasopressin domain from the precursor or by substitution of the essential Tyr2 residue in vasopressin for Gly, were neither processed nor targeted into secretory granules. Rather, both provasopressin mutants were retained in the endoplasmic reticulum. Our results demonstrate that the vasopressin domain is crucial for correct trafficking of the prohormone through the secretory pathway, and suggest that vasopressin-neurophysin association provides correct prohormone folding in the endoplasmic reticulum.
Annexin 1 (ANXA1) is a key mediator of the inhibitory effects of glucocorticoids on adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) release, which develop within 1-2 h of a steroid challenge. Our previous studies, which showed that (i) ANXA1 is expressed principally by the nonsecretory folliculo-stellate cells in the pituitary gland; (ii) glucocorticoids cause the exportation of ANXA1 from these cells; and (iii) corticotrophs express specific ANXA1 binding sites, led us to propose that ANXA1 serves as a paracrine or juxtacrine mediator of glucocorticoids. To address this hypothesis, we examined ANXA1-dependent glucocorticoid actions in co-cultures of murine corticotroph (AtT20 clone D1) and folliculo-stellate (TtT/GF) cell lines. ANXA1 mRNA and protein were found in abundance in TtT/GF cells but neither was detectable in the AtT20 cells. AtT20 cells (alone and in co-culture with TtT/GF cells) responded to corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) (0.1-1 micro m) with increased ACTH release. The CRH-stimulated release of ACTH from AtT20 cells cultured alone was unaffected by preincubation with dexamethasone (Dex, 100 nm); by contrast, in co-cultures of AtT20 and TtT/GF cells, the steroid readily inhibited the secretory response to CRH. The effects of Dex on ACTH release were mimicked by N-terminal ANXA1 fragments (ANXA1Ac2-26, 2 micro g/ml and ANXA11-188, 0.1 ng/ml) and reversed by mifepristone (1 micro m) and by an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) to ANXA1 (50 nm) but not by control ODNs. The antisense ODN also specifically blocked the Dex-induced externalization of ANXA1 from TtT/GF cells. Immunofluorescence imaging of the co-cultures localized the exported protein to the vicinity of the AtT20 cells and identified ANXA1 binding sites on these cells. These results provide functional and histological evidence to support our premise that the early inhibitory effects of glucocorticoids on ACTH release are dependent upon paracrine/juxtacrine actions of ANXA1 derived from folliculo-stellate cells.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) coordinates neuroendocrine responses to stressful stimuli; one mechanism through which CRF may modulate hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity is via actions on neuromodulatory systems such as serotonergic systems. Recent electrophysiological studies and the distribution of CRF receptors within midbrain and pontine raph nuclei suggest that stress and CRF may have actions on topographically organized subpopulations of serotonergic neurones. We compared the effects of vehicle or intracerebroventricular r/hCRF injections (0, 0.1, 1 or 10 micro g) in rats previously maintained in home cages or restrained for 1 h, 24 h before injection, on monoamine and monoamine metabolite tissue concentrations in the dorsal (lateral wings, rostral midline, caudal midline), median (rostral, caudal) and interfascicular raph subdivisions of the midbrain and pontine raph nuclei, using brain microdissection and high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. At the lowest dose studied (0.1 micro g), CRF infusions in previously stressed rats decreased 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) concentrations only within the rostral median raph nucleus. At higher doses, CRF infusions in previously stressed rats increased tissue concentrations of 5-HTP, serotonin (5-HT), or the serotonin metabolite, 5-HIAA, within rostral (but not caudal) regions of the median and dorsal raph nuclei. By contrast, restraint stress alone had no effect on tissue concentrations of 5-HTP, 5-HT or 5-HIAA measured 24 h later in any subdivision, while CRF injections in rats not previously exposed to restraint stress, with few exceptions, also had no effect. These results suggest that the effects of CRF on serotonergic function are context-dependent, dose-dependent, and regionally specific within subdivisions of the brainstem raph nuclei.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) provokes a time-dependent sensitization of brain monoamine activity, plasma corticosterone activity and sickness behavior, the latter being reminiscent of septic or anaphylactic shock. In this investigation, bovine serum albumin (BSA) elicited similar corticosterone and sickness profiles, whereas the monoamine changes were not observed. The sensitization elicited by mTNF-alpha plus BSA was markedly greater than that elicited by BSA alone. Carrier-free TNF-alpha promoted the sensitization of brain monoamine activity, but not sickness or corticosterone. It is suggested that mTNF-alpha acts as an adjuvant to the anaphylactic actions elicited by BSA, but may provoke a sensitization of monoamine activity which is time-dependent and varies across brain regions.
Early therapeutic intervention with disease modifying agents in multiple sclerosis (MS) is recommended in an attempt to minimise damage to the central nervous system and improve clinical outcome. Interferon betas (IFN betas) are the most widely used approved therapies for MS at the present time. While optimal dosage and frequency of IFN administration is not fully known, evidence is growing that high-dose, high-frequency IFN beta may be the most effective regimen for controlling clinical activity and minimizing MRI lesion development for at least 1-2 years. Past experience demonstrates that commonly observed side-effects associated with IFN beta injections, such as flu-like symptoms and injection-site reactions, can be markedly reduced through a number of measures. Moreover, the incidence of these side-effects decreases with time. Taking these observations into account, it seems reasonable to consider increasing the maximum approved therapeutic dose of IFN beta-1b (Betaferon/Betaseron) in MS. It has recently been demonstrated that dose escalation of IFN beta-1b combined with pre-medication with ibuprofen enables doses as high as 500 microg every other day to be well tolerated. Further administration of IFN beta-1b (500 microg) in patients with hepatitis C revealed no safety or tolerability concerns, no unexpected or unusual symptoms and no relevant laboratory abnormalities during the 24-week treatment period. It is also noteworthy that the 500 microg dose produced a more marked increase in biological response markers (Mx protein) than that induced by the standard dose of IFN beta-1b, and that other studies have demonstrated similar effects on other such markers. Taken together, the available evidence provides a rationale for using an increased dose of IFN beta-1b in the treatment of MS. This will be investigated further in a new Phase III clinical trial (BEYOND).
Three different interferon beta (IFN beta) products are currently approved for the treatment of patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). However, the recommended method of administration, the dosage and the frequency of administration differ widely between each of the three products. Although controlled clinical trials have demonstrated the efficacy of both alternate-day IFN beta-1b (Betaferon/Betaseron) and once-weekly IFN beta-1a (Avonex) compared with placebo, it is likely that patient compliance, efficacy and tolerability are affected by the dosage regimen used. There are several issues to consider. Once-weekly administration may be associated with fewer adverse events and greater convenience, and it has been suggested that this may increase compliance. Conversely, frequent administration may be associated with increased overall efficacy. There is a convincing pharmacological rationale indicating that frequent dosing, with an interval of less than 72 h, is necessary to sustain the activity of intracellular molecular signalling pathways responsible for regulating IFN beta-induced gene expression. However, there was a need to explore the overall effectiveness of the two administration protocols in a comparative trial. The INCOMIN (Independent Comparison of Interferon) study compared clinical and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) efficacy of IFN beta-1b 250 microg (8 MIU) subcutaneously (s.c.) on alternate days and IFN beta-1a 30 microg (6 MIU) intramuscularly (i.m.) once weekly in patients with RRMS. INCOMIN demonstrated convincingly that clinical and MRI outcome measures were significantly better in the IFN beta-1b-treated group. Blinded MRI evaluation confirmed the clinical results. Despite some limitations of the study design, imposed by the ethical and practical challenges of conducting comparative trials of injectable therapies, the concordance of the clinical and MRI findings indicate that frequently administered IFN beta-1b reduced evidence of disease activity more effectively than once-weekly administered IFN beta-1a, with the clinical benefits for patients becoming more pronounced over time. Given that the response to IFN beta appears to be dose dependent, the question that might be asked is whether greater efficacy can be obtained by increasing doses beyond those currently approved. OPTIMS (Optimization of Interferon dose for MS) is currently examining the safety and efficacy of a dose of IFN beta-1b that is higher than any currently marketed IFN beta. While OPTIMS is still underway, preliminary safety analyses indicate that higher doses are well tolerated.


The formation of Lewy bodies (LBs) and their relationship to other types of nigral inclusions associated with Parkinson disease (PD), such as pale bodies (PBs), remain poorly understood. Known constituents of LBs include alpha-synuclein (alphaS) and ubiquitin (Ub), providing windows to their morphogenesis. Additionally, p62/sequestosome 1 has been identified as a common component of neuropathological and hepatocytic inclusions. To study the formation of PD-associated nigral inclusions, we analyzed the substantia nigra of cases with abundant LBs and PBs in hematoxylin and eosin (H&amp;E) stain, using immunohistochemistry for alphaS, Ub, and p62. We found morphologically diverse alphaS-immunoreactive deposits within neuronal perikarya and neurites. Perikaryal types extended from punctate cytoplasmic staining to variform compact (i.e. PB-type and LB-type) inclusions. Using H&amp;E, only a small subset of the compact deposits could be unambiguously identified. Labeling for p62 was highly similar to alphaS in compact perikaryal inclusions, whereas no punctate staining or intraneuritic inclusions were detected. Ubiquitin antibodies labeled compact deposits both within perikarya and neurites. The data suggest that pathological alphaS is first evident as punctate perikaryal material that, via coalescence and incorporation of p62 and Ub, yields PB-type structures from which LB-type inclusions form in a compaction-like manner. The results also point at dissimilarities in the formation of perikaryal vs intraneuritic inclusions.
High frequency stimulation (HFS) (130 Hz) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) provides beneficial effects in patients suffering from severe parkinsonism, but the mechanisms underlying these clinical results remain to be clarified. To date, very little is known concerning the effects of STN-HFS on neurochemical transmission in the different basal ganglia nuclei and in particular the striatum. This study examines the effects of STN-HFS in intact and hemiparkinsonian rats on extracellular striatal glutamate (Glu) and GABA levels by means of intracerebral microdialysis. Unilateral STN-HFS was found to induce a significant bilateral increase of striatal Glu and GABA both in intact and in dopamine-lesioned animals. In intact rats, these increases were reversed by local administration of the D1 antagonist SCH 23390, but were potentiated by the D2 antagonist sulpiride. Potentiation was also observed after local administration of both D1 and D2 antagonists whose amplitude was similar to that measured in hemiparkinsonian rats. These data furnish the first evidence that STN-HFS influences striatal amino-acid transmission and that this influence is modulated by dopamine. They provide evidence that the effects of STN-HFS are not only restricted to the direct STN targets, but also involve adaptive changes within other structures of the basal ganglia circuitry.
A deviation from the dorsal-side-up body posture in quadrupeds activates the mechanisms for postural corrections. Operation of these mechanisms was studied in the rabbit maintaining balance on a platform periodically tilted in the frontal plane. First, we characterized the kinematics and electromyographic (EMG) patterns of postural responses to tilts. It was found that a reaction to tilt includes an extension of the limbs on the side moving down and flexion on the opposite side. These limb movements are primarily due to a modulation of the activity of extensor muscles. Second, it was found that rabbits can effectively maintain the dorsal-side-up body posture when complex postural stimuli are applied, i.e., asynchronous tilts of the platforms supporting the anterior and posterior parts of the body. These data suggest that the nervous mechanisms controlling positions of these parts of the body can operate independently of each other. Third, we found that normally the somatosensory input plays a predominant role for the generation of postural responses. However, when the postural response appears insufficient to maintain balance, the vestibular input contributes considerably to activation of postural mechanisms. We also found that an asymmetry in the tonic vestibular input, caused by galvanic stimulation of the labyrinths, can affect the stabilized body orientation while the magnitude of postural responses to tilts remains unchanged. Fourth, we found that the mechanisms for postural corrections respond only to tilts that exceed a certain (threshold) value.
Signaling via the p42/p44 mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway has been implicated as an intermediate event coupling light to entrainment of the mammalian circadian clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). To examine how photic input dynamically regulates the activation state of the MAPK pathway, we monitored extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activation using different light stimulus paradigms. Compared with control animals not exposed to light, a 15 min light exposure during the early night triggered a marked increase in ERK activation and the translocation of ERK from the cytosol to the nucleus. ERK activation peaked 15 min after light onset, then returned to near basal levels within approximately 45 min. The MAPK pathway could be reactivated multiple times by light pulses spaced 45 min apart, indicating that the MAPK cascade rapidly resets and resolves individual light pulses into discrete signaling events. Under conditions of constant light (120 min), the time course for ERK activation, nuclear translocation, and inactivation was similar to the time course observed after a 15-min light treatment. The parallels between the ERK inactivation profiles elicited by a 15 and a 120 min light exposure suggest that SCN cells contain a MAPK pathway signal-termination mechanism that limits the duration of pathway activation. This concept was supported by the observation that the small G protein Ras, a regulator of the MAPK pathway, remained in the active, GTP-bound, state under conditions of constant light (120-min duration), indicating that photic information was relayed to the SCN and that SCN cells maintained their responsiveness for the duration of the light treatment. The SCN expressed both nuclear MAPK phosphatases (MKP-1 and MKP-2) and the cytosolic MAPK phosphatase Mkp-3, thus providing mechanisms by which light-induced ERK activation is terminated. Collectively, these observations provide important new information regarding the regulation of the MAPK cascade, a signaling intermediate that couples light to resetting of the SCN clock.
Previous behavioral work, using a complex five-odorant identification task, demonstrated that olfactory marker protein (OMP) is critically involved in odor processing to the extent that its loss results in an alteration in odorant quality perception. Exactly how the lack of OMP exerts its influence on the perception of odorant quality is unknown. However, there is considerable neurophysiological evidence that different odorants produce different spatiotemporal patterns of neural activity at the level of the mucosa and that these patterns predict the psychophysically determined perceptual relationship among odorants. In this respect, OMP gene deletion is known to result in a constellation of physiologic defects (i.e., marked reduction in the electroolfactogram (EOG) and altered response and recovery kinetics) that would be expected to alter the odorant-induced spatiotemporal activity patterns that are characteristic of different odorants. This, in turn, would be expected to alter the spatiotemporal patterning of information that results from the mucosal projection onto the bulb, thereby changing odorant quality perception. To test the hypothesis that odorant-induced mucosal activity patterns are altered in mice lacking the gene for OMP, we optically recorded the fluorescent changes in response to odorant stimulation from both the septum and turbinates of both OMP-null and control mice using a voltage-sensitive dye (di-4-ANEPPS Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR) and a Dalsa 120 x 120, 12-bit CCD camera. To maintain continuity with the previous behavioral work, the odorants 2-propanol, citral, carvone, ethylacetoacetate, and propyl acetate were again used. Each odorant was randomly presented to each mucosal surface in a Latin-Square design. The results of this study demonstrated that, for both mouse strains, there do indeed exist different spatiotemporal activity patterns for different odorants. More importantly, however, these patterns significantly differed between OMP-null and control mice. That is, although the general regions of characteristic activity for different odorants were the same in both mouse strains, the patterns in the null animals were degraded relative to controls. These data suggest therefore that the alterations in mucosal activity may serve as the substrate for the behaviorally observed changes in odorant quality perception in the null mutant.
Fast oscillations in the beta (15-40 Hz in awake rats) and gamma (50-100 Hz) frequency ranges are prominent in field potentials induced by odorants in the mammalian olfactory bulb (OB) and piriform cortex (PC). Whereas the gamma oscillation has been studied for &gt;50 yr, the beta oscillation has attracted attention only recently, and its origin, mechanism, and relationship to gamma are unknown. To address these questions, we have examined responses induced by odorants in the urethane-anesthetized rat-a preparation well-suited for the analysis of mechanisms. We found that both oscillations could be induced by odorants in a concentration-dependent manner. Analysis with a concentration series and spectral methods revealed that the beta and gamma oscillations were distinct and not harmonically related, indicating generation by independent mechanisms. The beta oscillation was synchronous at sites &lt; or =4 mm apart in the OB, the greatest distance tested. In contrast, the gamma oscillation was synchronous in some experiments and asynchronous in others (frequency differed slightly at different sites, resulting in progressive phase shifts). Current source-density analysis indicated that, for both oscillations, the field potentials in the OB were generated by synaptic currents in granule cells. The two oscillations were differently affected by surgical interruption of the lateral olfactory tract. This lesion abolished the beta oscillation, whereas the gamma oscillation was still induced in the OB. Our results confirm previous reports that the gamma oscillation is generated within the OB but indicate that the beta oscillation requires the participation of PC.
Between 3.6 and 6% of the population harbour an unruptured intracranial aneurysm. Risk of rupture is related to aneurysm site and size and whether or not the patient has already had a subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) from another aneurysm. In ISUIA 2, the rupture rate for anterior circulation aneurysms&lt;7mm was 0% per year in patients with no prior SAH, and 0.3% per year in patients with previous SAH; 7-12mm aneurysms, 0.5% per year (both groups); 13-24mm aneurysms, 3% per year; and giant aneurysms 8% per year. Rupture rate for posterior circulation aneurysms is higher at all sizes:&lt;7mm was 0.5% per year in subjects with no prior SAH, 0.7% in those with prior SAH; 7-12mm, 3% per year; 13-24mm, 3.7% per year; and giant aneurysms, 10% per year. Non-invasive tests like contrast enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and multislice computed tomographic angiography (CTA) are alternatives to intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography (IADSA) to detect aneurysms. Although these are promising techniques, the quality of data testing their accuracy remains limited and single slice CTA and time-of-flight MRA are poorer at detecting aneurysms&lt;5mm diameter, which account for up to 1/3 of unruptured aneurysms. For ruptured aneurysms, the only large scale randomised controlled trial comparing surgical and endovascular treatment (ISAT) by coiling, resulted in an absolute 8.8% reduction (updated figure as of June 2003 for 1888 patients) in death or dependency at 1 year compared with surgical clipping. For unruptured aneurysms, the best available data so far comparing coiling and clipping is from the prospective (but non-randomised) arm of ISUIA. Elective surgical clipping had combined morbidity and mortality at 1 year of 12.2% versus 9.5% for coiling, although the groups were not matched with more high risk patients in the endovascular treatment cohort. Nevertheless these data are encouraging for future randomised trials of elective coiling versus clipping for asymptomatic aneurysms, in particular as the unproven long-term durability of coiling treatment and the fact that complete aneurysm occlusion is not always achieved remain obstacles to its wider use in unruptured aneurysms. There is an increased risk of SAH in relatives of patients with SAH (highest in those with two or more first degree relatives affected), but most SAH is sporadic and therefore the balance of available evidence indicates that mass screening for aneurysms is not cost effective. There may be a limited role for investigation of high-risk subgroups and ideally such screening should be tested in a randomised trial. The avoidance and active management of vascular risk factors should also be part of the management of at risk subjects.
Although the BIS monitor is relatively new to the intensive care setting, it can be a very beneficial tool in monitoring neurological patients. Having minute-to-minute indicators and reassurance of adequate sedation in the neuromuscular-blockaded patient enables neuroscience nurses to provide better care. More timely and current measurements of pentobarbital serum levels can help reduce and prevent life-threatening complications in this patient population. Much research has been done on its use, and further research is needed into the monitor's many uses.
The central nervous system reserves high concentrations of free Zn(2+) in certain excitatory synaptic vesicles. In pathological conditions such as transient cerebral ischemia, traumatic brain injury, and kainic acid (KA)-induced seizure, free Zn(2+) is released in excess at synapses, which causes neuronal and glial death. We report here that glutathione (GSH) can be used as an effective means for protection of neural cells from Zn(2+)-induced cell death in vitro and in vivo. Chronic treatment with 35 microM Zn(2+) led to death of primary cortical neurons and primary astrocytes. The Zn(2+) toxicity of cortical neurons was partially protected by 1 mM of GSH, whereas the Zn(2+) toxicity of primary astrocyte cultures was blocked completely by 100 microM of GSH. To evaluate the beneficial effects of GSH in vivo, an excitotoxin-induced neural cell death model was established by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of 0.94 nmol (0.2 microg) KA, which produced selective neuronal death, especially in CA1 and CA3 hippocampal regions. The i.c.v. co-injection of 200 pmol of GSH significantly attenuated KA-induced neuronal cell death and reactive gliosis in hippocampus. The results of this study suggest the contribution of Zn(2+) in the excitotoxin-induced neural cell death model and a potential value of GSH as a therapeutic means against Zn(2+)-induced pathogenesis in brain.
To elucidate the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors during the early stage of cerebral neocortical development, we investigated the effect of an NMDA receptor antagonist, D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-APV), on cell migration and proliferation in slice cultures and dissociated primary cultures prepared from rat cerebral neocortex at embryonic Day 17. Pulse-labeling experiments with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) showed that chronic exposure to D-APV in slices delayed neuronal migration. Calcium imaging experiments revealed that functional NMDA receptors were expressed in neurons and the treatment with D-APV delayed neuronal maturation judging from the subunit composition of NMDA receptor subtypes. The results using pulse-labeling with BrdU indicated that exposure to D-APV for 3 days induced a clear increase in the number of proliferating progenitor cells in the ventricular zone in neocortical slices. Exposure to D-APV in primary cultures also increased the proliferation of progenitor cells. The effect of D-APV on progenitor cell proliferation was possibly mediated through neuronal cells. To elucidate the mechanism of enhanced progenitor cell proliferation induced by D-APV, we investigated expression of Hes1 and Hes5 mRNA in the ventricular zone of neocortical slices by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Tissue exposed to D-APV for 3 days showed higher expression of Hes1 and Hes5 mRNA than did unexposed control tissue. These results suggest that NMDA receptors expressed in neurons function in neuronal migration and maturation and in the proliferation of progenitor cells.

The capacity of Schwann cells (SCs) in the peripheral nervous system to support axonal regeneration, in contrast to the oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system, has led to the misconception that peripheral nerve regeneration always restores function. Here, we consider how prolonged periods of time that injured neurons remain without targets during axonal regeneration (chronic axotomy) and that SCs in the distal nerve stumps remain chronically denervated (chronic denervation) progressively reduce the number of motoneurons that regenerate their axons. We demonstrate the effectiveness of low-dose, brain-derived neurotrophic and glial-derived neurotrophic factors to counteract the effects of chronic axotomy in promoting axonal regeneration. High-dose brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on the other hand, acting through the p75 receptor, inhibits axonal regeneration and may be a factor in stopping regenerating axons from forming neuromuscular connections in skeletal muscle. The immunophilin, FK506, is also effective in promoting axonal regeneration after chronic axotomy. Chronic denervation of SCs (&gt;1 month) severely deters axonal regeneration, although the few motor axons that do regenerate to reinnervate muscles become myelinated and form enlarged motor units in the reinnervated muscles. We found that in vitro incubation of chronically denervated SCs with transforming growth factor-beta re-established their growth-supportive phenotype in vivo, consistent with the idea that the interaction between invading macrophages and denervated SCs during Wallerian degeneration is essential to sustain axonal regeneration by promoting the growth-supportive SC phenotype. Finally, we consider the effectiveness of a brief period of 20 Hz electrical stimulation in promoting the regeneration of axons across the surgical gap after nerve repair.
Evidence suggests that CART (cocaine-amphetamine regulated transcript) peptides are mediators or modulators of the actions of psychostimulant drugs. In this study, the effects of intra-accumbal injections of rat long form (rl) CART 55-102 were examined. Injection of the peptide alone had no effect, but pretreatment with the peptide blunted or reduced the locomotor-inducing effects of cocaine after an i.p. injection. This effect was dose related and time limited, as expected. rlCART 1-27, a CART peptide fragment not active in other studies, was without effect on cocaine-induced locomotor activity. Because the actions of cocaine involve dopamine, the effect of rlCART 55-102 on dopamine-induced locomotor activity was examined. Intraaccumbal injection of dopamine produced a dose-related and time-limited increase in locomotor activity, as expected. Coinjection of rlCART 55-102 with dopamine blunted the effect. In summary, these data suggest that CART peptides in the nucleus accumbens would tend to oppose the actions of cocaine.
Vagal mechanoreceptors to the guinea-pig oesophagus, recorded extracellularly, in vitro, fired spontaneously at 3.3 +/- 0.2 Hz, (n = 75, from 57 animals), and had low thresholds to circumferential stretch. In this study, we have investigated whether mechanotransduction by intraganglionic laminar endings (IGLEs) directly relies on mechano-gated ion channels, or whether it is due to chemical activation by neurotransmitters (glutamate or ATP) released from other cells during mechanical distortion. Rapid distortion of focal transduction sites (IGLEs) evoked action potentials with a latency of &lt; 10 ms. Antagonists to ionotropic (AP5, memantine and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX)) and metabotropic glutamate receptors (N-phenyl-7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxamide (PHCCC) and (RS)-a-methyl-4-phosphono-phenylglycine (MPPG)) did not affect mechano-transduction. Glutamate, NMDA and the selective mGluR group II and III agonists, (2R, 4R)-APDC and L-AP4, had no effect on spontaneous or stretch-induced firing. The P2X purinoreceptor agonist, alpha,beta-methylene ATP, caused concentration-dependent excitation of vagal mechanoreceptors (EC50 = 22.2 microM) which was blocked by the non-selective P2 antagonist PPADS (30 microM). On its own, PPADS affected neither stretch-induced firing nor spontaneous firing. Neither Ca(2+)-free solution (1 mM EDTA, 3.6 mM Mg(2+)) solution nor Cd(2+) (100 microM) blocked stretch-induced firing. Thus chemical transmission is not involved in activation of vagal mechanoreceptors. The blocker of stretch-activated channels, Gd(3+) (300 microM), did not inhibit stretch-induced firing. However, benzamil (100 microM) significantly inhibited spontaneous and distension-evoked firing in a stretch-dependent manner; proportionally greater inhibition was seen with larger stretches. The results suggest that IGLEs of vagal tension receptors directly transduce mechanical stimuli probably via benzamil-sensitive, Gd3+-insensitive, stretch-activated ion channels, and that chemical transmission is not involved in transduction.
In the present study we investigate whether alterations of sleep propensity or of wake propensity are implicated in sleep initiation disturbances encountered in major depressive insomnia and in primary insomnia. For this purpose, the time course of electroencephalogram (EEG) power density during the period preceding sleep onset and during the first non-rapid eye movement (REM) period was examined in three age and gender matched groups of 10 women and 11 men (healthy controls, primary insomniacs and depressive insomniacs). In contrast to healthy controls and depressive insomniacs, patients with primary insomnia did not experience a gradual decrease of their alpha and beta1 power during the sleep onset period and had a lower delta activity in the 5 min preceding sleep onset. Compared with the two other groups, depressive patients exhibit less dynamic changes in slow wave activity during the first non-REM period. The present results suggest that hyperarousal (high 'Process W') may mainly be implicated in the sleep initiation difficulties of primary insomniacs whereas the homeostatic sleep regulation process seems to be partially maintained. In our major depressed patients, the sleep initiation disturbances appeared to relate to a lower sleep pressure (low 'Process S') rather than to hyperarousal. This study supports the idea that different mechanisms are implicated in sleep disturbances experienced by primary insomniacs and major depressive insomniacs.
The levels of some pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines [interleukin (IL)-1beta, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, IL-6, IL-10, and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta], were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method in the plasma of patients affected by obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) at 22:00 hours before polysomnographic recording and immediately after the first obstructive apnea causing an SaO2 below 85%. Significantly higher levels of TNF-alpha were found in OSAS patients assessed before polysomnography compared with the control group (P &lt; 0.01). A slight but significant increase in the plasma levels of IL-6 was also present (P &lt; 0.05). Conversely, a significant decrease in the plasma levels of IL-10 was evident at baseline in OSAS patients (P &lt; 0.04). No significant difference emerged between the mean values of IL-1alpha and TGF-beta between OSAS patients and controls. The present data support a prevailing activation of the Th1-type cytokine pattern in OSAS patients, which is not associated with the severity and duration of OSAS. This can have important consequences for the outcome of OSAS patients, especially with regard to the increased risk for developing atherosclerosis and cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. Immediately after the first obstructive apnea causing an SaO2 &lt;85%, a significant variation was observed in the plasma levels of TNF-alpha in OSAS patients compared with those measured before the beginning of polysomnographic recording (P &lt; 0.001). The role played by this further increase in TNF-alpha levels after the obstructive apnea in OSAS patients remains to be established in the light of the pathogenic mechanisms of this sleep disorder.
Previous studies that have quantified fatigue-related cognitive impairment as blood alcohol concentration (BAC) equivalents have been limited by two issues: the effect of practice on tests of cognition and, more importantly, the statistic used to quantify change in cognitive performance. The current study addressed these issues by adopting an ABACA design, which allowed for the adequate control of practice effects, and by using effect size metrics, which enabled direct comparisons to be made in performance impairments as a result of fatigue (i.e. sustained wakefulness of 24 h) and alcohol (i.e. BAC of 0.05%). Cognitive performance under the fatigue and alcohol conditions required the use of the CogState battery. It was demonstrated that fatigue caused greater impairment than alcohol on the speed of continuous attention and memory and learning, and on the accuracy of complex matching. Alcohol was more detrimental than fatigue only on the accuracy of memory and learning. Performances on the remaining tasks were the same for both the fatigue and alcohol conditions. These differences and similarities in performance impairment are discussed emphasizing the deleterious cognitive effects of relatively short periods of sustained wakefulness.


We present a framework aimed to reveal directed interactions of activated brain areas using time-resolved fMRI and vector autoregressive (VAR) modeling in the context of Granger causality. After describing the underlying mathematical concepts, we present simulations helping to characterize the conditions under which VAR modeling and Granger causality can reveal directed interactions from fluctuations in BOLD-like signal time courses. We apply the proposed approach to a dynamic sensorimotor mapping paradigm. In an event-related fMRI experiment, subjects performed a visuomotor mapping task for which the mapping of two stimuli (&quot;faces&quot; vs &quot;houses&quot;) to two responses (&quot;left&quot; or &quot;right&quot;) alternated periodically between the two possible mappings. Besides expected activity in sensory and motor areas, a fronto-parietal network was found to be active during presentation of a cue indicating a change in the stimulus-response (S-R) mapping. The observed network includes the superior parietal lobule and premotor areas. These areas might be involved in setting up and maintaining stimulus-response associations. The Granger causality analysis revealed a directed influence exerted by the left lateral prefrontal cortex and premotor areas on the left posterior parietal cortex.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has rapidly become the most widely used imaging method for studying brain functions in humans. This is a result of its extreme flexibility of use and of the astonishingly detailed spatial and temporal information it provides. Nevertheless, until very recently, the study of the auditory system has progressed at a considerably slower pace compared to other functional systems. Several factors have limited fMRI research in the auditory field, including some intrinsic features of auditory functional anatomy and some peculiar interactions between fMRI technique and audition. A well known difficulty arises from the high intensity acoustic noise produced by gradient switching in echo-planar imaging (EPI), as well as in other fMRI sequences more similar to conventional MR sequences. The acoustic noise interacts in an unpredictable way with the experimental stimuli both from a perceptual point of view and in the evoked hemodynamics. To overcome this problem, different approaches have been proposed recently that generally require careful tailoring of the experimental design and the fMRI methodology to the specific requirements posed by the auditory research. The novel methodological approaches can make the fMRI exploration of auditory processing much easier and more reliable, and thus may permit filling the gap with other fields of neuroscience research. As a result, some fundamental neural underpinnings of audition are being clarified, and the way sound stimuli are integrated in the auditory gestalt are beginning to be understood.
Noninvasive cognitive neuroimaging studies based on functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) are of ever-increasing importance for basic and clinical neurosciences. The explanatory power of fMRI could be greatly expanded, however, if the pattern of the neuronal circuitry underlying functional activation could be made visible in an equally noninvasive manner. In this study, blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD)-based fMRI and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) were performed in the same cat visual cortex, and the foci of fMRI activation utilized as seeding points for 3D DTI fiber reconstruction algorithms, thus providing the map of the axonal circuitry underlying visual information processing. The methods developed in this study will lay the foundation for in vivo neuroanatomy and the ability for noninvasive longitudinal studies of brain development.
The microphthalmia-associated transcription factor (Mitf) is a basic-helix-loop-helix-leucine zipper (bHLH-ZIP) transcription factor essential for the development and function of all melanin-producing pigment cells in vertebrates. To elucidate the evolutionary history of Mitf and the antiquity of its association with pigment cells, we have isolated and characterized HrMitf, a sole member of the Mitf-TFE bHLH-ZIP subfamily in the ascidian Halocynthia roretzi. Maternal HrMitf mRNA is detected in the fertilized egg and in the animal hemisphere from 4-cell stage through the gastrula stage. From the neurula through the early tailbud stage, HrMitf is preferentially expressed in the pigment-lineage cells that express the lineage-specific melanogenesis genes tyrosinase (HrTyr) and Tyrp. Overexpression of HrMitf induced ectopic expression of HrTyr enzyme activity in mesenchymal cells where the same enzyme activity was induced by overexpression of HrPax3/7, suggesting that a part(s) of the Pax3-Mitf-tyrosinase gene regulatory cascade seen in vertebrate melanocytes is operative during ascidian embryogenesis. We also show HrMitf and mouse Mitf-A, a Mitf isoform abundantly expressed in pigmented epithelial cells, share similar functional characteristics. These results suggest antiquity of the association of the Mitf-TFE subfamily with pigment cells and may support the idea that acquisition of multiple promoters (isoforms) by an ancestral Mitf gene has allowed the evolution of multiple pigment cell types.


Synaptic vesicle (SV) proteins are synthesized at the level of the cell body and transported down the axon in membrane precursors of SVs. To investigate the mechanisms underlying sorting of proteins to SVs, fluorescent chimeras of vesicle-associated membrane protein (VAMP) 2, its highly homologous isoform VAMP1 and synaptotagmin I (SytI) were expressed in hippocampal neurons in culture. Interestingly, the proteins displayed a diffuse component of distribution along the axon. In addition, VAMP2 was found to travel in vesicles that constitutively fuse with the plasma membrane. Coexpression of VAMP2 with synaptophysin I (SypI), a major resident of SVs, restored the correct sorting of VAMP2 to SVs. The effect of SypI on VAMP2 sorting was dose dependent, being reversed by increasing VAMP2 expression levels, and highly specific, because the sorting of the SV proteins VAMP1 and SytI was not affected by SypI. The cytoplasmic domain of VAMP2 was found to be necessary for both the formation of VAMP2-SypI hetero-dimers and for VAMP2 sorting to SVs. These data support a role for SypI in directing the correct sorting of VAMP2 in neurons and demonstrate that a direct interaction between the two proteins is required for SypI in order to exert its effect.
The antidepressant-sensitive L-norepinephrine (NE) transporter (NET;SLC6A2) is a critical determinant of neurotransmitter inactivation following NE release at synapses. Although regulated trafficking of NET has been documented in transfected cells, a lack of reagents suitable for reporting native NET surface exposition has limited validation of this concept in neurons. In the current report, we document the utility of a novel antibody (43408) directed at conserved sequences in the NET second extracellular loop. Using human NET (hNET) stably transfected cells, we document loss of NET surface expression following acute (30 min) phorbol ester treatments. In superior cervical ganglion (SCG) cultures, NET surface expression is prominent on varicosities defined by FM1-43 labeling of living neurons or synaptophysin labeling of fixed preparations. Moreover, NET surface density can be rapidly augmented by brief depolarization (5 min, 40 mM K(+)). Similarly, in brainstem cultures, we demonstrate an increase in NET surface labeling following either depolarization or angiotensin II stimulation. These findings provide the first evidence for regulated trafficking of NET in neurons and support the suggestion that activity-dependent NET trafficking may provide additional modulatory capacity for noradrenergic signaling.
The neural scar that forms after injury to the mammalian central nervous system is a barrier to sprouting and regenerating axons. In addition to reactive astrocytes that are present throughout the lesion site, leptomeningeal fibroblasts invade the lesion core. When isolated in vitro, these cells form a very poor substrate for growing neurites, even more so than reactive astrocytes. Nevertheless the molecular mechanisms involved in this growth inhibition are not well understood. Semaphorins have been reported to be upregulated in meningeal cells (MCs) on mechanical injury to the brain and spinal cord. In the present study, we show that Sema3A mRNA and active protein are produced by cultured meningeal cells. A protein extract from these cells induces the collapse of embryonic dorsal root ganglion (DRG) growth cones. This collapsing activity is partially blocked by neuropilin-1 antibodies and is absent in meningeal cells derived from Sema3A-knockout mice. In addition to growth cone collapse, recombinant Sema3A but not Sema3C inhibits neurite outgrowth of embryonic DRGs. Consistent with this result we find that the inhibitory effect of meningeal cells on neurite outgrowth is partially overcome on Sema3A-deficient MCs. Furthermore we show that the inhibitory effect of MC-derived Sema3A on neurite outgrowth is modulated by nerve growth factor. Our results show that Sema3A, a chemorepellent during nervous system development, is a major neurite growth-inhibitory molecule in meningeal fibroblasts and is therefore likely to contribute to the inhibitory properties of the neural scar.
The vertebrate cerebellum is divided into a characteristic set of 13 parasagittal &quot;bands&quot; or modules that are revealed in many different domains-ranging from patterns of gene and protein expression to the organization of afferent input. We have used the expression of Zebrin II/aldolase C in Purkinje cells as a marker of these bands and have discovered several new features of their regulation. We find that appearance of the banded expression of aldolase C during development differs between rat and mouse. In agreement with previous reports there is, in rat, a transient period during which all Purkinje cells are positive for aldolase C expression. By contrast, in mouse, the pattern emerges in its adult (banded) form from the earliest postnatal times. This species difference is found in both mRNA and protein expression. There also appears to be a transition that occurs in vivo between postnatal days 8 and 10. Slice cultures established from cerebella at the younger age do not develop a complete banding pattern, even after 6 days in culture. Slice cultures established from postnatal day 10 mice develop the full pattern within 2 days. This difference cannot be overcome by manipulating the levels of neuronal activity in the cultures. Thus some event must occur in vivo that &quot;releases&quot; the adult pattern and allows it to be realized in the more artificial situation of the slice culture. Taken together the results offer a more complete picture of the regulation of the aldolase C gene in cerebellar Purkinje cells and suggest important species differences in its developmental expression pattern.
Neonatal motoneurons (MNs) die rapidly after axotomy, a response that is mediated by the pro-apoptotic gene Bax and is followed by a mitochondria-mediated apoptotic cascade. Although motoneurons in neonatal Bax-deficient mice fail to degenerate following axotomy, it has not been previously examined whether the rescued MNs can regenerate following injury. We report here that although spinal MNs in Bax-knockout (Bax-KO) mice survive indefinitely, they undergo severe atrophy by 14 days after axotomy. By 1 month following axotomy, MN regeneration was observed and cellular atrophy was partially reversed. Interestingly, we observed that all MNs, including those previously rescued from normal developmental cell death in the embryo by Bax deletion, exhibit a regenerative response to peripheral nerve injury. The regenerative response may be mediated by specific trophic factors because the expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) was greatly increased in the proximal stump of injured nerves and application of a GDNF-blocking antibody greatly reduced regeneration/regrowth of rescued MNs in Bax-KO mice. These results indicate that MNs rescued from developmental or injury-induced cell death by Bax deletion have the potential to regenerate or regrow in response to nerve-derived signals following neonatal axotomy.
Neurons within the olfactory system undergo functional turnover throughout life. This process of cell death and compensatory neurogenesis requires feedback between neuronal populations of different developmental ages. We examined the role of NT-3 in this process. NT-3 was localized within both the olfactory bulb and olfactory epithelium. Mice null for NT-3 showed increased numbers of immature neurons, without change in the number of mature neurons. This was due to compensatory alterations in apoptosis of mature and immature neuronal populations. Using a primary olfactory neuronal culture, NT-3 was found to directly activate the PI3K/Akt pathway and indirectly activate the MAPK and PLC pathways. Activated PI3K/Akt promoted mature neuronal survival and induced the release of secondary factors, which activated the MAPK and PLC pathways to reduce neuronal precursor proliferation and inhibit neuronal maturation. These effects of NT-3 serve to maintain homeostasis between neuronal populations within the olfactory epithelium.
Fe65 is a neuronal adaptor protein that binds a number of ligands and which functions in both gene transcription/nuclear signalling and in the regulation of cell migration and motility. These different functions within the nucleus and at the cell surface are mediated via Fe65's different binding partners. An Fe65/APP/TIP60 complex is transcriptionally active within the nucleus and an Fe65/APP/Mena complex probably regulates actin dynamics in lamellipodia. The mechanisms that regulate these different Fe65 functions are unclear. Here, we demonstrate that Fe65 is a phosphoprotein and, using mass spectrometry sequencing, identify for the first time in vivo phosphorylation sites in Fe65. We also show that Fe65 is a substrate for phosphorylation by the mitogen-activated protein kinases ERK1/2. Our results provide a mechanism by which Fe65 function may be modulated to fulfil its various roles.
The rate of adult neurogenesis fluctuates in response to several environmental factors. Chronic stress, which can lead to neuronal apoptosis and dendritic atrophy, certainly affects the overall rate of neurogenesis in the adult brain. Depression, which arises from several causes, including chronically stressful situations, is known to correlate with altered hippocampal morphology. But is the link between depression and neuronal regeneration merely coincidental? Recent studies indicate that ingestion of antidepressants leads to increased neurogenesis in the hippocampus. However, the hippocampus is generally thought important for learning and memory-not for &quot;mood&quot; state-thus, there is much more to the story that requires clarification. Also, caveats abound in the interpretation of neurogenesis in the amelioration of depression; nonetheless, these results are quite intriguing and might point to better design and prediction of new-generation antidepressants.
It is well established that the adipocyte-derived hormone leptin is an important circulating satiety factor that regulates body weight and food intake via its actions on specific hypothalamic nuclei. However, there is growing evidence that leptin and its receptors are widely expressed throughout the brain, in regions not generally associated with energy homeostasis, such as cortex, cerebellum, brainstem, basal ganglia, and hippocampus. In this review the author discusses recent advances made in leptin neurobiology, with particular emphasis on the role of this endocrine peptide in normal and pathophysiological hippocampal function.
The psychoactive drug caffeine influences neuronal physiology; however, it is unknown whether it can dynamically alter the expression of genes that influence neurotransmission. Here, we report that caffeine stimulates transcription of the dopamine 2 receptor (D2R) gene in PC-12 cells and primary striatal cultures and increases D2R protein expression in the striatum. Physiological doses of caffeine and the specific adenosine 2A receptor antagonist 8-(3-chlorostyryl) caffeine both increased the activity of a D2R/luciferase reporter construct within 24 h, and simultaneous treatment with 2-[p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680), a specific adenosine 2A receptor agonist, eliminated this effect. Tests of additional constructs revealed that specific regions of the D2R promoter (-117/-75) and 5'-untranslated region (+22/+317) were required for activation of D2R gene expression by caffeine. In primary striatal cultures, caffeine increased spontaneous firing of neurons between 12 and 80 min after treatment, whereas it increased D2R mRNA expression after only 4 h. These results indicate that regulation of D2R gene expression by caffeine occurs after the initial physiological response has subsided. In vivo, female mice treated with a dose of caffeine (50 mg/kg) showed 1.94- and 2.07-fold increases in D2R mRNA and protein expression, respectively. In contrast, male mice exhibited a 31% decrease in D2R mRNA expression and showed no changes in D2R protein expression. Collectively, these results demonstrate for the first time that caffeine alters D2R expression in neurons. They also suggest that caffeine consumption can lead to sexually dimorphic patterns of gene expression in the brain.

We describe a case of encephalitis after primary varicella zoster infection with localised basal ganglia imaging abnormalities. The patient subsequently developed a chronic tic disorder with attention deficit disorder. This case furthers the proposed association between Tourettism and the basal ganglia.
Paroxysmal exercise-induced dystonia (PED) is a rare, typically idiopathic familial condition, although sporadic and secondary cases have been reported. We present 2 cases where PED was the presenting feature of young-onset idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD), preceding the onset of parkinsonian symptoms by 1.5 and 5 years, respectively. Initially, the dystonic symptoms occurred after prolonged exercise and were unilateral, affecting the foot in both patients. Over time, symptoms occurred with minimal exercise. We conclude that PED can rarely be the first and only feature of PD.
We reported previously that behavior suggestive of rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (RBD) was markedly increased in a small population of SCA-3 patients. We, therefore, asked patients and nonpatient attendees at an SCA-3 annual clinic to complete a questionnaire soliciting RBD-like behavior. Our results support the previous observation that RBD-like behaviors are significantly increased in SCA-3.
Dystonia is a movement disorder considered to result from basal ganglia dysfunction. The aim of this study was to investigate the functional significance of frontal hyperactivity demonstrated in dystonia in imaging studies by examining executive function and working memory, in which the prefrontal cortex is known to be involved. We assessed 10 patients with idiopathic dystonia and 12 age- and IQ-matched normal controls. All subjects completed tests of first letter, category, and alternating category word fluency, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, the Stroop Colour Word Naming Test, the Missing Digit Test of working memory, a test of random number generation, a test requiring generation of self-ordered random number sequences, the Paced Serial Addition Test, a test of conditional associative learning, and finger tapping and peg insertion under unimanual, bimanual, and dual task conditions. The patients with dystonia did not differ significantly from controls on any measures of executive function or working memory used other than category word fluency and the extent of decline in tapping with one hand under dual task conditions when simultaneously inserting pegs with the other hand. For this small sample, the results suggest that unlike other movement disorders associated with fronto-striatal dysfunction such as Parkinson's disease or Huntington's disease, dystonia was not associated with deficits on the tests of executive function or working memory used. A more detailed investigation of cognitive function in a larger sample of patients is required.
We assessed health-related quality of life (QoL) of patients with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), identified the most important QoL issues in patients with this disorder, and assessed the usefulness of existing QoL measures in patients with PSP. Twenty-seven patients in all stages of PSP and their carers underwent a semistructured in-depth interview on the impact of PSP and a neurological examination. They were also asked to complete existing measures of QoL and depression. An item-pool of issues relevant to QoL of patients with PSP was created from the patient and carer interviews. Carers and patients largely agreed on issues relevant for patients' QoL but more carers than patients considered symptoms of frontal lobe dysfunction as problematic for the patients. There was no association of QoL with age and gender, as assessed in interviews and on two QoL instruments. QoL deteriorated with increasing disease duration and severity and greater cognitive impairment and was associated with worse depression scores. While the generic SF-36 was not found to be useful to assess QoL in PSP, feasibility and validity for the PDQ-39 and the EQ-5D were acceptable in this study. However, additional issues relevant to patients with PSP that were not addressed in these instruments included visual disturbances, dysarthria, dysphagia, muddled thinking, confusion, and apathy. The generic EQ-5D and the Parkinson's disease-specific PDQ-39 are useful instruments to assess QoL in patients with PSP. However, they lack questions on important aspects of QoL in PSP that were reported by patients and carers in semistructured interviews. The item pool created in these interviews provides the basis for the development of disease-specific QoL instruments for patients with PSP.
Levodopa continues to be the most effective agent for the symptomatic treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). But over time, initial benefits decline in efficacy because of a rise in adverse effects such as dyskinesias. The pathophysiology of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) is not completely understood, but it appears to result from deficient regulation by dopamine of corticostriatal glutamatergic inputs leading to a cascade of neurochemical changes in the striatum and the output pathways. In the present study, we examined if the addition of small doses of cabergoline (a long-acting D(2) receptor agonist) to levodopa could prevent LID. The major hypothesis is that sustained activation of postsynaptic D(2) receptors on medium spiny neurons even by small doses of cabergoline could prevent or reduce LID. The minor hypothesis, and the more controversial of the two, is that the long-acting stimulation by small doses of cabergoline could diminish the release of glutamate by the corticostriatal pathway and prevent LID. Eight MPTP-treated monkeys with a long-standing and stable parkinsonian syndrome and having never received dopaminergic agents were used. Two groups of four were treated for 1 month with levodopa/benserazide administered orally (100 mg/25 mg). The second group received in addition a threshold dose of cabergoline (dose ranging from 0.015 to 0.035 mg/kg, SC). During the treatment, we observed LID in the levodopa group but not in the group receiving levodopa+cabergoline. Furthermore, the combination produced a comparable antiparkinsonian effect in terms of quality but prolonged the duration (by 1 to 2 hours) and increased the locomotion (mean for 2 weeks congruent with 104%). Our data suggest that a small dose of a long-acting D(2) agonist combined with high doses of levodopa could be preventive of LID in patients with PD and could be an alternative to using antiglutamatergic agents for this purpose.
Mitochondrial cytochrome c release and inositol (1,4,5) trisphosphate receptor (InsP(3)R)-mediated calcium release from the endoplasmic reticulum mediate apoptosis in response to specific stimuli. Here we show that cytochrome c binds to the InsP(3)R during apoptosis. Addition of 1 nM cytochrome c blocks calcium-dependent inhibition of InsP(3)R function. Early in apoptosis, cytochrome c translocates to the endoplasmic reticulum where it selectively binds InsP(3)R, resulting in sustained, oscillatory cytosolic calcium increases. These calcium events are linked to the coordinate release of cytochrome c from all mitochondria. Our findings identify a feed-forward mechanism whereby early cytochrome c release increases InsP(3)R function, resulting in augmented cytochrome c release that amplifies the apoptotic signal.
The spatial distribution and coordination of vesicular dynamics within growth cones are poorly understood. It has long been thought that membranous organelles are concentrated in the central regions of growth cones and excluded from filopodia; this view has dramatically shaped conceptual models of the cellular mechanisms of axonal growth and presynaptic terminal formation. To begin to test these models, we studied membrane dynamics within axonal growth cones of living rat cortical neurons. We demonstrate that growth cone filopodia contain vesicles that transport synaptic vesicle proteins bidirectionally along filopodia and fuse with the filopodial surface in response to focal stimulation, allowing for both local secretion of vesicular contents and rapid changes in the plasma membrane composition of individual filopodia. Our results suggest a new model in which growth cone filopodia are actively involved in both emitting and responding to local signals related to axon growth and early synapse formation.
Netrin-G1 is a lipid-anchored protein that is structurally related to the netrin family of axon guidance molecules. Netrin-G1 does not bind any of the known netrin receptors and its function is not known. Here we identify human netrin-G1 ligand (NGL-1), a transmembrane protein containing leucine-rich repeat (LRR) and immunoglobulin (Ig) domains that specifically interacts with netrin-G1 through its LRR region. Whereas netrin-G1 is expressed highly in mouse thalamic axons, NGL-1 is most abundant in the striatum and the cerebral cortex--the intermediate and final targets, respectively, of thalamocortical axons (TCAs). Surface-bound NGL-1 stimulates, but soluble NGL-1 disrupts, the growth of embryonic thalamic axons, and in vitro data indicate that NGL-1 activity may be mediated at least partially by netrin-G1. Our findings provide evidence that netrin-G1 functions as an important component of the NGL-1 receptor to promote TCA outgrowth and that membrane-bound netrins can participate in receiving axonal signaling pathways.



Neuroscientists associate the name of Donald O. Hebb with the Hebbian synapse and the Hebbian learning rule, which underlie connectionist theories and synaptic plasticity, but Hebb's work has also influenced developmental psychology, neuropsychology, perception and the study of emotions, as well as learning and memory. Here, we review the work of Hebb and its lasting influence on neuroscience in honour of the 2004 centenary of his birth.
Brain function is inextricably coupled to water homeostasis. The fact that most of the volume between neurons is occupied by glial cells, leaving only a narrow extracellular space, represents an important challenge, as even small extracellular volume changes will affect ion concentrations and therefore neuronal excitability. Further, the ionic transmembrane shifts that are required to maintain ion homeostasis during neuronal activity must be accompanied by water. It follows that the mechanisms for water transport across plasma membranes must have a central part in brain physiology. These mechanisms are also likely to be of pathophysiological importance in brain oedema, which represents a net accumulation of water in brain tissue. Recent studies have shed light on the molecular basis for brain water transport and have identified a class of specialized water channels in the brain that might be crucial to the physiological and pathophysiological handling of water.
Recent data point to important roles for proteinases and their cognate proteinase-activated receptors (PARs) in the ontogeny and pathophysiology of the nervous system. PARs are a family of G-protein-coupled receptors that can affect neural cell proliferation, morphology and physiology. PARs also have important roles in neuroinflammatory and degenerative diseases such as human immunodeficiency virus-associated dementia, Alzheimer's disease and pain. These receptors might also influence the pathogenesis of stroke and multiple sclerosis, conditions in which the blood-brain barrier is disrupted. The diversity of effects of PARs on neural function and their widespread distribution in the nervous system make them attractive therapeutic targets for neurological disorders. Here, we review the roles of PARs in the central and peripheral nervous systems during health and disease, with a focus on neuroinflammatory and degenerative disorders.
Intrinsic high-frequency neural activities have been observed in the visual system of several species, but their functional significance for visual perception remains a fundamental puzzle in cognitive neuroscience. Spatiotemporal integration in the human visual system acts as a low-pass filter and makes the psychophysical observation of high-frequency activities very difficult. A computational model of retino-cortical dynamics (RECOD) is used to derive experimental paradigms that allow psychophysical studies of high-frequency neural activities. A reduced-parameter version of the model is used to quantitatively relate psychophysical data collected in two of these experimental paradigms. Statistical analysis shows that the model's account of the variance in the data is, in general, highly significant. We suggest that psychophysically measured oscillations reflect intrinsic neuronal oscillations observed in the visual cortex.
Networks of coupled neural systems represent an important class of models in computational neuroscience. In some applications it is required that equilibrium points in these networks remain stable under parameter variations. Here we present a general methodology to yield explicit constraints on the coupling strengths to ensure the stability of the equilibrium point. Two models of coupled excitatory-inhibitory oscillators are used to illustrate the approach.



Neurotrophins and synaptic activity work in conjunction during the process of synaptic plasticity. Both are required to stabilize new synaptic structures and the loss of either can lead to cognitive impairments, as new information cannot be stored efficiently or later recalled. Neurotrophins are becoming recognized as mediators of activity-dependent plasticity. The synthesis and release of neurotrophins follow neurosecretory pathways. They are synthesized as immature, pro-neurotrophin molecules, processed, and then mature forms are secreted. These then activate distinct signal tranduction pathways that modify the synapse. High frequency stimulation is known to induce long-term potentiation (LTP) and synaptic enhancement, however, the stability of these changes requires a bi-directional communication between the pre- and post-synaptic terminals and neurotrophins can function in such a capacity. The NGFXAT somatic mosaic murine model demonstrated how neurotrophin and active learning induces a robust synaptic reorganization. Synaptic dysfunction decreases efficient neurotransmission or neurotrophin production and then precedes overt neurodegeneration. The study of synaptic dysfunction and neurotrophin actions with respect to activity will lead to future therapeutic interventions of age-related dementias.
Amyloid-beta (Abeta) containing plaques and tau-laden neurofibrillary tangles are the defining neuropathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). To better mimic this neuropathology, we generated a novel triple transgenic model of AD (3xTg-AD) harboring three mutant genes: beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPPSwe), presenilin-1 (PS1M146V), and tauP301L. The 3xTg-AD mice progressively develop Abeta and tau pathology, with a temporal- and regional-specific profile that closely mimics their development in the human AD brain. We find that Abeta deposits initiate in the cortex and progress to the hippocampus with aging, whereas tau pathology is first apparent in the hippocampus and then progresses to the cortex. Despite equivalent overexpression of the human betaAPP and human tau transgenes, Abeta deposition develops prior to the tangle pathology, consistent with the amyloid cascade hypothesis. As these 3xTg-AD mice phenocopy critical aspects of AD neuropathology, this model will be useful in pre-clinical intervention trials, particularly because the efficacy of anti-AD compounds in mitigating the neurodegenerative effects mediated by both signature lesions can be evaluated.
Dopamine (DA) neurons degenerate in Parkinson's disease and dopamine neurotransmission may be affected in psychotic states seen in schizophrenia. Understanding the regulation of enzymes involved in DA metabolism may therefore lead to new treatment strategies for these severe conditions. We investigated mRNA expression of the cytosolic aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH1), presumably involved in DA degradation, by in situ hybridization in DA neurons of human postmortem material. Parallel labeling for GAPDH, neuron-specific enolase, tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine transporter, and dopamine beta-hydroxylase was used to ensure suitability of tissue specimen and to identify all dopamine neurons. ALDH1 was found to be expressed highly and specifically in DA cells of both substantia nigra (SN) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA) of controls. A marked reduction of ALDH1 expression was seen in surviving neurons of SN pars compacta but not of those in the VTA in Parkinson's disease. In patients suffering from schizophrenia we found ALDH1 expression at normal levels in DA cells of SN but at significantly reduced levels in those of the VTA. We conclude that ALDH1 is strongly and specifically expressed in human mesencephalic dopamine neurons and that low levels of ALDH1 expression correlate with DA neuron dysfunction in the two investigated human conditions.
The role of neuropeptides and the significance of peptidergic mechanisms in neurodegenerative diseases are still unclear. In the periphery, nerve injury results in dramatic changes in the expression of neuropeptides. An important question regards to what extent similar changes occur, and similar mechanisms operate, after lesions and/or degeneration in the brain. The purpose of this work is, therefore, to study neuropeptides with regard to their presence and distribution in the APP23 mouse (HuAPP(751) K670M/N671L under the murine Thy-1 promoter), a model for Alzheimer's disease, or cerebral amyloidosis, using the immunohistochemical technique. In addition, tyrosine hydroxylase and acetylcholinesterase were analyzed. This study shows marked neuropeptide changes in the hippocampal formation and the ventral cortex, whereas the dorsolateral neocortex was less affected. There was a considerable variation with regard to peptide expression among animals of the same age which was related to the variation in Abeta deposition. Dystrophic and varicose fibers containing galanin, neuropeptide Y, enkephalin, and especially cholecystokinin were commonly seen in close proximity to amyloid plaques. In addition, generalized changes were observed, such as increases of enkephalin and neuropeptide Y in stratum lacunosum moleculare and of neuropeptide Y, enkephalin, and dynorphin in mossy fibers. In contrast, cholecystokinin was decreased in mossy fibers. Comparatively small differences were observed between wild-type and transgenic mice with regard to tyrosine hydroxylase (noradrenergic but also dopaminergic fibers) and acetylcholine esterase (mainly cholinergic fibers). The increase of neuropeptides in dystrophic fibers in this model may represent a response to nerve injury caused by the amyloid accumulation and may reflect attempts to counteract degeneration by initiating protective and/or regenerative processes.
Previous studies have indicated that administration of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) counteracts neuronal death after stroke. However, in these studies damage was evaluated at most a few days after the insult. Here, we have explored the long-term consequences of two routes of GDNF delivery to the rat striatum prior to stroke induced by 30 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO): striatal transduction with a recombinant lentiviral vector or transduction of the substantia nigra with a recombinant adeno-associated viral vector and subsequent anterograde transport of GDNF to striatum. Despite high GDNF levels, stereological quantification of striatal neuron numbers revealed no protection at 5 or 8 weeks after MCAO. In fact, anterograde GDNF delivery exacerbated neuronal loss. Moreover, supply of GDNF did not alleviate the striatum-related behavioral deficits. Thus, we demonstrate that the actions of GDNF after stroke are more complex than previously believed and that high levels of this factor, which are neuroprotective in models of Parkinson's disease, can increase ischemic damage. Our findings also underscore the need for quantitative assessment of long-term neuronal survival and behavioral changes to evaluate the therapeutic potential of factors such as GDNF.
Status epilepticus (SE) increases neurogenesis in the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the adult dentate gyrus, but many of the newborn cells die, partly through caspase-induced apoptosis. Here we provide immunohistochemical evidence indicating that the caspase-evoked death of the new neurons involves the mitochondrial but not the death-receptor-mediated pathway. Cytochrome c released from mitochondria was found in a subset of progenitor cell progeny, while Fas ligand and tumor necrosis factor 1 receptor-associated domain as well as the mitochondria-related, caspase-independent apoptosis-inducing factor were not detected. We also show that additional seizures, induced at different stages during neuronal differentiation of progenitor cell progeny following SE, neither potentiate cell death mechanisms in the SGZ nor compromise the survival of the new cells. Thus, we found similar expression of cytochrome c, active caspase-3, caspase-cleaved PARP, and TUNEL/Hoechst-positive DNA fragmentation, as well as numbers of new cells in the SGZ in rats exposed to additional seizures at days 6 and 7 or days 33 and 34 following SE as in control animals only subjected to SE. We propose that the degree of survival of newly generated neurons is determined primarily by the initial SE insult and the ensuing pathology in the tissue environment, whereas spontaneous seizures play a minor role.
In adult rats, status epilepticus (SE) induces cytokine production by glia especially when seizures are associated with neuronal injury. This suggests that cytokines may play a role in seizure-induced neuronal damage. As SE-induced injury is age-specific, we used rats of different ages (with distinct susceptibilities to seizure-induced neuronal injury) to elucidate the role of cytokines in this process. Thus, we investigated the activation of microglia and astrocytes, induction of cytokines, and hippocampal neuronal injury 4 and 24 h following kainic acid-induced SE in postnatal day (PN) 9, 15, and 21 rats. At PN9, there was little activation of microglia and astrocytes at any time point studied. Interleukin-1beta (IL), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF), and IL-6 or the naturally occurring IL-1 receptor antagonist (Ra) mRNA expression did not increase. No evidence of cell injury has been detected. At PN15, immunostaining of microglia and astrocytes was enhanced, but only IL-1beta mRNA expression was increased. These changes were observed 4 h after SE. Scattered injured neurons in CA3 and subiculum, but not in any other region, were present 24 h following SE. At PN21, immunostaining of microglia and astrocytes and the mRNA expression of all cytokines studied was significantly increased already 4 h after SE. At 24 h, many injured neurons were present in CA1 and CA3 regions and in 40% of rats in other forebrain areas. These data show that (i) the pattern of glia activation and cytokine gene transcription induced by SE is age-dependent and (ii) neuronal injury in the hippocampus occurs only when cytokines are induced and their synthesis precedes the appearance of neuronal damage. Thus, cytokine expression in immature brain is associated specifically with cell injury rather than with seizures per se, suggesting that proinflammatory cytokines may contribute to the occurence of SE-induced hippocampal damage.
The serine/threonine phosphatase 2A (PP2A) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) due to its important role in regulating dephosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein tau and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase. In the present study, we show that PP2A was responsible for dephosphorylation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (Erk1/2) following its activation by BK stimulation. Abnormal gene and protein expressions of PP2A, as well as its activity, were found to contribute to the abnormally prolonged Erk1/2 phosphorylation in the AD fibroblasts. Inhibition of PP2A with okadiac acid produced enhanced and more lasting Erk1/2 phosphorylation after BK stimulation, whereas FK506, an inhibitor of PP2B and FK-binding protein, inhibited the BK-stimulated Erk1/2 phosphorylation. Furthermore, while the phosphorylated Erk1/2 was concentrated in the nucleus of AC cells, it was mainly distributed in the extranuclear compartments of AD cells. These results suggest that the delayed dephosphorylation of Erk1/2 in AD cells following its BK-stimulated activation may be due to deficits of PP2A activity and impaired nuclear translocation of phosphorylated Erk1/2.
Recently, a new experimental model of epilepsy was introduced by the authors [Neurochem. Int. 40 (2002) 413]. This model combines pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-kindling in senescence-accelerated mice P8 (SAMP8), a genetic model of aging. Since imbalance of glutamate and GABA is a major cause of seizures, the study of glial-neuronal interactions is of primary importance. Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMRS) is an excellent tool for metabolic studies. Thus, we examined whether NMRS when combined with administration of [1-13C]glucose and [1,2-13C]acetate might give valuable insights into neurotransmitter metabolism in this new model of epilepsy and aging. The 2- and 8-month-old SAMP8 were kindled with PTZ alone, received PTZ and phenobarbital (PB), or served as controls. In older animals, PTZ-kindling decreased labeling in glutamate C-4 from [1-13C]glucose, whereas, in the younger mice, labeling in glutamine C-4 was decreased both from [1-13C]glucose and [1,2-13C]acetate. It could be concluded that PTZ-kindling affected astrocytes in younger and glutamatergic neurons in older animals. In the presence of PTZ, phenobarbital decreased labeling of most metabolites in all cell types, except GABAergic neurons, from both labeled precursors in the younger animals. However, in older animals only GABAergic neurons were affected by phenobarbital as indicated by an increase in GABA labeling.
The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of chronic tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) treatment on the density of alpha-adrenoceptors in the rat brain. Density of alpha1- and alpha2-adrenoceptors was measured in cortex and hippocampus of rats treated with imipramine (IMI, 5mg/kg body weight), desipramine (DMI, 10mg/kg body weight), clomipramine (CMI, 10mg/kg body weight) and amitriptyline (AMI, 10mg/kg body weight), for 40 days, using [3H]prazosin and [3H]clonidine, respectively. The density of cortical alpha1-adrenoceptors was significantly decreased with IMI (46%), DMI (21%), CMI (50%) and AMI (67%) treatment, without altering the affinity of the receptor. The density of cortical alpha2-adrenoceptors was also significantly decreased with DMI (69%), CMI (81%) and AMI (80%) treatment, without affecting the affinity for [3H]clonidine. The density of hippocampal alpha1-adrenoceptors was significantly decreased only with AMI treatment (47%), without affecting the affinity for [3H]prazosin. However, no change in hippocampal alpha2-adrenoceptor density was observed with any of these TCAs. The results suggest that chronic antidepressant (AD) treatment downregulates the cortical, but not hippocampal, alpha1- and alpha2-adrenoceptors in rat brain. The region-specific downregulation of alpha1- and alpha2-adrenoceptors density, which occur after prolonged AD treatment, may underline the therapeutic mechanism of action.
Plasma vasopressin (VP) and corticosterone have each been shown to be rapidly suppressed after drinking in different models of osmotic stimulation in rats; however, no causal relationship between these responses has been investigated. Studies were performed to determine if plasma VP and corticosterone are reduced in parallel after drinking and if manipulation of plasma VP affects plasma, ACTH corticotropins and corticosterone in a model of water restriction. A strong correlation between changes in plasma VP and corticosterone, but not between plasma ACTH and corticosterone, was observed after drinking induced by 6 days of water restriction. Similarly, ingestion of isotonic saline resulted in a biphasic VP response that was paralleled by adrenal and plasma corticosterone, but not by plasma ACTH. Administration of an immunoneutralizing antibody directed against VP resulted in a rapid decrease in plasma corticosterone, but not ACTH, in water-restricted rats, but not in rats receiving water ad libitum. These data suggest that during dehydration, elevated plasma VP can stimulate the production of corticosterone by the adrenal, independently of ACTH. Moreover, they support the hypothesis that the decline in corticosterone after restriction-induced drinking is due, in part, to a decline in plasma VP.
Signalling mediated by the receptor tyrosine kinase c-Kit is required for normal development of interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC). c-Kit activates several signalling pathways, including the phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase (PI3'-kinase) pathway. The signals required for ICC development and maintenance are not well understood. Studies indicate a role for PI3'-kinase. We studied ICC function and morphology in mice homozygous for the tyrosine 719 to phenylalanine c-Kit mutation, which disrupts all PI3'-kinase binding to c-Kit. Functionally, the electrical slow waves in the jejunum and inhibitory junction potentials were normal in adult mutants. Morphologically, the distribution of ICC was not altered in mutants. There was no difference in the density of ICC in the jejunum of adults or newborns from quantitative analysis of c-Kit immunoreactivity. The number of ICC obtained in culture was the same using mutants or wild-type littermates. The density and organization of nerves in the jejunum of mutants was not affected. Deletion of c-Kit-induced PI3'-kinase signalling does not affect the function or development of ICC in the mouse. This is an important and counterintuitive result, given the role of PI3'-kinase signalling downstream of c-Kit and the role of both c-Kit and PI3'-kinase individually in ICC development.
Flexibly switching between tasks is one of the paradigmatic functions of so-called &quot;executive control&quot; processes. Neuroimaging studies have implicated both prefrontal and parietal cortical regions in the processing necessary to effectively switch task. Beyond their general involvement in this critical function, however, little is known about the dynamics of processing across frontal and parietal regions. For instance, it remains to be determined to what extent these areas play a role in preparing to switch task before arrival of the stimulus to be acted upon and to what extent they play a role in any switching processes that occur after the stimulus is presented. Here, we used the excellent temporal resolution afforded by high-density mapping of brain potentials to explore the time course of the processes underlying (1) the performance of and (2) the preparation for a switch of task. We detail the contributions of both frontal and parietal processes to these two aspects of the task-switching process. Our data revealed a complex pattern of effects. Most striking was a period of sustained activity over bilateral parietal regions preceding the switch trial. Over frontal regions, activity actually decreased during this same period. Strongest sustained frontal activity was in fact seen for trials on which no switch was required. Further, we find that the first differential activity associated with switching task was over posterior parietal areas (220 ms), whereas over frontal scalp, the first differential activity is found more than 200 ms later. These and other effects are interpreted in terms of a &quot;competition&quot; model in which preparing to switch task is understood as the beginning of a competition between the potentially relevant tasks that is resolved during the switch trial. Our findings are difficult to account for with models that posit a strong role for frontal cortical regions in &quot;reconfiguring&quot; the system during switches of task.
Synthetic Aperture Magnetometry (SAM) is a beamformer approach for the localisation of neuronal activity from EEG/MEG data. SAM estimates the optimum orientation of each source in a predefined source space by a nonlinear search for the orientation that maximises the beamformer output. However, MEG is most sensitive to cortical sources and these sources are generally oriented perpendicular to the surface. The reconstructed neuronal activity can therefore reasonably be constrained to the cortical surface, orientated perpendicular to it, therefore removing the search for the optimum orientation for the computation of the beamformer weights. This paper sets out to compare the performance of a constrained and unconstrained beamformer (SAM), with respect to the localisation accuracy of the source reconstructions and the spatial resolution. Fifty sources were randomly placed on a cortical surface estimated from an MRI, and we simulated data over a range of different signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs) for each source. These datasets were analysed using both an unconstrained beamformer (SAM) and a constrained beamformer (with the sources orientated perpendicular to the cortical surface). The influence of errors in the estimation of the surface location and surface normals on the performance of the constrained beamformer, representing MEG/MRI coregistration and segmentation errors, were also examined. The spatial resolution of the beamformer improves, typically by a factor of four by applying anatomical constraints, and the localisation accuracy improves marginally. However, the advantage in spatial resolution disappears when errors are introduced into the orientation and location constraints, and, moreover, the localisation accuracy of the inaccurately constrained beamformer degrades rapidly. We conclude that the use of anatomical constraints is only advantageous if the MEG/MRI coregistration error is smaller than 2 mm and the error in the estimation of the cortical surface orientation is smaller than 10 degrees.
Recent studies have shown that obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) is associated with a specific deficit in spatial working memory, especially when task difficulty (i.e., working memory load) is high. It is not clear whether this deficit is associated with dysfunction of the brain system that subserves spatial working memory, or whether it is associated with a more generalized effect on executive functions. In contrast to studies in healthy volunteers and schizophrenia, spatial working memory in OCD has not been investigated before using functional neuroimaging techniques. We conducted a functional MRI study in 11 treatment-free female patients with OCD and 11 for sex-, age-, education-, and handedness pairwise-matched healthy controls in order to assess performance on a parametric spatial n-back task as well as the underlying neuronal substrate and its dynamics. Patients with OCD performed poorly at the highest level of task difficulty and engaged the same set of brain regions as the matched healthy controls. In this set, the effect of difficulty on magnitude of brain activity was the same in patients and in controls except for a region covering the anterior cingulate cortex. In this region activity was significantly elevated in patients with OCD at all levels of the parametric task. These findings do not provide evidence for a deficit of the spatial working memory system proper, but suggest that the abnormal performance pattern may be secondary to another aspect of executive dysfunctioning in OCD.
We report a presurgical fMRI study and a longitudinal behavioral and structural MRI study in a 26-year-old right-handed woman with drug-resistant epilepsy of the supplementary motor region with cytoarchitectural dysplasia and minimal cortico-subcortical gliotic damage. fMRI scans were acquired during a silent phonemic verbal fluency task (VF), an automatic counting task (CT), and a finger-tapping motor task (MT). These were all compared with rest. Presurgical neuropsychological assessment was substantially normal with only a minor deficit in the domain of visuo-constructive and complex motor-planning skills. Noticeably, performance on phonemic verbal fluency was normal. Presurgical fMRI results revealed a normal specialization of left SMA and pre-SMA, including a fine-grained somatotopy for mouth and hand representations despite epilepsy. Immediately after surgical removal of the epileptogenic zone (the posterior third of the superior and middle frontal gyri including pre-SMA and part of SMA, and part of the anterior cingulate region--all of which were active presurgically at the fMRI tests), the patient suffered from transcortical motor aphasia temporarily. One year after surgery, she still showed impaired performance in the verbal fluency tasks while naming and comprehension were recovered. The patient was now free from seizures. This fMRI study supports the case that repeated seizures per se may not be sufficient to alter the distribution of neural representations of cognitive function. Selective behavioral impairment after surgical removal of brain areas that were activated during presurgical fMRI permits us to establish a causal link between these activations and task performance. This link could not have been made on the basis of activation patterns or lesion data taken on their own. These findings support the case that some epileptic patients may represent a unique opportunity for cognitive neuroscience studies.
Diffusion Tensor MRI (DT-MRI) can provide important in vivo information for the detection of brain abnormalities in diseases characterized by compromised neural connectivity. To quantify diffusion tensor abnormalities based on voxel-based statistical analysis, spatial normalization is required to minimize the anatomical variability between studied brain structures. In this article, we used a multiple input channel registration algorithm based on a demons algorithm and evaluated the spatial normalization of diffusion tensor image in terms of the input information used for registration. Registration was performed on 16 DT-MRI data sets using different combinations of the channels, including a channel of T2-weighted intensity, a channel of the fractional anisotropy, a channel of the difference of the first and second eigenvalues, two channels of the fractional anisotropy and the trace of tensor, three channels of the eigenvalues of the tensor, and the six channel tensor components. To evaluate the registration of tensor data, we defined two similarity measures, i.e., the endpoint divergence and the mean square error, which we applied to the fiber bundles of target images and registered images at the same seed points in white matter segmentation. We also evaluated the tensor registration by examining the voxel-by-voxel alignment of tensors in a sample of 15 normalized DT-MRIs. In all evaluations, nonlinear warping using six independent tensor components as input channels showed the best performance in effectively normalizing the tract morphology and tensor orientation. We also present a nonlinear method for creating a group diffusion tensor atlas using the average tensor field and the average deformation field, which we believe is a better approach than a strict linear one for representing both tensor distribution and morphological distribution of the population.
The dopamine D2 receptor antagonist sulpiride can produce a range of cognitive deficits in normal volunteers, consistent with those seen in Parkinson's disease (PD). This, together with studies in experimental animals, implies sulpiride might be acting in the striatum. However, subtle changes in prefrontal cortex (PFC) activity are seen following L-Dopa withdrawal in PD during working memory tasks, suggesting that this may be a further site of action for dopamine D2 receptor antagonists. We have investigated the effects of sulpiride within the PFC and striatum in normal male volunteers. In two separate experiments, using identical PET regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) methods, a combined drug and psychological challenge was performed, utilising working memory and planning tasks, and oral sulpiride 400 mg and placebo. Data were analysed using SPM99. Sulpiride increased striatal rCBF bilaterally and the working memory and planning tasks activated discrete frontoparietal networks in keeping with previous studies. However, for the working memory tasks, no changes in performance or task-induced rCBF were observed after sulpiride. For the planning task, improved performance was seen on sulpiride. Also, sulpiride attenuated striatal activity during planning (as assessed using a small volume correction, P&lt;0.05 corrected), and this attenuation was related to performance changes. These findings suggest that (1) sulpiride produces clear increases in striatal rCBF, (2) in contrast to previous studies no effects of sulpiride on performance of the working memory tasks or the associated neural networks were observed, and (3) sulpiride may modulate performance of more complex cognitive tasks via alterations in striatal neural activity.
The posterior medial parietal cortex and the left prefrontal cortex have both been implicated in the recollection of past episodes. In order to clarify their functional significance, we performed this functional magnetic resonance imaging study, which employed event-related source memory and item recognition retrieval of words paired with corresponding imagined or viewed pictures. Our results suggest that episodic source memory is related to a functional network including the posterior precuneus and the left lateral prefrontal cortex. This network is activated during explicit retrieval of imagined pictures and results from the retrieval of item-context associations. This suggests that previously imagined pictures provide a context with which encoded words can be more strongly associated.
As a means toward understanding the neural bases of schizophrenic thought disturbance, we examined brain activation patterns in response to semantically and superficially encoded words in patients with schizophrenia. Nine male schizophrenic and 9 male control subjects were tested in a visual levels of processing (LOP) task first outside the magnet and then during the fMRI scanning procedures (using a different set of words). During the experiments visual words were presented under two conditions. Under the deep, semantic encoding condition, subjects made semantic judgments as to whether the words were abstract or concrete. Under the shallow, nonsemantic encoding condition, subjects made perceptual judgments of the font size (uppercase/lowercase) of the presented words. After performance of the behavioral task, a recognition test was used to assess the depth of processing effect, defined as better performance for semantically encoded words than for perceptually encoded words. For the scanned version only, the words for both conditions were repeated in order to assess repetition-priming effects. Reaction times were assessed in both testing scenarios. Both groups showed the expected depth of processing effect for recognition, and control subjects showed the expected increased activation of the left inferior prefrontal cortex (LIPC) under semantic encoding relative to perceptual encoding conditions as well as repetition priming for semantic conditions only. In contrast, schizophrenics showed similar patterns of fMRI activation regardless of condition. Most striking in relation to controls, patients showed decreased LIFC activation concurrent with increased left superior temporal gyrus activation for semantic encoding versus shallow encoding. Furthermore, schizophrenia subjects did not show the repetition priming effect, either behaviorally or as a decrease in LIPC activity. In patients with schizophrenia, LIFC underactivation and left superior temporal gyrus overactivation for semantically encoded words may reflect a disease-related disruption of a distributed frontal temporal network that is engaged in the representation and processing of meaning of words, text, and discourse and which may underlie schizophrenic thought disturbance.
Using spike-triggered fMRI, we sought to document regional changes in blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) activity associated with spontaneous generalised spike and slow-wave discharges (S&amp;W). Five adult patients were studied who had idiopathic generalised epilepsy (IGE) and frequent S&amp;W. EEG was recorded inside a 3T MRI, allowing acquisition of single, whole-brain fMRI images following S&amp;W, as well as baseline images. Between 4 and 25 spike and wave complexes were captured in individuals. Four of the five individuals showed significant S&amp;W-related BOLD signal reductions (&quot;deactivation&quot;) in the posterior cingulate (P&lt;0.001 uncorrected). Significant changes were absent only in the individual with fewest spikes. Group analysis including all five subjects confirmed fMRI deactivation in the posterior cingulate. Some S&amp;W-related BOLD signal increases were seen in the depths of the precentral sulci in individuals and on group analysis. No significant S&amp;W-related changes in thalamic BOLD activity were observed. The posterior cingulate may have a role in the electroclinical phenomenon of S&amp;W and &quot;absence.&quot; Possibilities include a causative role, with reduced activity in the cingulate facilitating the onset of S&amp;W, a secondary role, explaining the cognitive changes observed during prolonged S&amp;W, or an epiphenomenon.

Improving functional recovery following cerebral strokes in humans will likely involve augmenting brain plasticity. This study examined skilled forelimb behavior, neocortical evoked potentials, and movement thresholds to assess cortical electrical stimulation concurrent with rehabilitative forelimb usage following a focal ischemic insult. Adult rats were trained on a task that required skilled usage of both forelimbs. They then underwent an acute focal ischemic insult to the caudal forelimb area of sensorimotor cortex contralateral to their preferred forelimb. During the same procedure, they also received a stimulation electrode over the infarct area and two depth electrodes anterior to the lesion to record evoked potentials. One week following the surgery, rats received cortical stimulation during performance of the skilled task. Evoked potentials and movement thresholds were also determined. Functional assessment revealed that cortical stimulation resulted in superior performance compared to the no stimulation group, and this was initially due to a shift in forelimb preference. Cortical stimulation also resulted in enhanced evoked potentials and a reduction in the amount of current required to elicit a movement, in a stimulation frequency dependent manner. This study suggests that cortical stimulation, concurrent with rehabilitative training, results in better forelimb usage that may be due to augmented synaptic plasticity.
Recovery of motor function following stroke is believed to be supported, at least in part, by functional compensation involving residual neural tissue. The present study used a rodent model of focal ischemia and intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) to examine the behavioral and physiological effects of cortical stimulation in combination with motor rehabilitation. Adult rats were trained to criterion on a single pellet reaching task before ICMS was used to derive maps of movement representations within forelimb motor cortex contralateral to the trained paw. All animals then received a focal ischemic infarct within the motor map. A cortical surface electrode was implanted over the motor cortex. Low levels of electrical stimulation were applied during rehabilitative training on the same reaching task for 10 days and ICMS used to derive a second motor map. Results showed that both monopolar and bipolar cortical stimulation significantly enhanced motor recovery and increased the area of cortex from which microstimulation movements could be evoked. The results demonstrate the behavioral and neurophysiological benefits of cortical stimulation in combination with rehabilitation for recovery from stroke.
This study assessed the behavioral and dendritic structural effects of combining subdural motor cortical electrical stimulation with motor skills training following unilateral sensorimotor cortex lesions in adult male rats. Rats were pre-operatively trained on a skilled forelimb reaching task, the Montoya staircase test, and then received endothelin-1 induced ischemic lesions of the sensorimotor cortex. Ten to 14 days later, electrodes were implanted over the peri-lesion cortical surface. Rats subsequently began 10 days of rehabilitative training on the reaching task in 1 of 3 conditions: 1. 50 Hz stimulation during training, 2. 250 Hz stimulation during training or 3. no stimulation. No significant difference in performance was found between the 250 Hz and no stimulation groups. The 50 Hz stimulation group had significantly greater rates of improvement with the impaired forelimb in comparison to 250 Hz and no stimulation groups combined. Fifty Hz stimulated animals also had a significant increase in the surface density of dendritic processes immunoreactive for the cytoskeletal protein, microtubule-associated protein 2, in the peri-lesion cortex compared to the other groups. These results support the efficacy of combining rehabilitative training with cortical electrical stimulation to improve functional outcome and cortical neuronal structural plasticity following sensorimotor cortical damage.
A shorter four-set (A, B, C, D) version of Raven's progressive matrices 1938 (PM38) has gained increasing use in neuropsychological assessment. No normative data spanning across a wide age range are, however, available. This study collected norms for the shorter version of PM38, established an inferential cut-off value and derived equivalent scores in a sample of 248 individuals from 20 to 89 years of age, evenly distributed across sex, age and education levels. Results showed significant effects of age and education but no effect of sex on performance. These normative data will complement existing norms for other tests, will increase the wealth of neuropsychological tools for which normative data are available for the Italian population, and may be useful in the early detection of individuals at risk of developing dementia.
Recent studies have provided new insights on the identity and mechanisms of action of growth factors implicated in myelination processes. Members of several different families of growth factors have been shown to affect oligodendrocyte survival, proliferation and differentiation and their manipulation in the experimental animal provides a means to clarify the molecular mechanisms underlying repair processes in the injured central nervous system. A future challenge is to use this knowledge to boost remyelination and ameliorate clinical symptoms in patients with demyelinating diseases, like multiple sclerosis.
The search for biological markers in multiple sclerosis (MS) has been spoiled by the intrinsic nature of the disease that occurs in a secluded organ which cannot be accessed by routine sampling. Thus, markers obtained so far from the peripheral blood of MS individuals are often of little reproducibility while results obtained from the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are conveniently linked to the disease process but of little utility due to inaccessibility to repeated sampling. In this review we briefly discuss the biological markers available to date.
Alpha-dystroglycan is a cell surface peripheral membrane protein which binds to the extracellular matrix, while beta-dystroglycan is a type I integral membrane protein which anchors alpha-dystroglycan to the cell membrane via the N-terminal extracellular domain. The complex composed of alpha- and beta-dystroglycan is called the dystroglycan complex. Although defects of the dystroglycan gene have not been identified as the primary causes of hereditary diseases in humans, secondary but significant abnormalities of the dystroglycan complex have been revealed in severe muscular dystrophies, including sarcoglycanopathy (LGMD2C, D, E and F). In this study, we investigated proteolytic processing of beta-dystroglycan and its effect on the extracellular matrix-cell membrane linkage in cardiomyopathic hamsters, the model animals of LGMD2F. Compared to normal controls, proteolytic processing of beta-dystroglycan was activated in the skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles of cardiomyopathic hamsters and this resulted in the partial disruption of the dystroglycan complex in these tissues. These phenomena were observed from the early phase of muscle degeneration process. Our results suggest that proteolytic processing of beta-dystroglycan disrupts the extracellular matrix-cell membrane linkage via the dystroglycan complex and this may play a role in the molecular pathogenesis of muscle degeneration in cardiomyopathic hamsters.
Haematogenous leucocytes enter the central nervous system (CNS) during diverse disorders of varied aetiologies. Understanding the trafficking cues that mediate CNS leucocyte infiltration might promote the development of flexible and selective means to modulate inflammation to achieve clinical benefit. The trafficking machinery of leucocytes has been elucidated during the past decade and consists of cell-surface adhesion molecules, chemoattractant cytokines (chemokines) and their receptors. Recent work in our laboratory characterized chemokine receptors found on T lymphocytes and monocytes in brain sections from subjects with one pathological subtype of multiple sclerosis (MS), an immune-mediated inflammatory demyelinating disease. In these tissues, the types 1 and 5 CC chemokine receptors (CCR1 and CCR5) were detected on perivascular monocytic cells whereas only CCR5 was present on parenchymal macrophages. The type 3 CXC chemokine receptor (CXCR3) was present on virtually all CD3-positive T cells. In the current study, we evaluated the expression of these receptors on the infiltrating cells present in cases of other inflammatory CNS disorders including those of dysimmune, infectious, neoplastic, and vascular aetiology. Perivascular and parenchymal monocytic cells expressed CCR1 in all cases and CXCR3 was consistently present on a substantial proportion of CD3+ T cells. The occurrence of CCR5 on parenchymal macrophages was much less uniform across the varied disorders. These data implicate CCR1 in monocyte infiltration of the CNS and are consistent with reports of studies in CCR1-deficient mice. CXCR3 is also likely to play a role in accumulation of T cells in the inflamed CNS. By contrast, our findings suggest that regulation of CCR5 on phagocytic macrophages may be contingent on the lesion environment.
There is mounting evidence that a significant portion of cerebrospinal fluid drainage is associated with transport along cranial and spinal nerves with absorption taking place into lymphatic vessels external to the central nervous system. To characterize these pathways further, yellow Microfil was infused into the cisterna magna of 2-7-day-old lambs post mortem to perfuse either the cranial or spinal subarachnoid compartments. In some animals, blue Microfil was perfused into the carotid arteries simultaneously. Microfil was observed in lymphatic networks in the nasal mucosa, covering the hard and soft palate, conchae, nasal septum, the ethmoid labyrinth and the lateral walls of the nasal cavity. Many of these lymphatics drained into vessels located on the lateroposterior wall of the nasopharynx and from this location drained to the retropharyngeal lymph nodes. Additionally, lymphatics containing Microfil penetrated the lateral wall of the nasal cavity and joined with superficial lymphatic ducts travelling towards the submandibular and preauricular lymph nodes. In two cases, lymphatic vessels were observed anastomosing with deep veins in the retropharyngeal area. Microfil was also distributed within the nerve trunks of cranial and spinal nerves. The contrast agent was located in longitudinal channels within the endoneurial space and lymphatics containing Microfil were observed emerging from the mesoneurium. In summary, Microfil distribution patterns in neonatal lambs illustrated the important role that cranial and spinal nerves play in linking the subarachnoid compartment with extracranial lymphatics.
Diagnostic criteria for Pick's disease have been criticized from many different viewpoints. This confusion is mainly derived from the ambiguity of this term 'Pick's disease' (PD), which may imply either purely histological findings, such as Pick body (PB), or a characteristic clinical syndrome that could occur even in the absence of PB. This taxonomic confusion will be circumvented by introducing the diagnostic term 'Pick body disease' to designate patients with the characteristic argyrophilic inclusions purely on histological grounds. In parallel, employment of 'Pick syndrome' to describe the time-honored clinical features may be more convenient and less confusing than PD because PD implies either the presence of PB or the clinical features, two aspects not necessarily linked to each other. Three-dimensional reconstruction of PB confirmed that tau-like immunoreactivity was accentuated at their periphery, as was recognized with the Bodian method. Preferential affinity of three-repeat tau pathology, as seen in Pick body disease, to the Bodian over the Gallyas method is distinct from the reversed affinity (the Gallyas over the Bodian method) of four-repeat tau pathology, as seen in corticobasal degeneration and in argyrophilic grains. This preference of silver staining is compatible with the mixed three- and four-repeat tau pathology, as seen in NFT of the Alzheimer's type, which are stained with both the Bodian and Gallyas staining. This will provide a practical basis on which to differentiate these disorders based on their distinctive tau species and possible relation of tau species to staining profile on these silver methods.
The present case is the first autopsy case of prostatic carcinoma presenting widespread spinal epidural venous plexus tumor cell emboli with wedge-shaped spinal cord lesions. There has been no previous report of prostatic carcinoma showing tumor cell emboli in the spinal and cranial base epidural venous plexus, in spite of the fact that the incidence of vertebral metastasis in prostatic carcinoma is high, and that presence of continuity from pelvic organs to venous plexus around vertebrae, up to foramen magnum, has been reported. The present case shows that the possibility of spinal cord injury, not by direct compression, but by venous circulatory disturbance as a result of tumor cell emboli to veins, should be taken into consideration on medical treatment of prostatic carcinoma.
Local dysfunction in cerebral cortex infiltrated by astrocytoma can cause epilepsy and focal neurological deficits, but the cellular pathology of peritumoral cortex remains poorly defined. The aims of the present study were to define the morphological changes which occur in neurons in tumor-infiltrated cerebral cortex, and to determine whether peritumoral neurons show expression of cell stress-related proteins. Archival specimens of diffuse astrocytoma (n = 28) were identified with areas of both tumor-infiltrated cortex and apparently non-infiltrated cortex. Immunohistochemistry was performed to structural neuronal proteins (MAP-2, neurofilament proteins), beta-amyloid precursor protein, growth associated protein-43 and to injury response proteins (poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, poly(ADP-ribose), c-fos, and c-jun). Tumor-infiltrated cortex revealed neuronal loss and architectural disarray compared to non-infiltrated cortex. Pyramidal neurons showed thinning of the cytoplasmic rim and their neuritic processes showed increasing tortuosity, varicosity, fragmentation and loss, with axonal spheroid formation and dendritic beading. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase, poly(ADP-ribose) and c-fos were up-regulated in both infiltrated and non-infiltrated cortex, but c-jun expression was greater in areas of tumor-infiltrated cortex. Surviving neurons in cortex infiltrated by astrocytoma demonstrate, therefore, a sequence of morphological alterations in their dendritic, somatic and axonal compartments, and demonstrate a cell stress response. The patterns of cellular pathology identified suggest possible mechanisms, by which neurons are damaged and eventually lost in peritumoral brain.
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is a non-pharmacological modality used clinically to relieve pain. Central involvement of serotonin and endogenous opioids are implicated in TENS-induced analgesia. Activation of spinal cholinergic receptors is antinociceptive and these receptors interact with opioid and serotonin receptors. In the current study, the possible involvement of spinal cholinergic receptors in TENS analgesia was investigated in rats. Hyperalgesia was induced by inflaming one knee joint with 3% kaolin-carrageenan and assessed by measuring paw withdrawal latency (PWL) to heat before and 4 h after injection. The non-selective nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine (50 microg), non-selective muscarinic antagonist atropine (30 microg) or one of the muscarinic subtype antagonists: pirenzepine (M1, 10 microg), methoctramine (M2, 10 microg), 4-DAMP (M3, 10 microg), or saline was administered intrathecally just prior to TENS treatment. Low or high frequency TENS was then applied to the inflamed knee and PWL was determined again. Atropine, pirenzepine and 4-DAMP significantly attenuated the antihyperalgesic effects of low and high frequency TENS while mecamylamine and methoctramine had no effects, compared to saline control. The results show that TENS-induced antihyperalgesia is mediated partially by activation of spinal muscarinic receptors but not spinal nicotinic receptors. Further, the results also indicate that spinal M1 and M3 muscarinic receptor subtypes mediate the muscarinic component of TENS antihyperalgesia.
The concept that NK1 receptors are located pre-junctionally on substance P (SP)-containing nerves, acting as autoreceptors to inhibit SP release, has been suggested, but remains a controversial issue. To further investigate the existence of this receptor on central and peripheral terminals of primary afferent fibres, NK1 receptor knockout mice and an NK1 receptor antagonist were used in nerve-attached tissue preparations. These were the isolated dorsal horn of the spinal cord with dorsal roots attached, and the hairy skin of the hind paw with attached saphenous nerve. The results reveal that in the dorsal horn preparation, basal release of SP is significantly higher in NK1(-/-) mice than NK1(+/+) mice (P&lt;0.05, n=7 mice/strain). However, a difference in SP release evoked in the dorsal horn by electrical stimulation of the dorsal roots or capsaicin application was not observed. In contrast, antidromic electrical stimulation of the saphenous nerve caused a substantially greater release of SP in the skin of NK1(-/-) mice than in NK1(+/+) mice (P&lt;0.05, n=5 to 6 mice/strain). These results provide evidence for the existence of NK1 autoreceptors on sensory nerves in skin, which may be relevant to the modulation of their peripheral pathophysiological effector functions.
E-6375 (4-butoxy-2-[4-(2-cyanobenzoyl)-1-piperazinyl] pyrimidine hydrochloride) is a new intravenous general anaesthetic with an anaesthetic potency, in mice, comparable to propofol, or etomidate. Here, we examined the effect of E-6375 upon the GABAA receptor, a putative target of intravenous anaesthetic action. E-6375 reversibly enhanced GABA-evoked currents mediated by recombinant GABAA (alpha1beta2gamma2L) receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes, with little effect on NMDA- and kainate-evoked currents mediated by NR1a/NR2A and GluR1o/GluR2o glutamate receptors, respectively. E-6375 prolonged the decay of GABA-evoked miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents recorded from rat Purkinje neurones demonstrating the anaesthetic also enhanced the activity of synaptic GABAA receptors. The GABA enhancing action of E-6375 on recombinant GABAA receptors was unaffected by the subtype of the alpha isoform (i.e. alphaxbeta2gamma2L; x=1-3) within the receptor, but was increased by the omission of the gamma2L subunit. Receptors incorporating beta2, or beta3, subunits were more sensitive to modulation by E-6375 than those containing the beta1 subunit. The selectivity of E-6375 was largely governed by the identity (serine or asparagine) of a single amino acid residue within the second transmembrane domain of the beta-subunit. The various in vivo actions of general anaesthetics may be mediated by GABAA receptor isoforms that have a differential distribution within the CNS. The identification of agents, such as E-6375, that discriminate between GABAA receptor subtypes may augur the development of general anaesthetics with an improved therapeutic profile.
The pathogenesis of levodopa-induced dyskinesias (LID) still remains obscure. It has been suggested that enhanced opioidergic transmission in striatal output pathways may play a role in the induction of LID. To test this hypothesis, we have investigated the effect of different doses of the opioid receptor antagonists, naloxone and naltrexone on the dyskinetic response to a D1 agonist SKF 82958, a D2 agonist quinpirole and L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-Dopa). We have used six female cynomolgus monkeys rendered parkinsonian by the toxin MPTP and presenting a stable parkinsonian syndrome. All responded to L-Dopa and had developed dyskinesias which were manifested with each dose. The parkinsonian syndrome and dyskinesias were evaluated for each animal and scored after the treatments. Locomotor activity was measured by an electronic motility monitoring system. Our results show that coadministration of naloxone or naltrexone with dopaminergic agents leads to a significant increase in the severity of dyskinesias without noticeable effect on the antiparkinsonian efficacy of the treatment. These results suggest that increased opioidergic transmission in the two major striatal output pathways in monkeys or humans with LID might be an attempt to dampen the effect of abnormal dopaminergic stimulation rather than the cause of dyskinesias.
Compounds that block both serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) transporters have been proposed to have improved antidepressant efficacy. We compared the ability of four dual transporter inhibitors-chlorimipramine, duloxetine, milnacipran and venlafaxine-to block monoamine transporters in vitro and in vivo and increase extracellular monoamines in rat brain. Inhibition of radioligand binding to clonal human monoamine transporters in vitro and in vivo in rats was determined. Extracellular concentrations of 5-HT and NE in rat prefrontal cortex (PFC) were quantified using the microdialysis technique. All compounds blocked binding to human 5-HT and NE transporters, although chlorimipramine and venlafaxine had markedly greater affinity for 5-HT than NE transporters. In vivo, chlorimipramine and duloxetine potently blocked both transporters, milnacipran blocked both with lower potency and venlafaxine only blocked the 5-HT transporter. Chlorimipramine and duloxetine increased robustly and approximately equally monoamine extracellular concentrations. Milnacipran produced only small increases in NE, whereas venlafaxine increased 5-HT markedly at the lower doses and both monoamines at high doses. Thus, the dual transporter inhibitors blocked 5-HT and NE transporters in vitro and in vivo with varying potency. Chlorimipramine, duloxetine, and high dose venlafaxine acted as dual transporter inhibitors in rat PFC and increased extracellular concentrations of the monoamines, indicating functional dual transporter inhibition.
Group-III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR4, -6, -7, and -8) modulate neurotoxicity of excitatory amino acids and beta-amyloid-peptide (betaAP), as well as epileptic convulsions, most likely via presynaptic inhibition of glutamatergic neurotransmission. Due to the lack of subtype-selective ligands for group-III receptors, we previously utilized knock-out mice to identify mGluR4 as the primary receptor mediating neuroprotection of unselective group-III agonists such as L-AP(4) or (+)-PPG, whereas mGluR7 is critical for anticonvulsive effects. In a recent effort to find group-III subtype-selective drugs we identified (+/-)-PHCCC as a positive allosteric modulator for mGluR4. This compound increases agonist potency and markedly enhances maximum efficacy and, at higher concentrations, directly activates mGluR4 with low efficacy. All the activity of (+/-)-PHCCC resides in the (-)-enantiomer, which is inactive at mGluR2, -3, -5a, -6, -7b and -8a, but shows partial antagonist activity at mGluR1b (30% maximum antagonist efficacy). Chimeric receptor studies showed that the binding site of (-)-PHCCC is localized in the transmembrane region.Finally, (-)-PHCCC showed neuroprotection against betaAP- and NMDA-toxicity in mixed cultures of mouse cortical neurons. This neuroprotection was additive to that induced by the highly efficacious mGluR1 antagonist CPCCOEt and was blocked by MSOP, a group-III mGluR antagonist. Our data provide evidence for a novel pharmacological site on mGluR4, which may be used as a target-site for therapeutics.
The serotonin transporter (5-HTT) regulates serotonergic neurotransmission via clearance of extracellular serotonin. Abnormalities in 5-HTT expression or function are found in mood and anxiety disorders, and the 5-HTT is a major target for antidepressants and anxiolytics. The 5-HTT is further implicated in the pathophysiology of these disorders by evidence that genetic variation in the promoter region of the HTT (SLC6A4) is associated with individual differences in anxiety and neural responses to fear. To further evaluate the role of the 5-HTT in anxiety, we employed a mouse model in which the 5-HTT gene (htt) was constitutively inactivated. 5-HTT -/- mice were characterized for anxiety-related behaviors using a battery of tests (elevated plus maze, light&lt;--&gt;dark exploration test, emergence test, and open field test). Male and female 5-HTT -/- mice showed robust phenotypic abnormalities as compared to +/+ littermates, suggestive of increased anxiety-like behavior and inhibited exploratory locomotion. The selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist, WAY 100635 (0.05-0.3 mg/kg), produced a significant anxiolytic-like effect in the elevated plus maze in 5-HTT -/- mice, but not +/+ controls. The present findings demonstrate abnormal behavioral phenotypes in 5-HTT null mutant mice in tests for anxiety-like and exploratory behavior, and suggest a role for the 5-HT(1A) receptor in mediating these abnormalities. 5-HTT null mutant mice provide a model to investigate the role of the 5-HTT in mood and anxiety disorders.
Outbred male Sprague-Dawley rats can be classified as either low or high cocaine responders (LCRs or HCRs, respectively) based on their locomotor response to acute cocaine. Concomitant measurement of dopamine clearance in these rats revealed that the differential behavioral responses are associated with the magnitude of dopamine transporter (DAT) inhibition by cocaine. Here, we investigated several factors that might contribute to cocaine-induced behavioral variability and its association with differential inhibition of DAT function. In rats classified as LCRs or HCRs after 10 mg/kg cocaine injection, we found no differences in (1) novelty-induced locomotion, (2) cocaine levels in dorsal striatum or nucleus accumbens (NAc), (3) DAT number or affinity in NAc, or (4) DAT affinity for cocaine in NAc. In rats given 20 mg/kg cocaine, behavior was more uniform across individuals, but still warranted separation into LCR/HCR categories. Additionally, we analyzed the stability of the LCR/HCR classification made during the first test with 10 or 20 mg/kg cocaine by retesting rats 7 days later with saline or cocaine (10 or 20 mg/kg). Before injection, HCRs were more active relative to LCRs and to their own behavior on the first test day. Following cocaine, LCRs and HCRs exhibited similar drug-induced changes in locomotion, but there were unique effects that depended on the cocaine dose given on the first and second test days. Our results argue against several likely explanations for individual differences in cocaine-induced behavior and highlight the influence of a single cocaine exposure on subsequent behavioral responses to the drug.
While an involvement of brain serotonin systems in schizophrenia has been suggested by many studies, the relative role of different serotonergic projections in the brain remains unclear. We therefore examined the effects of selective brain serotonin depletion on psychotropic drug-induced locomotor hyperactivity and prepulse inhibition, two animal models of aspects of schizophrenia. Pentobarbital-anesthetized (60 mg/kg, i.p.) male Sprague-Dawley rats were stereotaxically microinjected with 1 microl of a 5 microg/microl solution of the serotonergic neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) into either the dorsal or median raphe nucleus. At 2 weeks after the surgery, rats with dorsal raphe lesions did not show changes in psychotropic drug-induced locomotor hyperactivity, but displayed partial disruption of prepulse inhibition. In contrast, rats with median raphe lesions showed significant enhancement of phencyclidine-induced, but not amphetamine-induced locomotor hyperactivity and a marked disruption of prepulse inhibition. These results provide evidence for differential involvement of serotonergic projections in locomotor hyperactivity and prepulse inhibition. This study may help to explain the role of different serotonin projections in the brain in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
Lipocalin-type prostaglandin D synthase (PGDS) is considered to be mainly produced in the leptomeninges and secreted into cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). We found PGDS levels in CSF of patients with normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) (8.99+/-2.59 microg/ml, mean+/-S.D., n=14) to be significantly lower than levels in a control (15.29+/-5.17, n=14, P&lt;0.0001) and other dementia group (19.14+/-4.34, n=7, P=0.0003). Thus, PGDS level in CSF is a useful marker for the differential diagnosis of NPH from other diseases with dementia.
Dopamine acts in the striatum principally through the D1 and D2 dopamine receptor subtypes, which are segregated to the direct and indirect striatal projection neurons, respectively. As a consequence, degeneration of the dopamine input to the striatum results in opposing affects in these pathways. The resulting functional imbalance is thought to be responsible for the bradykinesia of Parkinson's disease, which may be temporarily normalized by dopamine replacement therapy. However, direct striatal projection neurons become irreversibly supersensitive to D1 dopamine receptor activation, despite the fact that there is an actual decrease in receptor number. Recent studies show that this D1 -supersensitive response results from a switch from the normal D1-mediated activation of protein-kinase A to an aberrant activation of ERK1/2/MAPkinase. This switch in D1-receptor-mediated regulation of protein kinase systems responsible for neuronal plasticity is suggested to underlie dyskinesia produced by L-DOPA treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Calcium-activated potassium (K+) channels are distributed throughout the central nervous system as well as many other peripheral tissues and comprise three distinct classes of K+ channels: small conductance (SK), intermediate conductance, and large conductance. This update focuses on SK channels. Increases in cytosolic calcium in response to depolarization activate SK channels. Activation of these channels decreases neuronal excitability. In this review, the authors discuss the role of SK channels in the induction of synaptic plasticity and their influence on learning and memory. A testable model that synthesizes the current literature is offered, suggesting that SK channels represent an important regulator of synaptic plasticity and memory.
Ethynylbicycloorthobenzoate (EBOB) is a recently developed ligand that binds to the convulsant site of the GABAA receptor. While a few studies have examined the binding of [3H]EBOB in vertebrate brain tissue and insect preparations, none have examined [3H]EBOB binding in preparations that express known configurations of the GABAA receptor. We have thus examined [3H]EBOB binding in HEK293 cells stably expressing human alpha1beta2gamma2 and alpha2beta2gamma2 GABAA receptors, and the effects of CNS convulsants on its binding. The ability of the CNS convulsants to displace the prototypical convulsant site ligand, [35S]TBPS, was also assessed. Saturation analysis revealed [3H]EBOB binding at a single site, with a K(d) of approximately 9 nM in alpha1beta2gamma2 and alpha2beta2gamma2 receptors. Binding of both [3H]EBOB and [35S]TBPS was inhibited by dieldrin, lindane, tert-butylbicycloorthobenzoate (TBOB), PTX, TBPS, and pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) at one site in a concentration-dependent fashion. Affinities were in the high nM to low microM range for all compounds except PTZ (low mM range), and the rank order of potency for these convulsants to displace [3H]EBOB and [35S]TBPS was the same. Low [GABA] stimulated [3H]EBOB binding, while higher [GABA] (greater than 10 microM) inhibited [3H]EBOB binding. Overall, our data demonstrate that [3H]EBOB binds to a single, high affinity site in alpha1beta2gamma2 and alpha2beta2gamma2 GABAA receptors, and modulation of its binding is similar to that seen with [35S]TBPS. [3H]EBOB has a number of desirable traits that may make it preferable to [35S]TBPS for analysis of the convulsant site of the GABAA receptor.
ATP-sensitive P2 receptors have been described in all mammalian nephron segments. A reductionist approach has demonstrated purinergic control of renal transporters in cell lines and heterologous expression systems. This brief update focuses on what is known of these receptors in native nephron segments (excluding the glomerulus) and outlines recent advances and possible future directions.

Nitric oxide (NO) is a major modulator of neural functions. Since NO is a gaseous molecule with very short half-life, the spatial distribution of NO and its relationship to neuronal activity are difficult to resolve. Non-invasive and direct visualization of NO in neuronal tissues had been hampered by the lack of a suitable method to identify NO directly. A fluorescent indicator, which directly detects NO under physiological conditions, would be advantageous. Several indicators for direct detection of NO have been developed, which react with NO by forming a fluorescent complex. However, some of these dyes have cytotoxic properties or have been found to be rather unspecific under certain conditions. Fortunately, some of the indicators, which change their fluorescent pattern in the presence of NO, appear to be promising for the visualization of NO. Since little is known about the spatial spread and the temporal aspects of NO release after a specific stimulus, the use of the specific and non-toxic fluorescent NO indicators could provide a potentially powerful tool to study these aspects of NO release in neuronal tissues in vitro and in vivo. Such measurements, especially in combination with electrophysiological recordings, would greatly further NO research. In addition, based on their fluorescent pattern, these NO-sensitive dyes can be distinguished from the calcium-sensitive dye Fura-2, which allows NO-imaging together with calcium-imaging. This article summarizes recent advances and current trends in the visualization of NO in living neuronal tissues.

Thiamin plays a key role in the maintenance of brain function. Thiamin diphosphate is cofactor for several enzymes involved in glucose metabolism whereas thiamin triphosphate has distinct properties at the neuronal membrane. Thiamin metabolism in the brain is compartmented between neurons and neighbouring glial cells. Thiamin deficiency is commonly encountered in severe malnutrition associated with chronic alcoholism, HIV-AIDS and gastrointestinal disease where it frequently results in Wernicke's encephalopathy (the Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome). Wernicke's encephalopathy is severely underdiagnosed according to clinical criteria in both alcoholic and HIV-AIDS patients. Magnetic resonance imaging reveals bilateral ventricular enlargement, mammillary body atrophy and cerebellar degeneration indicative of selective neuronal loss that is characteristic of Wernicke's encephalopathy. Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain this selective loss of neurons including a cerebral energy deficit resulting from reductions in activity of thiamin diphosphate-dependent enzymes, oxidative stress and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitotoxicity. Both microglia and perivascular endothelial cells are sources of NO and oxidative stress in thiamin deficiency. Decreased activities of thiamin diphosphate-dependent enzymes (in particular alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase) have also been reported in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases independent of patient malnutrition. In these cases, decreased activities result from direct toxic actions of oxidative stress and beta-amyloid produced as part of the neuronal cell death cascade in these disorders.


The functions of crucial proteins in the nervous system are modulated by kinases and phosphatases which catalyze opposing reactions of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation. During spinal cord central sensitization, serine/threonine protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) may play an important role in determining the excitability of nociceptive neurons in the spinal cord by modulating the phosphorylation state of some critical proteins. The effects of a general inhibitor of PP2A, okadaic acid (OA), and a specific inhibitor, fostriecin, on the behavioral responses of rats following capsaicin injection were investigated in this study. Hyperalgesia was initiated by injection of capsaicin into the plantar surface of the hindpaw of rats. An intrathecal catheter was previously implanted into the subarachnoid space of the spinal cord for the administration of a variety of drugs. Rats were tested for responses to mechanical stimuli using von Frey filaments of different bending forces applied at a site outside the area of injection. Responses to heat stimuli were detected from a site near the injection area. The responses were recorded before and after injection of capsaicin with the perfusion of ACSF, OA negative control, OA or fostriecin at different time points. The results demonstrated that secondary mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia can be induced by the intradermal injection of capsaicin. Compared to administration of ACSF or the OA negative control, infusion of the phosphatase inhibitor OA or of fostriecin into the subarachnoid space enhanced the secondary mechanical hyperalgesia and allodynia by making the intradermal capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia and allodynia last longer.
The antiepileptic drug, gabapentin, and another structurally related compound, pregabalin, are increasingly employed in the pharmacotherapy of chronic pain states, although their primary mechanism of action remains a topic of active study. A genomic approach to the study of these drugs may elucidate their potentially novel mechanisms. We examined the heritability of sensitivity to analgesia from gabapentin and pregabalin as a precursor to linkage mapping efforts. Accordingly, 11 inbred mouse strains were tested for inhibition of nociception by gabapentin or pregabalin (50-300 mg/kg, i.p.) in two different preclinical assays of inflammatory pain, the formalin test (5% formalin; 20 microl) and zymosan thermal hyperalgesia on the paw-withdrawal test (3 mg/ml zymosan; 20 microl). Significant strain-dependence of drug action was noted in each case, indicating that sensitivity to these analgesics is heritable. Furthermore, the pattern of strain sensitivities to gabapentin and pregabalin were mostly similar, supporting the notion that they act via similar genetic and physiological mechanisms. However, there was virtually no correlation between strain sensitivities to pregabalin inhibition of formalin nociception and zymosan thermal hyperalgesia. In light of previous data from our laboratory and others regarding morphine analgesia, we now establish and empirically demonstrate the general principle that pharmacogenetic mechanisms underlying analgesic sensitivity are specific to the type of pain being inhibited. This has considerable implications for ongoing pharmacogenetic investigations and, more generally, for the choices of preclinical models of pain used in drug development.
Hyperexcitability of spinal dorsal horn neurons, also known as 'central sensitization', is a component of pain associated with pathological conditions in the nervous system. The aim of the present study was to analyze if the pro-inflammatory cytokine, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), which can be released for extended periods of time in the nervous system during inflammatory and infectious events, can alter synaptic activity in dorsal horn neurons and thereby contribute to such hyperexcitability. Treatment of cultured dorsal horn neurons with IFN-gamma for 2 weeks resulted in a significantly reduced clustering of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole (AMPA) receptor subunit 1 (GluR1) that was dependent on nitric oxide. The neurons displayed an increased frequency and amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) upon IFN-gamma treatment. Treated dorsal horn neurons also exhibited increased responsiveness to stimulation of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) axons in a two-compartment model. Furthermore, disinhibition by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin (PTX) significantly increased EPSC frequency and induced bursting in untreated cultures but did not significantly increase the frequency in treated neurons, which displayed bursting even without PTX. GABA(A) agonists reduced activity more strongly in treated cultures and immunochemical staining for GABA(A) receptors showed no difference from controls. Since GluR1-containing AMPA receptors (AMPARs) occur predominantly on inhibitory neurons in the dorsal horn, we suggest that the IFN-gamma-mediated increase in spontaneous activity and responsiveness to DRG axon stimulation, decrease in sensitivity to PTX and tendency for EPSC bursting result from a reduced expression of GluR1 on these neurons and not from a reduction in active GABA(A) receptors in the network. IFN-gamma thereby likely causes disinhibition of synaptic activity and primary afferent input in the dorsal horn, which consequently results in central sensitization.

Cognitive deficits in Parkinson's disease (PD) include disturbances in working memory. We examined sequential visuo-spatial memory span by means of an adaptation of the Corsi Block-Tapping Task in groups of medicated (n=14) and non-medicated (n=15) patients with early stage PD, and in control subjects (n=22). A deficit in memory span was found in medicated patients with early stage PD relative to controls. There were no differences between non-medicated patients relative to either controls or medicated patients. A decrease in sequential visuo-spatial memory span appears to be a relatively early feature of PD and most likely reflects executive rather than mnemonic dysfunction.
Magnetic resonance imaging studies in patients with phenylketonuria (PKU) revealed white matter alterations that correlated to most recent blood phenylalanine (Phe) concentrations as well as to brain Phe concentrations measured by magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The clinical significance of these changes is unknown. Magnetic resonance imaging data thus have no impact on therapeutic recommendations for adolescents and adults with PKU. Kinetic investigations of patients by magnetic resonance spectroscopy showed differences in brain Phe concentrations despite similar blood Phe levels. These were influenced by interindividual variations of blood-brain barrier Phe transport constants and by variations of the individual brain Phe consumption rate. Blood-brain barrier Phe transport characteristics as well as brain Phe consumption rates thus seem to be causative factors for the individual outcome in PKU.
Low-frequency stimulation of synaptic inputs to after-hyperpolarising (AH) neurons in the guinea-pig small intestine causes sustained increases in excitability that far outlast the stimulus period. This excitation has been called sustained, slow, post-synaptic excitation (SSPE). Intracellular microelectrodes were used to record the effects of the protein kinase C (PKC) stimulant, phorbol dibutyrate (PDBu), and compare these with changes seen during the SSPE, in AH neurons of the small intestine of the guinea-pig. PDBu (1 nM-1 microM) increased excitability, depolarised the membrane and increased input resistance concentration dependently, mimicking the effects of low-frequency stimulation of pre-synaptic inputs. These changes developed slowly after the start of infusion and were only slowly reversible after wash out. PDBu suppressed a late after-hyperpolarising potential (AHP) that depends on Ca2+ entry via voltage-gated Ca2+ channels during the action potential. The effects of PDBu (10 nM) on the late AHP were indistinguishable from those observed during the SSPE. PDBu, at a concentration that inhibited the AHP, had no effect on the action potential half-width or the slope of its first repolarisation phase (the early phase of repolarisation is slowed by the Ca2+ influx of the action potential). Thus PDBu inhibited K+ channel opening underlying the late AHP, but did not suppress Ca2+ entry during the action potential. The hyperpolarisation-activated cation current (Ih) in intrinsic primary afferent neurons (IPANs) was not affected by PDBu. We conclude that PDBu mimics the sustained excitation caused by low-frequency stimulation of synaptic inputs to IPANs by closing IK channels responsible for the AHP or restricting their opening by Ca2+ and by reducing the current carried by K+ channels that are active at rest. IK channels, the opening of which results in the AHP, have consensus sites for PKC and are likely targets for phosphorylation during the SSPE.
The effect of muscimol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, and of morphine, an opioid receptor agonist, on penile erection induced by the hexarelin analogue peptide EP 80661 (GAB-D-Trp(2-Me)-D-Trp(2-Me)-LysNH(2)) and on the increase in the concentration of NO(2)(-) and NO(3)(-) that occurs concomitantly in the dialysate obtained from the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus by intracerebral microdialysis, was studied in male rats. Muscimol (50, 100 and 200 ng) and morphine (0.1, 0.5, 1 and 5 microg) given into the PVN dose-dependently reduced penile erection induced by EP 80661 (1 microg) injected into the PVN. The reduction of penile erection was parallel to a decrease of the concomitant NO(2)(-) and NO(3)(-) increase that occurs in the paraventricular dialysate in these experimental conditions. Muscimol and morphine effects on EP 80661-induced penile erection and NO(2)(-) increase were prevented by the prior administration into the PVN of bicuculline (250 ng) and naloxone (5 microg), respectively. The present results show that the activation of GABA(A) receptors and of opioid receptors in the PVN reduces penile erection induced by hexarelin analogue peptides by reducing the increase in NO activity that occurs in this hypothalamic nucleus in these experimental conditions.
Structural and social aspects of an environmental system can influence the physiology and behavior of animals occupying that system. This study examined the physiological effects of environmental enrichment (EE) with Kong Toys and Nestlets on stress-responsive hormones of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis under basal and mild stress conditions in singly housed, jugular vein-cannulated, male and female rats. Animals of both sexes housed with EE had significantly lower baseline adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone (CORT) concentrations compared to those housed without EE. ACTH responses to the mild stress of saline injection were significantly lower in female rats housed with EE. Interaction with the Kong Toys and Nestlets appears to have provided the rats with a diversion from monotonous cage life, resulting in lower HPA axis activity before and after mild stress. These results are important because low, stable baselines are essential for accurately discerning pharmacological and other influences on the HPA axis.
Modafinil is a wakeness-promoting drug, which is effective in the treatment of narcolepsy; its effects on learning processes are however little studied. Thus, the present study was aimed at determining the effects of an acute modafinil injection on a serial reversal discrimination task performed in a T-maze in mice. Independent groups of mice varying by the level of pretest training (either 1 or 4 days of training) were used. Mice were injected each day with a gum arabic solution before each session began. On the second or the fifth day of training, a single dose of modafinil was injected before testing. Modafinil at 64 mg/kg but not at 32 mg/kg dramatically improved performance as compared to controls in subjects being trained 4 days, but not in subjects being trained 1 day. This improvement of learning was due to the more rapid emergence of a win-stay strategy in modafinil-treated subjects as compare to controls. Thus, our data show that an acute modafinil injection enhances learning processes.
Oestrogens affect fluid balance, influencing both ingestive behaviour and renal excretion. The renal effects are partly due to altered release of vasopressin and oxytocin. This study was designed to explore the role of oestrogen receptor-beta (ERbeta) in neurohypophysial hormonal function. Following dietary administration, soya isoflavones reach the brain in sufficient concentration to activate ERbeta, but not oestrogen receptor-alpha (ERalpha). ERbeta function was therefore manipulated by feeding rat diets differing in soya isoflavone content. Fluid balance and neurohypophysial hormone release were measured in male rats maintained for 14 days on a soya isoflavone-free diet or one containing 150 microg/g genistein+daidzein. Food and water intake, body weight, urine flow, osmolality and sodium concentrations were determined daily. After 14 days, plasma and urine osmolality and sodium, vasopressin and oxytocin concentrations were determined. There was no significant difference in weight gain between the two groups or in their excretion of sodium and water or plasma sodium and plasma oxytocin. However, plasma vasopressin was significantly lower in the iso-free group. Double-label immunocytochemistry was used to assess colocalisation of ERbeta with the neurohypophysial hormones in male rats. Cell nuclei showing ERbeta immunoreactivity were abundant in the posterior magnocellular paraventricular nucleus (PVNpm) and in the supraoptic nucleus (SON). Vasopressin-immunoreactive neurones were similarly distributed, forming the core of the PVNpm and the ventral portion of the SON; majority were positive for ERbeta. Cells with oxytocin immunoreactivity were located mainly at the periphery of the PVNpm and in the dorsal SON; only approximately a quarter of these cells showed ERbeta immunoreactivity. Thus, the difference in the effects of the soya diet on vasopressin and oxytocin release may be related to the ERbeta-activating properties of this diet and to the preponderance of this receptor in vasopressin as opposed to oxytocin cells.
First discovered in plants the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, the production of small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) that bind to and induce the degradation of specific endogenous mRNAs is now recognized as a mechanism that is widely employed by eukaryotic cells to inhibit protein production at a post-transcriptional level. The endogenous siRNAs are typically 19- to 23-base double-stranded RNA oligonucleotides, produced from much larger RNAs that upon binding to target mRNAs recruit RNases to a protein complex that degrades the targeted mRNA. Methods for expressing siRNAs in cells in culture and in vivo using viral vectors, and for transfecting cells with synthetic siRNAs, have been developed and are being used to establish the functions of specific proteins in various cell types and organisms. RNA interference methods provide several major advantages over prior methods (antisense DNA or antibody-based techniques) for suppressing gene expression. Recent preclinical studies suggest that RNA interference technology holds promise for the treatment of various diseases. Pharmacologists have long dreamed of the ability to selectively antagonize or eliminate the function of individual proteins--RNAi technology may eventually make that dream a reality.
Amyloid beta peptide in the senile plaques of patients with Alzheimer's disease is considered to be responsible for the pathology of Alzheimer's disease. We have previously reported that 6-ethyl-N,N'-bis(3-hydroxyphenyl)[1,3,5]triazine-2,4-diamine, RS-0466, is capable of significantly inhibiting amyloid beta-induced cytotoxicity in HeLa cells. To determine various profiles of RS-0466, we investigated whether RS-0466 would enhance the neuroprotective effect of brain-derived neurotrophic factor on amyloid beta(1-42)-induced cytotoxicity in rat cortical neurones. Consistent with previous observations, brain-derived neurotrophic factor ameliorated amyloid beta(1-42)-induced cytotoxicity. Furthermore, co-application of RS-0466 enhanced the neuroprotective effect of brain-derived neurotrophic factor. RS-0466 also reversed amyloid beta(1-42)-induced decrease of brain-derived neurotrophic factor-triggered phosphorylated Akt. These results raise the possibility that RS-0466 or one of its derivatives has potential to enhance the neuroprotective effect of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and could serve as a therapeutic agent for patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Seven-transmembrane G-protein-coupled receptors play a central role in physiology by facilitating cell communication through recognition of a wide range of ligands. Even more important, they represent important drug targets. Unfortunately, for many of these receptors the endogenous ligands, and hence their functions, remain to be identified. These receptors are referred to as &quot;orphan&quot; receptors. A pre-requisite for the identification of ligands activating orphan receptors is powerful assay systems. Until now, reporter gene assays have not been in common use in this process. Here, we summarize our development of improved reporter gene assays. We optimized reporter gene assays in respect of (i) the promoter region of the construct, (ii) the reporter enzyme used, (iii) and the assay procedure. Furthermore, an unique fluorescence-based clone selection step was introduced, allowing rapid selection of the most sensitive reporter cell clones when establishing stable reporter cell lines. Mathematical formulae are provided to enable a simple and reliable comparison between different cell lines, when tested with a compound of interest. The resulting reporter cell lines responded in a very sensitive way to the stimulation of various test receptors. The reporter system was termed HighTRACE (high-throughput reporter assay with clone election). Its high assay quality makes it suitable as a primary screening tool. Ligands for two recently unknown 7TM receptors were identified using the HighTRACE system i.e., two cell surface free fatty acid receptors, GPR40 (FFA1R) and GPR43 (FFA2R). The identification was accomplished using a reverse pharmacology approach.

This Academic Highlights section of The Primary Care Companion to The Journal of Clinical Psychiatry presents a report from &quot;Global Challenges in Alzheimer's Disease: Emerging Therapeutic Strategies,&quot; a satellite symposium of the Eleventh Annual International Congress of the International Psychogeriatric Association held August 20, 2003, in Chicago, Ill. The symposium and this Academic Highlights were sponsored by an unrestricted educational grant from Forest Laboratories, Inc. The chair was George T. Grossberg, M.D., Department of Psychiatry, Department of Internal Medicine, St. Louis University Health Science Center and Wohl Clinic, St. Louis, Mo. The other faculty members were Jody Corey-Bloom, M.D., Ph.D., Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego and Veteran's Affairs Medical Center, La Jolla, Calif.; Gary W. Small, M.D., Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences, Neuropsychiatric Institute, University of California, Los Angeles; and Pierre N. Tariot, M.D., Departments of Psychiatry, Medicine, and Neurology and the Center for Aging and Developmental Biology, University of Rochester Medical Center and Monroe Community Hospital, Rochester, N.Y.
Protein kinases critically regulate synaptic plasticity in the mammalian hippocampus. Cyclic-AMP dependent protein kinase (PKA) is a serine-threonine kinase that has been strongly implicated in the expression of specific forms of long-term potentiation (LTP), long-term depression (LTD), and hippocampal long-term memory. We review the roles of PKA in activity-dependent forms of hippocampal synaptic plasticity by highlighting particular themes that have emerged in ongoing research. These include the participation of distinct isoforms of PKA in specific types of synaptic plasticity, modification of the PKA-dependence of LTP by multiple factors such as distinct patterns of imposed activity, environmental enrichment, and genetic manipulation of signalling molecules, and presynaptic versus postsynaptic mechanisms for PKA-dependent LTP. We also discuss many of the substrates that have been implicated as targets for PKA's actions in hippocampal synaptic plasticity, including CREB, protein phosphatases, and glutamatergic receptors. Future prospects for shedding light on the roles of PKA are also described from the perspective of specific aspects of synaptic physiology and brain function that are ripe for investigation using incisive genetic, cell biological, and electrophysiological approaches.
Amygdala kindling dramatically increases fearful behavior in rats. Because kindling-induced fear increases in magnitude as rats receive more stimulations, kindling provides an excellent model for studying the nature and neural mechanisms of fear sensitization. In the present experiment, we studied whether the development of kindling-induced fear is related to changes in glucocorticoid receptor (GR) mRNA expression in various brain regions. Rats received 20, 60 or 100 amygdala kindling stimulations or 100 sham stimulations. One day after the final stimulation, their fearful behavior was assessed in an unfamiliar open field. Then, the rats were sacrificed and their brains were processed for in situ hybridization of GR mRNA expression. We found that compared with the sham-stimulated rats, the rats that received 60 or 100 kindling stimulations were significantly more fearful in the open field and also had significantly less GR mRNA expression in the dentate gyrus and CA1 subfield of the hippocampus. Importantly, the changes in fearful behavior were significantly correlated with the changes in GR mRNA expression. These results suggest that alterations in GR mRNA expression in hippocampal regions may play a role in the development of kindling-induced fear.
Recent evidence suggests that genetic and biochemical factors associated with psychoses may also provide an increased propensity to think creatively. The evolutionary theories linking brain growth and diet to the appearance of creative endeavors have been made recently, but they lack a direct link to research on the biological correlates of divergent and creative thought. Expanding upon Horrobin's theory that changes in brain size and in neural microconnectivity came about as a result of changes in dietary fat and phospholipid incorporation of highly unsaturated fatty acids, we propose a theory relating phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activity to the neuromodulatory effects of the noradrenergic system. This theory offers probable links between attention, divergent thinking, and arousal through a mechanism that emphasizes optimal individual functioning of the PLA2 and NE systems as they interact with structural and biochemical states of the brain. We hope that this theory will stimulate new research in the neural basis of creativity and its connection to psychoses.
The skin flush response to niacin is selectively mediated by the release of vasodilatory prostaglandins from the skin. The normal skin flush response to niacin is attenuated in many individuals with schizophrenia (SCZ). This finding suggests abnormal prostaglandin signaling in SCZ. Since prostaglandins are derived from arachidonic acid (AA), the finding of an abnormal skin flush response is consistent with biochemical data suggesting relative depletion of AA, and other essential fatty acids (EFAs), in a substantial portion of people with SCZ. This paper will describe the mechanism of the skin flush response to niacin, and will review evidence that the response to niacin is abnormal in SCZ, that this abnormality is not related to psychotropic medications, and that it may be a marker of the EFA deficiency which has been documented to be present in many patients with SCZ.
Objective: To describe the baseline findings of the Intercontinental Schizophrenia Outpatient Health Outcomes (IC-SOHO) study in the Central and Eastern European sub-region (CEE-SOHO). Method: The IC-SOHO study is an ongoing prospective, three-year, non-interventional observational study of schizophrenia treatment, clinical characteristics and mental health services utilization in eight Central and Eastern European countries. The study population consists of non-hospitalized patients who had initiated treatment with or changed to a new antipsychotic. Results: The baseline findings of the IC-SOHO study (CEE-SOHO Subset) appear to reflect clinical practice in Russia, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary, Romania and Lithuania (N=2,247). Overall, the patients were moderately to markedly ill and either overweight or obese (61.1%) when they entered the study. Functionally, the majority of patients was not involved in a relationship, could not care for themselves and was unemployed. Substance and alcohol dependency/abuse was not a problem in this study population. At baseline, half of the patients were treated with the newer atypical antipsychotics; and anxiolytics/hypnotics were the most commonly prescribed concomitant medication. Sexual side effects were most frequently reported among the surveyed adverse events. Overall patient compliance/ adherence to medication was good. Conclusion: The baseline IC-SOHO data highlighted various clinical and functional characteristics and antipsychotic use patterns in a group of outpatients with schizophrenia in a naturalistic setting. Once completed, the IC-SOHO study will add further to this knowledge base.
Anxiety disorders are associated with an increase in cardiovascular mortality. Studies using heart rate (HR) and QT interval variability measures suggest a decreased cardiac vagal function and a relatively increased sympathetic function in anxiety. This is important, as increased sympathovagal balance is associated with life-threatening arrhythmias. Several studies have shown that panic disorder is associated with an increased sensitivity to yohimbine and a blunted growth hormone response to clonidine, which are alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist and agonist, respectively. This study investigated the changes in QTvi (QT variance corrected for mean QT interval squared/HR variance corrected for mean HR squared) during placebo, oral clonidine (150 mg) and oral yohimbine (20 mg) in a double-blind design in 12 normal controls and 19 patients with panic disorder. HR and QT variability measures, especially QTvi, were obtained before and after the administration of these drugs to patients in supine and standing postures. As expected, patients with panic disorder became more anxious after yohimbine. In addition, the patients had a significant increase in QTvi after yohimbine and a significant decrease in QTvi after clonidine, which was not seen in the control group. The decreased anxiety after placebo was associated with decreased QTvi in patients. This study supports the previous reports of an abnormal sensitivity of alpha-2 adrenergic receptors in patients with panic disorder compared to controls and partly explains the association of increased cardiovascular mortality with conditions of anxiety. QTvi, a non-invasive indicator of cardiac repolarization lability, appears to be a useful tool to study cardiac sympathetic function.
The Temperament and Character Inventory is an internationally used personality questionnaire based on Cloninger's psychobiological theory of personality. Given some limitations of Version 9 a revised version was developed. The structural equivalence of the two versions was demonstrated from a cross-cultural perspective with 309 and 173 healthy volunteers from Sweden and Germany, respectively, who completed both versions in one session. In testing for the replicability of the factors across both samples as well as across both versions, an orthogonal Procrustes rotation method was used. The reliability coefficients for the revision were higher than the former version for both samples. The factor structures of the inventory remain highly equivalent across cultures and across versions. The results indicate a cross-cultural transferability of the Temperament and Character dimensions of the inventory. The stability and the validity of the 7-factor model of personality, as suggested by Cloninger, are supported. The Temperament and Character Inventory-Revised represents an important and useful method for the assessment of personality.





Involuntary movements, or dyskinesias, represent a debilitating complication of levodopa therapy for Parkinson's disease. Dyskinesia is, ultimately, experienced by the vast majority of the patients. Despite the importance of this problem, little was known about the cause of dyskinesia, a situation that has dramatically evolved in the last few years. The present review presents: 1) the current understanding of dyskinesia pathophysiology and 2) the therapeutic modalities, mainly non-dopaminergic, available or in development. We here show that the questions raised by the dyskinesia may have a clinically-driven pharmacological answer: the symptomatic treatment of dyskinesia, the prevention of the priming and the de-priming of the neural networks.
The present study investigated attentional dysfunction in patients with recurrent unipolar major depression in a visual search paradigm. The attentional aspects of automatic and effortful information processing were examined. The general hypothesis was that patients with unipolar major depression would have more problems with tasks that require effortful information processing than with tasks that require only automatic information processing. A task requiring effortful processing attracts attention, is more demanding, and is instruction-driven. A task that is automatically processed does not invoke attention, is less demanding, and is stimulus-driven. The results showed that the patient group needed significantly longer reaction times on the tasks requiring more effortful information processing than the control group, but there were no significant differences between groups on tasks requiring automatic information processing. Thus it seems as if the depressed patients show an impaired profile as a function of the degree of effort a task requires.

Intraoperative electrocorticography (ECoG) has been traditionally used in the surgical management of medically refractory partial epilepsies to identify the location and limits of the epileptogenic area, to guide the extent of resection, and to assess its completeness. Although in clinical use for many years, the basic questions regarding indications and limitations of this method has remained unanswered. ECoG plays a major role in tailored temporal lobectomies, whereas, it serves no practical purpose in standard resection of medial temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) evidence of mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS). Residual hippocampal spikes, unaltered by resection, correlate with a greater proportion of seizure recurrence. Intraoperative hippocampal ECoG can allow sparing of functionally important hippocampus, thus minimising postoperative memory decline. ECoG eminently aids removal of developmental malformations of brain, and most importantly, the excision of highly epileptogenic cortical dysplasias (CDs) for deciding the extent of resection for best seizure control. The ECoG can be a valuable tool during multiple subpial transections (MST).

Acquired forms of autonomic neuropathy may be isolated or may coexist with somatic neuropathy. Clinical identification of symptoms and signs in the patient with autonomic dysfunction is crucial in the diagnosis of autonomic neuropathy and its separation from pure autonomic failure or multiple system atrophy. Once an autonomic neuropathy has been identified, several clinical features can be useful in the diagnosis of a specific form of autonomic neuropathy. Other factors, such as the presence of somatic neuropathy and systemic disease, are critical for diagnosis. This article reviews the clinical presentation, diagnosis, pathogenesis, and management of the acquired forms of autonomic neuropathy.
Fetal surgery involves unique ethical issues because the interests of fetus and mother may conflict but, regardless, they are inextricably interconnected. Controversial questions currently include what kinds of surgery should be permitted, who should decide, and whether this surgery should be restricted to specialized centers. Clinical questions include the degree to which mothers should have decision-making authority, the extent, if any, to which mothers should be protected from pressure from family members, and whether physicians should be non-directive. This article discusses these questions and their answers' competing rationales. It also presents recent data from attachment studies of mothers and infants and from neuroscience, which suggest that mothers and infants are more interdependent physiologically and psychologically than has been understood. The paper describes how these findings may apply to the mother and fetus long before it is born. The major implication of this analysis is that mothers should, perhaps, have greater decision making authority.
This review is concerned with circadian (approximately 24 h) aspects of chronobiology, and how they relate to sleep disorders medicine. We begin with an introduction to the key concepts and paradigms of circadian rhythms research in general, including a description of homeostatic and circadian determinants of sleep timing. This is followed by a brief history of chronobiology in relation to sleep disorders medicine. Both animal and human circadian rhythm studies are considered. We trace historical changes in the relative emphasis placed on social contacts, light, and melatonin in human circadian rhythms research. Special attention is given to free-running, forced desynchrony, and ultra-short sleep/wake cycle findings of particular relevance to sleep disorders medicine. The latter part of the review comprises a description of the circadian rhythm sleep disorders, highlighting insights derived from basic circadian rhythms research, including recent advances in molecular genetics. We conclude that the role of chronobiology in sleep disorders medicine is profound and pervasive, and that the two disciplines will move ever closer as a natural function of important new insights into sleep and sleep disorders provided by basic circadian rhythms research.


Rats selectively bred for amygdala excitability, realized by fast or slow kindling epileptogenesis, were previously reported to exhibit differential levels of anxiety. Although the Slow kindling rats generally appeared more anxious in several behavioral tests, under certain test conditions the Fast kindling rats displayed greater anxiety or stressor reactivity. The present investigation confirmed that in a test of anxiety comprising suppression of consumption of a palatable snack in an unfamiliar environment, the Slow kindling rats exhibited greater anxiety and that this effect was attenuated by diazepam. Likewise, the acoustic startle response was greater in the Slow kindling rats. However, the fear-potentiated startle response was more pronounced in Fast kindling rats, particularly among females, irrespective of whether the test parameters elicited moderate or high startle amplitudes. The elevated startle in the Slow rats, and the fear potentiated startle in the Fast rats, were attenuated by diazepam. These data indicate the need to differentiate subtypes of anxiety in animal models, and raise the issue that anxiety elicited by specific environmental triggers may interact with genetically determined trait characteristics.


Our recent studies suggest that extracellular dopamine (DA) in the cerebral cortex not only originates from dopaminergic terminals but is also coreleased with noradrenaline (NA) from noradrenergic terminals [Devoto et al. (2001) Mol Psychiatry 6:657-664]. To further clarify this issue, the concentrations of extracellular DA, its deaminated metabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and NA were compared by microdialysis in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), an area densely innervated by NA and DA neurons, and in the occipital cortex (OCC), equally innervated by NA but receiving scarce DA projections. Moreover, the effect of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine locally perfused into the locus coeruleus (LC) on extracellular NA, DA, and DOPAC in the mPFC, OCC, and ventral striatum was investigated. Consistent with the homogeneous NA innervation, extracellular NA concentration was similar in both cortices, while extracellular DA in the OCC, in spite of the scarce DA afference in this area, was only 37% lower than in the mPFC; extracellular DOPAC in the OCC was 81% lower than in the mPFC. Consistent with its ability to inhibit NA neurons, clonidine (10 microM) reduced extracellular NA by about 65 and 80% in the OCC and the mPFC, respectively, but also reduced extracellular DA by 70 and 50% in the OCC and the mPFC, respectively. Clonidine reduced DOPAC in the OCC (by about 40%) but not in the mPFC. In the ventral striatum clonidine reduced NA (by 30%) but not DA and DOPAC. After inhibition of the DA and NA transporter, by perfusing 100 microM desmethyl-imipramine into the mPFC, clonidine perfusion into the LC reduced extracellular NA and DA in the mPFC by about 50%. The results indicate that most of extracellular DA in the OCC and a significant portion in the mPFC reflect the activity of NA neurons and support the hypothesis that extracellular DA in the cerebral cortex may originate not only from DA but also from NA neurons.
Stem cells are widely believed to have significant potential in the treatment of human disease. Comments such as '[stem cells]...could prove the Holy Grail in finding treatments for cancer, Parkinson's disease, diabetes, osteoporosis, spinal cord injuries, Alzheimer's disease, leukaemia and multiple sclerosis...transform[ing] the lives of hundreds of thousands of people' (Yvette Cooper, Public Health minister, quoted in The Times, December 16 2000, authors' italics) serve to reinforce the extraordinary expectations of stem cells, particularly in neurological disease. Stem cells, traditionally defined as clone forming, self-renewing, pluripotent, progenitor cells, have already proved themselves to be an invaluable source of transplantation material in several clinical settings, most notably malignant haematology, and attention is now turning to a wider variety of diseases in which there may be potential for therapeutic intervention with stem cell transplantation. Neurological diseases have been highlighted as a priority and this is understandable given their unenviable reputation for relentless progression and the paucity of disease-modifying treatments. However, it is important that the potential of stem cells to treat neurological disease is critically appraised if the hopes of patients and doctors are not to be raised without foundation.
The central problem for cognitive neuroscience is to describe how cognitive processes arise from brain processes. This review summarizes the recent evidence that synchronous neural oscillations reveal much about the origin and nature of cognitive processes such as memory, attention and consciousness. Memory processes are most closely related to theta and gamma rhythms, whereas attention seems closely associated with alpha and gamma rhythms. Conscious awareness may arise from synchronous neural oscillations occurring globally throughout the brain rather than from the locally synchronous oscillations that occur when a sensory area encodes a stimulus. These associations between the dynamics of the brain and cognitive processes indicate progress towards a unified theory of brain and cognition.
The abilities to identify with others and to distinguish between self and other play a pivotal role in intersubjective transactions. Here, we marshall evidence from developmental science, social psychology and neuroscience (including clinical neuropsychology) that support the view of a common representation network (both at the computational and neural levels) between self and other. However, sharedness does not mean identicality, otherwise representations of self and others would completely overlap, and lead to confusion. We argue that self-awareness and agency are integral components for navigating within these shared representations. We suggest that within this shared neural network the inferior parietal cortex and the prefrontal cortex in the right hemisphere play a special role in interpersonal awareness.
Ekstrom et al. report the responses of single neurons recorded from the brains of human subjects performing a spatial navigation task in virtual reality. They found cells encoding the subject's current location, view and destination. These data, and related findings in animals, directly reveal some of the representations underlying spatial cognition. They highlight the potential for cognitive psychology and systems neuroscience to combine to provide a neuronal-level understanding of human behaviour.
Dendrites contain voltage-sensitive conductances that, in vivo, can be influenced by neuromodulatory inputs. In spinal motoneurons, dendrites have voltage-activated persistent inward currents that are facilitated by neuromodulatory input from monoaminergic axons originating in the brainstem. The highest levels of monoamine input are likely to occur during 'fight or flight' behavioral situations. At these high levels, the persistent currents are so large that the dendrites of motoneurons become hyperexcitable, enhancing ionotropic inputs by fivefold or more and allowing the firing rates required for maximal activation of muscle fibers to be generated by surprisingly small inputs. Moderate dendritic excitability (twofold to threefold enhancement) is likely to be a standard component of many normal motor behaviors, such as locomotion. Thus, during normal motor behavior, synaptic integration might be dominated by active currents intrinsic to the dendritic tree rather than by the synaptic current entering via ionotropic channels.
Conscious perception, like the sight of a coffee cup, seems to involve the brain identifying a stimulus. But conscious input activates more brain regions than are needed to identify coffee cups and faces. It spreads beyond sensory cortex to frontoparietal association areas, which do not serve stimulus identification as such. What is the role of those regions? Parietal cortex support the 'first person perspective' on the visual world, unconsciously framing the visual object stream. Some prefrontal areas select and interpret conscious events for executive control. Such functions can be viewed as properties of the subject, rather than the object, of experience - the 'observing self' that appears to be needed to maintain the conscious state.
Certain proteins encoded by mitochondrial DNA (mt-DNA), including mt-ribosomal protein S4 (rps4), appear to play important roles in the initiation of cell differentiation. Partial disruption of rps4 in Dictyostelium discoideum Ax-2 cells by means of homologous recombination greatly impairs the progression of differentiation, while the the rps4(OE) cells in which the rps4 mRNA was overexpressed in the extra-mitochondrial cytoplasm exhibit enhanced differentiation (Inazu et al., 1999). We have prepared a specific anti-RPS4 antibody and generated transformants (rps4(AS) cells) by antisense-mediated gene inactivation of rps4. Surprisingly, in the rps4(AS) cells the progress of differentiation was found to be markedly inhibited, suggesting that the antisense rps4 RNA synthesized in the extra-mitochondrial cytoplasm might be as effective as the partial disruption of rps4 gene. Immunostaining of the rps4(OE) cells with the anti-RPS4 antibody demonstrated that the RPS4 protein synthesized in the extra-mitochondrial cytoplasm is capable of moving to the nucleus, as predicted by PSORTII. Taken together with the results obtained using immunostained Ax-2 cells, we propose a possible pathway of RPS4 translocation coupled with differentiation.
Accumulative evidence indicates that acute (before extinction) and long-lasting (during extinction) depression can occur at excitatory synapses in mouse medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) during re-exposure to a tone (conditioned stimulus: CS), previously paired with footshock (unconditioned stimulus: US). As recently shown, the long-term depression (LTD)-like plasticity in the mPFC does not interfere with extinction of CS-evoked freezing but predicts spontaneous recovery of this fear response. Here, the objectives were to investigate: (i). whether a resistance to extinction without any prefrontal acute synaptic plasticity could produce LTD-like changes, and (ii). by the use of paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) analyses, whether pre- or post-synaptic mechanisms were involved in this LTD phenomenon. Preliminary analyses indicated that levels of acute depression did not correlate with the degree of fear acquisition (effects of number of CS-US pairings). As a consequence, mice conditioned with 2CS+ or 2CS+/2CS- (partial reinforcement of the CS known to induce resistance to extinction) exhibited CS-associated freezing without any acute synaptic depression in the mPFC. However, during further CS-alone presentations, the 2CS+/2CS- group developed LTD-like changes that accompanied their resistance to extinguish freezing to the CS. In contrast, the 2CS+ group normally extinguished their conditioned freezing with synaptic transmission remaining at baseline levels. PPF analyses revealed that facilitation was unchanged following prefrontal LTD. These data, combined with our previous findings, (i). support a critical involvement of prefrontal LTD-like changes in spontaneous recovery of fear responses, and (ii). suggest a post-synaptic site for these changes.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is known to be involved in associative learning; however, its specific role in acquisition of cued classical conditioning has not yet been determined. Furthermore, the role of regional differences within the PFC in the acquisition of cued conditioning is not well described. These issues were addressed by exposing rats to either one or four sessions of a cued classical conditioning task, and subsequently examining c-fos immunoreactivity in various areas of the PFC. Differences in patterns of c-fos immunopositive nuclei were found when comparing the PFC areas examined. No significant differences were found between rats presented with a temporally contingent conditioned stimulus (CS) light and food (paired groups) and those presented with the same stimuli temporally non-contingently (unpaired groups). In lateral and orbital PFC, both the paired and unpaired groups showed more c-fos immunopositive nuclei than control groups exposed only to the behavioral setup (context exposed groups), and all groups showed a drop in c-fos immunopositive nuclei from session 1 to session 4. In dorsal medial PFC, no differences were seen between the paired, unpaired and context exposed groups. These groups did, however, differ from naive animals, an effect that was not seen in the ventral medial PFC. The results of this study do not support a role for the PFC in the acquisition of a cued classical conditioning task. The differences seen between paired, unpaired and context exposed groups in orbital and lateral PFC could be due to contextual conditioning or reward-related effects.
Previous studies have shown that when the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is removed at 7-10 days of age there is a spontaneous filling of the lesion cavity and a nearly complete restitution of behaviour. In the current study animals received mPFC lesions on postnatal day 10 and on day 160 the tissue occupying the mPFC region was again removed. Behavioural performance on the Morris water task was compared to animals with either only day 10 mPFC lesions or only day 160 mPFC lesions. Rats with the combined day 10 and day 160 lesions or day 160 lesions were severely impaired at the task whereas the rats with only day 10 lesions showed complete recovery. An analysis of dendritic arborization in pyramidal neurons adjacent to the lesion showed increased dendritic arborization in the basilar fields in both the P10 groups but this was not associated with functional recovery in the animals with the two mPFC lesions. It thus appears that the tissue that filled in the mPFC lesions on day 10 was functional.
The classical view of the evolution of such skilled movements as use of the hand and digits for reaching and grasping posited that these movements had their origin in the primate lineage. The hypothesis was that the permissive influence of adaptations to an arboreal environment led to the evolution and elaboration of these skills. Associated with skilled movements were increases in the size of the frontal lobe, temporal lobe, and cerebellum and the elaboration of new connections between these structures and other cortical regions, the brainstem, and spinal cord. The classical view saw rodents as phylogenetically old and relatively unrelated animals, displaying no skilled movements, and whose normal repertoire of behavior had little dependence on the frontal lobes. Here, evidence is reviewed that shows that the classical view of the origins of skilled movements is incorrect. Skilled movements are phylogenetically old, evolved in relation to food handling, and are especially well developed in rodents. Behavioral evidence also shows that the skilled movements of rodents are dependent upon the function of the frontal cortex. Nevertheless, there are difference in the sensory control of skilled movement in primates and rodents. Skilled movements are largely directed by vision in primates but are directed by hapsis/olfaction in rodents. This difference in sensory control suggests that at a dividing point between primates and rodents, there was a profound behavior/brain transformation. Primates retained the skilled movements exemplified in rodents, but brought these movements under visual control. Correspondingly, along with many other anatomical changes, the primate frontal cortex became relatively larger and move complex under visual influence.
The lack of a single anatomical or functional definition of 'prefrontal cortex' has led to different and, in some respects, controversial views on the existence of a prefrontal cortex in non-primate mammals, in particular in rats. Until the classic paper by Rose and Woolsey [Res. Publ. Assoc. Nerv. Ment. Dis. 27 (1948) 210], the general idea was that a prefrontal cortex is unique to primate species. Rose and Woolsey's 'prefrontal cortex' definition was based upon a single anatomical criterion, i.e. the cortical projection area of the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus. Single criteria, however, do not appear to be sufficient for defining the prefrontal cortex. Therefore, other anatomical and functional characteristics are currently used to identify the prefrontal cortex in different species. Yet, recently the debate about the nature of the prefrontal cortex in non-primate species has been resumed. In the present paper we will compare the structural and functional characteristics of the prefrontal cortex of nonhuman primates and rats. We will argue that rats have a functionally divided prefrontal cortex that includes not only features of the medial and orbital areas in primates, but also some features of the primate dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.
From the most basic of nervous systems to the intricate circuits found within the human brain, a fundamental requirement of neuronal function is that it be malleable, altering its output based upon experience. A host of cellular proteins are recruited for this purpose, which themselves are regulated by protein phosphorylation. Over the past several decades, research has demonstrated that the Ca(2+) and calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase calcineurin (protein phosphatase 2B) is a critical regulator of a diverse array of proteins, leading to both short- and long-term effects on neuronal excitability and function. This review describes many of the influences of calcineurin on a variety of proteins, including ion channels, neurotransmitter receptors, enzymes, and transcription factors. Intriguingly, due to the bi-directional influences of Ca(2+) and calmodulin on calcineurin activity, the strength and duration of particular stimulations may cause apparently antagonistic functions of calcineurin to work in concert.
A growing family of endogenous inhibitors of calcineurin has been identified in recent years. These endogenous calcineurin inhibitors are throwing new light on the function and regulation of calcineurin in a wide variety of cellular processes and cell types.
The mitochondrial 18kDa peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor (PBR), a high affinity cholesterol binding protein, has been shown to interact with protoporphyrin IX (PPIX) and this interaction was assumed to be involved in the regulation of heme biosynthesis and porphyrin-based photodynamic therapy in cancer. In order to test this hypothesis recombinant mouse PBR was expressed in Escherichia coli. The recombinant gene product showed in E. coli protoplasts specific affinity for PPIX binding. PPIX could displace PK 11195 binding. Moreover, induced PBR protein expression in E. coli protoplasts caused an uptake of PPIX that could be completely inhibited by cholesterol and to a lesser extent inhibited by PK 11195 and Ro5-4864. These results suggest that PBR, in addition to its role in cholesterol and coproporphyrinogen III transport, is also directing the mitochondrial PPIX import, a function that can be ascribed to the 18kDa PBR protein alone.
[1-13C]Glucose, [2-13C]acetate and [3-13C]lactate were infused into male Sprague-Dawley rats (150-170 g) for periods of 3-100 min (n=4 per time) and neocortex extracts were analyzed using 13C-edited 1H magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy. The time dependence of the [4-13C]glutamine/[4-13C]glutamate labeling ratio was significantly different for all three substrates infused (p&lt;0.001) and showed that acetate is primarily utilized by glia and lactate by neurons, whereas glucose is ubiquitous. The ratio of second- to first-turn TCA cycle labeling for glutamine was significantly lower for acetate (30-100 min infusion; p&lt;0.02) and greater for lactate (10-30 min; p&lt;0.02) than for glucose infusions, while the C-2/C-4 glutamate labeling ratio was similar for all the three substrates. This indicated that transfer of [2-13C]acetate-derived [4-13C]glutamine to neurons was preferred to reentry of label into the glial TCA cycle and that the neuronal TCA cycle turnover is significantly faster than that for glia. Fitting parameters of a function representing a pseudo-first-order process to the time dependence of labeling demonstrated that GABA labeling reaches steady state faster with glutamine labeled from [2-13C]acetate than with glutamate labeled from [3-13C]lactate. It is concluded that lactate represents a significant improvement over glucose in the study of neuronal metabolism and complements the use of acetate to study glial metabolism and glial/neuronal metabolic relationships.
The RET receptor tyrosine kinase is activated by binding to a ligand complex formed by a member of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family of neurotrophic factors bound to its cognate GDNF-family receptor-alpha (GFR alpha) glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked co-receptor. Molecular modeling studies of the extracellular domain of RET (RETECD) have revealed the existence of four cadherin-like domains (CLD1-4) followed by a cysteine-rich domain. Cross-linking experiments have indicated that the RETECD makes direct contacts with both the GDNF ligand and GFR alpha 1 molecule in the complex, although it has low or no detectable affinity for either component alone. We have exploited sequence and functional divergences between the ectodomains of mammalian and amphibian RET molecules to map binding determinants in the human RETECD responsible for its interaction with the GDNF-GFR alpha 1 complex by homologue-scanning mutagenesis. We found that Xenopus RETECD was unable to bind to GDNF-GFR alpha-1 or neurturin (NTN)-GFR alpha-2 complexes of mammalian origin. However, a chimeric molecule containing CLD1, -2, and -3 from human RETECD, but neither domain alone, had similar binding activity as compared with wild type human RETECD, suggesting the existence of an extended ligand binding surface within the three N-terminal cadherin-like domains of human RETECD. Subsequent loss-of-function experiments at higher resolution identified three small subsets of residues, mapping on the same face of the molecular model of RET CLD1, that were required for the interaction of human RETECD with the GDNF-GFR alpha 1 complex. Additional experiments demonstrated that N-linked glycosylation of human RETECD was not required for ligand binding. Based on these observations, we propose a model for the assembly and architecture of the GDNF-GFR alpha 1-RET complex.
The Jsap1 gene encodes a scaffold protein for c-Jun N-terminal kinase cascades. We established c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/stress-activated protein kinase-associated protein 1 (JSAP1)-null mouse embryonic stem cell lines by homologous recombination. The JSAP1-null embryonic stem cells were viable, however, exhibited hyperplasia of the ectoderm during embryoid body formation, and spontaneously differentiated into neurons more efficiently than did wild type. The expression of components of c-Jun N-terminal kinase cascades and a subset of marker mRNAs during early embryogenesis was altered in the JSAP1-null mutants. Retinoic acid dramatically increased the expression of JSAP1 and JNK3, which were co-precipitated with anti-JNK3 in the neuroectoderm of wild type but not JSAP1-null embryoid bodies. In the neurons differentiated from the wild type embryoid bodies, JSAP1 was localized in the soma, neurites, and growth cone-like structure of the neurites, and neurite outgrowth from the JSAP1-null embryoid bodies was apparently less efficient than from wild type. JSAP1 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase 3 were coexpressed in the embryonic ectoderm of E7.5 mouse embryo, whereas Wnt1 and Pax2 were coexpressed with JSAP1 at the midbrain-hindbrain junction in E12.5 mouse embryo, thus suggesting that JSAP1 is required for early embryonic neurogenesis.

Pax transcription factors are found in animals, from simple sponges to insects and vertebrates. The defining feature of Pax proteins is the DNA-binding paired domain (PD), which consists of two helix-turn-helix subdomains, joined with a linker region. Despite high specificity in vivo, the paired domains of different Pax proteins bind similar consensus DNA sequences in vitro. Using bandshift techniques, we show here that the paired domain of the Acropora millepora PaxD protein, which unambiguously belongs to the Pax3/7 group, does not bind to three defined paired domain-binding sites. Domain swapping experiments and site-directed mutagenesis identified two amino acid residues in the linker region of the paired domain as critical to DNA binding; G70 and S71 are highly conserved in Pax proteins, but differ in PaxD (L70 and N71). The PaxD data thus highlight the importance of the linker region, and particularly G70 and S71, in DNA binding by Pax proteins.
This study was undertaken to investigate the effects induced by chronic systemic administration of two different antidepressants: imipramine (IMI), a dual serotonin-noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor, and fluvoxamine (FVX), a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, on the antinociceptive effect of morphine (MOR) in a paw pressure test in adjuvant-induced arthritic rats. For 30 days rats were administered with IMI, FVX or saline (SAL). On days 15 and 30, animals were tested in the paw pressure test 20 min after MOR or SAL administration. MOR induced a significant antinociceptive effect in IMI, FVX and SAL treated rats. But, at 30 days, this increase in pain threshold was significatively higher in IMI than SAL rats. This increase was not seen in FVX rats. These results suggest that a combination of opioid and mixed monoaminergic activities is effective in enhancing the antinociceptive effect of MOR in arthritic rats while only opioid and serotonergic activities have no enhancer effect.
We examined the effect of stimulus frequency on optically recorded hemodynamic responses to electric median nerve stimulation. Electric stimuli were delivered to the right median nerve with an intensity of 90% of motor threshold. Four different stimulus frequencies (2, 5, 10, and 20 Hz) were administered in each subject. By means of a multi-channel near-infrared spectroscopic instrument, changes in concentration of oxygenated hemoglobin were continuously measured over the left scalp. After 20 Hz stimulation, we found two spatially and temporally distinct hemodynamic responses. One lasted beyond 60 s, and the center of this response was located over the secondary somatosensory area. The other had a transient duration starting immediately after the stimulus onset and was located in the primary somatosensory hand area. Both responses were linearly augmented as a function of the stimulus frequency. Since temporal activation patterns are different in two somatosensory areas, real-time optical monitoring is necessary in evaluation of hemodynamic responses to electric nerve stimulation.
[reaction: see text] Amination of 5-bromo-2-chloropyridine (1a) catalyzed by a palladium-Xantphos complex predominately gives 5-amino-2-chloropyridine product 3a in 96% isolated yield and excellent chemoselectivity (3a/4a = 97:3). Amination of 2,5-dibromopyridine (11) under the same conditions exclusively affords 2-amino-5-bromopyridine 4a.
There are currently no known agents that display selectivity between homomeric 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3A (5-HT3A) and heteromeric 5-HT3A/3B receptors. In the present study, we show that the CNS convulsant picrotoxin selectively interacts with 5-HT3A receptors. In whole-cell patch clamp recordings, the inhibitory effect of PTX was reduced 100-fold in heteromeric mouse 5-HT3A/3B receptors, compared to homomeric 5-HT3A receptors. Picrotoxin should prove to be a useful probe for determining the presence of homomeric vs. heteromeric 5-HT3 receptors in both native tissue and recombinant receptor preparations.
Mitochondrial dysfunction may contribute to dopaminergic (DAergic) cell death in Parkinson's disease and GABAergic cell death in Huntington's disease. In the present work, we tested whether blocking A1 receptors could enhance the damage to DAergic and GABAergic neurons caused by mitochondrial inhibition, and whether blocking A2a receptors could protect against damage in this model. Animals received an intraperitoneal injection of 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (CPX) (A1 antagonist) or 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX) (A2a antagonist) 30 min before intrastriatal infusion of malonate (mitochondrial complex II inhibitor). Damage was assessed 1 week later by measuring striatal dopamine, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and GABA content. In mice and rats, malonate-induced depletion of striatal dopamine, TH, or GABA was potentiated by pretreatment with 1 mg/kg CPX and attenuated by pretreatment with 5 mg/kg DMPX. To determine the location of the A1 and A2a receptors mediating these effects, CPX or DMPX was infused directly into the striatum or substantia nigra of rats 30 min before intrastriatal infusion of malonate. When infused into the striatum, CPX (20 ng) potentiated, whereas DMPX (50 ng) prevented malonate-induced GABA loss, but up to 100 ng of CPX or 500 ng of DMPX did not alter malonate-induced striatal dopamine loss. Intranigral infusion of CPX (100 ng) or DMPX (500 ng), however, did exacerbate and protect, respectively, against malonate-induced striatal dopamine loss. Thus, A1 receptor blockade enhances and A2a receptor blockade protects against damage to DAergic and GABAergic neurons caused by mitochondrial inhibition. Interestingly, these effects are mediated by A1 and A2a receptors located in the substantia nigra for DAergic neurons and in the striatum for GABAergic neurons.
Positive allosteric regulation of glutamate AMPA receptors involves conformational changes that can attenuate receptor desensitization and enhance ion flux through the channel pore. Many allosteric modulators (e.g., cyclothiazide and aniracetam) preferentially affect the flip (i) or flop (o) alternatively spliced isoform of AMPA receptors, implicating residues in the flip-flop domain as critical determinants of splice variant sensitivity. Indeed, previous mutational analyses have demonstrated that the differential sensitivity to cyclothiazide and aniracetam depends on a single amino acid, Ser (flip) and Asn (flop), suggesting that this residue may be solely responsible for differences in modulation of AMPA receptor isoforms. The present studies tested this hypothesis by investigating the molecular determinants of modulation of AMPA receptor splice variants by a structurally distinct compound, LY404187, which displays strikingly different and opposing kinetics of allosteric regulation characterized by a time-dependent enhancement in potentiation of homomeric GluR1-GluR4i and a time-dependent reduction in potentiation of GluR1-GluR4o. Site-directed mutagenesis of residues in the flip-flop domain of GluR2 revealed that, although exchange of Asn775 for Ser in GluR2o was sufficient to confer the GluR2i phenotype of potentiation, the corresponding mutation, Ser775Asn, in GluR2i did not impart the GluR2o response. In fact, the GluR2o kinetics of modulation depended on a novel set of substitutions in GluR2i, including Thr765Asn, Pro766Ala, and Val779Leu in combination with Ser775Asn. Collectively, these results show that, unlike cyclothiazide and aniracetam, the residues that confer splice variant differences in modulation by LY404187 are not identical and indicate that allosteric regulation of AMPA receptors can arise from multiple molecular determinants.
Although GABA activates synaptic (alphabetagamma) GABA(A) receptors with high efficacy, partial agonist activation of alphabetagamma isoforms and GABA activation of the primary extrasynaptic (alphabetadelta) GABA(A) receptors are limited to low-efficacy activity, characterized by minimal desensitization and brief openings. The unusual sensitivity of alphabetadelta receptor channels to neurosteroid modulation prompted investigation of whether this high sensitivity was dependent on the delta subunit or the low-efficacy channel function that it confers. We show that the isoform specificity (alphabetadelta &gt; alphabetagamma) of neurosteroid modulation could be reversed by conditions that reversed isoform-specific activity modes, including the use of beta-alanine to achieve increased efficacy with alphabetadelta receptors and taurine to render alphabetagamma receptors low efficacy. We suggest that neurosteroids preferentially enhance low-efficacy GABA(A) receptor activity independent of subunit composition. Allosteric conversion of partial to full agonism may be a general mechanism for reversibly scaling the efficacy of GABA(A) receptors to endogenous partial agonists.
Recommendations from experts and recently established guidelines on how to improve the face and predictive validity of animal models of stroke have stressed the importance of using older animals and long-term behavioral-functional endpoints rather than relying almost exclusively on acute measures of infarct volume in young animals. The objective of the present study was to determine whether we could produce occlusions in older rats with an acceptable mortality rate and then detect reliable, long-lasting functional deficits. A reversible intraluminar suture middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) procedure was used to produce small infarcts in middle-aged rats. This resulted in an acceptable mortality rate, and robust disabilities were detected in functional assays, although the degree of total tissue loss measured 90 d after MCAO was quite modest. Infarcted animals were functionally impaired relative to sham control animals even 90 d after the occlusions, and when animals were subgrouped based on amount of tissue loss, MCAO animals with only 4% tissue loss exhibited enduring neurological-behavioral impairments relative to sham-operated controls, and the functional impairments in the group with the largest infarcts (20% tissue loss) were more severe than the functional impairments in the rats with 4% tissue loss. These results suggest that this model, using reversible MCAO to produce small infarcts and long-lasting functional-behavioral deficits in older rats, may represent an advance in the relatively higher-throughput modeling of stroke and its recovery in rodents and may be useful in the development and characterization of future stroke therapies.
Hair cells, the sensory receptors of auditory and vestibular systems, use a transducer apparatus that renders them remarkably sensitive to mechanical displacement as minute as 1 nm. To study the embryonic development of the transducer apparatus in hair cells of the chick auditory papilla, we examined hair cells that have been labeled with N-(3-triethylammoniumpropyl)-4-(4-(dibutylamino)styryl) pyridiniumdibromide, which has been shown to permeate the transducer channels. In addition, mechanotransduction currents were recorded directly using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. The structure of the hair bundle was examined using scanning electron microscopy, and immunofluorescence labeling for myosin 1c, myosin 7a, and plasma membrane Ca2+ ATPase 2 was studied to determine the developmental expression of these proteins in embryonic chick papillas. We demonstrate that the transducer apparatus is assembled jointly at embryonic day 11 (E11) of the developing chick basilar papilla. The resting open probability of the transducer channels was high at E12 (approximately 0.5) and remained substantially elevated at E14-16; it then declined to the mature value of approximately 0.15 at E21. The displacement sensitivity of the transduction apparatus, the gating force, increased from E12 to E21. Although the expression of different components of the transducer apparatus and the transduction current peaked at approximately E14-16, marked refinement occurred beyond E16. For example, myosin 1c appeared diffusely localized in hair bundles from E12 to E16, but subsequently consolidated into punctate pattern. The fine temporal and precise spatial assembly of the transducer apparatus likely contributes toward the exquisite sensitivity of the transduction ensemble.
Correlated neuronal activity is believed to play an important role in refining and maintaining cortical circuitry during early development. Here we provide evidence that globally and locally correlated activity mediate different forms of adult plasticity. Pulses of broad-spectrum noise were used to activate time-locked responses across large areas of the rat auditory cortex, globally synchronizing cortical activity. Brief tone pips were used to activate relatively small groups of neurons, generating locally correlated activity. Pairing pulsed noises with nucleus basalis (NB) stimulation in awake rats for 4 weeks broadened spectral tuning, disrupted tonotopic maps, and reduced spontaneous discharge correlation in the primary auditory cortex (AI), as examined under anesthesia. Those effects caused AI neurons to appear qualitatively similar to neurons in nonprimary auditory fields of naive animals. Subsequent pairing of tone pips with NB stimulation for a period of 4 weeks completely reversed these effects induced by previous noise-NB pairing. These findings further demonstrate that the adult auditory cortex retains a substantial capacity for receptive field plasticity and tonotopic map reorganization and that locally correlated activity plays an important role in plasticity in the adult, as in the developing cortex.
Synaptic strengthening induced by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is associated with learning and is coupled to transcriptional activation. However, identification of the spectrum of genes associated with BDNF-induced synaptic plasticity and the correlation of expression with learning paradigms in vivo has not yet been studied. Transcriptional analysis of BDNF-induced synaptic strengthening in cultured hippocampal neurons revealed increased expression of the immediate early genes (IEGs), c-fos, early growth response gene 1 (EGR1), activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated protein (Arc) at 20 min, and the secreted peptide VGF (non-acronymic) protein precursor at 3 hr. The induced genes served as prototypes to decipher mechanisms of both BDNF-induced transcription and plasticity. BDNF-mediated gene expression was tyrosine kinase B and mitogen-activated protein kinase-dependent, as demonstrated by pharmacological studies. Single-cell transcriptional analysis of Arc after whole-cell patch-clamp recordings indicated that increased gene expression correlated with enhancement of synaptic transmission by BDNF. Increased expression in vitro predicted elevations in vivo: VGF and the IEGs increased after trace eyeblink conditioning, a hippocampal-dependent learning paradigm. VGF protein was also upregulated by BDNF treatment and was expressed in a punctate manner in dissociated hippocampal neurons. Collectively, these findings suggested that the VGF neuropeptides may regulate synaptic function. We found a novel function for VGF by applying VGF peptides to neurons. C-terminal VGF peptides acutely increased synaptic charge in a dose-dependent manner, whereas N-terminal peptide had no effect. These observations indicate that gene profiling in vitro can reveal new mechanisms of synaptic strengthening associated with learning and memory.


A reliable screening assay for anti-interferon beta (IFNbeta) antibodies is needed for patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) receiving IFNbeta therapy. The performance of a new ELISA method, the capture ELISA (cELISA), was assessed by comparing it to a standard IFNbeta ELISA in correlating with neutralizing antibodies measurement in 453 sera from patients with MS. The cELISA outperformed the standard ELISA, and may be a suitable screening assay for anti-IFNbeta antibodies in IFNbeta-treated patients with MS.


Deletions at 22q11.2 are linked to DiGeorge or velocardiofacial syndrome (VCFS), whose hallmarks include heart, limb, and craniofacial anomalies, as well as learning disabilities and increased incidence of schizophrenia. To assess the potential contribution of 22q11 genes to cognitive and psychiatric phenotypes, we determined the CNS expression of 32 mouse orthologs of 22q11 genes, primarily in the 1.5-Mb minimal critical region consistently deleted in VCFS. None are uniquely expressed in the developing or adult mouse brain. Instead, 27 are localized in the embryonic forebrain as well as aortic arches, branchial arches, and limb buds. Each continues to be expressed at apparently constant levels in the fetal, postnatal, and adult brain, except for Tbx1, ProDH2, and T10, which increase in adolescence and decline in maturity. At least six 22q11 proteins are seen primarily in subsets of neurons, including some in forebrain regions thought to be altered in schizophrenia. Thus, 22q11 deletion may disrupt expression of multiple genes during development and maturation of neurons and circuits compromised by cognitive and psychiatric disorders associated with VCFS.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is a common inherited cause of mental retardation resulting from the absence of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). FMRP is thought to regulate the translation of target mRNAs, including its own transcript. Here we show that the levels of FMRP are rapidly up-regulated in primary cortical neurons in response to the type-I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist S-3,5-dihydrophenylglycine. These changes require new protein synthesis but not transcription and are specific to mGluR activation. We also demonstrate that the mRNA for PSD-95, a scaffolding protein involved in synaptic plasticity, contains a highly conserved canonical binding site for FMRP within its 3' UTR. Furthermore, PSD-95 is rapidly translated in response to S-3,5-dihydrophenylglycine. Finally, we show that these mGluR-dependent changes in PSD-95 expression are lost in neurons derived from FMRP knockout mice, a model of FXS. Taken together, these studies suggest that FMRP is required for mGluR-dependent translation of PSD-95 and provide insights into the pathophysiology of FXS.
The motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) implicate the basal ganglia (BG) in some aspect of motor control, although the role the BG play in regulation of motor behavior is not completely understood. The modeling study presented here takes advantage of available cellular, systems, and clinical data on BG and PD to begin to build a biophysically based network model of pallidosubthalamic circuits of BG, to integrate this information and better understand the physiology of the normal BG and PD pathophysiology. The model reflects the experimentally supported hypothesis that the BG are involved in facilitation of the desired motor program and inhibition of competing motor programs that interfere with the desired movement. Our model network consists of subthalamic and pallidal (both external and internal segments) neural assemblies, with inputs from cortex and striatum. Functional subsets within each of the BG nuclei correspond to the desired motor program and the unwanted motor programs. A single compartment conductance-based model represents each subset. This network can discriminate between competing signals for motor program initiation, thus facilitating a single motor program. This ability depends on metabotropic gamma-aminobutyric acid B projections from the external pallidum to subthalamic nucleus and rebound properties of subthalamic cells, as well as on the structure of projections between pallidum and subthalamus. The loss of this ability leads to hypokinesia, known PD motor deficits characterized by a slowness or inability to switch between motor programs.
Selegiline is a specific MAO-B inhibitor. As MAO-B has been shown to be significantly involved in the metabolism of dopamine in certain regions of the primate brain, selegiline has been proposed for use in the treatment of drug addiction. Selegiline is also metabolized in vivo to l-methamphetamine. Therefore, when given in combination with psychostimulants such as d-methamphetamine, there is the potential for adverse effects. To study this possibility, squirrel monkeys were treated with chronic selegiline and tested with two doses of d-methamphetamine (0.1 and 1.0 mg/kg, i.v.). Following at least 7 days of treatment with once daily 0.3 mg/kg i.m. selegiline, the effects of methamphetamine on blood pressure and heart rate were no different than the effects of methamphetamine observed prior to selegiline treatment. However, following at least 10 days of treatment with 1.0 mg/kg i.m. selegiline, the effects of methamphetamine on blood pressure and heart rate were significantly reduced. Both methamphetamine and amphetamine were detected in plasma following chronic selegiline treatment. When monkeys were given an acute selegiline injection prior to methamphetamine, reduced cardiovascular effects were also seen. These results indicate that selegiline can be used safely even in combination with methamphetamine, as the cardiovascular effects of the drug combination were no greater than either drug alone, and were actually reduced at the higher selegiline dose.
The Notch and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling pathways play critical roles in the control of cell fate during metazoan development. However, mechanisms of cross-talk and signal integration between the two systems are unknown. Here, we demonstrate a functional synergism between Notch and TGF-beta signaling in the regulation of Hes-1, a direct target of the Notch pathway. Activation of TGF-beta signaling up-regulated Hes-1 expression in vitro and in vivo. This effect was abrogated in myogenic cells by a dominant-negative form of CSL, an essential DNA-binding component of the Notch pathway. TGF-beta regulated transcription from the Hes-1 promoter in a Notch-dependent manner, and the intracellular domain of Notch1 (NICD) cooperated synergistically with Smad3, an intracellular transducer of TGF-beta signals, to induce the activation of synthetic promoters containing multimerized CSL- or Smad3-binding sites. NICD and Smad3 were shown to interact directly, both in vitro and in cells, in a ligand-dependent manner, and Smad3 could be recruited to CSL-binding sites on DNA in the presence of CSL and NICD. These findings indicate that Notch and TGF-beta signals are integrated by direct protein-protein interactions between the signal-transducing intracellular elements from both pathways.
In sympathetic neurons, unlike most nonneuronal cells, growth factor withdrawal-induced apoptosis requires the development of competence in addition to cytochrome c release to activate caspases. Thus, although most nonneuronal cells die rapidly with cytosolic cytochrome c alone, sympathetic neurons are remarkably resistant unless they develop competence. We have identified endogenous X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) as the essential postcytochrome c regulator of caspase activation in these neurons. In contrast to wild-type neurons that are resistant to injection of cytochrome c, XIAP-deficient neurons died rapidly with cytosolic cytochrome c alone. Surprisingly, the release of endogenous Smac was not sufficient to overcome the XIAP resistance in sympathetic neurons. In contrast, the neuronal competence pathway permitted cytochrome c to activate caspases by inducing a marked reduction in XIAP levels in these neurons. Thus, the removal of XIAP inhibition appears both necessary and sufficient for cytochrome c to activate caspases in sympathetic neurons. These data identify a critical function of endogenous XIAP in regulating apoptosis in mammalian cells.
The vasopressin V1a receptor is a gene known to be central to species differences in social behavior, including differences between the monogamous prairie vole and its promiscuous congeners. To examine how individual differences compare with species differences, we characterize variability in the expression of the vasopressin V1a receptor (V1aR) in a large sample of wild prairie voles. We find a surprising degree of intraspecific variation in V1aR binding that does not seem attributable to experimental sources. Most brain regions exhibit differences between upper and lower quartiles that are comparable to differences between species in this genus. Regions that are less variable have been implicated previously in regulating monogamous behaviors, suggesting that the lack of variation at these sites could reflect natural selection on mating system. Many brain regions covary strongly. The overall pattern of covariation reflects the developmental origins of brain regions. This finding suggests that shared mechanisms of transcriptional regulation may limit the patterns of gene expression. Such biases may shape both the efficacy of selection and the pattern of individual and species differences. Overall, our data indicate that the prairie vole would be a useful model for exploring how individual differences in gene expression influence complex social behaviors.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is a likely site of action for the therapeutic efficacy of antidepressants that inhibit norepinephrine (NE) reuptake. Moreover, drugs that block the NE transporter (NET) increase extracellular levels of both NE and dopamine (DA), an interaction that may contribute to their therapeutic properties. To examine the subcellular localization of NET and to investigate the spatial relationships between presumed NE and DA axons within the rat prelimbic PFC, we combined immunogold-silver localization of NET with immunoperoxidase staining for the catecholamine synthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). An additional aim was to quantify the proportion of profiles dually labeled for NET and TH to test the common observation that TH immunolabeling is relatively selective for DA axons. NET-immunoreactive (NET-ir) axonal profiles were typically unmyelinated and occasionally were observed to form symmetric axodendritic synapses. The majority of immunogold NET labeling was unexpectedly observed in the cytoplasm rather than on the plasma membrane. Furthermore, in tissue dually labeled for both NET and TH, only 8-10% of profiles contained both markers. Unlike observations for singly labeled profiles, gold-silver particles for NET in dually labeled axons were localized primarily to the plasmalemma. A systematic survey of terminals labeled only for TH revealed that they were typically separated by at least 1.2 mum from NET-ir varicosities, and the two profile types were not seen to contact common targets. These results suggest that, in the rat PFC, NE axons (1) contain predominantly cytoplasmic NET, (2) infrequently contain TH immunolabeling, and (3) may interact with probable DA afferents by means of extrasynaptic mechanisms.
The mounting physiological evidence for low-resistance electrical coupling between thalamic and cortical neurons contrasts with a lack of morphological data on gap junctions in thalamus and cortex. Connexin-36 is a neuronally specific protein associated with low-resistance gap junctions in the central nervous system. Connexin-36 localization was studied in the mouse somatosensory cortex and thalamus by using immunocytochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy. Expression of connexin-36 immunoreactivity is widespread in the forebrain and significantly enhanced in the barrel cortex and thalamic reticular nucleus during the second postnatal week, but it extends to other thalamic nuclei as well. At the electron microscopic level, pre- and postembedding immunogold labeling revealed that 70-76% of connexin-36-immunolabeled particles were localized at focal sites on apposed plasma membranes of cortical and thalamic dendrites; approximately 5% of the particles were associated with parasynaptic membranes; but on no occasion could overt, morphologically identifiable gap junctions be demonstrated in association with connexin-36 immunoreactivity. The widespread distribution of focal concentrations of connexin-36 subunits could provide a basis for the electrical coupling that exists between cortical and reticular thalamic neurons, but morphologically definable gap junctions may be too small to be adequately visualized by conventional immunoelectron microscopy.
Altruistic food giving among genetically unrelated individuals is rare in nature. The few examples that exist suggest that when animals give food to unrelated others, they may do so on the basis of mutualistic or reciprocally altruistic relationships. We present the results of four experiments designed to tease apart the factors mediating food giving among genetically unrelated cotton-top tamarins (Saguinus oedipus), a cooperatively breeding New World primate. In experiment 1 we show that individuals give significantly more food to a trained conspecific who unilaterally gives food than to a conspecific who unilaterally never gives food. The apparent contingency of the tamarins' food-giving behaviour motivated the design of experiments 2-4. Results from all three experiments show that altruistic food giving is mediated by prior acts of altruistic food giving by a conspecific. Specifically, tamarins do not give food to unrelated others when the food received in the past represents the by-product of another's selfish actions (experiments 2 and 3) or when a human experimenter gives them food (experiment 4) as did the unilateral altruist in experiment 1. By contrast, if one tamarin gives another food without obtaining any immediate benefit, then the recipient is more likely to give food in return. Overall, results show that tamarins altruistically give food to genetically unrelated conspecifics, discriminate between altruistic and selfish actions, and give more food to those who give food back. Tamarins therefore have the psychological capacity for reciprocally mediated altruism.
Many multiprotein complexes mediate the fusion of the intracellular membranes. The question how the specificity of the membrane fusion is controlled has not been fully elucidated. Here we report the identification of a mouse homologue Vps16p (mVps16), which exhibits a high homology to the yeast Vps16p, a component of Class C vacuolar protein sorting (Vps) complex implicated in the yeast vacuole membrane fusion. Northern and Western blot analyses reveal that mVps16 is ubiquitously expressed in the mouse peripheral tissues. Biochemical analyses show that mammalian Class C Vps proteins interact with multiple syntaxins and Vps45p, which localizes in the endosomal compartments. The internalization of transferrin (Tf) is not affected by the overexpression of mammalian class C Vps proteins, but the recycling was inhibited. Taken together, this study provides biochemical characteristics of mVps16p in mammalian cells and the potential roles of mammalian Class C Vps proteins in membrane trafficking.
The role of proinflammatory cytokines in the response to acute stressor exposure has received recent attention. Exposure to a single session of inescapable shock (IS) induces peripheral and central proinflammatory cytokines. Other stressors also increase expression of proinflammatory cytokine mRNA and/or protein in various tissues. However, the induction of central and peripheral proinflammatory cytokines by stressors remains controversial and the pattern of cytokine induction is not consistent across stressors. The present experiments sought to examine the pattern of the proinflammatory cytokine response to a stressor known to cause elevations of IL-1beta protein. mRNA expression for three proinflammatory cytokines, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha and IL-6, and IL-1beta protein was examined after IS. IS increases IL-1beta mRNA and/or protein in a variety of tissues, including hypothalamus, hippocampus, pituitary and spleen. Furthermore, IS concomitantly alters IL-1beta mRNA and protein in hypothalamus and spleen, while the IL-1beta mRNA increase in pituitary lags behind the increase of IL-1beta protein. Interestingly, IL-1beta mRNA is elevated in hippocampus 4 h after IS, but an increase of IL-1beta protein in hippocampus is not detected. Expression of TNF-alpha and IL-6 mRNA do not increase in response to IS. Indeed, TNF-alpha mRNA expression decreases in cortex, pituitary and liver immediately after IS. These findings suggest that alterations of proinflammatory cytokine expression by stressors, and IS in particular, are region- and cytokine-specific.
Brain injury following acute and chronic neurological conditions can involve both neuronal perikaryal and axonal damage, yet considerably less is known about the mechanisms of axonal damage. Oligodendrocytes and myelin are highly vulnerable to AMPA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity. In vitro studies using isolated white matter preparations have shown that AMPA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity results in axonal damage. The effect of AMPA on axons in vivo remains to be determined. We established an in vivo model to determine if axons were vulnerable to AMPA-mediated toxicity, and furthermore, to examine if axonal damage occurred through an AMPA receptor-mediated mechanism. Adult rats received stereotaxic injection of AMPA (2.5 or 25 nmol) or vehicle (PBS) into the external capsule. Axonal damage was detected in the external capsule and cortex in sections immunostained for cytoskeletal components microtubule associated protein-5 (MAP 5), the 200 kDa neurofilament subunit (NF 200) and non-phosphorylated neurofilament-H (SMI 32). Quantification of axonal damage in the external capsule of MAP 5-immunostained sections showed that AMPA caused a significant, dose-dependent increase in axonal damage compared to the vehicle-treated controls. AMPA also induced a dose-dependent increase in myelin and neuronal perikaryal damage. Systemic administration of the AMPA receptor antagonist SPD 502 significantly reduced the amount of AMPA-induced axonal, myelin and neuronal damage. These data suggest that AMPA induces structural damage to the cytoskeleton of axons in vivo, as well as neuronal and myelin damage, and that this occurs through AMPA receptor-mediated mechanisms. AMPA receptor antagonism may have therapeutic potential to salvage both axons and neuronal perikarya in a number of neurological disorders.
The acidic dipeptide N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) is the most prevalent peptide in the central nervous system. NAAG is a low potency agonist at the NMDA receptor, and hydrolysis of NAAG yields the more potent excitatory amino acid neurotransmitter glutamate. beta-NAAG is a competitive inhibitor of the NAAG hydrolyzing enzyme N-acetylated alpha-linked acidic dipeptidase (NAAG peptidase activity) or glutamate carboxypeptidase II, and may also act as a NAAG-mimetic at some of the sites of NAAG pharmacological activity. Since NAAG has been shown to have neuroprotective characteristics in a number of experimental preparations, it is the purpose of the present study to specifically evaluate the possible efficacy of NAAG and beta-NAAG against NMDA- and hypoxia-induced injury to spinal cord mixed neuronal and glial cell cultures. NAAG (500-1000 microM) protected against NMDA- or hypoxia-induced injuries to spinal cord cultures, and the nonhydrolyzable analog beta-NAAG (250-1000 microM) completely eliminated the loss of viability caused by either insult. Both peptides also attenuated NMDA-induced increases in intraneuronal Ca(2+). Nonspecific mGluR antagonists, pertussis toxin, a stable cAMP analog, and manipulation of NAAG peptidase activity did not by themselves alter cell damage and did not influence the neuroprotective effects of NAAG. NAAG was not protective against kainate- or AMPA-induced cellular injury, while beta-NAAG was partially neuroprotective against both insults. At 2 mM, NAAG and beta-NAAG reduced neuronal survival and increased intraneuronal Ca(2+); these effects were only marginally attenuated by dizocilpine and APV. The results indicate that NAAG and beta-NAAG protect against excitotoxic and hypoxic injury to spinal cord neurons, and do so predominantly by interactions with NMDA and not mGluR receptors.
Increased production and deposition of the 40-42-amino acid beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) is believed to be central to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Abeta is derived from the amyloid precursor protein (APP), but the mechanisms that regulate APP processing to produce Abeta are not fully understood. X11alpha (also known as munc-18-interacting protein-1 (Mint1)) is a neuronal adaptor protein that binds APP and modulates APP processing in transfected non-neuronal cells. To investigate the in vivo effect of X11alpha on Abeta production in the brain, we created transgenic mice that overexpress X11alpha and crossed these with transgenics harboring a familial Alzheimer's disease mutant APP that produces increased levels of Abeta (APPswe Tg2576 mice). Analyses of Abeta levels in the offspring generated from two separate X11alpha founder mice revealed a significant, approximate 20% decrease in Abeta(1-40) in double transgenic mice expressing APPswe/X11alpha compared with APPswe mice. At a key time point in Abeta plaque deposition (8 months old), the number of Abeta plaques was also deceased in APPswe/X11alpha mice. Thus, we report here the first demonstration that X11alpha inhibits Abeta production and deposition in vivo in the brain.
A general model for the ontogenetic growth of living organisms has been recently proposed. Here we investigate the extension of this model to the growth of solid malignant tumors. A variety of in vitro and in vivo data are analysed and compared with the prediction of a &quot;universal&quot; law, relating properly rescaled tumor masses and tumor growth times. The results support the notion that tumor growth follows such a universal law. Several important implications of this finding are discussed, including its relevance for tumor metastasis and recurrence, cell turnover rates, angiogenesis and invasion.
Three distinct classes of drugs: dopaminergic agonists (such as D-amphetamine), serotonergic agonists (such as LSD), and glutamatergic antagonists (such as PCP) all induce psychotomimetic states in experimental animals that closely resemble schizophrenia symptoms in humans. Here we implicate a common signaling pathway in mediating these effects. In this pathway, dopamine- and an adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP)-regulated phospho-protein of 32 kilodaltons (DARPP-32) is phosphorylated or dephosphorylated at three sites, in a pattern predicted to cause a synergistic inhibition of protein phosphatase-1 and concomitant regulation of its downstream effector proteins glycogen synthesis kinase-3 (GSK-3), cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), and c-Fos. In mice with a genetic deletion of DARPP-32 or with point mutations in phosphorylation sites of DARPP-32, the effects of D-amphetamine, LSD, and PCP on two behavioral parameters-sensorimotor gating and repetitive movements-were strongly attenuated.






Synaptic plasticity involves the reorganization of synapses at the protein and the morphological levels. Here, we report activity-dependent remodeling of synapses by serum-inducible kinase (SNK). SNK was induced in hippocampal neurons by synaptic activity and was targeted to dendritic spines. SNK bound to and phosphorylated spine-associated Rap guanosine triphosphatase activating protein (SPAR), a postsynaptic actin regulatory protein, leading to degradation of SPAR. Induction of SNK in hippocampal neurons eliminated SPAR protein, depleted postsynaptic density-95 and Bassoon clusters, and caused loss of mature dendritic spines. These results implicate SNK as a mediator of activity-dependent change in the molecular composition and morphology of synapses.
Cardiac dysfunction is associated with diabetes. It was previously shown that heart mitochondria from diabetic rats have a reduced calcium accumulation capacity. The objective of this work was to determine whether the reduction in calcium accumulation by cardiac mitochondria from diabetic rats is related to an enhanced susceptibility to induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition. Streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats were used as a model to study the alterations caused by diabetes in the permeability transition, 21 days after streptozotocin administration. Heart mitochondria were isolated to evaluate respiratory parameters and susceptibility to the calcium-dependent permeability transition. Our results show that streptozotocin diabetes facilitates the mitochondrial permeability transition in cardiac mitochondria, resulting in decreased mitochondrial calcium accumulation. We also observed that heart mitochondria from diabetic rats had depressed oxygen consumption during the phosphorylative state. The reduced mitochondrial calcium uptake observed in heart mitochondria from diabetic rats is related to an enhanced susceptibility to the permeability transition rather than to damage to the calcium uptake machinery.
We have cloned and characterised the expression of a new opsin gene, neuropsin (Opn5), in mice and humans. Neuropsin comprises seven exons on mouse chromosome 17. Its deduced protein sequence suggests a polypeptide of 377 amino acids in mice (354 in humans), with many structural features common to all opsins, including a lysine in the seventh transmembrane domain required to form a Schiff base link with retinaldehyde. Neuropsin shares 25-30% amino acid identity with all known opsins, making it the founding member of a new opsin family. It is expressed in the eye, brain, testis and spinal cord.
We report seven new members of the superfamily of human G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) found by searches in the human genome databases, termed GPR100, GPR119, GPR120, GPR135, GPR136, GPR141, and GPR142. We also report 16 orthologues of these receptors in mouse, rat, fugu (pufferfish) and zebrafish. Phylogenetic analysis shows that these are additional members of the family of rhodopsin-type GPCRs. GPR100 shows similarity with the orphan receptor SALPR. Remarkably, the other receptors do not have any close relative among other known human rhodopsin-like GPCRs. Most of these orphan receptors are highly conserved through several vertebrate species and are present in single copies. Analysis of expressed sequence tag (EST) sequences indicated individual expression patterns, such as for GPR135, which was found in a wide variety of tissues including eye, brain, cervix, stomach and testis. Several ESTs for GPR141 were found in marrow and cancer cells, while the other receptors seem to have more restricted expression patterns.
The synthesis and structure-activity relationship of a series of 5,6,7-trisubstituted 4-aminopyrido[2,3-d]pyrimidines as novel nonnucleoside adenosine kinase inhibitors is described. A variety of alkyl, aryl, and heteroaryl substituents were found to be tolerated at the C5, C6, and C7 positions of the pyridopyrimidine core. These studies have led to the identification of analogues that are potent inhibitors of adenosine kinase with in vivo analgesic activity.
Thalidomide is being increasingly used in the clinical management of a wide spectrum of immunologically-mediated and infectious diseases, and cancers. However, the mechanisms underlying its pharmacological action are still under investigation. In this regard, oral thalidomide is clinically valuable in the treatment of erythema nodosum leprosum (ENL) and multiple myeloma and effectively reduces tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) levels and angiogenesis in vivo. This contrasts with its relatively weak effects on TNF-alpha and angiogenesis in in vitro studies and implies that active metabolites contribute to its in vivo pharmacologic action and that specific analogues would be endowed with potent activity. Our focus in the structural modification of thalidomide is toward the discovery of novel isosteric active analogues. In this regard, a series of thiothalidomides and analogues were synthesized and evaluated for their TNF-alpha inhibitory activity against lipopolysacharide (LPS)-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), This was combined with a PBMC viability assay to differentiate reductions in TNF-alpha secretion from cellular toxicity. Two isosteric analogues of thalidomide, compounds 15 and 16, that mostly reflect the parent compound, together with the simple structure, dithioglutarimide 19, potently inhibited TNF-alpha secretion, compared to thalidomide, 1. The mechanism underpinning this most likely is posttranscriptional, as each of these compounds decreased TNF-alpha mRNA stability via its 3'-UTR. The potency of 19 warrants further study and suggests that replacement of the amide carbonyl with a thiocarbonyl may be beneficial for increased TNF-alpha inhibitory action. In addition, an intact phthalimido moiety appeared to be requisite for TNF-alpha inhibitory activity.
Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (consisting of mGluR1 and mGluR5) are G-protein-coupled neurotransmitter receptors that are found in the perisynaptic region of the postsynaptic membrane. These receptors are not activated by single synaptic volleys but rather require bursts of activity. They are implicated in many forms of neural plasticity including hippocampal long-term potentiation and depression, cerebellar long-term depression, associative learning, and cocaine addiction. When activated, group I mGluRs engage two G-protein-dependent signalling mechanisms: stimulation of phospholipase C and activation of an unidentified, mixed-cation excitatory postsynaptic conductance (EPSC), displaying slow activation, in the plasma membrane. Here we report that the mGluR1-evoked slow EPSC is mediated by the TRPC1 cation channel. TRPC1 is expressed in perisynaptic regions of the cerebellar parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapse and is physically associated with mGluR1. Manipulations that interfere with TRPC1 block the mGluR1-evoked slow EPSC in Purkinje cells; however, fast transmission mediated by AMPA-type glutamate receptors remains unaffected. Furthermore, co-expression of mGluR1 and TRPC1 in a heterologous system reconstituted a mGluR1-evoked conductance that closely resembles the slow EPSC in Purkinje cells.
Various evidence suggests that amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) selectively affects motor neuron functioning, but electrophysiological alterations of single motor neurons in ALS remains to be documented. In the present work, the excitability of motor neurons has been tested in a transgenic mouse model of a familial form of ALS, associated with a mutation in Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (Gly(93)--&gt;Ala). Patch-clamp recordings of membrane potential in transgenic mice motor neurons showed that they fire with increased frequency and shorter duration compared to motor neurons from control mice. The passive membrane properties of these neurons were equivalent however. Such results suggest that an altered motor neuron excitability accompanies an ALS associated mutation and that may contribute to the pathogenesis of the disease.
Neural progenitor/stem cells (HNPC) have been suggested to contribute essential trophic factors and promote survival of degenerating neurons after traumatic brain injury. For these reasons we hypothesize that the addition of HNPC to a post-injury region could possibly protect injured neurons. Experimental brain contusions were carried out in 18 rats. Immediately post-injury, rats were injected with 0.1 ml of medium (n=8), dead cells (n=4), or live cells (n=6) in the medial border of the lesion. The rats were sacrificed 6 days post-surgery and evaluated by immunohistochemistry using a human nuclear marker (huN), hematoxylin and Fluoro-Jade (FJ). Human neural stem cells showed engraftment detectable by positive huN staining in 5/6 animals. The non-grafted animal was excluded from further analyses. Those given dead HNPC or medium showed no detectable huN immunoreactivity. A statistical comparison between the numbers of FJ positive degenerating endogenous neurons was made between rats receiving vehicle and dead cells to evaluate whether the presence of human cells would increase neuronal degeneration in comparison to vehicle alone. The rats receiving vehicle had a median of 117.5 FJ positive cells and dead progenitor cell recipients 175.0 per counted section (P&lt;0.05, Mann-Whitney). Consequently, the animals receiving dead human cells were chosen as controls to the animals receiving live progenitor cells. The rats that received live HNPC demonstrated significantly fewer FJ positive cells per counted section than controls (58.0 vs. 175.0, P&lt;0.01, Mann-Whitney). The post-traumatic perilesional environment allowed for the engraftment of live HNPC. The stepwise analysis indicated that host neuronal degeneration was higher in animals transplanted with non-viable human neuronal progenitor cells than in those receiving vehicle, indicating a bystander effect from introducing foreign antigen. In contrast, transplantation of viable progenitor cells attenuated neuronal degeneration, indicating that a potentially beneficial effect in progenitor cell transplantation is not limited to restoration by transplanted cells, but also improving survival of host cells.
In most insect species, males process female sex pheromone information in specific macroglomeruli in the olfactory lobes of their brains. The purpose of this report is to present a novel system of pheromone perception. In Nauphoeta cinerea cockroaches, males produce sex pheromones that induce mating behavior in females but neither sex has macroglomeruli. In this study, we show that female N. cinerea show asymmetry in the number of glomeruli whereas males do not. Females have more glomeruli on the right side and amputation of the right antenna reduced female ability to find a male and mate whereas amputation of the left antenna did not. We show that a key factor in female mating behavior is perception of the male sex pheromone seducin by the right antenna and the asymmetrically organized deutocerebral glomeruli associated with it. In the symmetrical olfactory system of males the detection of seducin may be involved in establishing dominance hierarchies.
Retrieval of synaptic vesicles from the membrane of neurons is crucial to maintain normal rates of neurotransmitter release. Photoreceptor terminals of the fly's eye release neurotransmitter in a tonic manner. They therefore rely heavily on vesicle regeneration. Null mutations in endophilin (endo) block clathrin-mediated endocytosis at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction, where previous analysis of hypomorphic mutations has suggested a function for Endophilin (Endo) before vesicle fission, during membrane bending. Here, at fly photoreceptor synapses, we show that Endo is localized to synaptic vesicles at sites of endocytosis that are glial invaginations called capitate projections, and that when the photoreceptor synapses lack Endo they are impaired in their ability to release neurotransmitter. Detailed ultrastructural analysis of endo null mutant photoreceptor synapses fails to reveal a defect at early stages of vesicle reformation but, instead, reveals an accumulation of clusters of electron-dense, apparently nonfunctional, late endocytotic vesicles. Using dynamin;endo double-mutant photoreceptors, we provide further evidence that ultimately the function of Endophilin is required late in endocytosis, allowing vesicles to progress through the synaptic vesicle cycle.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) contains the brain's circadian pacemaker, but mechanisms by which it controls circadian rhythms of sleep and related behaviors are poorly understood. Previous anatomic evidence has implicated the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH) in circadian control of sleep, but this hypothesis remains untested. We now show that excitotoxic lesions of the DMH reduce circadian rhythms of wakefulness, feeding, locomotor activity, and serum corticosteroid levels by 78-89% while also reducing their overall daily levels. We also show that the DMH receives both direct and indirect SCN inputs and sends a mainly GABAergic projection to the sleep-promoting ventrolateral preoptic nucleus, and a mainly glutamate-thyrotropin-releasing hormone projection to the wake-promoting lateral hypothalamic area, including orexin (hypocretin) neurons. Through these pathways, the DMH may influence a wide range of behavioral circadian rhythms.
The presence of protein aggregates in the nervous system is associated with various pathological conditions, yet their contribution to disease mechanisms is poorly understood. One type of aggregate, the aggresome, accumulates misfolded proteins destined for degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) is a short-lived Schwann cell (SC) protein that forms aggresomes when the proteasome is inhibited or the protein is overexpressed. Duplication, deletion, or point mutations in PMP22 are associated with a host of demyelinating peripheral neuropathies, suggesting that, for normal SC cell function, the levels of PMP22 must be tightly regulated. Therefore, we speculate that mutant, misfolded PMP22 might overload the proteasome and promote aggresome formation. To test this, sciatic nerves of Trembler J (TrJ) neuropathy mice carrying a leucine-to-proline mutation in PMP22 were studied. In TrJ neuropathy nerves, PMP22 has an extended half-life and forms aggresome-like structures that are surrounded by molecular chaperones and lysosomes. On the basis of these characteristics, we hypothesized that PMP22 aggresomes are transitory, linking the proteasomal and lysosomal protein degradation pathways. Here we show that Schwann cells have the ability to eliminate aggresomes by a mechanism that is enhanced when autophagy is activated and is primarily prevented when autophagy is inhibited. This mechanism of aggresome clearance is not unique to peripheral glia, because L fibroblasts were also capable of removing aggresomes. Our results provide evidence for the involvement of the proteasome pathway in TrJ neuropathy and for the role of autophagy in the clearance of aggresomes.
The activation of transforming growth factor alpha (TGFalpha)-erbB-1 and neuregulin-erbB-4 signaling pathways in hypothalamic astrocytes has been shown to play a key role in the process by which the neuroendocrine brain controls luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) secretion. Earlier studies suggested that tanycytes, an ependymoglial cell type of the median eminence, regulate LHRH release during the estrous cycle by undergoing plastic changes that alternatively allow or prevent direct access of the LHRH nerve terminals to the portal vasculature. Neither the molecules responsible for these plastic changes nor the underlying controlling mechanisms have been identified. Here we show that cultured tanycytes express erbB-1 and erbB-2, two of the four members of the erbB receptor family, and respond to TGFalpha with receptor phosphorylation, release of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and a PGE2-dependent increase in the release of TGFbeta1, a growth factor previously implicated in the glial control of LHRH secretion. Blockade of either erbB-1 receptor signal transduction or prostaglandin synthesis prevented the stimulatory effect of TGFalpha on both PGE2 and TGFbeta1 release. Time-lapse studies revealed that TGFalpha and TGFbeta1 have dramatically opposite effects on tanycyte plasticity. Whereas TGFalpha promotes tanycytic outgrowth, TGFbeta1 elicits retraction of tanycytic processes. Blockade of metalloproteinase activity abolished the effect of TGFbeta1, suggesting that TGFbeta1 induces tanycytic retraction by facilitating dissolution of the extracellular matrix. Prolonged (&gt;12 hr) exposure of tanycytes to TGFalpha resulted in focal tanycytic retraction, an effect that was abolished by immunoneutralization of TGFbeta1 action, indicating that the retraction was attributable to TGFalpha-induced TGFbeta1 formation. These in vitro results identify tanycytes as targets of TGFalpha action and demonstrate that activation of erbB-1-mediated signaling in these cells results in plastic changes that, involving PGE2 and TGFbeta1 as downstream effectors, mimic the morphological plasticity displayed by tanycytes during the hours encompassing the preovulatory surge of LHRH.
The structures of dendritic spines and the dendritic tree, key determinants of neuronal function, are regulated by diverse inputs that affect many scaffolding and signaling molecules. Nevertheless, here we show that reduced expression of a single gene results in loss of dendritic spines and a decrease in dendritic complexity. Kalirin, a dual Rho GDP-GTP exchange factor, causes spine formation when overexpressed. Reduced expression of Kalirin in CA1 hippocampal neurons resulted in a reduction in linear spine density, with dispersion of postsynaptic density markers and elimination of presynaptic endings. Simplification of the apical dendritic tree preceded simplification of basal dendrites. Pyramidal cell axons were not dramatically altered. Although many factors determine dendrite shape and spine formation, expression of Kalirin is necessary for the normal function of these many regulatory elements.
The underlying neuronal substrates and behavioral properties that might mediate extinction of the classically conditioned eye-blink response (CR) were examined. Four groups of rabbits were trained to perform the CR. Two of the groups then received either three or six sessions of tone-alone extinction training while the motor nuclei that mediate expression of the CR (facial nucleus and accessory abducens) were reversibly inactivated with microinjections of the GABA agonist muscimol. After these inactivation extinction sessions, rabbits received four more extinction sessions without inactivation. Two groups of controls received either three or six extinction sessions while saline vehicle was infused into the motor nuclei, followed by four sessions with no infusions. Saline infusions had no effect on extinction, and controls extinguished the CR normally over the first three to four sessions. In contrast, muscimol inactivation of the motor nuclei completely prevented any performance of CRs during the three or six inactivation extinction sessions. At the start of the four extinction sessions without inactivation, rabbits performed CRs at the same rate and amplitude as controls on their first extinction sessions. The muscimol rabbits then extinguished the CR normally over the four sessions without inactivation. In short, inactivation of the motor nuclei completely prevented any extinction of the eye-blink CR with no effect on subsequent extinction without inactivation. These results are discussed in terms of possible neuroanatomical loci that might mediate the extinction process as well as how effects of manipulating CR performance during extinction may affect the extinction process.
X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease is an inherited peripheral neuropathy arising in patients with mutations in the gene encoding connexin 32 (Cx32). Cx32 is expressed at the paranodes and Schmidt-Lantermann incisures of myelinating Schwann cells in which it is believed to form a reflexive pathway between the abaxonal and adaxonal cytoplasmic domains. Patients with the Val181Ala (V181A) mutation have a severe peripheral neuropathy. Experiments using a nude mouse xenograft system show that Schwann cells expressing only this mutant form of Cx32 are profoundly impaired in their ability to support the earliest stages of regeneration of myelinated fibers. Coupling between paired Xenopus oocytes expressing V181A is reduced compared with the coupling between oocytes expressing wild-type human Cx32 (32WT), and protein levels assayed by Western blot are substantially lower. Immunocytochemisty shows that Neuro2a cells expressing the V181A mutant have very few gap junction plaques compared with cells expressing 32WT; Cx32 protein levels are lower in these cells than in those expressing 32WT. Because failure of normal regeneration is evident before formation of myelin, loss of function of Cx32 may impact on the function of precursors of the myelinating Schwann cell before the formation of the hypothesized reflexive pathway. The Glu102Gly (E102G) mutation leads to a milder phenotype. Early regeneration is normal in grafts with Schwann cells expressing the E102G mutant. The only abnormality detected in the behavior of its channel is increased sensitivity to acidification-induced closure, a property that may lead to reduced gap junction coupling during periods of metabolic stress. This restricted functional abnormality may explain the relatively mild phenotype seen in the xenograft model and in E102G patients.
Multiple brain regions, including parietal and frontal cortical areas, seem to participate in learning and rehearsing associations between spatially defined visual cues and appropriate motor responses. However, because most previous studies have related learning to changes in brain activation according to elapsed time or number of trials but not categories based on performance, it remains unclear how and when areas implicated in learning sensory-motor associations actually participate in the process. The current experiment used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine changes in brain activation when participants learned to associate an arbitrarily located visual cue with a finger movement. Associative trials were categorized as incorrect, first correct, or subsequent correct. Participants also performed a spatially compatible visual-motor control task. A group analysis revealed four major findings addressing the behavioral processes occurring during forming and rehearsing visual-motor rules. First, brain networks related to processing associative information, through initial learning to rehearsal, yielded more activation in a myriad of neocortical structures than did a simple motor task. Second, we revealed frontal and parietal areas that differentially processed errors and correct responses. Third, we found frontal-parietal networks that seemed to mediate the transition of learning to rehearsing arbitrary visual-motor associations and that this activation exhibited dynamic characteristics. Last, we found a frontal-parietal network that appeared to have a key role in expressing the learned sensory-motor association. The current results provide a foundation for understanding how neocortical structures participate in the various behavioral processes that combine to form and consolidate novel and arbitrary sensory-motor associations.
Using PC12 cells that express transfected human growth hormone (hGH) as a secreted reporter protein, we have searched for Rab proteins that function in exocytosis. Among the Rab proteins tested, we found that besides the previously described Rab3 proteins, only members of the Rab11 family (Rab11a, 11b, and 25) impaired Ca2+-induced exocytosis. Rab11b, which is enriched in brain, had the strongest effect. Consistent with a role in exocytosis, Rab11 and Rab3 proteins were colocalized with other vesicle proteins on secretory vesicles in PC12 cells and on mature synaptic vesicles in brain. Rab11b mutants that fix Rab11b in the GTP- or GDP-bound state both effectively inhibited Ca2+-induced exocytosis but seemed to act by distinct mechanisms: whereas GDP-bound Rab11b greatly stimulated constitutive secretion of hGH and depleted hGH stores in secretory vesicles, GTP-bound Rab11b only had a moderate effect on constitutive secretion and no effect on vesicular hGH stores. These results suggest that, consistent with a GTP-dependent regulation of Rab function, GDP-bound Rab11b indirectly inhibits Ca2+-triggered exocytosis by causing the loss of hGH from the PC12 cells, whereas GTP-bound Rab11b directly impairs Ca2+-triggered exocytosis. In contrast to neuroendocrine PC12 cells in which GTP- and GDP-bound Rab11b inhibited Ca2+-induced, but not constitutive, exocytosis, in non-neuronal cells GTP- and GDP-bound Rab11b inhibited constitutive exocytosis and caused an accumulation of cellular hGH. Viewed together, our data suggest that, in addition to other functions, Rab11 has a specific role in neuronal and neuroendocrine but not in non-neuronal cells as a GTP-dependent switch between regulated and constitutive secretory pathways.


In this paper, we describe the development of a novel series of high affinity, orally bioavailable 3-amino-1,4 benzodiazepine-based gamma-secretase inhibitors for the potential treatment of Alzheimer's disease. We disclose structure-activity relationships based around the 1, 3 and 5 positions of the benzodiazepine core structure.
Bicaudal D is an evolutionarily conserved protein, which is involved in dynein-mediated motility both in Drosophila and in mammals. Here we report that the N-terminal portion of human Bicaudal D2 (BICD2) is capable of inducing microtubule minus end-directed movement independently of the molecular context. This characteristic offers a new tool to exploit the relocalization of different cellular components by using appropriate targeting motifs. Here, we use the BICD2 N-terminal domain as a chimera with mitochondria and peroxisome-anchoring sequences to demonstrate the rapid dynein-mediated transport of selected organelles. Surprisingly, unlike other cytoplasmic dynein-mediated processes, this transport shows very low sensitivity to overexpression of the dynactin subunit dynamitin. The dynein-recruiting activity of the BICD2 N-terminal domain is reduced within the full-length molecule, indicating that the C-terminal part of the protein might regulate the interaction between BICD2 and the motor complex. Our findings provide a novel model system for dissection of the molecular mechanism of dynein motility.
Cerebella from 19 normal Caucasian males, ages 19-84 years, were studied using stereological methods. Cerebellum was divided into four different regions: the anterior and posterior lobe, the vermis, and the flocculonodular lobe. Total volume of the cerebellar cortex and white matter, cerebellar surface area, total Purkinje and granule cell number, and the distribution of the volumes of the Purkinje cells and their nuclei were estimated in all four regions. The global white matter was reduced by 26% with age; the mean volume of the Purkinje cell body was decreased by 33% with no decrease in the volume of the Purkinje cell nuclei. A tendency towards a 16% total cerebellar volume loss was seen without a concomitant neuron loss. No global Purkinje or granule cell loss was detected with age, total Purkinje cell number being 28 x 10(6) (coefficient of variation, CV = 0.16) and total granule cell number 109 x 10(9) (CV = 0.17). However, a significant change was observed with age in the anterior lobe, where a selective 40% loss of both Purkinje and granule cells was found. Furthermore, a 30% loss of volume, mostly due to a cortical volume loss, was recorded in the anterior lobe, which is predominantly involved in motor control.

Presumed cholinergic projection neurons (PNs) in the brain of the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, immunoreactive to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), convey olfactory information between the primary sensory antennal lobe neuropile and the mushroom body calyces, and finally terminate in the lateral horn (LH) neuropile. The texture and synaptic connections of ChAT PNs in the LH and, comparatively, in the smaller mushroom body calyces were investigated by immuno light and electron microscopy. The ChAT PN fibers of the massive inner antennocerebral tract (iACT) extend into all portions of the LH, distributing in a nonrandom fashion. Immunoreactive boutons accumulate in the lateral margins of the LH, whereas the more proximal LH exhibits less intense immunolabeling. Boutons with divergent presynaptic sites, unlabeled as well as ChAT-immunoreactive, appear to be the preponderant mode of synaptic input throughout the LH. Synapses of ChAT-labeled fibers appear predominantly as divergent synaptic boutons (diameters 1-3 microm), connected to unlabeled postsynaptic profiles, or alternatively as a minority of tiny postsynaptic spines (diameters 0.05-0.5 microm) among unlabeled profiles. Together these spines encircle unidentified presynaptic boutons of interneurons which occupy large areas of the LH. Thus, synaptic circuits in the LH differ profoundly from those of the PNs in the mushroom body calyx, where ChAT spines have not been encountered. Synaptic contacts between LH ChAT elements were not observed. The synaptic LH neuropile may serve as an output area for terminals of the ChAT PNs, their presynaptic boutons providing input to noncholinergic relay neurons. The significance of the postsynaptic neurites of the ChAT PNs is discussed; either local or other interneurons might connect the ChAT PNs within the LH, or PNs might receive inputs arising from outside the LH.

Inappropriate discontinuation of drug treatment and noncompliance are a leading cause of long-term morbidity during treatment of depression. Increasing evidence supports an association between depressive illness and disturbances in brain glutamate activity, nitric oxide synthesis, and gamma-amino butyric acid. Animal models also confirm that suppression of glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activity or inhibition of the nitric oxide-cyclic guanosine monophosphate pathway, as well as increasing brain levels of gamma-amino butyric acid, may be key elements in antidepressant action. Imaging studies demonstrate, for the most part, decreased hippocampal volume in patients with depression, which may worsen with recurrent depressive episodes. Preclinical models link this potentially neurodegenerative pathology to continued stress-evoked synaptic remodeling, driven primarily by the release of glucocorticoids, glutamate, and nitric oxide. These stress-induced structural changes can be reversed by antidepressant treatment. In patients with depression, antidepressant withdrawal after chronic administration is associated with a stress response as well as functional and neurochemical changes. Preclinical data also show that antidepressant withdrawal evokes a behavioral stress response that is associated with increased hippocampal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor density, with both responses dependent on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation. Drawing from both clinical and preclinical studies, this article proposes a preliminary molecular perspective and hypothesis on the neuronal implications of adherence to and discontinuation of antidepressant medication.


Evidence of a link between genetic variation of the serotonin transporter and depression and anxiety prompted the generation of serotonin transporter knockout mice. Loss of serotonin reuptake function in knock-outs causes reduced clearance of extracellular serotonin and associated alterations in serotonin neuronal firing and receptor function. Behavioral phenotyping function in knock-outs revealed genetic background-related abnormalities, including increased anxiety-like behaviors, reduced aggression, and exaggerated stress responses. Ongoing studies focus on identifying environmental, genetic, and developmental factors interacting with the htt mutation to produce these abnormalities. Serotonin transporter null mutant mice provide a model system to study how genetic variation in serotonin transporter function affects risk for neuropsychiatric disease.
The indirect dopamine agonist amphetamine has been shown to induce a patchy pattern of immediate early gene (IEG) expression in the rostral striatum of both pharmacologically intact and reserpinized rats. The available data suggest that stimulation of D(2) dopamine receptors may play a role in the patterning of amphetamine-induced IEG expression, but direct evidence is lacking. In the current study of reserpinized animals, we found that pretreatment with the selective D(2) dopamine antagonist raclopride did not block the induction of the IEGs Fos and Arc by amphetamine, but greatly reduced the &quot;patchiness&quot; of the induced expression. Raclopride did not induce Fos or Arc expression by itself under the conditions studied here. These findings suggest that although stimulation of D(2) receptors is not necessary for amphetamine to induce IEG expression in reserpinized animals, these receptors do play a critical role in the spatial patterning of the resulting response.
Apoptosis has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). Components of signaling pathways that initiate cell death are highly concentrated in vulnerable substantia nigra (SN) neurons and may therefore contribute to the relentless demise of dopamine cells. Here, we report the distribution and organizational pattern of the pro-apoptotic protein BAX in the parkinsonian brain. Coronal sections (60 microm) of SN material from control and PD patients showed identical expression of BAX-immunoreactivity (IR) in all cases examined. Neurons positive for BAX-IR exhibited a discrete cytoplasmic and dendritic labeling that was conspicuously interspersed with previously unrecognized axonal spheroid-like inclusions. Direct comparisons revealed a difference in the aggregation of BAX-rich inclusions, with the parkinsonian brain containing more SN inclusions than control cases. BAX expression by midbrain neurons was confirmed by immunoblot analysis on SN extracts showing a specific band of approximately 21kDa, which is consistent with the known molecular weight of native BAX. These results suggest that apoptosis or programmed cell death may play an indirect role in idiopathic PD.
Until the last decade, little attention was given by the neuroscience community to the neurometabolism of metals. However, the neurobiology of heavy metals is now receiving growing interest, since it has been linked to major neurodegenerative diseases. In the present review some metals that could possibly be involved in neurodegeneration are discussed. Two of them, manganese and zinc, are essential metals while aluminum is non-essential. Aluminum has long been known as a neurotoxic agent. It is an etiopathogenic factor in diseases related to long-term dialysis treatment, and it has been controversially invoked as an aggravating factor or cofactor in Alzheimer's disease as well as in other neurodegenerative diseases. Manganese exposure can play an important role in causing Parkinsonian disturbances, possibly enhancing physiological aging of the brain in conjunction with genetic predisposition. An increased environmental burden of manganese may have deleterious effects on more sensitive subgroups of the population, with sub-threshold neurodegeneration in the basal ganglia, generating a pre-Parkinsonian condition. In the case of zinc, there has as yet been no evidence that it is involved in the etiology of neurodegenerative diseases in humans. Zinc is redox-inactive and, as a result of efficient homeostatic control, does not accumulate in excess. However, adverse symptoms in humans are observed on inhalation of zinc fumes, or accidental ingestion of unusually large amounts of zinc. Also, high concentrations of zinc have been found to kill bacteria, viruses, and cultured cells. Some of the possible mechanisms for cell death are reviewed.
Smoking is a major health problem and is propelled, at least in part, by the addictive properties of nicotine. Two types of pharmacological therapies have been approved for smoking cessation by the US Food and Drug Administration. The first therapy consists of nicotine replacement, substituting the nicotine from cigarettes with safer nicotine formulations. The second therapy is bupropion (Zyban), an atypical antidepressant, whose use has raised much debate as to how a non-nicotine-based agent can aid in smoking cessation. This review focuses on recent advances that could lead to the development of improved novel pharmacological treatments. These strategies focus on altering reward processes in the brain by modulating various neurotransmitter systems: the most promising include dopamine D(3) receptor antagonists, noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors, GABA(B) receptor agonists, metabotropic glutamate 5 (mGluR5) receptor antagonists, cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonists, and corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) 1 receptor antagonists.
The functional role of different subcortical areas in sequence learning is not clear. In the current study, Parkinson's patients, patients with cerebellar damage, and age-matched control participants performed a serial reaction time task in which a spatial sequence and a temporal sequence were presented simultaneously. The responses were based on the spatial sequence, and the temporal sequence was incidental to the task. The two sequences were of the same length, and the phase relationship between them was held constant throughout training. Sequence learning was assessed comparing performance when both sequences were present versus when the dimension of interest was randomized. In addition, sequence integration was assessed by introducing phase-shift blocks. A functional dissociation was found between the two patient groups. Whereas the Parkinson's patients learned the spatial and temporal sequences individually, they did not learn the relationship between the two sequences, suggesting the basal ganglia play a functional role in sequence integration. In contrast, the cerebellar patients did not show any evidence of sequence learning at all, suggesting the cerebellum might play a general role in forming sequential associations.
A common stylistic element of Western tonal music is the change of key within a musical sequence (known as modulation in musical terms). The aim of the present study was to investigate neural correlates of the cognitive processing of modulations with event-related brain potentials. Participants listened to sequences of chords that were infrequently modulating. Modulating chords elicited distinct effects in the event-related brain potentials: an early right anterior negativity reflecting the processing of a violation of musical regularities and a late frontal negativity taken to reflect processes of harmonic integration. Additionally, modulations elicited a tonic negative potential suggested to reflect cognitive processes characteristic for the processing of tonal modulations, namely, the restructuring of the &quot;hierarchy of harmonic stability&quot; (which specifies musical expectations), presumably entailing working memory operations. Participants were &quot;nonmusicians&quot;; results thus support the hypothesis that nonmusicians have a sophisticated (implicit) knowledge about musical regularities.
The present study investigated the interaction of emotional prosody and word valence during emotional comprehension in men and women. In a prosody-word interference task, participants listened to positive, neutral, and negative words that were spoken with a happy, neutral, and angry prosody. Participants were asked to rate word valence while ignoring emotional prosody, or vice versa. Congruent stimuli were responded faster and more accurately as compared to incongruent emotional stimuli. This behavioral effect was more salient for the word valence task than for the prosodic task and was comparable between men and women. The event-related potentials (ERPs) revealed a smaller N400 amplitude for congruent as compared to emotionally incongruent stimuli. This ERP effect, however, was significant only for the word valence judgment and only for female listeners. The present data suggest that the word valence judgment was more difficult and more easily influenced by task-irrelevant emotional information than the prosodic task in both men and women. Furthermore, although emotional prosody and word valence may have a similar influence on an emotional judgment in both sexes, ERPs indicate sex differences in the underlying processing. Women, but not men, show an interaction between prosody and word valence during a semantic processing stage.
Response selection is the mental process of choosing representations for appropriate motor behaviors given particular environmental stimuli and one's current task situation and goals. Many cognitive theories of response selection postulate a unitary process. That is, one central response-selection mechanism chooses appropriate responses in most, if not all, task situations. However, neuroscience research shows that neural processing is often localized based on the type of information processed. Our current experiments investigate whether response selection is unitary or stimulus specific by manipulating response-selection difficulty in two functional magnetic resonance imaging experiments using spatial and nonspatial stimuli. The same participants were used in both experiments. We found spatial response selection involves the right prefrontal cortex, the bilateral premotor cortex, and the dorsal parietal cortical regions (precuneus and superior parietal lobule). Nonspatial response selection, conversely, involves the left prefrontal cortex and the more ventral posterior cortical regions (left middle temporal gyrus, left inferior parietal lobule, and right extrastriate cortex). Our brain activation data suggest a cognitive model for response selection in which different brain networks mediate the choice of appropriate responses for different types of stimuli. This model is consistent with behavioral research suggesting that response-selection processing may be more flexible and adaptive than originally proposed.
Multiple studies have shown that migration, proliferation, and differentiation of oligodendrocyte (OL) lineage cells are influenced by fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) signaling through its receptors (FGFR) FGFR-1, FGFR-2, and FGFR-3. We report the effectiveness and specificity of a unique inhibitor, PD173074, for inhibiting FGF receptor signaling in OL-lineage cells. Three FGF-mediated responses of OL progenitors and two of differentiated OLs were examined by immunofluorescence microscopy and immunoblotting. PD173074 effectively antagonized the effect of FGF-2 on proliferation and differentiation of OL progenitors in culture. One dose of PD173074 at nanomolar concentrations was sufficient to inhibit ongoing FGF-2 mediated proliferation for prolonged periods, in a non-toxic, dose-dependent manner. In contrast, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF)-induced proliferation was unaffected by PD173074. Similarly, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation, a downstream event after activation of either FGFR or PDGFR, was also blocked by PD173074 in OL progenitors stimulated with FGF-2 but not PDGF. A general tyrosine kinase inhibitor (PD166285), however, antagonized both FGF-2- and PDGF-mediated responses. PD173074 also completely antagonized two phenotypic alterations of differentiated OLs, specifically downregulation of myelin proteins, and their re-entry into the cell cycle. We conclude that PD173704 is an effective and specific inhibitor for multiple FGF-2-mediated responses of both OL progenitors and differentiated OLs. This inhibitor provides a direct approach for identifying the importance of FGF signaling, comparable in effect to a knockout of all FGF receptors and all FGF ligands, while leaving other pathways unaffected. Thus, PD173704 is an excellent tool for investigating the role of FGF signaling in vivo in the context of combinatorial interactions of other signals.
The cervico-ocular reflex (COR) is an ocular stabilization reflex that is elicited by rotation of the neck. It works in conjunction with the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) and the optokinetic reflex (OKR) in order to prevent visual slip over the retina due to self-motion. The gains of the VOR and OKR are known to decrease with age. We have investigated whether the COR, a reflexive eye movement elicited by rotation of the neck, shows a compensatory increase and whether a synergy exists between the COR and the other ocular stabilization reflexes. In the present study 35 healthy subjects of varying age (20-86 years) were rotated in the dark in a trunk-to-head manner (the head fixed in spaced with the body passively rotated under it) at peak velocities between 2.1 and 12.6 deg s-1 as a COR stimulus. Another 15 were subjected to COR, VOR and OKR stimuli at frequencies between 0.04 and 0.1 Hz. Three subjects participated in both tests. The position of the eyes was recorded with an infrared recording technique. We found that the COR-gain increases with increasing age and that there is a significant covariation between the gains of the VOR and COR, meaning that when VOR increases, COR decreases and vice versa. A nearly constant phase lag between the COR and the VOR of about 25 deg existed at all stimulus frequencies.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is a neuropeptide associated with the integration of physiological and behavioural responses to stress. More recently, the CRF system has been implicated in the modulation of affective state and in the actions of abused drugs, including ethanol. As such, we have previously demonstrated that the selective, centrally acting CRF(1) receptor antagonist antalarmin displays an acute anxiolytic action and reduces established volitional ethanol consumption in isolation-reared Fawn-Hooded rats [Neuroscience 117 (2003) 243]. Similar to CRF, CCK is a neuropeptide found in high abundance throughout the neuraxis and is involved in the control of appetite, anxiety, reward and hormone regulation. Given the similar functions regulated by the neuropeptides CRF and CCK, it is of importance to determine whether interactions exist between these neuropeptides. Therefore, the aim of the present study was to examine the effects of chronic CRF(1) receptor blockade on the central CCK systems of Fawn-Hooded (FH) rats. Thus, bi-daily antalarmin treatment (20 mg/kg ip) induced a significant increase in CCK-B receptor-binding density throughout the neuraxis, indicative of either a global increase in receptor number or an increase in receptor affinity. In contrast, chronic antalarmin treatment resulted in bidirectional, region-specific changes in preproCCK messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression. Interestingly, this effect on CCK mRNA expression was restricted to the thalamocortico-limbic system, which is intimately involved in the integration of emotive behaviour and central reward processing. Therefore, these data provide clear evidence of the ability of chronic CRF(1) receptor blockade to significantly influence the central CCK systems of the rat.
Patients with schizophrenia have repeatedly shown deficits in visual processing. These deficits have been well documented using visual backward masking (VBM). The VBM deficit in schizophrenia is thought to be due to aberrant interactions between magnocellular (M) and parvocellular (P) visual pathways. To date, no study has studied these claims with rigorous stimuli isolating M and P pathway responses. This study examined the function of each pathway and their interactions by creating M- and P-biased targets based on their known physiological properties. The M system responds to very low luminance contrast whereas the P system does not, and the P system responds to color contrast whereas the M system generally does not. Thus, to activate the P system, target letters and masks utilized color contrast, and to activate the M system, target letters and masks utilized very low luminance contrast. Four conditions were presented such that M- and P-biased targets were paired with both M- and P-biased masks. A significant Group x Mask Condition interaction was found when a P target was used in combination with an M or P mask, but not when an M target was used. In particular, schizophrenia patients needed significantly longer interstimulus intervals (ISIs) than controls to escape from masking in the P target/M mask condition, but not in any of the other three conditions. In addition, the critical stimulus durations (CSDs) for unmasked stimuli were significantly increased for both M and P targets in patients relative to controls. These findings demonstrate a significant impairment in M, but not P pathway, function in patients with schizophrenia. Furthermore, deficits of letter identification, including those of P targets, may also reflect impairment of the M pathway given the priming function of the dorsal stream.
Exocrine pancreatic secretion, attributed initially to neural reflexes (nervism), was then found to depend also on enterohormones, especially secretin and cholecystokinin (CCK), released by the intestinal mucosa and believed to act via an endocrine pathway. Recently, CCK and other enterohormones were found to stimulate the pancreas by excitation of sensory nerves and by trigger of long vagovagal or (&quot;brain-gut axis&quot;) enteropancreatic reflexes. Numerous neurotransmitters, such as acetylcholine, and certain neuropeptides, such as gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP), generated by neurons of the enteric nervous system (ENS) of the gut, have been implicated in the regulation of exocrine pancreas. Recently, peptides affecting appetite behavior and originating from the gut, such as leptin and ghrelin, or from the pancreas, such as pancreatic polypeptide and neuropeptide Y, appear to modulate the exocrine pancreas via hypothalamic centers. The aim of this review is to highlight the interaction of nerves and enterohormones in the regulation of exocrine pancreatic secretion.
Presynaptic motor neuron synthesizes and secretes acetylcholinesterase (AChE) at vertebrate neuromuscular junctions. In order to determine the retrograde role of muscle in regulating the expression of AChE in motor neuron, a chimeric co-culture of NG108-15 cell, a cholinergic cell line that resembles motor neuron, with chick myotube was established to mimic the neuromuscular contact in vitro. A DNA construct of human AChE promoter tagged with luciferase (pAChE-Luc) was stably transfected into NG108-15 cells. The co-culture with myotubes robustly stimulated the promoter activity as well as the endogenous expression of AChE in pAChE-Luc stably transfected NG108-15 cells. Muscle extract derived from chick embryos when applied onto pAChE-Luc-expressing NG108-15 cells induced expressions of AChE promoter and endogenous AChE. The cAMP-responsive element mutation on human AChE promoter blocked the muscle-induced AChE transcriptional activity in cultured NG108-15 cells either in co-culturing with myotube or in applying muscle extract. The accumulation of intracellular cAMP and the phosphorylation of cAMP-responsive element-binding protein in cultured NG108-15 cells were stimulated by applied muscle extract. Part of the muscle-induced signaling was mimicked by application of calcitonin gene-related peptide in cultured NG108-15 cells. These results suggest the muscle-induced neuronal AChE expression in the co-culture is mediated by a cAMP-dependent signaling.
The cannabinoid analog &quot;abnormal cannabidiol&quot; (abn-cbd) causes endothelium-dependent vasodilation in rat isolated mesenteric arteries through a G protein-coupled receptor distinct from CB1 or CB2. We examined the actions of abn-cbd on the electrophysiology of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), using the whole cell version of the patch clamp technique. Voltage steps produced noninactivating outward currents, which were abolished by iberiotoxin or by chelation of intracellular calcium. The presence of a BKCa channel in HUVEC was documented by reverse transcriptase-PCR. Abn-cbd concentration dependently potentiated the outward current produced by a single voltage step. This potentiation was abolished by the cannabidiol analog O-1918 or by pertussis toxin but was unaffected by CB1 or CB2 antagonists. HU-210, a CB1/CB2 receptor agonist, had no effect on the outward current. Clamping [Ca2+]i did not prevent abn-cbd-induced increases in outward current. cGMP potentiated the outward current, and abn-cbd increased the cellular levels of cGMP. The increase in outward current produced by abn-cbd was blocked by KT-5823, an inhibitor of protein kinase G, or 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxaline-1-one (ODQ), an inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase. We conclude that a Ca2+-activated K+ current in HUVEC is potentiated by activation of a Gi/Go-coupled receptor distinct from CB1 or CB2, which signals through cGMP and protein kinase G to increase channel availability or the sensitivity of the channel to voltage and/or Ca2+. Because iberiotoxin also inhibited abn-cbd-induced relaxation of intact, but not of endothelium-denuded, rat mesenteric artery segments, modulation of endothelial BKCa channels may underlie the mesenteric vasodilator action of abn-cbd.
Functional gamma-secretase inhibitors (FGSIs) can block the cleavage of several transmembrane proteins including amyloid precursor protein (APP), and the cell fate regulator Notch-1. FGSIs, by inhibiting APP processing, block the generation of amyloid beta (Abeta) peptides and may slow the development of Alzheimer's disease. FGSIs used to inhibit APP processing may disrupt Notch processing, thus interfering with cell fate determination. Described herein is a FGSI-mediated gastrointestinal toxicity characterized by cell population changes in the ileum of rats, which are indicative of Notch signaling disruption. Microarray analysis of ileum from FGSI-treated rats revealed differential expression responses in a number of genes indicative of Notch signaling perturbation, including the serine protease adipsin. We were able to show that FGSI-treated rats had elevated levels of adipsin protein in gastrointestinal contents and feces, and by immunohistochemistry demonstrated that adipsin containing ileum crypt cells were increased in FGSI-treated rats. The mouse Adipsin proximal promoter contains a putative binding site for the Notch-induced transcriptional regulator Hes-1, which we demonstrate is able to bind Hes-1. Additional studies in 3T3-L1 preadipocytes demonstrate that this FGSI inhibits Hes-1 expression while up-regulating adipsin expression. Overexpression of Hes-1 was able to down-regulate adipsin expression and block pre-adipocyte differentiation. We propose that adipsin is a Hes-1-regulated gene that is de-repressed during FGSI-mediated disruption of Notch/Hes-1 signaling. Additionally, the aberrant expression of adipsin, and its presence in feces may serve as a noninvasive biomarker of gastrointestinal toxicity associated with perturbed Notch signaling.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae OLE1 gene encodes a membrane-bound Delta-9 fatty acid desaturase, whose expression is regulated by unsaturated fatty acids through both transcriptional and mRNA stability controls. In fatty acid-free medium, the mRNA has a half-life of 10 +/- 1.5 min (basal stability) that drops to 2 +/- 1.5 min when cells are exposed to unsaturated fatty acids (regulated stability). A deletion analysis of elements within the transcript revealed that the sequences within the protein-coding region that encode transmembrane sequences and a part of the cytochrome b5 domain are essential for the basal stability of the transcript. Deletion of any of the three essential elements produced unstable transcripts and loss of regulated instability. By contrast, substitution of the 3'-untranslated region with that of the stable PGK1 gene did not affect the basal stability of the transcript and did not block regulated decay. Given that Ole1p is a membrane-bound protein whose activities are a major determinant of membrane fluidity, we asked whether membrane-associated translation of the protein was essential for basal and regulated stability. Insertion of stop codons within the transcript that blocked either translation of the entire protein or parts of the protein required for co-translation insertion of Ole1p had no effect. We conclude that the basal and regulated stability of the OLE1 transcript is resistant to the nonsense-mediated decay pathway and that the essential protein-encoding elements for basal stability act cooperatively as stabilizing sequences through RNA-protein interactions via a translation-independent mechanism.
Recent neuroimaging studies provide evidence for a shared neural network for phonological processing in language production and comprehension. The temporal dynamics in this network during comprehension has been investigated by Thierry et al., who showed a primacy for Wernicke's over Broca's area. In the present study, we demonstrate the reversed pattern for language production. These results can be interpreted with respect to the functionality of the different regions within the shared network, with Wernicke's area being the sound form store and Broca's area a processor necessary to extract relevant phonological information from that store.
Fourteen healthy right-handed subjects were scanned using PET with a [15O]water tracer during exposure to electromagnetic field (EMF) emitted by a mobile phone and a sham-exposure under double-blind conditions. During scanning, the subjects performed a visual working memory task. Exposure to an active mobile phone produced a relative decrease in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) bilaterally in the auditory cortex but no rCBF changes were observed in the area of maximum EMF. It is possible that these remote findings were caused by the EMF emitted by the active mobile phone. A more likely interpretation of the present findings were a result of an auditory signal from the active mobile phone. Therefore, it is not reasoned to attribute this finding to the EMF emitted by the phone. Further study on human rCBF during exposure to EMF of a mobile phone is needed.
Our goal was to determine whether time-dependent changes in respiratory motor output in vitro could be minimized by altering bath solution composition. Adult turtle brainstems were bathed in standard solution, nutrient-rich Dulbecco's Eagle media (100 or 25% concentration), or standard solution with phenylbiguanide (PBG, 5-HT3 agonist which increases respiratory drive). Except for a 63% frequency increase in PBG solution, hypoglossal bursts were unaltered within 100 min of observation. Respiratory activity was abolished within 7 h in 100% Dulbecco's compared with a mean of 24-31 h in other test solutions. At 12 h, burst frequency decreased faster in standard solution and 25% Dulbecco's (-0.28+/-0.07 and -0.13+/-0.05 bursts/h, respectively) compared with PBG solution (-0.09+/-0.04 bursts/h); amplitude declined at approximately 2%/h in all solutions. The tendency for episodic discharge decreased gradually in standard solution, but was eliminated in 25% Dulbecco's and PBG solution. Certain bath solutions may minimize time-dependent frequency reductions but may also cause breathing pattern changes.
A decrease in the frequency of breathing following a hypoxic exposure that is below baseline values is called the post-hypoxic frequency decline (phfd) and is due to an elongation of expiratory time (TE). We hypothesized that lesioning the pontine A5 region would eliminate the phfd in conscious rats. Fourteen conscious male rats that demonstrated a phfd received lesions either within the A5 region (n=9) or outside this region (controls, n=5). Compared with pre-lesion values, body temperature decreased and frequency of breathing was lower during exposure to air, hypoxia, and hypercapnia in A5-lesioned, but not in the control-lesioned rats. No effect of A5 lesions was noted on tidal volume. Rats with A5 lesions no longer exhibited a phfd, and TE values following hypoxia were comparable to baseline TE values. These data suggest that the A5 region of the ventrolateral pons modulates the phfd in conscious rats and affects frequency of breathing in response to both hypoxia and hypercapnia.
A subset of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) has been shown to preferentially reduce the secretion of the highly amyloidogenic, 42-residue amyloid-beta peptide Abeta42. We found that Rho and its effector, Rho-associated kinase, preferentially regulated the amount of Abeta42 produced in vitro and that only those NSAIDs effective as Rho inhibitors lowered Abeta42. Administration of Y-27632, a selective Rock inhibitor, also preferentially lowered brain levels of Abeta42 in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Thus, the Rho-Rock pathway may regulate amyloid precursor protein processing, and a subset of NSAIDs can reduce Abeta42 through inhibition of Rho activity.



Understanding the functional organization of the human primary auditory cortex (PAC) is an essential step in elucidating the neural mechanisms underlying the perception of sound, including speech and music. Based on invasive research in animals, it is believed that neurons in human PAC that respond selectively with respect to the spectral content of a sound form one or more maps in which neighboring patches on the cortical surface respond to similar frequencies (tonotopic maps). The number and the cortical layout of such tonotopic maps in the human brain, however, remain unknown. Here we use silent, event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging at 7 Tesla and a cortex-based analysis of functional data to delineate with high spatial resolution the detailed topography of two tonotopic maps in two adjacent subdivisions of PAC. These maps share a low-frequency border, are mirror symmetric, and clearly resemble those of presumably homologous fields in the macaque monkey.
Clathrin-mediated endocytosis of synaptic vesicles requires molecular rearrangements of proteins as well as lipids. In this issue of Neuron, Schuske et al. and Verstreken et al. show that the lipid-modifying enzyme endophilin recruits and stabilizes the polyphosphoinositide phosphatase synaptojanin at nerve terminals. This remarkable pairing of two enzymatic activities promotes multiple steps of clathrin-mediated endocytosis of synaptic vesicles.
Orexin increases blood pressure and orexin-immunoreactive (IR) axons robustly innervate the spinal cord. Seeking anatomical evidence for direct effects of orexin on sympathetic preganglionic neurons (SPN), we used immunohistochemistry to study the relationships between orexin-IR axons and SPN identified by immunoreactivity for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) or for cholera toxin B retrogradely transported from the superior cervical ganglion (SCG). In the intermediolateral cell column (IML), varicose, orexin-positive axons closely apposed almost all SPN in segments T1 and T2, but appositions were rare in T4-L2. Orexin fibers also apposed ChAT-IR cell bodies in the intercalated nucleus and the central autonomic area from T1 to L2. Orexin-IR synapses were identified ultrastructurally on SPN projecting to the SCG. Since SPN involved in cardiovascular control cluster in the IML of mid- and lower thoracic cord, these findings suggest that orexin affects blood pressure by acting on supraspinal neurons rather than SPN.
Toxigenic mold activities produce metabolites that are either broad-spectrum antibiotics or mycotoxins that are cytotoxic. Indoor environmental exposure to these toxigenic molds leads to adverse health conditions with the main outcome measure of frequent neuroimmunologic and behavioral consequences. One of the immune system disorders found in patients presenting with toxigenic mold exposure is an abnormal natural killer cell activity. This paper presents an overview of the neurological significance of abnormal natural killer cell (NKC) activity in chronic toxigenic mold exposure. A comprehensive review of the literature was carried out to evaluate and assess the conditions under which the immune system could be dysfunctionally interfered with leading to abnormal NKC activity and the involvement of mycotoxins in these processes. The functions, mechanism, the factors that influence NKC activities, and the roles of mycotoxins in NKCs were cited wherever necessary. The major presentations are headache, general debilitating pains, nose bleeding, fevers with body temperatures up to 40 degrees C (104 degrees F), cough, memory loss, depression, mood swings, sleep disturbances, anxiety, chronic fatigue, vertigo/dizziness, and in some cases, seizures. Although sleep is commonly considered a restorative process that is important for the proper functioning of the immune system, it could be disturbed by mycotoxins. Most likely, mycotoxins exert some rigorous effects on the circadian rhythmic processes resulting in sleep deprivation to which an acute and transient increase in NKC activity is observed. Depression, psychological stress, tissue injuries, malignancies, carcinogenesis, chronic fatigue syndrome, and experimental allergic encephalomyelitis could be induced at very low physiological concentrations by mycotoxin-induced NKC activity. In the light of this review, it is concluded that chronic exposures to toxigenic mold could lead to abnormal NKC activity with a wide range of neurological consequences, some of which were headache, general debilitating pains, fever, cough, memory loss, depression, mood swings, sleep disturbances, anxiety, chronic fatigue, and seizures.
The developing central nervous system (CNS) is highly susceptible to ethanol, with acute or chronic exposure producing an array of anomalies and cell loss. Certain periods of vulnerability have been defined for various CNS regions, and are often followed by periods of relative ethanol resistance. In the present study, neonatal rats were acutely exposed to ethanol during a time when peak cell death is found in developing cerebral cortex (postnatal day 7; P7), and during a later neonatal period of ethanol resistance (P21). Comparisons at the two ages were made of basal levels of neurotrophic factors (NTFs), and in addition, ethanol-mediated changes in NTFs, apoptosis-related proteins, antioxidant activities, and generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were quantified at 0, 2, and 12 h following termination of exposure. It was found that at P21, basal levels of NTF nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were considerably higher than at P7, possibly affording protection against ethanol neurotoxicity at this age. Following ethanol treatment at P7, approximately equal numbers of pro-apoptotic and pro-survival changes were produced, although most of the pro-apoptotic alterations occurred rapidly following termination of treatment, a critical period for initiation of apoptosis. At P21, however, the large majority of ethanol-mediated changes were adaptive, favoring survival. We speculate that the capacity of the older CNS to upregulate a number of protective elements within the cellular milieu serves to greatly mitigate ethanol neurotoxicity, while in younger animals, such adjustments are minimal, thus enhancing ethanol vulnerability within this developing region.
Caspase-3-deficient 129/Sv mice show hyperplasia of the brain at embryonic (E) day 10.5-12.5, but caspase-3-deficient C57L/B6 mice do not. We examined the relationship between activation of caspase-3 and programmed cell death (PCD) during forebrain development of various mouse strains (129/Sv, ICR, C57L/B6, and CBA) using terminal deoxytransferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate nick-end labeling (TUNEL) and immunostaining with antiserum against the caspase-3 (anti-m3D175) cleavage site. A number of anti-m3D175 positive cells and TUNEL positive cells were detected in the ventral side of the forebrain of 129/Sv and ICR mice at E8.5-9 but not in C57L/B6 and CBA mice. Ac-DEVD-MCA cleavage activity, a caspase-3-like activity, also suggests the preferential activation of caspase-3 in the ventral forebrain of ICR mice but not in C57L/B6 mice. Developmental changes of TUNEL and anti-m3D175 reactivities were essentially similar during brain morphogenesis of ICR and 129/Sv mice. The number of TUNEL/anti-m3D175 positive cells decreased in the neuroepithelium of the ventral forebrain at E9.5 before generation of the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE). TUNEL and/or anti-m3D175 reactivity was slightly detectable in the MGE at E10.5, from which neuroprogenitor cells follow a tangential migratory route to the cortex. Activation of caspase-9 was also immunohistochemically detected in the ventral forebrain at E8.5-9, suggesting that activation of caspase-3 and caspase-9 occurs in the PCD of this region. Thus, it is likely that decreased cell death in the ventral forebrain of caspase-3- and caspase-9-deficient 129/Sv mice increases the number of neuroprogenitor cells in the MGE, leading to hyperplasia of the forebrain.
The dendritic transport and local translation of mRNA may be an essential mechanism to regulate synaptic growth and plasticity. We investigated the molecular mechanism and function of beta-actin mRNA localization in dendrites of cultured hippocampal neurons. Previous studies have shown that beta-actin mRNA localization to the leading edge of fibroblasts or the growth cones of developing neurites involved a specific interaction between a zipcode sequence in the 3' untranslated region and the mRNA-binding protein zipcode-binding protein-1 (ZBP1). Here, we show that ZBP1 is required for the localization of beta-actin mRNA to dendrites. Knock-down of ZBP1 using morpholino antisense oligonucleotides reduced dendritic levels of ZBP1 and beta-actin mRNA and impaired growth of dendritic filopodia in response to BDNF treatment. Transfection of an enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-beta-actin construct, which contained the zipcode, increased the density of dendritic filopodia and filopodial synapses. Transfection of an EGFP construct, also with the zipcode, resulted in recruitment of endogenous ZBP1 and beta-actin mRNA into dendrites and similarly increased the density of dendritic filopodia. However, the beta-actin zipcode did not affect filopodial length or the density of mature spines. These results reveal a novel function for an mRNA localization element and its binding protein in the regulation of dendritic morphology and synaptic growth via dendritic filopodia.
To study integration of converging sensory inputs on single cortical neurons, we performed intracellular recordings in vivo in the barrel cortex of the barbiturate-anesthetized rat. We deflected the principal whisker (PW) for each cell either alone or preceded (at 20, 50, and 100 msec) by the deflection of a small number of remote whiskers (RWs) far from the PW. The synaptic responses to both the PW and the RW were similar qualitatively and consisted of excitation followed by inhibition that comprised an early and a late component. The RW response was of smaller amplitude and more often subthreshold for action potential generation. The main effect of the RW deflection was a suppression of the subsequent response to the PW that was most pronounced at the 20 msec interval and decreased progressively at the 50 and 100 msec intervals. Suppression of the spike output of the cell was not caused by hyperpolarization (subtractive inhibition) but by a reduction in the EPSP amplitude (divisive inhibition), resulting in a highly sublinear summation of the two responses. The small decrease in input resistance caused by the RW responses is not consistent with synaptic shunting as the main cause of the reduction of the EPSP amplitude. Instead, our results suggest that suppression results from a decrease in the amount of synaptic input triggered by the PW, particularly the early excitation. We suggest that this process involves a reduction in reverberant granular cell excitation that is induced by PW deflection.
The authors investigated two unrelated patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) with clinical features of sporadic CJD (sCJD) carrying one extra octapeptide repeat in the prion protein (PrP) gene (PRNP). A synaptic type PrP distribution throughout the cerebral gray matter and plaque-like PrP deposits in the subcortical gray structures were detected immunocytochemically. The different patterns of PrP deposition were associated with distinct types of protease-resistant PrP, similar to type 1 and type 2 of sCJD. The features suggest that this insertion is a pathogenic mutation.
The authors recruited 19 nonambulant patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome into a pilot, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled safety trial of interferon beta 1a (IFN[beta]-1a) (Rebif). Participants received IFN[beta]-1a or placebo subcutaneously three times weekly, 22 microg for the first week and then 44 microg for up to 24 weeks, in addition to IV immunoglobulin (IVIg). IFN[beta] did not have any unexpected interaction with IVIg and there was no significant difference in rate of improvement.
Functional MRI motor mapping was performed in two women with unilateral high-grade stenosis of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) to determine the influence of impaired hemodynamics on the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) response. In both patients no structural lesions were present in primary motor pathways. A redistribution of the motor network to the healthy hemisphere was the main indicator of chronic hemodynamic compromise.
Myxovirus A (MxA) is a protein that is specifically induced by treatment with type I cytokines and has proven to be a reliable biomarker of interferon-beta (IFNbeta) bioactivity. IFNbeta-induced MxA can be measured as either protein or mRNA in the blood of IFNbeta-treated patients with MS. In patients with MS who are treated with IFNbeta, loss of the MxA response is caused by high levels of anti-IFNbeta antibodies and is a sensitive marker of lost bioactivity.

Connexin-43 (Cx43) is the most abundant gap junction protein in brain, where it is found primarily between astrocytes. Although the morphology of astrocytes from Cx43-null (knockout, KO) mice is similar to that of wild-type (WT) astrocytes, KO astrocytes exhibit reduced growth rate in culture. To evaluate the impact of deletion of Cx43 on other genes, including those encoding cell cycle proteins, we used DNA arrays to determine expression patterns in cultured astrocytes from sibling Cx43-null and WT mice. RNA samples extracted from astrocytes cultured from WT and Cx43-null neonatal mice were dye labeled and individually cohybridized with a reference of labeled cDNAs pooled from a variety of tissues on 8 gene arrays containing 8,975 mouse DNA sequences. Normal variability in expression of each gene was evaluated and incorporated into &quot;expression scores&quot; to statistically compare expression levels between WT and KO samples. In Cx43-null astrocytes, 4.1% of the 4,998 adequately quantifiable spots were found to have significantly (P &lt; 0.05) decreased hybridization compared with controls, and 9.4% of the spots showed significantly higher hybridization. The significantly different spots corresponded to RNAs encoding 252 known proteins, many not previously linked to gap junctions, including transcription factors, channels and transporters, cell growth and death signals, enzymes and cell adhesion molecules. These data indicate a surprisingly high degree of impact of deletion of Cx43 on other astrocyte genes, implying that gap junction gene expression alters numerous processes in addition to intercellular communication.
Database search has led to the identification of a family of proteins, the pannexins, which share some structural features with the gap junction forming proteins of invertebrates and vertebrates. The function of these proteins has remained unclear so far. To test the possibility that pannexins underlie electrical communication in the brain, we have investigated their tissue distribution and functional properties. Here, we show that two of these genes, pannexin 1 (Px1) and Px2, are abundantly expressed in the CNS. In many neuronal cell populations, including hippocampus, olfactory bulb, cortex and cerebellum, there is coexpression of both pannexins, whereas in other brain regions, e.g., white matter, only Px1-positive cells were found. On expression in Xenopus oocytes, Px1, but not Px2 forms functional hemichannels. Coinjection of both pannexin RNAs results in hemichannels with functional properties that are different from those formed by Px1 only. In paired oocytes, Px1, alone and in combination with Px2, induces the formation of intercellular channels. The functional characteristics of homomeric Px1 versus heteromeric Px1/Px2 channels and the different expression patterns of Px1 and Px2 in the brain indicate that pannexins form cell type-specific gap junctions with distinct properties that may subserve different functions.
Recovery from neuronal activation requires rapid clearance of potassium ions (K+) and restoration of osmotic equilibrium. The predominant water channel protein in brain, aquaporin-4 (AQP4), is concentrated in the astrocyte end-feet membranes adjacent to blood vessels in neocortex and cerebellum by association with alpha-syntrophin protein. Although AQP4 has been implicated in the pathogenesis of brain edema, its functions in normal brain physiology are uncertain. In this study, we used immunogold electron microscopy to compare hippocampus of WT and alpha-syntrophin-null mice (alpha-Syn-/-). We found that &lt;10% of AQP4 immunogold labeling is retained in the perivascular astrocyte end-feet membranes of the alpha-Syn-/- mice, whereas labeling of the inwardly rectifying K+ channel, Kir4.1, is largely unchanged. Activity-dependent changes in K+ clearance were studied in hippocampal slices to test whether AQP4 and K+ channels work in concert to achieve isosmotic clearance of K+ after neuronal activation. Microelectrode recordings of extracellular K+ ([K+]o) from the target zones of Schaffer collaterals and perforant path were obtained after 5-, 10-, and 20-Hz orthodromic stimulations. K+ clearance was prolonged up to 2-fold in alpha-Syn-/- mice compared with WT mice. Furthermore, the intensity of hyperthermia-induced epileptic seizures was increased in approximately half of the alpha-Syn-/-mice. These studies lead us to propose that water flux through perivascular AQP4 is needed to sustain efficient removal of K+ after neuronal activation.
Osmotic homeostasis in the brain involves movement of water through aquaporin-4 (AQP4) membrane channels. Perivascular astrocyte end-feet contain distinctive orthogonal lattices (square arrays) assembled from 4- to 6-nm intramembrane particles (IMPs) corresponding to individual AQP4 tetramers. Two isoforms of AQP4 result from translation initiation at methionine residues M1 and M23, but no functional differences are known. In this study, Chinese hamster ovary cells were transfected with M1, M23, or M1+M23 isoforms, and AQP4 expression was confirmed by immunoblotting, immunocytochemistry, and immunogold labeling. Square array organization was examined by freeze-fracture electron microscopy. In astrocyte end-feet, &gt;90% of 4- to 6-nm IMPs were found in square arrays, with 65% in arrays of 13-30 IMPs. In cells transfected with M23, 95% of 4- to 6-nm IMPs were in large assemblies (rafts), 85% of which contained &gt;100 IMPs. However, in M1 cells, &gt;95% of 4- to 6-nm IMPs were present as singlets, with &lt;5% in incipient arrays of 2-12 IMPs. In M1+M23 cells, 4- to 6-nm IMPs were in arrays of intermediate sizes, resembling square arrays in astrocytes. Structural cross-bridges of 1 x 2 nm linked &gt;90% of IMPs in M23 arrays ( approximately 1,000 cross-bridges per microm2) but were rarely seen in M1 cells. These studies show that M23 and M1 isoforms have opposing effects on intramembrane organization of AQP4: M23 forms large square arrays with abundant cross-bridges; M1 restricts square array assembly.
The influence of emotion on human memory is associated with two contradictory effects in the form of either emotion-induced enhancements or decrements in memory. In a series of experiments involving single word presentation, we show that enhanced memory for emotional words is strongly coupled to decrements in memory for items preceding the emotional stimulus, an effect that is more pronounced in women. These memory effects would appear to depend on a common neurobiological substrate, in that enhancements and decrements are reversed by propranolol, a beta-adrenergic antagonist, and abolished by selective bilateral amygdala damage. Thus, our findings suggest that amygdala-dependent beta-adrenergic modulation of episodic encoding has costs as well as benefits.
The molecular and neuronal substrates conferring on clozapine its unique and superior efficacy in the treatment of schizophrenia remain elusive. The interaction of clozapine with many G protein-coupled receptors is well documented but less is known about its biologically active metabolite, N-desmethylclozapine. Recent clinical and preclinical evidences of the antipsychotic activity of the muscarinic agonist xanomeline prompted us to investigate the effects of N-desmethylclozapine on cloned human M1-M5 muscarinic receptors. N-desmethylclozapine preferentially bound to M1 muscarinic receptors with an IC50 of 55 nM and was a more potent partial agonist (EC50, 115 nM and 50% of acetylcholine response) at this receptor than clozapine. Furthermore, pharmacological and site-directed mutagenesis studies suggested that N-desmethylclozapine preferentially activated M1 receptors by interacting with a site that does not fully overlap with the acetylcholine orthosteric site. As hypofunction of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-driven neuronal ensembles has been implicated in psychotic disorders, the neuronal activity of N-desmethylclozapine was electrophysiologically investigated in hippocampal rat brain slices. N-desmethylclozapine was shown to dose-dependently potentiate NMDA receptor currents in CA1 pyramidal cells by 53% at 100 nM, an effect largely mediated by activation of muscarinic receptors. Altogether, our observations provide direct evidence that the brain penetrant metabolite N-desmethylclozapine is a potent, allosteric agonist at human M1 receptors and is able to potentiate hippocampal NMDA receptor currents through M1 receptor activation. These observations raise the possibility that N-desmethylclozapine contributes to clozapine's clinical activity in schizophrenics through modulation of both muscarinic and glutamatergic neurotransmission.
Recent evidence indicates that cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs, cdks) may be inappropriately activated in several neurodegenerative conditions. Here, we report that cdk5 expression and activity are elevated after administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), a toxin that damages the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway. Supporting the pathogenic significance of the cdk5 alterations are the findings that the general cdk inhibitor, flavopiridol, or expression of dominant-negative cdk5, and to a lesser extent dominant-negative cdk2, attenuates the loss of dopaminergic neurons caused by MPTP. In addition, CDK inhibition strategies attenuate MPTP-induced hypolocomotion and markers of striatal function independent of striatal dopamine. We propose that cdk5 is a key regulator in the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease.
Regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) are a family of proteins known to accelerate termination of effector stimulation after G protein receptor activation. RGS9-2, a brain-specific splice variant of the RGS9 gene, is highly enriched in striatum and also expressed at much lower levels in periaqueductal gray and spinal cord, structures known to mediate various actions of morphine and other opiates. Morphine exerts its acute rewarding and analgesic effects by activation of inhibitory guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein-coupled opioid receptors, whereas chronic morphine causes addiction, tolerance to its acute analgesic effects, and profound physical dependence by sustained activation of these receptors. We show here that acute morphine administration increases expression of RGS9-2 in NAc and the other CNS regions, whereas chronic exposure decreases RGS9-2 levels. Mice lacking RGS9 show enhanced behavioral responses to acute and chronic morphine, including a dramatic increase in morphine reward, increased morphine analgesia with delayed tolerance, and exacerbated morphine physical dependence and withdrawal. These findings establish RGS9 as a potent negative modulator of opiate action in vivo, and suggest that opiate-induced changes in RGS9 levels contribute to the behavioral and neural plasticity associated with chronic opiate administration.
The increase in life expectancy is accompanied by the growing burden of chronic diseases. Hearing loss is perhaps the most prevalent of all chronic diseases. In addition to age-related hearing loss, a substantial number of cases of audiological impairment are either congenital in nature or acquired during childhood. The permanence of hearing loss is mainly due to the inability of the cochlear sensory epithelium to replace lost mechanoreceptor cells, or hair cells. Generation of hair cells from a renewable source of progenitors that can be transplanted into damaged inner ears is a principal requirement for potential cell replacement therapy in this organ. Here, we present an experimental protocol that enables us to routinely create inner ear progenitors from murine embryonic stem cells in vitro. These progenitors express a comprehensive set of marker genes that define the developing inner ear, in particular the organ's developing sensory patches. We further demonstrate that cells that express markers characteristic of hair cells differentiate from embryonic stem cell-derived progenitors. Finally, we show that these progenitors integrate into the developing inner ear at sites of epithelial injury and that integrated cells start expressing hair cell markers and display hair bundles when situated in cochlear or vestibular sensory epithelia in vivo.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a debilitating movement disorder that afflicts &gt;1 million people in North America. Current treatments focused on dopamine-replacement strategies ultimately fail in most patients because of loss of efficacy and severe adverse effects that worsen as the disease progresses. The recent success of surgical approaches suggests that a pharmacological intervention that bypasses the dopamine system and restores balance in the basal ganglia motor circuit may provide an effective treatment strategy. We previously identified the metabotropic glutamate receptor 4 (mGluR4) as a potential drug target and predicted that selective activation of mGluR4 could provide palliative benefit in PD. We now report that N-phenyl-7-(hydroxylimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxamide (PHCCC) is a selective allosteric potentiator of mGluR4. This compound selectively potentiated agonist-induced mGluR4 activity in cultured cells expressing this receptor and did not itself act as an agonist. Furthermore, PHCCC potentiated the effect of l-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid in inhibiting transmission at the striatopallidal synapse. Modulation of the striatopallidal synapse has been proposed as a potential therapeutic target for PD, in that it may restore balance in the basal ganglia motor circuit. Consistent with this, PHCCC produced a marked reversal of reserpine-induced akinesia in rats. The closely related analogue 7-(hydroxylimino)cyclopropachromen-1a-carboxamide ethyl ester, which does not potentiate mGluR4, had no effect in this model. These results are evidence for in vivo behavioral effects of an allosteric potentiator of mGluRs and suggest that potentiation of mGluR4 may be a useful therapeutic approach to the treatment of PD.
New hippocampal neurons are continuously generated in the adult brain. Here, we demonstrate that lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation, which gives rise to microglia activation in the area where the new neurons are born, strongly impairs basal hippocampal neurogenesis in rats. The increased neurogenesis triggered by a brain insult is also attenuated if it is associated with microglia activation caused by tissue damage or lipopolysaccharide infusion. The impaired neurogenesis in inflammation is restored by systemic administration of minocycline, which inhibits microglia activation. Our data raise the possibility that suppression of hippocampal neurogenesis by activated microglia contributes to cognitive dysfunction in aging, dementia, epilepsy, and other conditions leading to brain inflammation.
Collateralization of mossy and climbing fibers was investigated using cortical injections of cholera toxin b-subunit in the rat vestibulocerebellum. Injections were characterized by their retrograde labeling within the inferior olive. Collateral labeling was plotted using color-coded density profiles of the whole cerebellar cortex. Injections in the medial part of the nodulus resulted in olivary labeling that was restricted to the rostral part of the dorsal cap. Climbing fiber collaterals were found in medial and lateral nodular zones as well as in the ventral paraflocculus and adjacent flocculus. Injections in the intermediate part of the nodulus resulted in olivary labeling of the beta-subnucleus but could also involve the ventrolateral outgrowth. In the latter case, climbing fiber collaterals were found in the two floccular zones and in a small region in the lateral-most part of crus I. All nodular injections showed a bilaterally symmetric distribution of collateral mossy fiber rosettes that was mostly confined to the vestibulocerebellum and originated predominantly from the vestibular nuclei. Injections in the flocculus labeled the caudal part of the dorsal cap and/or the ventrolateral outgrowth. Mossy fiber rosettes were observed throughout the vestibulocerebellum but also included other regions of the cerebellar cortex in a bilaterally symmetric pattern corresponding with a more widespread precerebellar origin. Climbing fibers originating in the rostral dorsal cap, labeled from an injection in the ventral paraflocculus, collateralize to a medial and lateral zone in the nodulus. Climbing fiber collaterals were usually accompanied by subjacent labeling of mossy fiber rosettes. These results demonstrate that some nodular and floccular zones are related and, at least partially, share a common input.
This study reports the first systematic rostrocaudal distribution of estrogen receptor beta immunoreactivity (ER beta-ir) in the human hypothalamus and adjacent areas in five males and five females between 20-39 years of age and compares its distribution to previously reported ER alpha in the same patients. ER beta-ir was generally observed more frequently in the cytoplasm than in the nucleus and appeared to be stronger in women. Basket-like fiber stainings, suggestive for ER beta-ir in synaptic terminals, were additionally observed in various areas. Men showed more robust nuclear ER beta-ir than women in the medial part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, paraventricular and paratenial nucleus of the thalamus, while less intense, but more nuclear, ER beta-ir appeared to be present in, e.g., the BSTc, sexually dimorphic nucleus of the medial preoptic area, diagonal band of Broca and ventromedial nucleus. Women revealed more nuclear ER beta-ir than men of a low to intermediate level, e.g., in the suprachiasmatic, supraoptic, paraventricular, infundibular, and medial mamillary nucleus. These data indicate potential sex differences in ER beta expression. ER beta-ir expression patterns in subjects with abnormal hormone levels suggests that there may be sex differences in ER beta-ir that are &quot;activational&quot; rather than &quot;organizational&quot; in nature. Similarities, differences, potential functional, and clinical implications of the observed ER alpha and ER beta distributions are discussed in relation to reproduction, autonomic-function, mood, cognition, and neuroprotection in health and disease.
The small, unmyelinated axons of olfactory sensory neurons project to the olfactory bulb in densely packed fascicles, an arrangement conducive to axo-axonal interactions. We recently demonstrated ephaptic interactions between these axons in the olfactory nerve layer, the layer of the olfactory bulb in which the axon fascicles interweave and rearrange extensively. In the present study, we hypothesized that the axons, which express connexins, may have another mode of communication: gap junctions. Previous transmission electron microscopy (TEM) studies have failed to demonstrate such junctions. However, the definitive method for detecting gap junctions, freeze fracture, has not been used to examine the interaxonal connections of the olfactory nerve layer. Here, we apply a combined approach of TEM and freeze fracture to determine if gap junctions are present between the olfactory axons. Gap junctions involving olfactory axons were not found. However, by freeze fracture, P faces of both the axons and ensheathing cells (glia that surround the axon fascicles) contained distinctive linear arrays of particles, aligned along the small columns of extracellular space. In axons, few intramembranous particles were present outside of these arrays. Multi-helix proteins, including ion channels and connexin hemichannels, have been shown to be visible as particles by freeze fracture. This suggests that the proteins important for signal transmission are confined to the linear arrays. Such an arrangement would facilitate ephaptic transmission, calcium waves, current oscillations, and paracrine communication and may be important for olfactory neural code processing.

In this study, ZD7288, a blocker of hyperpolarization-activated and cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels, has been found to inhibit the mouse sperm acrosome reaction (AR). HCN channels have not yet been either recorded or implicated in mouse sperm AR, but low-threshold (T-type) Ca(2+) channels have. Interestingly, ZD7288 blocked native T-type Ca(2+) currents in mouse spermatogenic cells with an IC(50) of about 100 microM. This blockade was more effective at voltages producing low levels of inactivation, suggesting a differential affinity of ZD7288 for different channel conformations. Furthermore, ZD7288 inhibited all cloned T-type but not high-threshold N-type channels heterologously expressed in HEK-293 cells. Our results further support the role of T-type Ca(2+) channels in the mouse sperm AR.
This paper reviews our studies on synthetic peptides spanning the major antigenic determinants of the chicken riboflavin carrier protein (RCP; 219 AA). These determinants are composed of residues 4-24 (YGC), 64-83 (CED), 130-147 (GEN), and 200-219 (HAC) and function as minivaccines in terms of eliciting anti-peptide antibodies which recognize the native protein and are particularly promising contraceptive vaccine candidates. We have used 15-residue synthetic peptides to define short sequences involved in interaction with antibody and with T-cells. We have mapped the boundaries of T-cell epitopes of these peptides in outbred rats by immunizing the animals with each peptide and assaying the popliteal lymph node cell proliferation against a series of overlapping synthetic 15-mers covering the entire length of the individual peptides. The peptides YGC, GEN, and HAC harboured a single T-cell epitope each whereas the peptide CED exhibited bimodal response possessing two epitopes, one at N-terminus and the other at the C-terminus. These studies provide insight into the way in which an immunogen is viewed by the immune system. In addition, preferential T-cell helper function for B cells recognizing unique determinants on the same molecule was demonstrated. This information helps in exploiting synthetic peptides in the construction of designer immunogens which have potential as candidate vaccines.
The ability of glia to recover essential functions following a period of focal cerebral ischemia is likely to be one important factor influencing the severity of tissue damage that subsequently develops. In this study, we have compared changes in immunoreactivity of markers specific for astrocytes, NG2-positive glia and neurons in tissue subregions during early reperfusion following 3 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion to provide insights into possible differential susceptibility of these cell populations. Under the conditions used, infarction ultimately encompasses most of the perfusion territory of the occluded artery. Nonetheless, alterations in immunoreactivity during the first 3 h of recirculation were restricted to brain regions that had been subjected to severe ischemia. In the striatum, cellular immunoreactivity for NG2 and neuronal markers, NeuN and microtubule-associated protein 2, was greatly reduced by 1 h of reperfusion and declined further at 3 h. NG2 labeling of blood vessels in the striatum appeared post-ischemically, mimicking expression of this protein during development. Less severe changes were seen in the neuronal markers in overlying cerebral cortex. In contrast to the losses of other cellular proteins, immunoreactivity for the astrocytic marker, glial fibrillary acidic protein, was preserved in all tissue that had been subjected to severe ischemia and labeling of another astrocytic protein, glutamine synthetase, was increased by 3 h of reperfusion. These findings provide the first evidence of marked sensitivity of NG2-immunoreactivity to severe ischemia and suggest a greater initial resistance of astrocytes compared with neurons and NG2-positive glia to ischemia-reperfusion damage.
Recent studies suggest that glutamate neurotoxicity is involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS), and that treatment with glutamate receptor (AMPA/kainate) antagonists inhibits experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the conventional model of MS. Therefore, we examined whether riluzole, an inhibitor of glutamate transmission, affects the pathogenesis and clinical features of MS-like disease in myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-induced EAE in mice. Here we report that riluzole (10 mg/kgx2/day, i.p.), administered before and even after the appearance of clinical symptoms, dramatically reduced the clinical severity of MOG-induced EAE, while all the MOG-immunized control mice developed significant clinical manifestations. Moreover, the riluzole-treated mice demonstrated only mild focal inflammation, and less demyelination, compared to MOG-treated mice, using histological methods. Furthermore, riluzole markedly reduced axonal disruption, as assessed by Bielshowesky's silver staining and by antibodies against non-phosphorylated neurofilaments (SMI-32). No difference was detected in the immune system potency, as T-cell proliferative responses to MOG were similar in both groups. In conclusion, our study demonstrates, for the first time, that riluzole can reduce inflammation, demyelination and axonal damage in the CNS and attenuate the clinical severity of MOG-induced EAE. These results suggest that riluzole, a drug used in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), might be beneficial for the treatment of MS.
After damage of the sciatic nerve, a regeneration process is initiated. Neurons in the dorsal root ganglion regrow their axons and functional connections. The molecular mechanisms of this neuronal regenerative process have remained elusive, but a relationship with developmental processes has been conceived. This chapter discusses the applicability of the developmental hypothesis of regeneration to the dorsal root ganglion; this hypothesis states that regeneration of dorsal root ganglion neurons is a recapitulation of development. We present data on changes in gene expression upon sciatic nerve damage, and the expression and function of homeobox genes. This class of transcription factors plays a role in neuronal development. Based on these data, it is concluded that the hypothesis does not hold for dorsal root ganglion neurons, and that regeneration-specific mechanisms exist. Cytokines and the associated Jak/STAT (janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription) signal transduction pathway emerge as constituents of a regeneration-specific mechanism. This mechanism may be the basis of pharmacological strategies to stimulate regeneration.
Nicotine reinforces smoking behaviour by activating nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the midbrain dopaminergic reward centres. Upstream of the dopaminergic neurons nicotine induces long-term potentiation of the excitatory input to dopamine cells in the ventral tegmental area, and depresses inhibitory inputs. Both effects of nicotine were shown to last much longer than the nicotine exposure and together will activate the dopaminergic ventral tegmental area projection toward the nucleus accumbens. However, downstream of dopamine, effects of nicotine are also likely to occur. Cholinergic interneurons within the nucleus accumbens are important in the tonic control of the gamma-amino buteric acid (GABA) nucleus accumbens output neurons, which project back to the ventral tegmental area. The nicotinic acetylcholine receptors that mediate this control are likely to desensitise upon preexposure to the nicotine concentrations found in the blood of smokers. Thus, synaptic mechanisms both upstream and downstream of dopamine release are potentially important factors contributing to the etiology of nicotine addiction.
The mesolimbic dopamine system, of which the cell bodies are located in the ventral tegmental area, has been implicated in the physiology of reward and the related pathophysiology of drug abuse. This area has been a site of significant interest to study the effects of drugs of abuse and neurotransmitter systems implicated in the rewarding effects of these compounds. One important aspect of synaptic transmission is the ability of synapses to strengthen or weaken their connection as a consequence of synaptic activity. Recently, it has become apparent that this phenomenon is also present in the ventral tegmental area and that this may bear important functional consequences for the ways in which drugs of abuse assert their effect. Here, we will review the effects of neurotransmitter systems and drugs of abuse on cellular activity and synaptic transmission in the ventral tegmental area.
The mesencephalic dopaminergic system is involved in the control of multiple brain functions including movement control and emotion and is of clinical importance because it is implicated in several psychiatric disorders, of which many are considered to have a neurodevelopmental origin. Studies into the developmental pathways of these neurons have led to the identification of the transcription factors En1, Pitx3, Nurr1 and Lmx1b, all shown to be important for the development of the mesencephalic dopaminergic system. In this paper, we discuss the consequences of genetic ablation of essential developmental genes. Furthermore, we discuss the consequences of changes in dopamine homeostasis for the function of the mesencephalic dopaminergic system. Finally, we analyse the potential of the mesencephalic dopaminergic system to adapt to gene dysfunction.
Both twin and family studies have revealed the involvement of genetic factors in disorders that affect the regulation of body weight, such as obesity and anorexia nervosa. However, pinpointing the genes that contribute to these human disorders has not yet been very successful. In contrast, genetic studies in animals have been basic for the identification of many genes involved in the regulation of various physiological processes of energy metabolism. We thus plan to review here ways in which findings from animal studies and what is known about behavioural diversity in the human population with eating disorders can be combined. This would probably optimise phenotype-based candidate gene analysis in humans.
Neurons of the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus appear to be sites of convergence of central and peripheral signals of energy stores, and profoundly modulate activity of the melanocortin circuits, providing strong rationale for pursuing these circuits as therapeutic targets for disorders of energy homeostasis. Recent studies in our lab and those of our collaborators have shown that leptin modulates different populations of hypothalamic cells in different ways. In this report, we outline an integrated model of leptin's action in the arcuate nucleus, derived from our electrophysiological studies of brain slice preparations taken from transgenic mice bred to express a variety of fluorescent proteins in specific cell types. We also discuss the recently withdrawn obesity drug fenfluramine, which appears to act on proopiomelanocortin neurons via serotonin (2C) receptors. Finally, we review current inquiries into the ability of the hormone ghrelin to stimulate appetite by its activation of neuropeptide Y neurons and inhibition of proopiomelanocortin neurons.
Presenilins, whose mutant forms are the most common cause of early onset familial Alzheimer's disease, are involved in two very distinct processes: (i) proteolytic activity as gamma-secretase acting on amyloid precursor protein to produce amyloid peptides and (ii) storage of Ca2+ in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). In particular, absence of presenilin-1 (PS1) was claimed to potentiate capacitative calcium entry (CCE), i.e. the mechanism of replenishment of ER Ca2+ stores. However, until now, evidence in favor of the latter role has been obtained only in isolated or cultured cells and not on neurons in situ. Here, we studied the strength of the synapses between Schaffer's collaterals and CA1 neurons in hippocampal slices when they were submitted first to Ca(2+)-free medium containing thapsigargin and subsequently to normal artificial cerebrospinal fluid, a procedure known to trigger CCE. We demonstrate that Ca2+ influx via the CCE mechanism is sufficient to trigger robust long term potentiation of the synapses in hippocampal slices from transgenic mice with a postnatal, neuron-specific ablation of PS1, but remarkably not from wild-type mice. Our data establish for the first time in neurons confined in normal neuronal networks that PS1 acts on the refilling mechanism of ER Ca2+ stores.

Levels of nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) protein and neurotrophin receptor mRNA in adult sympathetic neurons were investigated following surgical removal of preganglionic input and/or in vivo administration of NGF. Expression of trkC and p75, but not trkA, was significantly decreased following a 3-week deafferentation of the superior cervical ganglion (SCG). Protein levels of NGF and NT-3 in the SCG were unchanged by deafferentation. A 2-week intracerebroventricular infusion of NGF without deafferentation resulted in enhanced mRNA levels of trkA, trkC, and p75 as well as significantly increased NGF and NT-3 protein in the SCG. When NGF infusion followed deafferentation, both trkA and p75 showed significant increases while trkC levels were similar to control values. NGF protein was not increased in the SCG when deafferentation preceded exogenous NGF, yet NT-3 was elevated and levels were similar to cases receiving NGF infusion only. These results support a role for preganglionic input in trkC and p75 expression in adult sympathetic neurons. The increased levels of NT-3 protein and trkC gene expression observed following NGF infusion suggest that NGF influences NT-3 regulation in adult sympathetic neurons. In addition, the present findings provide evidence that, when preganglionic input is removed prior to the NGF infusion, NT-3 effectively competes with NGF for trkA binding. Taken together, we propose that NT-3 may play a role in the robust sprouting of sympathetic cerebrovascular axons previously observed following NGF administration, particularly when deafferentation precedes the NGF infusion period.
Insulin receptor substrate p53 (IRSp53) is a key player in cytoskeletal dynamics, interacting with the actin modulators WAVE2 and Mena. Here, we identified a PDZ protein, MALS, as an IRSp53-interacting protein using a yeast two-hybrid screen. A pull-down assay showed that IRSp53 and MALS interact through the PDZ domain of MALS and the C-terminal PDZ-binding sequence of IRSp53. Their interaction in MDCK cells was also demonstrated by co-immunoprecipitation. Immunocytochemistry showed the colocalization of IRSp53 and MALS at cell-cell contacts. Cytochalasin D induced the redistribution of both proteins to the cytosol. Thus, MALS is a partner of IRSp53 anchoring the actin-based membrane cytoskeleton at cell-cell contacts.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been implicated in the aetiology of sporadic Parkinson's disease but its role in the disease mechanism is not clear. We have investigated the short term effect of G209A mutant or wild-type alpha-synuclein expression upon mitochondrial function using stable inducible cell models. Mitochondrial respiratory chain activities and membrane potential were normal suggesting that increased wild-type or mutant alpha-synuclein expression did not directly affect these parameters. However, both wild-type and mutant G209A alpha-synuclein expression enhanced the fall in mitochondrial membrane potential induced by the complex I inhibitor rotenone. This suggests an indirect interaction between alpha-synuclein expression and mitochondrial function which could render the mitochondria more vulnerable to inhibition by potential endogenous or exogenous factors found in dopaminergic neurones.
Vesicle recycling was studied in the rat calyx of Held, a giant brainstem terminal involved in sound localization. Stimulation of brain slices containing the calyx-type synapse with a high extracellular potassium ion concentration in the presence of horseradish peroxidase resulted within several minutes in a reduction of the number of neurotransmitter vesicles and in the appearance of labeled endosome-like structures. After returning to normal solution, the endosome-like structures disappeared over a period of several minutes, whereas simultaneously the number of labeled vesicles increased. A comparison with afferent stimulation suggested that the endosome-like structures normally do not participate in the vesicle cycle. Afferent stimulation at 5 Hz resulted in sustained synaptic transmission, without vesicle depletion but with an estimated endocytotic activity of &lt;0.2 synaptic vesicles per active zone per second. At 20 Hz, the presynaptic action potentials generally failed during prolonged stimulation. In identified synapses, the number of vesicles labeled by photoconversion after stimulation at 5 Hz in the presence of the styryl dye RH414 was much lower than the number of vesicles that were released, as determined by measuring EPSCs. No more than approximately 5% of the vesicles were labeled after 20 min stimulation at 5 Hz, whereas this stimulation protocol was sufficient to largely destain a terminal after previous loading. The results support a scheme for recycling in which two different modes coexist. At physiological demands, a pool of approximately 5% of all vesicles provides sufficient vesicles for release. During intense stimulation, such as occurs in the presence of high extracellular K+, the synapse resorts to bulk endocytosis, a very slow mode of recycling.
The development of motor networks in the spinal cord is partly activity-dependent. We have observed receptor-mediated excitatory effects of two peptides, arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OXT), on motor network activity in the neonate. With the use of an en bloc in vitro preparation of mouse spinal cord (2-3 d old), which either was isolated completely or had muscles of the hindlimb left intact, we show that the bath application of AVP or OXT can evoke an increase in population bursting of motoneurons recorded from the lumbar ventral roots. By using antagonists for AVP and OXT, we found that these peptides were binding primarily to V1a and OXT receptors, respectively. Western blot analysis revealed a 48 kDa V1a and a 55 kDa OXT receptor immunoreactive band that was expressed in tissue obtained from L1-L6 sections of spinal cord. AVP, but not OXT, could, on occasion, evoke sustained periods of locomotor-like activity. In addition, when we applied AVP or OXT in combination with a 5-HT2 agonist, bouts of locomotor-like activity could be observed in a majority of preparations. Collectively, these data point to a novel role for AVP and OXT in the activation of spinal motor networks.
We investigated the role of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) in acute spinal cord injury (SCI). Transcripts encoding 22 of the 23 known mammalian MMPs were measured in the mouse spinal cord at various time points after injury. Although there were significant changes in the expression levels of multiple MMPs, MMP-12 was increased 189-fold over normal levels, the highest of all MMPs examined. To evaluate the role of MMP-12 in SCI, spinal cord compression was performed in wild-type (WT) and MMP-12 null mice. Behavioral analyses were conducted for 4 weeks using the Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan (BBB) locomotor rating scale as well as the inclined plane test. The results show that MMP-12 null mice exhibited significantly improved functional recovery compared with WT controls. Twenty-eight days after injury, the BBB score in the MMP-12 group was 7, representing extensive movement of all three hindlimb joints, compared with 4 in the WT group, representing only slight movement of these joints. Furthermore, MMP-12 null mice showed recovery of hindlimb strength more rapidly than control mice, with significantly higher inclined plane scores on days 14 and 21 after SCI. Mechanistically, there was decreased permeability of the blood-spinal barrier and reduced microglial and macrophage density in MMP-12 null mice compared with WT controls. This is the first study to profile the expression patterns of a majority of the known MMPs after spinal cord compression. The data indicate that MMP-12 expression after spinal cord trauma is deleterious and contributes to the development of secondary injury in SCI.
Behavioral, autonomic, and endocrine outputs of the CNS are subject to important feedback modulation by viscerosensory signals that are conveyed initially to the hindbrain nucleus of the solitary tract (NST). In the present study, noradrenergic (NA) neurons [i.e., those that express the NA synthetic enzyme dopamine beta hydroxylase (DbH)] in the caudal NST were lesioned to determine their role in mediating anorexic responses to gastric stimulation and in conveying gastric sensory signals to the hypothalamus and amygdala. For this purpose, saporin toxin conjugated to an antibody against DbH was microinjected bilaterally into the caudal NST in adult rats. Control rats received similar microinjections of vehicle. Several weeks later, rats were tested for the ability of systemic cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK) (0 or 10 microg/kg) to inhibit food intake. CCK-induced anorexia was significantly attenuated in toxin-treated rats. Rats subsequently were used in a terminal cFos study to determine central neural activation patterns after systemic CCK or vehicle and to evaluate lesion extent. Toxin-induced loss of DbH-positive NST neurons was positively correlated with loss of CCK-induced anorexia. Hypothalamic cFos expression was markedly attenuated in lesioned rats after CCK treatment, whereas CCK-induced neural activation in the parabrachial nucleus and amygdala appeared normal. These findings suggest that hindbrain NA neurons are an integral component of brainstem circuits that mediate CCK-induced anorexia and also are necessary for hypothalamic but not parabrachial or amygdala responses to gastric sensory stimulation.
We model the effects of excitation and inhibition on the gain of cortical neurons. Previous theoretical work has concluded that excitation or inhibition alone will not cause a multiplicative gain change in the curve of firing rate versus input current. However, such gain changes in vivo are measured in the curve of firing rate versus stimulus parameter. We find that when this curve is considered, and when the nonlinear relationships between stimulus parameter and input current and between input current and firing rate in vivo are taken into account, then simple excitation or inhibition alone can induce a multiplicative gain change. In particular, the power-law relationship between voltage and firing rate that is induced by neuronal noise is critical to this result. This suggests an unexpectedly simple mechanism that may underlie the gain modulations commonly observed in cortex. More generally, it suggests that a smaller input will multiplicatively modulate the gain of a larger one when both converge on a common cortical target.
Neurosteroids typified by 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (5alpha3alpha) have emerged as the most potent endogenous positive modulators of the GABAA receptor, the principal mediator of fast inhibitory transmission within the CNS. Neurosteroids can be synthesized de novo in the brain in levels sufficient to modulate GABA(A) receptor function and, thus, might play an important physiological-pathophysiological role. Indirect support for this proposal comes from the observation that neurosteroid action is region and neuron selective. However, the mechanism(s) that imparts specificity of action remains primarily elusive. Although neurosteroids are relatively promiscuous toward different GABA(A) receptor isoforms, the contribution of local neurosteroid metabolism has been relatively unexplored. Here, we investigate the role of neurosteroid metabolism by using electrophysiological techniques to compare the actions of 5alpha3alpha and its metabolically stable synthetic analog ganaxolone on inhibitory neurotransmission in CA1 and dentate gyrus neurons. Furthermore, we evaluate the contribution of a key enzyme in neurosteroid metabolism [i.e., 3alpha-hydroxysteroidoxidoreductase (3alpha-HSOR)] to the inactivation of endogenous, or exogenously applied 5alpha3alpha. We show that low concentrations of ganaxolone, but not of 5alpha3alpha, enhance inhibitory transmission in dentate gyrus, whereas both steroids are similarly effective in CA1 neurons. Furthermore, inhibition of 3alpha-HSOR by the contraceptive agent Provera results in enhanced synaptic and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition in the dentate gyrus but not in the CA1 region. Collectively, these findings advocate a crucial role for local steroid metabolism in shaping GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition in a regionally dependent manner and suggest a novel action by the contraceptive agent on inhibitory centers in the CNS.
The orbital and medial prefrontal cortex (OMPFC) receives inputs from the CA1/subicular (CA1/S) region of the ventral hippocampus and the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA). Despite many studies about these projections, little is known as to how CA1/S and BLA inputs converge and interact within the OMPFC. Extracellular recordings of single-unit activity in the OMPFC were performed in sodium pentobarbitone-anesthetized rats. OMPFC neurons driven by CA1/S or BLA stimulation were more frequently encountered in the ventral portion of the prelimbic (v-PrL) and infralimbic cortex (IL). OMPFC neurons showing excitatory convergence of both inputs from the CA1/S and BLA were also located predominantly in the v-PrL and IL. The excitatory latencies of these neurons from both the CA1/S and BLA revealed almost identical values. Excitatory responses of OMPFC neurons to CA1/S (or BLA) stimulation were markedly augmented by simultaneous BLA (or CA1/S) stimulation, whereas the inhibitory influence of the BLA (or CA1/S) on CA1/S-induced (or BLA-induced) excitation was apparent when BLA (or CA1/S) stimulation was given 20-40 msec before CA1/S (or BLA) stimulation. Similar results were also observed when reciprocal connections between the CA1/S and BLA were severed to exclude the influences of these connections on one another. From these studies, we concluded that excitatory and inhibitory inputs from the hippocampus and amygdala converge and interact in the v-PrL and IL. Furthermore, the results indicate that simultaneous activation of hippocampal and amygdalar neurons may be important for amplification of OMPFC neuronal activity.
Voltage-dependent K(+) channels play a pivotal role in controlling cellular excitability within the nervous system. The aim of the present study was to investigate the expression in the adult rat brain of the three ether-a-gogo-related gene (ERG) family members ERG1, ERG2, and ERG3, encoding for K(+) channel subunits. To this aim, the distribution of ERG transcripts was studied by means of reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and nonradioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry (NR-ISH). Furthermore, ERG1 subunit distribution was studied by immunohistochemical analysis. RT-PCR analysis revealed ERG1, ERG2, and ERG3 expression in the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, and cerebellum. NR-ISH experiments detected transcripts encoded by all three ERG genes in the cerebral cortex and in all CA subfields and in the granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus; strong ERG1 signals were also detected in scattered large elements throughout the oriens, pyramidal, and radiatum layers, and in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. In the thalamus, positively labeled neurons were detected in the reticular nucleus with ERG1 and ERG3 and in the anterodorsal nucleus with ERG2 riboprobes. Transcripts for ERG1 and, to a lesser degree, also for ERG3, were detected in the basal ganglia and in several brainstem nuclei. All three ERG genes appeared to be expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells. Finally, ERG1 expression was also revealed in non-neuronal elements such as ependymal and subependymal cells along the ventricular walls and hippocampal astrocytes. These results suggest that the K(+) channel isoforms of the ERG family appear to be expressed in different central nervous system regions where they might differentially control the firing of neurons engaged in several networks.
We investigated the cortical afferents of the retrosplenial cortex and the adjacent posterior cingulate cortex (area 23) in the macaque monkey by using the retrograde tracers Fast blue and Diamidino yellow. We quantitatively analyzed the distribution of labeled neurons throughout the cortical mantle. Injections involving the retrosplenial cortex resulted in labeled neurons within the retrosplenial cortex and in areas 23 and 31 (approximately 78% of the total labeled cells). In the remainder of the cortex, the heaviest projections originated in the hippocampal formation, including the entorhinal cortex, subiculum, presubiculum, and parasubiculum. The parahippocampal and perirhinal cortices also contained many labeled neurons, as did the prefrontal cortex, mainly in areas 46, 9, 10, and 11, and the occipital cortex, mainly area V2. Injections in area 23 also resulted in numerous labeled cells in the posterior cingulate and retrosplenial regions (approximately 67% of total labeled cells). As in the retrosplenial cortex, injections of area 23 led to many labeled neurons in the frontal cortex, although most of these cells were in areas 9 and 46. Larger numbers of retrogradely labeled cells were also distributed more widely in the posterior parietal cortex, including areas 7a, 7m, LIP, and DP. There were some labeled cells in the parahippocampal cortex. These connections are consistent with the retrosplenial cortex acting as an interface between the working memory functions in the prefrontal areas and the long-term memory encoding in the medial temporal lobe. The posterior cingulate cortex, in contrast, may be more highly associated with visuospatial functions.
This paper analyzes and presents the biochemical abnormalities in the sera of patients presenting with chronic mycosis in order to investigate the relationship with the risks of multiple renal disorders. The study population (n = 10) consisted of six females and four males (mean age 36.3 years) exposed by toxic molds in their homes and offices for an average of 2.8 years. The control group comprised ten people, five males and five females (mean age 35.9 years) without any known exposures to toxic molds. Blood samples were obtained from both the patients and the controls and were processed using specific biochemical methods that included enzyme-linked immunoabsorbent assay (ELISA). There were biochemical abnormal concentrations in creatinine, uric acid, phosphorus, alkaline phosphotase, cholesterol, HDH, SGOT/AST, segmented neutrophils, lymphocytes, total T3, IgG and IgA immunoglobulins with significant differences between patients and controls. These abnormalities were consistent with multiple renal disorders. The major complaints of the mycosis patients were headaches, pulmonary symptoms, allergic reactions, memory loss, skin rashes, blurred vision symptoms, fatigue, and runny nose. These findings were depictive of a strong association of chronic mycosis with abnormal renal indicators. It was concluded that, although this research was a pilot investigation, based on the overall results, people exposed to chronic indoor environmental toxic molds were at risk of multiple renal complications.






Some concave volumes are perceived as compositions of joined objects. Joined objects are optically undetermined, being compatible with three possible solutions: an empty intersection volume bounded by two indented objects; an intersection volume entirely filled-in by parts of two indented objects; a totally convex object joined to an indented object (the solution preferred by most perceivers). Knowledge of material penetrability does not predict 3D amodal completion. To identify relevant factors we selected different compositions and ran a multiple-regression analysis of completion choices. After eliminating colour, we considered six spatial factors: relative position along the vertical, relative size, orientation, proximity to the observer, minimization of completed parts, support relationship. The first two factors played a major role. The comparison of choices by upright versus inverted observers indicated that relative position along the vertical depends more on gravitational than egocentric coordinates. In conclusion, when relative spatial position and relative size cooperate, amodal completion of intersecting solids generates strong effects, which can overcome logical expectations.

The alpha(7)-selective nicotinic partial agonist 3-[2,4-dimethoxybenzylidene]anabaseine (DMXB) was examined for its ability to modulate ethanol-induced neurotoxicity in primary cultures of rat neurons. Primary cultures of hippocampal neurons were established from Long-Evans, embryonic day (E)-18 rat fetuses and maintained for 7 days. Ethanol (0-150 mM), DMXB (0-56 microM), or both were subsequently co-applied to cultures. Ethanol was added two additional times to the cultures to compensate for evaporation. After 5 days, neuronal viability was assessed with the MTT cell proliferation assay. Results demonstrated that ethanol reduces neuronal viability in a concentration-dependent fashion and that DMXB protects against this ethanol-induced neurotoxicity, also in a concentration-dependent fashion. These results support the suggestion that nicotinic partial agonists may be useful in treating binge drinking-induced neurotoxicity and may provide clues as to why heavy drinkers are usually smokers.

Elevated semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO) activity has been observed in several human conditions, eg, diabetes, and it has been speculated that SSAO contributes to the development of vasculopathies associated with this disease. To investigate in vivo consequences of elevated expression of SSAO in vascular tissues, we have developed a transgenic model for overexpression of human SSAO in mice. A smooth muscle-specific promoter, smooth muscle alpha-actin promoter 8 (SMP8) was used. Transgenic expression of human SSAO in tissues with a high content of smooth muscle cells was confirmed by Northern blot analysis. Enzymatic analysis of homogenates from transgenic tissues showed elevated levels of SSAO activity compared to non-transgenic littermates. Furthermore, when plasma SSAO activity was analyzed, much higher activity was detected compared to plasma from control mice, indicating that plasma SSAO may originate from smooth muscle cells. Histopathological evaluation of aorta and renal artery from transgenic mice revealed an abnormal structure of the elastin tissue. Instead of the regularly folded elastic laminae normally found in tunica media of sacrificed mice, the elastic laminae were straight and unfolded with irregularly arranged elastic fibers, forming tangled webs, between the intercalating elastic laminae. These alterations of the elastin structures suggest that overexpression of SSAO has led to a reduced elasticity of the arteries. Moreover, the mean femoral arterial pressure of the SMP8 SSAO transgenic mice was significantly lower in comparison to non-transgenic littermates. This suggests that the transgenic mice have a defect in their ability to regulate blood pressure.
Until recently, the investigation of protein phosphorylation was limited to biochemical studies of enzyme activities in homogenized tissues. The availability of hundreds of phosphorylation state-specific antibodies (PSSAs) now makes possible the study of protein phosphorylation in situ, and is opening many exciting opportunities in investigative and diagnostic pathology. This review illustrates the power of PSSAs, especially in immunohistochemical applications to human disease and animal models. Technical considerations, including antibody specificity and lability of phosphoepitopes, are covered, along with potential pitfalls, illustrated by a case study. In the arena of oncology, PSSAs may prove especially valuable in directly demonstrating the efficacy of chemotherapies targeted at protein kinase cascades. Novel applications of PSSAs are also beginning to reveal molecular mechanisms of inflammatory, degenerative, and toxin-induced diseases.
We investigated whether angiotensin II (ANG II), a peptide that plays a central role in the genesis of hypertension, alters the coupling between synaptic activity and cerebral blood flow (CBF), a critical homeostatic mechanism that assures adequate cerebral perfusion to active brain regions. The somatosensory cortex was activated by stroking the facial whiskers in anesthetized C57BL/6J mice while local CBF was recorded by laser-Doppler flowmetry. Intravenous ANG II infusion (0.25 mug.kg-1.min-1) increased mean arterial pressure (MAP) from 82 +/- 2 to 102 +/- 3 mmHg (P &lt; 0.05) without affecting resting CBF (P &gt; 0.05). ANG II attenuated the CBF increase produced by whisker stimulation by 65% (P &lt; 0.05) but did not affect the response to hypercapnia or to neocortical application of the nitric oxide donor S-nitroso-N-acetyl penicillamine (P &gt; 0.05). The effect of ANG II on functional hyperemia persisted if the elevation in MAP was offset by controlled hemorrhage or prevented by topical application of the peptide to the activated cortex. ANG II did not reduce the amplitude of the P1 wave of the field potentials evoked by whisker stimulation (P &gt; 0.05). Infusion of phenylephrine increased MAP (P &gt; 0.05 from ANG II) but did not alter the functional hyperemic response (P &gt; 0.05). The data suggest that ANG II alters the coupling between CBF and neural activity. The mechanisms of the effect are not related to the elevation in MAP and/or to inhibition of the synaptic activity evoked by whisker stimulation. The imbalance between CBF and neural activity induced by ANG II may alter the homeostasis of the neuronal microenvironment and contribute to brain dysfunction during ANG II-induced hypertension.



Inhibitory GABA(A) receptor ion channels are the target for a wide range of clinically-used therapeutic agents. The complex structural diversity of these ligand-gated channels, revealed by molecular cloning studies, together with increasing requirements for higher-throughput functional assays in drug discovery, has led to the development of a wide range of techniques to examine GABA(A) receptor pharmacology and function. In the current article we review some of the methodologies which have contributed to the expansion of knowledge in this field. The techniques include: molecular approaches, immunoprecipitation, and immunopurification to study receptor assembly, structure, and functional expression; in situ hybridization, immunocytochemistry, and autoradiography to examine receptor distribution in native tissues; radioligand binding, site-directed mutagenesis, and electrophysiology to examine pharmacology and allosteric modulation; and patch clamp, ion flux, microphysiometry, and a variety of novel fluorescence-based technologies to examine ion-channel function. The use of gene targetting approaches in transgenic mice has also provided important insights into the role of specific GABA(A) receptor subtypes in vivo. The continuing evolution of novel technologies and assay approaches with appropriate sensitivity and resolution to measure subtle modulation of GABA(A) ion channels will facilitate ongoing investigation of the physiological functions of these important inhibitory receptors.


















Evidence suggests that glutamatergic neuronal transmission is involved in psychiatric and neurological disorders and that drugs that target glutamate systems may serve as novel therapeutics in humans. For example, agonists for group II mGlu receptors (mGlu2 and mGlu3) have been shown to be anxiolytic in certain animal models and have shown promise in early human trials. mGlu2/3 receptor agonists also block the neurochemical and behavioral actions of psychotogens, such as phencyclidine and amphetamine in rodents, suggesting that they may be useful to treat psychosis in humans. Recently, we have used in vivo microdialysis and behavioral methods to further explore the potential antipsychotic and antistress actions of mGlu2/3 receptor agonists in rats. In subjects undergoing brain microdialysis of the nucleus accumbens shell, we have shown that LY379268 (3 mg/kg s.c.) (a systemically active mGlu2/3 receptor agonist) blocks PCP-induced locomotor activations for approximately 3 hours. In these animals, PCP-induced dopamine release was reduced, but only in a transient fashion (15-75 min). PCP-induced norepinephrine release was also reduced, but unlike dopamine, in a manner that was temporally correlated with the reduction of PCP-induced behaviors. In separate experiments in rats not undergoing microdialysis, the alpha2-adrenergic receptor agonist, clonidine, was shown to block PCP behaviors, and the norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor reboxetine was shown to exacerbate PCP-induced ambulations. In the latter study, LY379268 pretreatment effectively reversed the PCP behaviors in both control and reboxetine-treated animals. These data support a role for noradrenergic neurotransmission in the actions of drugs such as phencyclidine and suggest that stress pathways associated with these drugs can be normalized by mGlu2/3 receptor activation.
While dopamine (DA) receptors mediate acute effects of amphetamine and cocaine, chronic drug administration produces many glutamate-dependent adaptations, including LTP in reward-related neuronal circuits. An important question presents itself: How do DA receptors influence glutamate-dependent synaptic plasticity? Alterations in AMPA receptor phosphorylation and trafficking are critical for LTP. We hypothesize that D1 DA receptors modulate these processes, that chronic drug-induced adaptations in D1 receptor signaling, therefore, trigger compensatory changes in AMPA receptor function, and that this ultimately contributes to inappropriate plasticity in addiction-related neuronal circuits. Postnatal rat nucleus accumbens (NAc) cultures were used to study D1 receptor regulation of the AMPA receptor subunit GluR1. We found that D1 receptor stimulation enhances phosphorylation of GluR1 at the protein kinase A (PKA) site. Furthermore, D1 receptor stimulation increases GluR1 surface expression by increasing the rate of GluR1 externalization. The latter effect is prevented by the PKA inhibitors KT5720 and RpcAMPS, whereas the PKA activator SpcAMPS increases the rate of GluR1 externalization. These findings indicate that PKA phosphorylation is important in determining AMPA receptor surface expression and suggest a mechanism by which DA-releasing drugs of abuse may directly tap into fundamental mechanisms that enable synaptic plasticity. A limitation of our current model is that there are no intrinsic glutamate neurons in the NAc and thus no glutamate synapses in NAc cultures. To address this problem, we have restored excitatory synaptic inputs to NAc neurons by co-culturing them with prefrontal cortex (PFC) neurons. We are also studying GluR1 trafficking in PFC cultures. In both systems, synaptic AMPA receptors can be defined based on colocalization of GluR1 and the synaptic marker synaptobrevin. Preliminary results suggest that D1 receptor stimulation or PKA activation leads to increased surface GluR1 expression in PFC neurons but not to insertion into synaptic sites.
Long-lasting alterations in the efficacy of glutamatergic synapses, such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), are prominent models for mechanisms of information storage in the brain. It has been suggested that exposure to drugs of abuse produces synaptic plasticity at glutamatergic synapses that shares many features with LTP and LTD, and that these synaptic changes may play roles in addiction. We have examined the involvement of particular neurotransmitters in synaptic plasticity at glutamatergic synapses within the striatum, a brain region with prominent roles in initiation and sequencing of actions, as well as habit formation. Our studies indicate that multiple neurotransmitters interact to produce striatal synaptic plasticity, and that the relative strength and patterning of the afferent inputs that release the various neurotransmitters determines whether LTP or LTD is activated. Drugs of abuse interact with glutamatergic synaptic plasticity in multiple ways, including alterations in dopamine release and more direct effects on glutamate release and glutamate receptors. We hypothesize that these effects contribute to addiction by facilitating the formation of new, drug-centered habits, and by disruption of more adaptive behaviors.
A variety of data point to the possibility that neuroadaptations in glutamate transmission are produced by repeated exposure to cocaine that result in the expression of behaviors characteristic of addiction, such as craving and relapse. Using the reinstatement model of relapse in rats, glutamate release in the projection from the prefrontal cortex to the nucleus accumbens has been shown to underlie cocaine- and stress-primed reinstatement. In this report, four adaptations produced by withdrawal from repeated cocaine are described that may regulate the release of glutamate underlying reinstatement of drug-seeking resulted. (1) Neurons in the prefrontal cortex have increased levels of activator of G protein signaling 3 (AGS3) that causes reduced signaling through Gi coupled receptors, and normalization of AGS3 blocked cocaine-primed reinstatement. (2) The activity of the cystine-glutamate exchanger is reduced resulting in decreased extracellular glutamate in the nucleus accumbens, and normalization of exchanger activity prevented cocaine-primed reinstatement. (3) Metobotropic glutamate receptor function is diminished after repeated cocaine administration that results in reduced regulation of glutamate release. (4) Homer1 protein is reduced in the nucleus accumbens, and Homer2 knockout mice show enhanced responsiveness to cocaine. Taken together, there appears to be both pre- and postsynaptic changes in glutamate transmission that dysregulates the glutamatergic projection from the prefrontal cortex to the nucleus accumbens. These adaptations are hypothesized to facilitate glutamate release in response to a cocaine injection or acute stress and lead to the reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior.
Little is known about how memories of new voluntary motor actions, also known as procedural memory, are formed at the molecular level. Our work examining acquisition of lever-pressing for food in rats has shown that activation of glutamate NMDA receptors, within broadly distributed but interconnected regions (e.g., nucleus accumbens core, prefrontal cortex, basolateral amygdala), is critical for such learning to occur. This receptor stimulation triggers intracellular cascades that involve protein phosphorylation and new protein synthesis. In support of this idea, we have found that posttrial inhibition of protein synthesis in the ventral striatum impairs learning, whereas posttrial NMDA receptor blockade does not. More recent data show extension of this network to the central amygdala, where infusions of NMDA antagonists also impair learning. We hypothesize that activity in this distributed network (including dopaminergic activity and perhaps muscarinic cholinergic activity) computes coincident events and thus enhances the probability that temporally related actions and events (e.g., lever pressing and delivery of reward) become associated. Such basic mechanisms of plasticity within this reinforcement learning network also appear to be profoundly affected in addiction.
Several lines of evidence, including recent genetic linkage studies implicating susceptibility genes for schizophrenia, make a strong case that abnormal NMDA receptor-mediated neurotransmission is a major locus for the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Animal models that are relevant to putative NMDA dysfunction in schizophrenia have excellent face validity for several symptoms of schizophrenia and are important tools for the design of novel pharmacological intervention in schizophrenia. The present chapter includes a brief review of the utility of these models and the search for new medications that have the potential of normalizing glutamate neurotransmission in schizophrenia.
Postmortem studies, using various methods and directed at several molecular targets, have provided increasing evidence that glutamatergic neurotransmission is affected in schizophrenia. The bulk of the data are in the hippocampus, wherein there is reduced expression of one or more subunits for all three ionotropic receptors (NMDA, AMPA, and kainate). Presynaptic glutamatergic markers, notably the vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT1, may also be decreased in schizophrenia, especially in older subjects. CA1 appears less affected than other subfields, and the decrements may be greater in the left than in the right hippocampus. The recently described susceptibility genes for schizophrenia all act upon glutamatergic synaptic transmission, which may, therefore, be part of the core pathophysiology of the disorder.
Glutamatergic and dopaminergic systems play a primary role in frontal-subcortical circuits involved in motor and cognitive functions. Considerable evidence has emerged indicating that the complex interaction between these neurotransmitter systems within the dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens is critically involved in the gating of information flow in these highly integrative brain regions. As a result, disruptions of the interaction between glutamate and dopamine has been proposed as a pathological basis for a number of disorders, including the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. In this chapter, we discuss recent studies that have significantly advanced our understanding of the reciprocal interactions between glutamatergic and dopaminergic systems within the striatal complex in the normal brain and in pathological states.
For normal regulation of motor, affective, and cognitive functions, dopamine provides an essential modulation of glutamate transmission within multiple brain regions. This paper will review three principal anatomical substrates for such interactions. First, dopamine modulates the activity of glutamate neurons within the cerebral cortex. Evidence will be reviewed for dopamine regulation of pyramidal neurons in the prefrontal cortex via synaptic and extrasynaptic mechanisms and through indirect effects mediated by GABA cells. Second, glutamate neurons innervate dopamine cells within the ventral tegmental area. Evidence will be described for selective glutamate input from the prefrontal cortex or the brain stem tegmentum to different populations of dopamine cells. The third level of interaction occurs within target regions via convergent synaptic or extrasynaptic regulation of common neurons. Such convergence will be reviewed for the basal ganglia, prefrontal cortex, and amygdala. Together, these substrates for glutamate-dopamine interactions provide several mechanisms for normal regulation of brain function. Sites of modulatory interaction between dopamine and glutamate also suggest circuit alterations that might contribute to the pathophysiology of mental health disorders and provide potential sites for therapeutic intervention in these conditions.
The results of a series of experiments aimed at directly comparing the prosodic level of processing in language with the melodic level of processing in music are reported. The first series of experiments was conducted on adults, musicians and nonmusicians, and the second one on 7- to 9-year-old musician and nonmusician children. However, as this last study is still in progress, only preliminary results will be presented. The theoretic framework within which these experiments are taking place is described. The first problem concerns the specificity of the perceptive and cognitive computations necessary to perceive and understand language. We argue that comparing language with music can provide interesting insights into this complex issue. The second problem is linked to the relationship between different types of learning. Does early musical training influence the way in which musicians process some aspects of language as prosody? These two problems are considered and the results of the experiments are described.
Over the last 10 years, the neurosciences have witnessed an exponential increase of research in the neuropsychology of music. Consequently, old and new questions on the ontogeny of musical skills can be refined and reformulated with greater accuracy. Three interrelated issues are discussed.

An overview of the history of debates on the correlation of musical skills with neurological functions in health and disease is presented. Selected biographical sketches of composers (Hildegard von Bingen, Mozart, Donizetti, Mussorgsky, and Ravel), whose neurological disease may have influenced musical creativity, are discussed. The search for information on the localization of skills in the brains of musicians is reviewed. The relation of mental ability to brain structure is a prominent theme in the history of neuroscience, and the effort to localize musical skills dates back to the excesses of phrenology in the early nineteenth century. The phrenological tables included an &quot;organ of music&quot; among the sites subserving intellectual capabilities, mapped on the basis of palpation of the head bumps. Since the second half of the nineteenth century, when the study of brain physiology, anatomy, and pathology had a remarkable development and impact on the neurosciences, structural features of the brain, particularly the cerebral cortex, of individuals with peculiar talents, including musical skills, have been examined to search for clues on the localization of mental phenomena. These studies, which continued in the twentieth century, are currently difficult to validate in view of the rigor imposed by current scientific standards. However, the issue of localization of functions in the musical brain is still debated and is now at the forefront of the neurosciences, exploiting especially functional neuroimaging. The historical overview of these problems is certainly exemplary of progress of knowledge, but also warns against excessive &quot;localizationist&quot; efforts.
The pathways ascending through the brain stem to the medial geniculate complex of the thalamus can be distinguished by immunostaining for the calcium binding proteins parvalbumin and calbindin and by the properties of the neurons in the subdivisions of the medial geniculate complex in which they terminate. The parvalbumin pathway, ascending from the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus, is the more direct and terminates in the ventral nucleus. The calbindin pathway is more diffuse in its origins and terminates in the dorsal and medial nuclei. Ventral nucleus neurons are sharply tuned, tonotopically organized and consistent in their responses. They project to core areas of the auditory cortex characterized by high parvalbumin immunoreactivity and by similar neuronal properties. Neurons in the dorsal and medial nuclei are not frequency specific or tonotopic and are labile in their responses. They project more diffusely to belt areas of the auditory cortex in which parvalbumin immunoreactivity is reduced and in which neuronal responses are less specific than in the core. The belt areas are the origins of streams of corticocortical connections leading into the temporal, parietal, and frontal lobes. These routes can be differentially engaged in functional imaging studies of monkeys responding to biologically significant sounds.

The perceptual pitch dimensions of chroma and height have distinct representations in the human brain: chroma is represented in cortical areas anterior to primary auditory cortex, whereas height is represented posterior to primary auditory cortex.
Musically nave subjects were scanned using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) before and after they had been taught to read music and play keyboard. When subjects played melodies from musical notation after training, activation was seen in a cluster of voxels within the right superior parietal cortex consistent with the view that music reading involves spatial sensorimotor mapping.
Rhythm is widely acknowledged to be an important feature of both speech and music, yet there is little empirical work comparing rhythmic organization in the two domains. One approach to the empirical comparison of rhythm in language and music is to break rhythm down into subcomponents and compare each component across domains. This approach reveals empirical evidence that rhythmic grouping is an area of overlap between language and music, but no empirical support for the long-held notion that language has periodic structure comparable to that of music. Focusing on the statistical patterning of event duration, new evidence suggests that the linguistic rhythm of a culture leaves an imprint on its musical rhythm. The latter finding suggests that one effective strategy for comparing rhythm in language and music is to determine if differences in linguistic rhythm between cultures are reflected in differences in musical rhythm.
Even when simultaneously performing a task unrelated to sounds, the human auditory cortex can precisely model the invariances of the acoustic environment. Data acquired in a mismatch negativity (MMN) paradigm have shown that temporally and spectrally complex sounds as well as their relations are automatically represented in the human auditory cortex. Furthermore, MMN data indicate that these neural sound representations are spatially distinct from phonetic and musical sounds within and between the cerebral hemispheres. Most MMN studies were conducted in pitch dimension, but temporal aspects of sound processing are also under increasing experimentation. To some extent, musical expertise is also reflected in sound representation accuracy as indexed by the MMN paradigm.
In major-minor tonal music, chord functions are arranged according to certain regularities. The dominant-tonic progression, known as an authentic cadence, is often used as a marker of the end of a harmonic progression and has been considered a basic syntactic structure of major-minor tonal music by several music theorists and music psychologists. We review data from studies in which brain responses to an authentic cadence were compared to those elicited by music-syntactically inappropriate endings. In event-related electric brain potentials (recorded with EEG), the inappropriate endings elicit early right anterior negativity (ERAN), which is maximal around 200 ms after the presentation of an inappropriate chord. The ERAN is reminiscent of early anterior negativities elicited by syntactic incongruities during the perception of language. Magnetoencephalographic (MEG) data suggest that the ERAN is generated in the inferior frontolateral cortex, an area known to be crucially involved in the processing of (linguistic) syntax. Interestingly, the ERAN can be recorded in nonmusicians and in children, indicating that the ability to acquire (implicit) knowledge about musical regularities and to process musical information according to this knowledge is a general ability of the human brain. This ability is probably of great importance for the acquisition of language in infants and children.
The aim of this paper is to illustrate how studying music from a neuroscience perspective may be a valuable way to probe a variety of complex cognitive functions and their neural substrate. Three different sets of issues are described. First, studies dealing with the brain correlates of musical imagery are discussed. This topic is of interest in that it illustrates how subjective sensations may be studied via objective techniques, and gives insight into neural systems associated with internal phenomena. Second, some findings pertaining to absolute pitch are presented. Absolute pitch is a useful example of a highly specific cognitive skill that is unevenly distributed in the population. Examination of its neural basis helps to understand aspects of memory function and points to ways to explore individual differences in brain organization that underlie differential skills. The final topic, music and emotion, has not been the subject of much systematic research, but it is of great interest because it intersects with a large literature on the neuroscience of affective processing. Findings from some studies indicate that music may engage systems concerned with biological reward, raising interesting but so far unanswered questions about the broader role of music in human experience.
Growth hormone (GH) is neuroprotective, presumably through its actions on GH receptor-mediated pathways. Here, we examined the effects of GH using in vitro and in vivo assays of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-induced neuronal injury. Neuronal cultures were in assays of neurotoxicity induced by supernatants from HIV-1 tat-transfected monocytoid cells (Tat supernatant). GH treatment reduced neuronal death compared with untreated cultures (p &lt; 0.001), which was blocked by a GH receptor antagonist, B2036. Tat supernatant-induced p53 expression in neurons was also reduced by GH treatment. Expression of both p53 and GH receptor were increased in brain tissue from HIV-infected persons compared with controls (p &lt; 0.05). Mice receiving intrastriatal implants of Tat supernatant and treated with GH showed less neurobehavioral abnormalities together with reduced neuroinflammation and neuronal injury compared with untreated animals (p &lt; 0.01). Three acquired immunodeficiency syndrome-defined patients with neurocognitive impairment were serially evaluated during daily GH treatment showing a sustained improvement in neuropsychological performance (p &lt; 0.01). GH prevents neuronal death through its actions on neurons involving a p53-mediated pathway and also improved in vivo neurological function, indicating that GH may have a role in the treatment of HIV-induced neurodegeneration.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) based on blood-oxygen level dependent (BOLD) contrast today is an established brain research method and quickly gains acceptance for complementary clinical diagnosis. However, neither the basic mechanisms like coupling between neuronal activation and haemodynamic response are known exactly, nor can the various artifacts be predicted or controlled. Thus, modeling functional signal changes is non-trivial and exploratory data analysis (EDA) may be rather useful. In particular, identification and separation of artifacts as well as quantification of expected, i.e. stimulus correlated, and novel information on brain activity is important for both, new insights in neuroscience and future developments in functional MRI of the human brain. After an introduction on fuzzy clustering and very high-field fMRI we present several examples where fuzzy cluster analysis (FCA) of fMRI time series helps to identify and locally separate various artifacts. We also present and discuss applications and limitations of fuzzy cluster analysis in very high-field functional MRI: differentiate temporal patterns in MRI using (a) a test object with static and dynamic parts, (b) artifacts due to gross head motion artifacts. Using a synthetic fMRI data set we quantitatively examine the influences of relevant FCA parameters on clustering results in terms of receiver-operator characteristics (ROC) and compare them with a commonly used model-based correlation analysis (CA) approach. The application of FCA in analyzing in vivo fMRI data is shown for (a) a motor paradigm, (b) data from multi-echo imaging, and (c) a fMRI study using mental rotation of three-dimensional cubes. We found that differentiation of true &quot;neural&quot; from false &quot;vascular&quot; activation is possible based on echo time dependence and specific activation levels, as well as based on their signal time-course. Exploratory data analysis methods in general and fuzzy cluster analysis in particular may help to identify artifacts and add novel and unexpected information valuable for interpretation, classification and characterization of functional MRI data which can be used to design new data acquisition schemes, stimulus presentations, neuro(physio)logical paradigms, as well as to improve quantitative biophysical models.
It has been shown that alphaMSH and the nonmelanotropic ACTH/MSH(4-9) analog ORG 2766 can ameliorate cisplatin-induced neurotoxicity and ototoxicity. Here, we investigated whether these peptides delay the occurrence of the cisplatin-induced shift in auditory threshold, and whether they affect the subsequent recovery of cochlear potentials. Chronically implanted round window electrodes were used to obtain daily recordings of auditory nerve compound action potentials (CAP) and cochlear microphonics at frequencies ranging from 2 to 16 kHz. Cisplatin (1.5 mg/kg i.p.) plus alphaMSH, ORG 2766 (75 mug/kg s.c.), or saline were injected daily until the 40-dB CAP threshold shift at 8 kHz was reached. Endocochlear potential (EP) was measured either 1-2 days or 28 days later, followed by morphometric analysis of the cochlea. Peptide cotreatment did not consistently delay the threshold shift; however, the CAP threshold recovered faster and to a greater extent, with the potency order being alphaMSH &gt; ORG 2766 &gt; saline. Significant recovery at the 2 highest frequencies was seen in the alphaMSH-treated animals only. CAP amplitude at high sound pressures, which depends more on nerve function than on outer hair cell (OHC) function, decreased severely in all groups but recovered significantly in the alphaMSH- and completely in the ORG-2766-cotreated group. EP was significantly lower in the first days after the threshold shift but had completely recovered at 28 days. Morphometric analysis of the spiral ganglion also indicated involvement of ganglion cells. OHC loss was most severe in the basal turn of saline-cotreated animals. These data suggest that the cisplatin-induced acute threshold shift might be due to reversible strial failure, whereas subsequent OHC survival determines the final degree of functional recovery. Both OHC loss and neuronal function were ameliorated by peptide cotreatment.
We have shown previously that 15 mg/kg pentobarbital induces a conditioned place preference (CPP), but it is unsuitable for intracranial administration. Since the long-acting barbiturate, sodium barbital, is soluble at a neutral pH, we tested whether it would induce a CPP when administered centrally. Furthermore, because barbital has a long duration of action, and because we obtained a significant CPP to systemically administered barbital using 30-minute conditioning trials, we tested whether longer conditioning trials would produce a more robust CPP. Using a three-compartment apparatus and an unbiased procedure, we found that systemic administration of barbital induced a significant CPP at 8 and 24 mg/kg, but not 2.7 or 72 mg/kg (i.p.). When rats were conditioned to 24 mg/kg barbital for conditioning trials of (1/2), 1, 3, or 6 hours, only the 30-min conditioning trial produced a CPP. Finally, 240 and 480 microg intracerebroventricular (ICV) barbital induced a significant CPP, but 60 or 120 microg did not. These findings suggest that: (1) like pentobarbital, barbital has reinforcing properties measured in the CPP test; (2) the CPP is impaired, rather than enhanced, by increasing the duration of drug-context pairing; and (3) the reinforcing effects of barbiturates are centrally mediated.
The barn owl ( Tyto alba) is capable of capturing prey by passive hearing alone, guided by a topographic map of auditory space in the external nucleus of its inferior colliculus. The neurons of this auditory space map have discrete spatial receptive fields that result from the computation of interaural differences in the level (ILD) and time-of-arrival (ITD) of sounds. Below we review the synthesis of the spatial receptive fields from the frequency-specific ITDs and ILDs to which the neurons are tuned, concentrating on recent studies exploiting virtual auditory space techniques to analyze the contribution of ILD. We then compared the owl's spatial discrimination, assessed behaviorally, with that of its space map neurons. Spatial discrimination was assessed using a novel paradigm involving the pupillary dilation response (PDR), and neuronal acuity was assessed by measuring the changes in firing rate resulting from changes in source location, scaled to the variance. This signal-detection-based approach revealed that the change in the position of the neural image on this map best explains the spatial discrimination measured using the PDR. We compare this result to recent studies in mammalian systems.
Gonadal steroid hormones act throughout the body to elicit changes in gene expression that result in profound effects on reproductive physiology and behavior. Steroid hormones exert many of these effects by binding to their respective intracellular receptors, which are members of a nuclear receptor superfamily of transcriptional activators. A variety of in vitro studies indicate that nuclear receptor coactivators are required for efficient transcriptional activity of steroid receptors. Many of these coactivators are found in a variety of steroid hormone-responsive reproductive tissues, including the reproductive tract, mammary gland, and brain. While many nuclear receptor coactivators have been investigated in vitro, we are only now beginning to understand their function in reproductive physiology and behavior. In this review, we discuss the general mechanisms of action of nuclear receptor coactivators in steroid-dependent gene transcription. We then review some recent and exciting findings on the function of nuclear receptor coactivators in steroid-dependent brain development and reproductive physiology and behavior.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) and other members of the neurotrophin family are critical for the survival and differentiation of neurons within the peripheral and central nervous systems. Neurophilin ligands, including FK506, potentiate NGF-induced neurite outgrowth in several experimental models, although the mechanism of this potentiation is unclear. Therefore, we tested which signaling pathways were involved in FK506-potentiated neurite outgrowth in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells using specific pharmacological inhibitors of various signaling molecules. Inhibitors of Ras (lovastatin), Raf (GW5074), or MAP kinase (PD98059 and U0126) blocked FK506 activity, as did inhibitors of phospholipase C (U73122) and phosphatidylinositol 3' kinase (LY294002). Protein kinase C inhibitors (Go6983 and Ro31-8220) slightly but significantly inhibited neurite outgrowth, whereas inhibitors of p38 MAPK (SB203580) or c-Jun N-terminal kinase (SP600125) had no effect. These data suggest that FK506 potentiates neurite outgrowth through the Ras/Raf/MAP kinase signaling pathway downstream of phospholipase C and phosphatidylinositol 3' kinase.
1. Investigation into the modulatory effects of chlormethiazole at human recombinant gamma-aminobutyric acid A receptor (GABAA) and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors was undertaken to gain insight into its mechanism of action and determine if the drug exhibited any subtype-selective activity. 2. Despite a structural similarity to the beta-subunit-selective compound loreclezole, chlormethiazole did not show any difference in maximum efficacy and only a slight difference in EC50 in its potentiating action at alpha1beta1gamma2 and alpha1beta2gamma2 GABAA receptor subtypes with preference for alpha1beta1gamma2. 3. Similar to the previously reported subtype-dependent activity of pentobarbital, chlormethiazole elicited a significantly greater degree of maximum potentiation on receptors lacking a gamma2 subunit, and also those receptors containing an alpha4 or alpha6 subunit. This also demonstrates that chlormethiazole does not act via the benzodiazepine binding site. 4. Unlike pentobarbital and propofol, chlormethiazole elicited only a slight direct GABAA receptor activation at concentrations up to 1 mm. In addition, the drug did not potentiate anaesthetic-mediated currents elicited by pentobarbital or propofol, suggesting that chlormethiazole may be acting via an anaesthetic binding site. 5. Chlormethiazole produced weak nonselective inhibition of human NMDA NR1a+NR2A and NR1a+NR2B receptors. IC50's were approximately 500 microm that likely exceed the therapeutic dose range for chlormethiazole, indicating that the primary mechanism of the compounds in vivo activity is via GABAA receptors.
The pharmacological profile of a novel glutamate transport inhibitor, WAY-855 (3-amino-tricyclo[2.2.1.0(2.6)]heptane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid), on the activity of the human forebrain glutamate transporters EAAT1, EAAT2 and EAAT3 expressed in stable mammalian cell lines and in Xenopus laevis oocytes is presented. WAY-855 inhibited glutamate uptake mediated by all three subtypes in a concentration-dependent manner, with preferential inhibition of the CNS-predominant EAAT2 subtype in both cells and oocytes. IC50 values for EAAT2 and EAAT3 inhibition in cells were 2.2 and 24.5 microM, respectively, while EAAT1 activity was inhibited by 50% at 100 microM (IC50 values determined in oocytes were 1.3 microM (EAAT2), 52.5 microM (EAAT3) and 125.9 microM (EAAT1)). Application of WAY-855 to EAAT-expressing oocytes failed to induce a transporter current, and the compound failed to exchange with accumulated [3H]d-aspartate in synaptosomes consistent with a nonsubstrate inhibitor. WAY-855 inhibited d-aspartate uptake into cortical synaptosomes by a competitive mechanism, and with similar potency to that observed for the cloned EAAT2. WAY-855 failed to agonise or antagonise ionotropic glutamate receptors in cultured hippocampal neurones, or the human metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 4 expressed in a stable cell line. WAY-855 represents a novel structure in glutamate transporter pharmacology, and exploration of this structure might provide insights into the discrimination between EAAT2 and other EAAT subtypes.
Stroop tasks (Stroop, 1935) present stimuli having two dimensions, and participants respond to one dimension whilst ignoring the other. The two dimensions are made congruent, incongruent or neutral with respect to one another. Many claim that 'Stroop interference' is higher in children than in adults. However, taking interference as the difference between the incongruent condition and the neutral condition, with interference within the congruent condition itself termed the 'incongruity effect' then surprisingly few studies directly address this issue. Also, there is recent debate as to whether the 'facilitation effect' (the contrast between the congruent and neutral conditions) is just the opposite of interference. The present investigation (N = 31) concerned a direct comparison between children and adults. Although the incongruity effect reduced with age, interference did not. However, facilitation was far higher in children than in adults. The groups' opposite facilitation/interference asymmetry was used to examine the recent claim that these derive from inadvertent word-reading and suppression of semantic activation, respectively; rather than solely from the latter.
The amygdala, which plays a critical role in emotional learning and social cognition, is structurally and functionally sexually dimorphic in humans. We used magnetic neuroimaging and molecular genetic analyses with healthy subjects and patients possessing X-chromosome anomalies to find dosage-sensitive genes that might influence amygdala development. If such X-linked genes lacked a homologue on the Y-chromosome they would be expressed in one copy in normal 46,XY males and two copies in normal 46,XX females. We showed by means of magnetic neuroimaging that 46,XY males possess significantly increased amygdala volumes relative to normal 46,XX females. However, females with Turner syndrome (45,X) have even larger amygdalae than 46,XY males. This finding implies that haploinsufficiency for one or more X-linked genes influences amygdala development irrespective of a direct or indirect (endocrinological) mechanism involving the Y-chromosome. 45,X females also have increased grey matter volume in the orbitofrontal cortex bilaterally, close to a region implicated in emotional learning. They are as poor as patients with bilateral amygdalectomies in the recognition of fear from facial expressions. We attempted to localize the gene(s) responsible for these deficits in X-monosomy by means of a deletion mapping strategy. We studied female patients possessing structural X-anomalies of the short arm. A genetic locus (no greater than 4.96 Mb in size) at Xp11.3 appears to play a key role in amygdala and orbitofrontal structural and (by implication) functional development. Females with partial X-chromosome deletions, in whom this critical locus is deleted, have normal intelligence. Their fear recognition is as poor as that of 45,X females and their amygdalae are correspondingly enlarged. This 4.96 Mb region contains, among others, the genes for monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) and B (MAOB), which are involved in the oxidative deamination of several neurotransmitters, including dopamine and serotonin. Abnormal activity of these neurotransmitters has been implicated in the aetiology of several neurodevelopmental disorders in which social cognitive deficits are prominent. These associated deficits include a specific lack of fear recognition from facial expressions. We show that the thrombocytic activity of MAOB is proportionate to the number of X-chromosomes, and hypothesize that haploinsufficiency of this enzyme in 45,X females predisposes to their deficits in social cognition.
Recovery of motor function after stroke may occur over weeks or months and is often attributed to cerebral reorganization. We have investigated the longitudinal relationship between recovery after stroke and task-related brain activation during a motor task as measured using functional MRI (fMRI). Eight first-ever stroke patients presenting with hemiparesis resulting from cerebral infarction sparing the primary motor cortex, and four control subjects were recruited. Subjects were scanned on a number of occasions whilst performing an isometric dynamic visually paced hand grip task. Recovery in the patient group was assessed using a battery of outcome measures at each time point. Task-related brain activations decreased over sessions as a function of recovery in a number of primary and non-primary motor regions in all patients, but no session effects were seen in the controls. Furthermore, consistent decreases across sessions correlating with recovery were seen across the whole patient group independent of rate of recovery or initial severity, in primary motor cortex, premotor and prefrontal cortex, supplementary motor areas, cingulate sulcus, temporal lobe, striate cortex, cerebellum, thalamus and basal ganglia. Although recovery-related increases were seen in different brain regions in four patients, there were no consistent effects across the group. These results further our understanding of the recovery process by demonstrating for the first time a clear temporal relationship between recovery and task-related activation of the motor system after stroke.
Mesial temporal sclerosis (MTS) is the most common lesion in patients who require epilepsy surgery, and approximately 50% of patients with MTS have a history of prolonged febrile convulsion (PFC) in childhood. The latter led to the hypothesis that convulsive status epilepticus, including PFC, can cause MTS. Our recently published data on children investigated within 5 days of a PFC showed that children investigated by MRI within 48 h of a PFC had large hippocampal volumes and prolongation of T2 relaxation time. Patients investigated &gt;48 h from a PFC had large hippocampal volumes and normal T2 relaxation time. These data are strongly suggestive of hippocampal oedema that is resolving within 5 days of a PFC, but do not exclude the possibility of a pre-existing hippocampal lesion. Fourteen children from the original study had follow-up investigations carried out 4-8 months after the acute investigations. Of the 14 patients, four have had further seizures. Two had short febrile convulsions, one had PFC and one had non-febrile seizures. There was a significant reduction in hippocampal volume and T2 relaxation time between the first and second investigations, and there is now no difference in hippocampal volume or T2 relaxation time in patients compared with a control population. Moreover, there is a significant increase in hippocampal volume asymmetry in patients at follow-up when compared with initial data. Five out of 14 patients had asymmetry outside the 95th percentile for control subjects and, of these, three had one hippocampal volume outside the lower 95% prediction limit for control subjects. A reduction in hippocampal volume or T2 relaxation time, into or below the normal range between the first and second scans, indicates that the earlier findings are temporary and are strongly suggestive of hippocampal oedema as the abnormality in the initial investigations. The change in hippocampal symmetry in the patient group is consistent with injury and neuronal loss associated with a PFC, especially in the three individuals who now have a single small hippocampus. However, as there is no T2 relaxation time abnormality, the hippocampi do not meet the criteria for MTS. There may be a lag period of several years between a PFC and the onset of epilepsy, and therefore some of these patients may be developing MTS. Alternatively, the asymmetry could represent return (post-acute oedema) to a pre-existing hippocampal abnormality similar to that identified in family members of patients with MTS and a history of PFC.
Neuroimaging studies have identified at least two bilateral areas of the visual extrastriate cortex that respond more to pictures of faces than objects in normal human subjects in the middle fusiform gyrus [the 'fusiform face area' (FFA)] and, more posteriorly, in the inferior occipital cortex ['occipital face area' (OFA)], with a right hemisphere dominance. However, it is not yet clear how these regions interact which each other and whether they are all necessary for normal face perception. It has been proposed that the right hemisphere FFA acts as an isolated ('modular') processing system for faces or that this region receives its face-sensitive inputs from the OFA in a feedforward hierarchical model of face processing. To test these proposals, we report a detailed neuropsychological investigation combined with a neuroimaging study of a patient presenting a deficit restricted to face perception, consecutive to bilateral occipito-temporal lesions. Due to the asymmetry of the lesions, the left middle fusiform gyrus and the right inferior occipital cortex were damaged but the right middle fusiform gyrus was structurally intact. Using functional MRI, we disclosed a normal activation of the right FFA in response to faces in the patient despite the absence of any feedforward inputs from the right OFA, located in a damaged area of cortex. Together, these findings show that the integrity of the right OFA is necessary for normal face perception and suggest that the face-sensitive responses observed at this level in normal subjects may arise from feedback connections from the right FFA. In agreement with the current literature on the anatomical basis of prosopagnosia, it is suggested that the FFA and OFA in the right hemisphere and their re-entrant integration are necessary for normal face processing.
We presented a proposed neural level mechanism for the integration of cognitive and affective information during covert decision making. The central idea is that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex establishes predicted outcomes of responses through its connections with the amygdala, and that this information is passed through the context-moderated gateway in the nucleus accumbens in order to promote behaviours that are most beneficial to the long term survival of the organism. We then implemented the proposed mechanism in a network of spiking neurons, and tested one of its central claims. Results showed that the model was capable of producing behaviour similar to that observed in normal humans, as well as that exhibited during VMPFC damage.
The Iowa Gambling Task has been widely used in the assessment of neurological patients with ventro-mesial frontal lesions. The Iowa Group has claimed that the Gambling Task is too complex for participants to follow using cognition alone, so that participants must rely on emotion-based learning systems (somatic markers). The present study investigates whether similar tasks can be performed without direct somatic markers. In a 'Firefighter' task closely matched to the classic Gambling Task, participants evaluate the performance of others--so that they experience reward and punishment indirectly. In contrast to the gradual improvement in performance seen on the classic Iowa Gambling Task, participants on the Firefighter Task showed no learning effect, mirroring the performance of patients with ventro-mesial frontal lesions, and suggesting that the task is very difficult to perform without direct somatic marker information. The use of this task as empirical measure of 'empathy' are discussed.
This paper presents the case of MT, a patient suffering from apraxia with left-hemisphere damage who showed a selective deficit in mentally rotating images of hands whereas he was still able to mentally rotate other visual stimuli. The deficit was particularly evident when MT was asked to decide which hand (left or right) was represented in a picture. suggested that in order to carry out this task, participants would mentally rotate a representation of their own body part until it aligns with the stimulus and it does appear that MT's ability to mentally simulate movements is impaired. In contrast, he was able to mentally rotate other forms of bi- and three-dimensional stimuli. Our findings are also consistent with proposal that there are at least two ways in which objects can be mentally rotated, one that recruits processes devoted to motor preparation (e.g., hands), and another that does not.
Executive and memory dysfunctions are among the most frequently reported deficits following a ruptured aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery (ACoA). In order to study the impact of the dysexecutive syndrome on episodic and semantic memory, the data obtained from 59 ACoA patients were examined retrospectively. All patients were assessed on a variety of episodic memory tests (Rey Auditory-Verbal Learning Test, Rey Complex Figure Test, Weschler Memory Scale), semantic memory (verbal fluency), and standardized tests of executive functions (Trail Making Test, Maze tests, Wisconsin Card Sorting Test). There was a strong positive correlation between executive dysfunction and retrieval difficulties in episodic and semantic memory tasks. Comparisons of subgroups of patients with high and low frontal lobe functioning on delayed recall and recognition revealed a significant group X condition interaction in addition to significant group and condition main effects. ACoAs patients with low frontal lobe functioning were particularly deficient in free recall (immediate and delayed) while recognition was equally well preserved in the two subgroups. Neither subgroup presented with an abnormal forgetting over time suggesting a retrieval deficit rather than a true retention impairment.
Divided visual field studies of neurologically normal adults indicate that the left hemisphere is superior to the right in making temporal judgments. Some neuroimaging and neuropsychological studies, however, have suggested a role for the right hemisphere in temporal processing. We tested the divided hemispheres of a split-brain patient in two tasks requiring temporal judgments about visually presented stimuli. In one task, the patient judged whether two circles presented to one visual field appeared for the same or different durations. In the second task, the patient judged whether the temporal gaps in two circles occurred simultaneously or sequentially. In both tasks, the performance of the right hemisphere was superior to that of the left. This suggests that the right hemisphere plays an important role in making temporal judgments about visually presented stimuli.
The Iowa Gambling Task (([Bechara et al., 1994]) is an effective neuropsychological tool for the assessment of 'real-life' decision-making in a laboratory environment. It has been employed in a wide range of circumstances, though researchers have sometimes employed real money reinforcers instead of the facsimile (or 'monopoly'-type) money used by. The present study investigated whether the type of reinforcer produced any differences in performance. There were no significant differences between the two conditions, though the Facsimile Money condition produced a greater range (and a higher standard deviation) than the Real Money condition. This finding is especially important when considering the Gambling Task as a tool in clinical neuropsychology--where there are risks, at the individual subject level, of both false positive and false negative classification errors.
Rest tremor was quantified in the index finger tip of 16 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) receiving deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the ventro-intermediate nucleus (Vim) of the thalamus, the subthalamic nucleus (STN), or the internal part of the globus pallidus (GPi) while being off L-dopa for 12h. Clinically, without DBS, tremor amplitude varied from absent to high. Tremor was recorded continuously for about 5 min under three conditions of DBS repeated twice, namely, effective frequency (E), ineffective frequency (I), and no DBS (O). No changes in tremor were observed across conditions in subjects with little or no tremor. However, in subjects with moderate to large amplitude tremor, DBS decreased tremor amplitude to near normal values within a few seconds. Generally, transitions were progressive and occurred with a varying time delay. Occasionally, tremor escaped from control regardless of the stimulation condition considered. In some cases tremor amplitude in one condition appeared to depend on the preceding condition. Finally, the results were reproducible on two consecutive days. We conclude that tremor control with DBS follows specific dynamical rules, which must be compatible with the hypotheses proposed regarding the underlying mechanisms of DBS.
Popular views of hemispheric asymmetry hold that the left hemisphere is specialized for linguistic and cognitive processes and fine motor control, whereas the right is specialized for visuospatial processing. Although this dichotomy contains more than a grain of truth, it is an oversimplification. Experiments with split-brain patients have demonstrated that the left hemisphere retains relatively sophisticated visuospatial abilities, and that the asymmetries that favor the right hemisphere are subtler than those that favor the left. A consideration of the constructive nature of visual perception, and the organization of the visual system in the two hemispheres suggests that asymmetries are likely to arise relatively late in visual processing in areas that represent both sides of visual space. I present evidence in favor of the view that the right hemisphere can be considered more &quot;visually intelligent&quot; than the left, and postulate the existence of a &quot;right-hemisphere interpreter&quot; dedicated to constructing a representation of the visual world.
The mappings from grapheme to phoneme are much less consistent in English than they are for most other languages. Therefore, the differences found between English-speaking dyslexics and controls on sensory measures of temporal processing might be related more to the irregularities of English orthography than to a general deficit affecting reading ability in all languages. However, here we show that poor readers of Norwegian, a language with a relatively regular orthography, are less sensitive than controls to dynamic visual and auditory stimuli. Consistent with results from previous studies of English-readers, detection thresholds for visual motion and auditory frequency modulation (FM) were significantly higher in 19 poor readers of Norwegian compared to 22 control readers of the same age. Over two-thirds (68.4%) of the children identified as poor readers were less sensitive than controls to either or both of the visual coherent motion or auditory 2Hz FM stimuli.


Severe traumatic brain injury (sTBI) is a relatively common problem with few therapies proven effective. Despite its use for over 50 years, therapeutic hypothermia has not gained widespread acceptance in the treatment of sTBI due to conflicting results from clinical trials. This review will summarize the current evidence from animal, mechanistic and clinical studies supporting the use of therapeutic hypothermia. In addition, issues of rewarming and optimal temperature will be discussed. Finally, the future of hypothermia in sTBI will be addressed.

Recent functional evidence suggests that intermediate conductance calcium-activated potassium channels (IK channels) occur in neurons in the small intestine and in mucosal epithelial cells in the colon. This study was undertaken to investigate whether IK channel immunoreactivity occurs at these and at other sites in the gastrointestinal tract of the rat. IK channel immunoreactivity was found in nerve cell bodies throughout the gastrointestinal tract, from the esophagus to the rectum. It was revealed in the initial segments of the axons, but not in axon terminals. The majority of immunoreactive neurons had Dogiel type II morphology and in the myenteric plexus of the ileum all immunoreactive neurons were of this shape. Intrinsic primary afferent neurons in the rat small intestine are Dogiel type II neurons that are immunoreactive for calretinin, and it was found that almost all the IK channel immunoreactive neurons were also calretinin immunoreactive. IK channel immunoreactivity also occurred in calretinin-immunoreactive, Dogiel type II neurons in the caecum. Epithelial cells of the mucosal lining were immunoreactive in the esophagus, stomach, small and large intestines. In the intestines, the immunoreactivity occurred in transporting enterocytes, but not in mucous cells. Immunoreactivity was at both the apical and basolateral surfaces. A small proportion of mucosal endocrine cells was immunoreactive in the duodenum, ileum and caecum, but not in the stomach, proximal colon, distal colon or rectum. There was immunoreactivity of vascular endothelial cells. It is concluded that IK channels are located on cell bodies and proximal parts of axons of intrinsic primary afferent neurons, where, from functional studies, they would be predicted to lower neuronal excitability when opened in response to calcium entry. In the mucosa of the small and large intestine, IK channels are probably involved in control of potassium exchange, and in the esophageal and gastric mucosa they are possibly involved in control of cell volume in response to osmotic challenge.
Persistent activity is observed in many cortical and subcortical brain regions, and may subserve a variety of functions. Within the prefrontal cortex (PFC), neurons transiently maintain information in working memory via persistent activity patterns; however, the mechanisms involved are largely unknown. The present study used intracellular recordings from deep layer PFC neurons in vivo and patch-clamp recordings from PFC neurons in organotypic brain slice cultures to examine the ionic mechanisms underlying persistent activity states evoked by various inputs. Persistent activity had consistent features regardless of the initiating stimulus; it was driven by non-NMDA glutamate receptors yet consisted of an initial GABA mediated component, followed by a prolonged synaptically mediated inward current that maintained the sustained depolarization on which rode many asynchronous GABA-mediated events. The stereotyped nature of the multiple-component persistent activity pattern reported here might be a common feature of interconnected cortical networks but within PFC could be related to the persistent activity required for working memory.
Many neurons throughout the rat limbic system discharge in relation to the animal's directional heading with respect to its environment. These so-called head direction (HD) cells exhibit characteristics of persistent neural activity. This article summarizes where HD cells are found, their major properties, and some of the important experiments that have been conducted to elucidate how this signal is generated. The number of HD and angular head velocity cells was estimated for several brain areas involved in the generation of the HD signal, including the postsubiculum, anterior dorsal thalamus, lateral mammillary nuclei and dorsal tegmental nucleus. The HD cell signal has many features in common with what is known about how neural integration is accomplished in the oculomotor system. The nature of the HD cell signal makes it an attractive candidate for using neural network models to elucidate the signal's underlying mechanisms. The conditions that any network model must satisfy in order to accurately represent how the nervous system generates this signal are highlighted and areas where key information is missing are discussed.


1. 1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 (1,25(OH)2D3), the hormonal form of vitamin D, is widely appreciated to play a central role in calcium and phosphate homeostasis. However, it is becoming increasingly clear that the sterol also play an important role in the regulation of cellular growth, haematopoietic tissues and the immune system, as well as in the modulation of hormone secretion by several endocrine glands. 2. In the present review, some of the mechanisms by which 1,25(OH)2D3 regulates immune function are highlighted. Moreover, a number of studies on the effects of calcitriol in several experimental animal models of renal disease are reported, suggesting new possibilities in the therapy of glomerulonephritis.

We here report on 3 patients with essential tremor, otherwise unresponsive to pharmacological treatment, who greatly benefited from low doses of topiramate (50 mg/d). No side effects were observed and improvement was sustained during a mean of 7 months (range 3-12 months) follow up. Our results suggest that topiramate titration should be performed gradually, so as not to neglect cases responsive to low doses.




This paper introduces the notion of frequent frames, distributional patterns based on co-occurrence patterns of words in sentences, then investigates the usefulness of this information in grammatical categorization. A frame is defined as two jointly occurring words with one word intervening. Qualitative and quantitative results from distributional analyses of six different corpora of child directed speech are presented in two experiments. In the analyses, words that were surrounded by the same frequent frame were categorized together. The results show that frequent frames yield very accurate categories. Furthermore, evidence from behavioral studies suggests that infants and adults are sensitive to frame-like units, and that adults use them to categorize words. This evidence, along with the success of frames in categorizing words, provides support for frames as a basis for the acquisition of grammatical categories.
Cannabinoids, as a result of their ability to activate cannabinoid CB1 receptors, have been shown to possess neuroprotective properties in vivo. In vitro studies into neuroprotective effects mediated by CB1 receptors have in general used primary neuronal cultures derived from embryonic rodents. In the present study, we have investigated whether embryonic chick telencephalon primary cultures in serum-free medium are a useful alternative for such in vitro studies. The CB agonist CP 55940 reduced the cAMP response to 5 microM forskolin by 40 and 50% at concentrations of 3 nM and 30 nM, respectively. This reduction was blocked by the CB1 receptor antagonist AM251, indicating the presence of functional CB1 receptors in the cultures. Incubation of the cultures with glutamate (100 microM or 1 mM) for 1 h followed by medium change and incubation for 24 h produced a release of the cytoplasmic enzyme lactate dehydrogenase into the medium. This release was prevented by MK-801 confirming the central role of NMDA receptors in the glutamate toxicity. However, 3-30 nM CP 55940 did not produce any neuroprotection in this model regardless as to whether dibutyryl cyclic AMP was added to the culture medium. The endocannabinoid anandamide was also without effect when added either per se or together with the related N-acyl ethanolamines palmitoylethanolamide, oleoylethanolamide and stearoylethanolamide (at relative concentrations matching those seen in rat brain after excitotoxic insult). It is concluded that embryonic chick neurons in primary serum-free culture are not a useful model for the study of neuroprotective effects mediated by CB1 receptors in vitro.
Mobius syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by agenesis or aplasia of the facial or abducens nerve motor nuclei and other features including central nervous system and behavioral abnormalities. We report an adult case of Mobius syndrome variant presenting with poor impulse control, aggression, and exhibitionism. Karyotyping revealed a 46 XY, t(1;13)(p34.3;q12.3) translocation. The subject had been presented 20 years previously as the index case of a three-generation pedigree.
Glucagon-like peptide-1-(7-36)-amide (GLP-1) is a potent blood glucose-lowering hormone now under investigation for use as a therapeutic agent in the treatment of type 2 (adult onset) diabetes mellitus. GLP-1 binds with high affinity to G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) located on pancreatic beta-cells, and it exerts insulinotropic actions that include the stimulation of insulin gene transcription, insulin biosynthesis, and insulin secretion. The beneficial therapeutic action of GLP-1 also includes its ability to act as a growth factor, stimulating formation of new pancreatic islets (neogenesis) while slowing beta-cell death (apoptosis). GLP-1 belongs to a large family of structurally-related hormones and neuropeptides that include glucagon, secretin, GIP, PACAP, and VIP. Biosynthesis of GLP-1 occurs in the enteroendocrine L-cells of the distal intestine, and the release of GLP-1 into the systemic circulation accompanies ingestion of a meal. Although GLP-1 is inactivated rapidly by dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DDP-IV), synthetic analogs of GLP-1 exist, and efforts have been directed at engineering these peptides so that they are resistant to enzymatic hydrolysis. Additional modifications of GLP-1 incorporate fatty acylation and drug affinity complex (DAC) technology to improve serum albumin binding, thereby slowing renal clearance of the peptides. NN2211, LY315902, LY307161, and CJC-1131 are GLP-1 synthetic analogs that reproduce many of the biological actions of GLP-1, but with a prolonged duration of action. AC2993 (Exendin-4) is a naturally occurring peptide isolated from the lizard Heloderma, and it acts as a high affinity agonist at the GLP-1 receptor. This review summarizes structural features and signal transduction properties of GLP-1 and its cognate beta-cell GPCR. The usefulness of synthetic GLP-1 analogs as blood glucose-lowering agents is discussed, and the applicability of GLP-1 as a therapeutic agent for treatment of type 2 diabetes is highlighted.

This unit describes a putative animal model for panic disorder. The basic premise is that pharmacological disruption of critical brain regions implicated in the circuitry of anxiety will lead to a condition similar to that of the human disorder. A clinically relevant test, the sodium lactate challenge, is utilized to assess parallels between the human condition and this rat model.
The study of the startle response and its plasticity provides a powerful research paradigm for examining the neural control of behavior. The neural substrates underlying phenomena such as information-processing functions, including sensorimotor gating, affective modulation, and habituation, can be studied using startle plasticity as an operational measure. The mouse is rapidly becoming the most powerful model system for the study of human CNS function and is highly amenable to both genetic and pharmacological study. This unit describes procedures for the assessment of the startle response to acoustic stimuli in mice; methods for assessing prepulse inhibition (PPI) of startle, with treatments including drug administration and genetic manipulation; and methods for testing habituation.
This unit presents protocols to obtain accurate estimates of cell density and cell number in sectioned material by using a light microscope. The &quot;optical disector&quot; or &quot;3-D counting method&quot; is described, followed by Abercrombie's less commonly used two-section comparison (TSC) method. These basic protocols are accompanied by four support protocols: one for celloidin embedding, which renders superb morphology, one for point counting, which is important for volume measurements and is almost always used in conjunction with the disector or 3-D counting, one for handling the potential problem of z-axis distortion and the consequences that this error can have on density estimates and sampling tactics when using the disector, and finally, one that provides a guide for calibrating and verifying estimates obtained by counting methods.

Medulloblastoma is a cerebellar tumor that can arise through aberrant activation of Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling, which normally regulates cerebellar granule cell proliferation. Mutations of the Shh receptor PATCHED (PTCH) are associated with medulloblastomas, which have not been found to have loss of PTCH heterozygosity. We address whether patched (Ptc) heterozygosity fundamentally alters granule cell differentiation and contributes to tumorigenesis by increasing proliferation and/or decreasing apoptosis in Ptc+/- mice. Our data show that postnatal Ptc+/- mouse granule cell precursor growth is not globally altered. However, many older Ptc+/- mice display abnormal cerebellar regions containing persistently proliferating granule cell precursors. Since fewer Ptc+/- mice form medulloblastomas, these granule cell rests represent a developmentally disrupted, but uncommitted stage of tumorigenesis. Although Ptc+/- mouse medulloblastomas express neurodevelopmental genes, they diverge from granule cell differentiation in their discordant coexpression of postmitotic markers despite their ongoing growth. Like human medulloblastomas, mouse tumors with reduced levels of the neurotrophin-3 receptor, trkC/Ntrk3, display decreased apoptosis in vivo, illustrating the role of TrkC in regulating tumor cell survival. These results indicate that Ptc heterozygosity contributes to tumorigenesis by predisposing a subset of granule cell precursors to the formation of proliferative rests and subsequent dysregulation of developmental gene expression.
The neural crest is a unique population of cells that contributes to the formation of diverse cell types, including craniofacial cartilage, peripheral neurons, the cardiac outflow tract, and pigment cells. Neural crest cells (NCCs) are specified within the neuroepithelium, undergo an epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, and migrate to target destinations throughout the embryo. Here, we review current understanding of two steps in NCC development, both of which involve NCC motility. The first is NCC delamination from the neuroepithelium and the changes in cell adhesion and the cytoskeleton necessary for the initiation of migration. The second is NCC migration and the signals that guide NCCs along specific migratory pathways. We illustrate the strength of the zebrafish, Danio rerio, as a model organism to study NCC motility. The zebrafish is particularly well suited for the study of neural crest motility because of the ability to combine genetic manipulation with live imaging of migrating NCCs.
Teleosts are the most species-rich group of vertebrates, and a genome duplication (tetraploidization) event in ray-fin fish appears to have preceded this remarkable explosion of biodiversity. What is the relationship of the ray-fin genome duplication to the teleost radiation? Genome duplication may have facilitated lineage divergence by partitioning different ancestral gene subfunctions among co-orthologs of tetrapod genes in different teleost lineages. To test this hypothesis, we investigated gene expression patterns for Sox9 gene duplicates in stickleback and zebrafish, teleosts whose lineages diverged early in Euteleost evolution. Most expression domains appear to have been partitioned between Sox9a and Sox9b before the divergence of stickleback and zebrafish lineages, but some ancestral expression domains were distributed differentially in each lineage. We conclude that some gene subfunctions, as represented by lineage-specific expression domains, may have assorted differently in separate lineages and that these may have contributed to lineage diversification during teleost evolution.

A case report of neonatal onset pyridoxine-dependent seizures in a male patient with early diagnosis and treatment is presented. The patient's epilepsy was recognized and treated with pyridoxine (vitamin B6) within 8 hours of birth. Treatment has been nearly continuous since that time. This paper reports the results of a full neuropsychological evaluation at age 37 years and MRI completed at age 31 years. Consistent with other case reports in the literature, there was a significant Performance IQ (PIQ) advantage with decreased Verbal IQ (VIQ) and expressive language skills (Full-Scale IQ 71, VIQ 64, PIQ 85). MRI demonstrated characteristic thinning of the posterior corpus callosum. This report provides an example of early treatment that nonetheless results in a mild mental retardation. The similarity of the structural changes on MRI and the cognitive profile of this patient to those of others reported in the literature suggest that the underlying mechanism for both may be the same.
Human nuclear hormone receptors (NHR) and orphan receptors (NOR) act as transcription factors in response to a wide range of circulating hormones and unknown ligands. A role for NHR and NOR in disorders of the subcortical dopaminergic pathways such as Parkinson's disease (PD) is suggested by a wealth of recent data including experimental observations. Both classes of receptors promote the formation of specific neuronal identities, tissue patterning during embryonic development and the maturation of vulnerable monoaminergic and cholinergic neurons. NHR and NOR are also known to exert a neuroprotective function on adult neurons. The scope of this review is to revisit the functional profile of these receptors with particular reference to their activity in the development of selected neuronal populations relevant to the pathophysiology of PD and to discuss how they may relate to the neuropathological and clinical expression of the disease.

The activity of neurons in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) important for initiating compensatory responses to hypoglycemia is influenced by ambient glucose concentration. In the present study, we used in vivo microdialysis to evaluate interstitial glucose concentrations in rat VMH under various glycemic conditions. Using the zero-net-flux method, steady-state glucose concentration in the VMH was approximately 20% of blood glucose (approximately 1.4 mmol/l) in fed rats but approximately 14% of blood glucose (approximately 0.7 mmol/l) in overnight-fasted rats. During moderate hypoglycemia VMH glucose declined in parallel with blood glucose; however, VMH glucose decreased to a greater degree than blood glucose during a more severe hypoglycemic episode, falling to 10 +/- 1.2% of blood levels (P &lt; 0.01). To determine whether VMH glucose concentrations were influenced by recurrent episodes of hypoglycemia a second zero-net-flux study was conducted. Steady-state glucose concentrations in the VMH were approximately 20% lower after three episodes of recurrent hypoglycemia, a value 17.8 +/- 0.8% of blood glucose, although the relative change in VMH glucose levels during the first and fourth hypoglycemic episodes were similar. From these results, we conclude that interstitial glucose concentrations in the VMH are not maintained at a constant level and are more dynamic than previously proposed.

The antiepileptic drug, vigabatrin, has been linked to a specific pattern of visual field loss. The majority of studies have not included the paediatric population due to difficulties assessing visual field function. This is a particular problem as vigabatrin is effective against infantile spasms. A field-specific visual evoked potential was developed which consisted of a central stimulus (0-5 degrees radius) and a peripheral stimulus (30-60 degrees radius). Both stimuli consist of black and white checks which increase in size with eccentricity. Responses are recorded from occipital electrodes O2 and O1 referred to frontal electrode Fz. Electroretinograms and perimetry was performed were possible as a comparison. Thirty-nine children with epilepsy treated with vigabatrin aged from 3 to 15 years were included in the study; 35/39 children complied with the field-specific VEP, 26/39 complied with the ERG and 11/39 performed perimetry. Of these results, 18 children had normal ERG responses and eight had abnormal response. Visual field testing revealed four children had abnormal and seven had abnormal visual field results. The Field-specific VEP identified three of four abnormal perimetry results and six of seven normal perimetry results, giving a sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of 85.7%. When comparing perimetry results with the ERG parameters only the 30-Hz flicker amplitude, with a cut-off amplitude below 70 microV, gave a useful sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of 71%. The field-specific VEP is a useful alternative method that is both well tolerated by young children and gives a reliable indication of likely peripheral visual field loss associated with vigabatrin. The defect appears to have a similar prevalence in children as it does in adults.
Pain is the most common clinical symptom for which people seek medical care. Although effective therapy for inflammatory pain is possible, current therapy for neuropathic pain is still inadequate. Even the strongest painkiller, morphine, is reported to be ineffective against neuropathic pain in the clinic. The lack of effective therapeutic agents for neuropathic pain is due to the fact that its underlying mechanisms are still not fully understood. Recently, pain researchers have been trying to identify the cellular and molecular processes that lead to neuropathic pain. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of neuropathic pain would certainly provide a hope for the future development of effective therapies for this intractable painful disease.

Neuropeptide Y (NPY)-producing neurons in the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus (ARC) have been implicated in GH feedback in several studies in rats. Ames (df/df) and Snell (dw/dw) dwarf mice carry mutations in transcription factors Prop-1 and Pit-1, respectively, that abrogate detectable expression of GH, prolactin, and TSH. The present study was undertaken to determine whether and to what extent hypothalamic NPY neurons are affected by the lifelong absence of pituitary hormone feedback in hypopituitary Ames and Snell dwarf mice. Total ARC NPY mRNA levels were quantified using in situ hybridization, and numbers of ARC NPY-producing cells were quantified using immunocytochemistry. For in situ hybridization, dwarf and normal coronal brain sections were hybridized with 35S-labeled riboprobe complementary to rat NPY cDNA, and then analyzed for total signal intensity from the entire ARC for each animal as well as for mRNA per neuron. NPY-containing perikarya in ARC were counted in sections of colchicine-treated (intracerebroventricular) dwarf and normal mice. Total ARC NPY mRNA was reduced in df/df mice to 33.6% (P &lt; 0.01) of that in normal littermates, and reduced in dw/dw mice to 46.3% (P &lt; 0.05) of normals, but there was no difference in expression per neuron as determined by reduced silver-grain counting. The decrement in dwarf mice of total ARC NPY mRNA without reduction in mRNA per cell suggested a reduction in NPY-containing neuron number, which was the case as shown by immunocytochemistry. NPY neuronal number in adult Ames dwarf mice (1048 +/- 104) was significantly (P &lt; 0.01) reduced to 68% of that in DF/df littermates (1536 +/- 73), and significantly (P &lt; 0.05) reduced in Snell dwarf mice to 63% of normals (1138 +/- 137 vs. 1726 +/- 205). This study represents the first enumeration of NPY-producing neurons in mouse hypothalamus and the first demonstration of lower NPY neuron number in a hypopituitary model. The reduction in total NPY mRNA was greater than that reported in studies of GH-deficient rats, suggesting that NPY expression may be affected by the lifelong absence of prolactin or TSH or both, as well as GH.


Previous studies indicate that epilepsy patients may have impaired autonomic cardiovascular control in the interictal state although it is unclear whether the observed reduction in cardiovascular responses is due to the epilepsy and the interictal epileptogenic discharges, or to the treatment with antiepileptic drugs. Spectral analysis of heart rate variability makes it possible to partly separate the sympathetic components, low frequency (LF), from the vagal components, high frequency (HF) of autonomic cardiac control. We used spectral analysis of heart rate variability to assess the effect of carbamazepine (CBZ) on autonomic cardiac control in patients with newly diagnosed epilepsy. Fifteen adult outpatients with newly diagnosed seizures/epilepsy underwent 24 h ambulatory EKG recordings before and after commencement of CBZ treatment. Total power as well as low frequency (LF), very low frequency (VLF) and high frequency (HF) power in heart rate variability was calculated. When analysing the full 24 h recordings, patients had significantly lower standard deviation of RR-intervals (P=0.0015), total power (P=0.0010), LF (P=0.0002), VLF (P=0.0025) and HF (P=0.0139) during treatment with CBZ than before. The results were very similar for daytime and night time recordings. Our observations demonstrate that CBZ may suppress both parasympathetic and sympathetic functions in newly diagnosed patients with epilepsy. The possible implications of our results for sudden unexpected death in epilepsy are discussed.
Executive dysfunction (ED) may lead to problem behaviour and impaired activities of daily living in many neuropsychiatric disorders, but the neuroanatomical correlates of ED are still not well known. Different aspects of executive functions were studied by widely used neuropsychological tests in 214 elderly patients 3 months after ischaemic stroke, and a sum score of eight different measures was counted in each patient. The number and site of brain infarcts as well as severity and location of white matter lesions (WMLs) and brain atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging were recorded and compared between patients with and without ED. ED was present in 73 (34.1%) of the 214 patients. The mean frequency of brain infarcts in the brain and in the left hemisphere was higher in the patients with ED. Lesions affecting the frontal-subcortical circuits (e.g. pallidum, corona radiata or centrum semiovale) were more frequent in patients with ED than in those without. Also, patients with pontine brain infarcts frequently had ED, but this may have been due to more extensive ischaemic changes in these patients in general. Mean number of brain infarcts affecting the pons and posterior centrum semiovale on the left side, moderate to severe medial temporal atrophy, the Fazekas white matter score, the Mini-Mental State Examination score and low education were independent correlates of ED. Brain infarcts and WML affecting the frontal-subcortical circuits or the pons may increase risk for ED in stroke patients.
Neurons in the intermediate and deep layers of the superior colliculus (SC) often exhibit sensory-related activity in addition to discharging for saccadic eye movements. These two patterns of activity can combine so that modifications of the sensory response can lead to changes in orienting behaviour. Can behavioural factors, however, influence sensory activity? In this study of rhesus monkeys, we isolate one behavioural factor, the state of visual fixation, and examine its influences on sensory processing and multisensory integration in the primate SC. Two interleaved fixation conditions were used: a FIX condition requiring exogenous fixation of a visible fixation point; and a FIX-BLINK condition, requiring endogenous fixation in the absence of a visible fixation point. Neurons of the SC were influenced by fixation state, exhibiting both lower levels of sensory activity and reduced multisensory interactions when fixation was exogenously engaged on a visible fixation point. These results are consistent with active visual fixation suppressing responses to extraneous stimuli, and thus demonstrate that sensory processing and multisensory responses in the SC are not dependent solely on the physical properties of the sensory environment, but are also dynamically influenced by the behavioural state of the animal.
The mammalian cortical layer I is a convergence site for axons of sub- and intracortical origin, and the apical dendritic tufts of pyramidal neurons. A prominent feature of layer I is an extensive plexus of inhibitory axons, which originate from stellate cells in all cortical laminae. The role of this inhibitory projection in the activity of cortical networks has yet to be determined. We investigated the degree to which inhibitory inputs within layer I affect the activity of the underlying cellular network. Field potentials (FPs) were recorded in layer II/III. Focal application of the GABAA blocker picrotoxin in layer I above the recording pipette or the removal of layer I resulted in larger FP amplitudes for stimulations at control-equal intensities. When inhibition was partially blocked, the removal of layer I caused a significant reduction in the threshold stimulus intensity required for generating epileptiform events, and a rise in the propagation velocity of these events. Immunocytochemistry for chemical markers of interneurons proved that the inhibitory input to layer I is predominantly somatostatin immunoreactive (SM-ir), such that layer I contains approximately one-third of all SM-ir axons in the cortex. Calretinin-immunoreactive axons were also present in layer I at a lower density. We conclude that the impact of layer I on the cortical cellular network includes a significant inhibitory component. This inhibition confers a moderate restraining influence, and its removal increases the excitability of cortical circuits, but not sufficiently to induce epileptic phenomena.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is expressed at high levels in roughly 50% of spinal sensory neurons and plays a role in peripheral vasodilation as well as nociceptive signalling in the spinal cord. Spinal motoneurons express low levels of CGRP; motoneuronal CGRP is thought to be involved in end-plate plasticity and to have trophic effects on target muscle cells. As both sensory and motoneurons express receptors for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) we sought to determine whether CGRP was regulated by GDNF. Rats were treated intrathecally for 1-3 weeks with recombinant human GDNF or nerve growth factor (NGF) (12 microg/day) and dorsal root ganglia and spinal cords were stained for CGRP. The GDNF treatment not only increased CGRP immunoreactivity in both sensory and motoneurons but also resulted in hypertrophy of both populations. By combined in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry we found that, in the dorsal root ganglia, CGRP was up-regulated specifically in neurons expressing GDNF but not NGF receptors following GDNF treatment. Despite the increase in CGRP in GDNF-treated rats, there was no increase in thermal or mechanical pain sensitivity, while NGF-treated animals showed significant decreases in pain thresholds. In motoneurons, GDNF increased the overall intensity of CGRP immunoreactivity but did not increase the number of immunopositive cells. As GDNF has been shown to promote the regeneration of both sensory and motor axons, and as CGRP appears to be involved in motoneuronal plasticity, we reason that at least some of the regenerative effects of GDNF are mediated through CGRP up-regulation.
Most odours are complex mixtures. However, the capacities of olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) to process complex odour stimuli have never been explored in air-breathing vertebrates. To face this issue, the present study compares the electrical responses of single OSNs to two odour molecules, delivered singly and mixed together, in rats in vivo. This work is the first aimed at demonstrating that single OSNs simultaneously integrate several chemical signals and which, furthermore, attempts to describe such processes for the whole concentration range over which single OSNs can work. The results stress that complex interactions occur between components in odour mixtures and that OSN responses to such mixtures are not simply predictable from the responses to their components. Three types of interactions are described. They are termed suppression, hypoadditivity and synergy, in accord with psychophysical terminology. This allows us to draw links between peripheral odour reception and central odour coding. Indeed, events occurring in single OSNs may account for the dominating or even the masking effects of odour molecules in complex mixtures, i.e. for the prevailing action of a minor component in the final qualitative perception of a mixture. We conclude that our observations with binary mixtures anticipate the complexity of processes which may rise at the level of a single OSN in physiological conditions. Following this hypothesis, a natural odour would induce a multi-chemical integration at the level of single OSNs which may result in refining their individual odour-coding properties, leading them to play a crucial role in the final performance of the olfactory system.
Concurrent interval schedules are classic experimental paradigms that are traditionally employed in psychological research on choice behaviour. To analyse the neural basis of choice in a concurrent fixed interval schedule, pigeons were trained to peck on two response keys. Responses were differentially rewarded in key specific short or long time intervals (SI vs. LI). Using tetrodotoxin, we reversibly blocked the neostriatum caudolaterale (NCL, the avian functional equivalent of the prefrontal cortex), avian caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens to examine their contribution. A detailed analysis of baseline choice behaviour revealed that response distribution and key affinity were determined by cued or time-related expectancy for rewards on the SI key. The pigeons' response frequency increased on the SI key and decreased on the LI key with increasing temporal proximity to the SI reward and pigeons switched to the LI key after reward delivery. Pecking bursts on the LI key were negatively correlated with bursts on the SI key. Neostriatum caudolaterale inactivation did not affect pecking activity per se but interfered with reward-related temporal modulation of pecking frequency, switching pattern and coupling of LI to SI pecks. Blockade of caudate-putamen resulted in a complete behavioural halt, while inactivation of nucleus accumbens diminished operant behaviour without affecting consummatory responses. These data suggest that the NCL is tuned via indirect striato-pallial projections to integrate cued or time-related reward expectancy into a response selection process in order to set, maintain or shift goals. The NCL possibly feeds forward the resulting motor commands to the caudate-putamen for execution.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has become the most widely used approach for studying brain functions in humans. The rapid and widespread diffusion of fMRI has been favoured by the properties this technique presents, and particularly by its sensitivity in analysing brain functional phenomena and by the lack of biological invasiveness, resulting in an unprecedented and unparalleled flexibility of use. These properties of fMRI brought the functional examination of the brain within the reach of the whole neuroscience community and have appreciably stimulated the research on the functional processes of the living brain. Among the main features of fMRI, its spatial and temporal resolution represents clear advantages compared with the other methods of functional neuroimaging. In fact, the high spatial resolution of fMRI permits to produce more precise and better localised information, and its temporal resolution provides the potential of a better understanding of neural dynamics at the level of single functional areas and of the neural constituents of functional patterns. A fundamental possibility of improving spatial and temporal resolution without excessively degrading signal-to-noise ratio consists in the use of high magnetic field intensity fMRI units. Besides, high field units make the use of more demanding fMRI paradigms, like single trial event related studies, much more compatible with the need of a solid statistical evaluation. This has notably promoted the diffusion of high field MRI units for human studies throughout the world, with very high field MRI units, up to 8 T, working in a few research centres, and a larger number of MRI units with field intensity ranging between 3 and 5 T.
Previous research on hypothalamic-pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis-activity in suicide attempter research has shown conflicting outcomes. The design of the present study was to test the influence of personality disorders and concominant axis I diagnoses on the dexamethasone suppression diagnostic test by use of multiple regression analyses. The sample consisted of 184 patients with a recent suicide attempt and 42 healthy controls. As expected, the lowest pre- and postdexamethasone cortisol levels were found in patients with personality disorders axis II, cluster B as compared to the other patients. The results remained significant when analysed for covariance with DSM-III-R axis I diagnoses, age or sex. Whether these low cortisol levels are due to previous experience of extreme stressful events or long-lasting burden, or whether they may be a consequence of biogenetic or psychological predisposal of interest, remains to be elucidated. Axis I comorbidity needs to be further examined.


Cloning technology has potential to be a valuable tool in basic research, clinical medicine, and agriculture. However, it is critical to determine the consequences of this technique in resulting offspring before widespread use of the technology. Mammalian cloning using somatic cells was first demonstrated in sheep in 1997 and since then has been extended to a number of other species. We examined development, behavior, physiology, and longevity in B6C3F1 female mice cloned from adult cumulus cells. Control mice were naturally fertilized embryos subjected to the same in vitro manipulation and culture conditions as clone embryos. Clones attained developmental milestones similar to controls. Activity level, motor ability and coordination, and learning and memory skills of cloned mice were comparable with controls. Interestingly, clones gained more body weight than controls during adulthood. Increased body weight was attributable to higher body fat and was associated with hyperleptinemia and hyperinsulinemia indicating that cloned mice are obese. Cloned mice were not hyperphagic as adults and had hypersensitive leptin and melanocortin signaling systems. Longevity of cloned mice was comparable with that reported by the National Institute on Aging and the causes of death were typical for this strain of mouse. These studies represent the first comprehensive set of data to characterize cloned mice and provide critical information about the long-term effects of somatic cell cloning.
The on-line visual control of human movements can be exceptionally fast. Whether it is fast depends on the kind of visual information that is involved. In the present study we examine whether fast on-line control is specific to the magnocellular visual pathway. Fast manual responses become evident when an ongoing movement has to be adjusted, for instance because the target is displaced. We examined whether the response to such perturbations is faster for stimuli that only activate the magnocellular pathway than for equally conspicuous stimuli that only activate the parvocellular pathway. The response was indeed about 35 ms faster for stimuli that activate the magnocellular pathway. However, we argue that the slower response to stimuli that only stimulate the parvocellular pathway is due to the properties of the neurones involved and the less direct connection to the motor areas, rather than to fast reactions being driven exclusively by magnocellular input.
The ability to prepare movement is an essential requirement for the control of goal-directed actions. It allows us to respond in an adaptable and swift manner to environmental conditions. In the present study, we manipulate cognitive context, by means of response probability, to modify the degree of movement preparation in a delayed cueing task performed with the right hand, and evaluate the neural dynamics (EEG coherence) and behavioural output (reaction time). Task-related coherence was stronger over the contralateral hemisphere. In particular, coherence between the left sensorimotor area and frontal (C3-F3, C3-FC3) and parietal (C3-P3) regions was increased during right-hand movement preparation as compared to rest in the alpha frequency band (8-12 Hz). Reducing response probability diminished the degree of functional coupling between C3-F3 and C3-FC3, and was associated with a prolonged reaction time. These findings suggest an association between neural dynamics and behavioural performance and emphasize that response predictability biases information processing in goal-oriented behaviour.
The ability of the central nervous system to predict motor behaviour is a central issue in experimental and computational studies of motor control. The parietal cortex and the cerebellum have been proposed to play a role in sensorimotor prediction. Here we discuss the roles of these two brain regions in various aspects of sensorimotor prediction according to results of recent empirical studies using a variety of techniques including electrophysiology, psychophysics, functional neuroimaging and the investigation of neurological patients.
beta-Catenin nuclear import has been found to be independent of classical nuclear localization signal (NLS) nuclear import factors. Here, we test the hypothesis that beta-catenin interacts directly with nuclear pore proteins to mediate its own transport. We show that beta-catenin, unlike importin-beta, does not interact detectably with Phe/Gly(FG)-repeat-rich nuclear pore proteins or nucleoporins (Nups). Moreover, unlike NLS-containing proteins, beta-catenin nuclear import is not inhibited by wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) or excess importin-beta. These results suggest beta-catenin nuclear translocation does not involve direct interactions with FG-Nups. However, beta-catenin has two regions that can target it to the nucleus, and its import is cold sensitive, indicating that beta-catenin nuclear import is still an active process. Transport is blocked by a soluble form of the C-cadherin cytoplasmic domain, suggesting that masking of the nuclear targeting signal may be a mechanism of regulating beta-catenin subcellular localization.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by cognitive decline and deposition of beta-amyloid (Abeta) plaques in cortex and hippocampus. A transgenic mouse AD model (Tg2576) that overexpresses a mutant form of human Abeta precursor protein exhibits age-related cognitive deficits, Abeta plaque deposition, and oxidative damage in the brain. We tested the ability of Ginkgo biloba, a flavonoid-rich antioxidant, to antagonize the age-related behavioral impairment and neuropathology exhibited by Tg2576 mice. At 8 months of age, 16 female Tg2576 and 15 female wild-type (wt) littermate mice were given ad lib access to tap water or Ginkgo biloba (70 mg/kg/day in water). After 6 months of treatment, all mice received Morris water maze training (4 trials/day for 10 days) to assess hippocampal dependent spatial learning. All mice received a 60-s probe test of spatial memory retention 24 h after the 40th trial. Untreated Tg2576 mice exhibited a spatial learning impairment, relative to wt mice, while Ginkgo biloba-treated Tg2576 mice exhibited spatial memory retention comparable to wt during the probe test. Spatial learning was not different between Ginkgo biloba-treated and untreated wt mice. There were no group differences in learning to swim to a visible platform. Soluble Abeta and hippocampal Abeta plaque burden did not differ between the Tg2576 groups. Brain levels of protein carbonyls were paradoxically elevated in Ginkgo biloba-treated mice. These data indicate that chronic Ginkgo biloba treatment can block an age-dependent decline in spatial cognition without altering Abeta levels and without suppressing protein oxidation in a transgenic mouse model of AD.
Injury to the spinal cord is followed by degeneration, which leads to progressive tissue loss and usually cystic cavitation. Cellular and humoral immune responses have been implicated as mediators of secondary degeneration, and the expression of leukocyte chemoattractants has been shown to precede immune cell influx. However, the relationship between the increased expression of chemoattractants, the invasion of lymphocytes, and overall lesion evolution is poorly understood. Here, we show that the T-lymphocyte chemoattractant CXCL10 is upregulated after dorsal hemisection injury to the adult mammalian spinal cord of C57/BL6 mice, and that antibody neutralization of CXCL10 beginning 1 day prior to injury dramatically reduces the T-lymphocyte invasion that normally occurs after trauma. Notably, this treatment resulted in a significant reduction of secondary tissue loss and functional deficit. We conclude that CXCL10 plays a critical role in recruitment of T lymphocytes to sites of spinal cord injury, and that a reduction of T-lymphocyte recruitment significantly enhances tissue preservation and functional outcome.
Neuronal intranuclear inclusion disease (NIID) is a rare neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive ataxia and neuronal nuclear inclusions (NIs), similar to the inclusions found in expanded CAG repeat diseases. NIID may be familial or sporadic. The cause of familial NIID is poorly understood, as no CAG expansion has been detected. We examined three cases, from two unrelated families, who had autosomal dominant NIID but normal CAG repeats in genes involved in polyglutamine neurodegenerative diseases. We found that NIs in all three cases were intensely immunopositive for SUMO-1, a protein which covalently conjugates to other proteins and targets them to the nuclear regions (nuclear bodies) responsible for nuclear proteasomal degradation. Electron microscopy demonstrated that SUMO-1 was located on the 10-nm fibrils of NIs. In cultured PC12 cells, we found that inhibition of proteasome function by specific inhibitors resulted in the appearance of SUMO-1-immunopositive nuclear inclusions. Our study suggests that recruitment of SUMO-1 modified proteins into insoluble nuclear inclusions and proteasomal dysfunction may be involved in the pathogenesis of NIs in familial NIID cases.
Poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase-1 (PARP-1) is a nuclear enzyme activated by DNA breaks and serves a role in DNA repair through the formation of polymers (poly(ADP)ribosylation) at sites of DNA damage. PARP-1 is activated by DNA damage in neurons of the hippocampus and cerebral cortex following excessive exposure to glutamate receptor agonists such as NMDA or kainic acid. In addition, recent studies suggest that degradation of PARP-1 occurs in cells that undergo apoptotic versus nonapoptotic forms of cell death. To investigate this process further, we examined the spatiotemporal aspects of excitotoxic injury in the rodent visual cortex by making focal intracerebral injections of kainic acid. These injections resulted in DNA damage, PARP-1 activation, and neuronal cell death over a 5-day period. Rapid neuronal cell injury assessed by Fluoro-Jade staining appeared within hours, but increased TUNEL staining occurred only after 24 h. A dramatic increase in caspase-3 activity, as well as an increase in the number of neurons containing active caspase-3, peaked 2 days after injury. Last, increased PARP-1 immunoreactivity and PARP-1 cleavage reached peak levels 2 to 3 days after delivering the excitotoxin. These findings suggest that increased caspase-3 activity may regulate the degradation of PARP-1 in subsets of cortical neurons during excitotoxic cell death.
It is likely that the environment within the injured spinal cord influences the capacity of fetal spinal cord transplants to support axonal growth. We have recently demonstrated that fetal spinal cord transplants and neurotrophin administration support axonal regeneration after spinal cord transection, and that the distance and amount of axonal growth is greater when these treatments are delayed by several weeks after injury. In this study, we sought to determine whether differences in inflammatory mediators exist between the acutely injured spinal cord and the spinal cord after a second injury and re-section, which could provide a more favorable environment for the axonal re-growth. The results of this study show a more rapid induction of transforming growth factor (TGF) beta1 mRNA expression in the re-injured spinal cord than the acutely injured spinal cord and an attenuation of proinflammatory cytokine mRNA expression. Furthermore, there was a rapid recruitment of activated microglia/macrophages in the degenerating white matter rostral and caudal to the injury but fewer within the lesion site itself. These findings suggest that the augmentation of TGFbeta-1 gene expression and the attenuation of pro-inflammatory cytokine gene expression combined with an altered distribution of activated microglia/macrophages in the re-injured spinal cord might create a more favorable milieu for transplants and axonal regrowth as compared to the acutely injured spinal cord.
Seizures increase dentate granule cell proliferation in adult rats but decrease proliferation in young pups. The particular period and number of perinatal seizures required to cause newborn granule cell suppression in development are unknown. Therefore, we examined cell proliferation with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) immunohistochemistry during the peak of neurogenesis (e.g., P6 and P9) and at later postnatal ages (e.g., P13, P20, or P30) following single and multiple episodes of perinatal status epilepticus induced by kainate (KA). Because an inverse relationship exists between glucocorticosteroids (CORT) levels and granule cell proliferation, plasma CORT levels and electroencephalographic (EEG) activity were simultaneously monitored to elucidate underlying mechanisms that inhibit cell proliferation. In control animals, the number of BrdU-labeled cells increased then declined with maturation. After 1x KA or 2x KA administered on P6 and P9, the numbers of BrdU-labeled cells were not different from age-matched controls. However, rat pups with 3x KA (on P6, P9, and P13) had marked suppression of BrdU-labeled cells 48-72 h after the last seizure (43 +/- 6.5% of control). Cell proliferation was also significantly inhibited on P20 after 2x KA (to 56 +/- 6.9%) or 3x KA (to 54 +/- 7.9%) and on P30 with 3x KA (to 74.5 +/- 8.2% of age-matched controls). Cell death was not apparent as chromatin stains showed increased basophilia of only inner cells lining the granule cell layers, in the absence of eosinophilia, argyrophilia, or terminal deoxynucleotidyl dUTP nick endlabeling (TUNEL) labeling at times examined. In P13 pups with 3x KA, electron microscopy revealed an increased number of immature granule cells and putative stem cells with irregular shape, condensed cytoplasm, and electron dense nuclei, and they were also BrdU positive. The EEG showed no relationship between neurogenesis and duration of high-synchronous ictal activity. However, endocrine studies showed a correlation with BrdU number and age, sustained increases in circulating CORT levels following 1x KA on P6 (0.7 +/- 0.1 to 2.40 +/- 0.86 microg/dl), and cumulative increases that exceeded 10 microg/dl at 4-8 h after 3x KA on P13 or P20. In conclusion, a history of only one or two perinatal seizure(s) can suppress neurogenesis if a second or third seizure recurs after a critical developmental period associated with a marked surge in CORT. During the first 2 weeks of postnatal life sustained increases in postictal circulating CORT levels but not duration or intensity of ictal activity has long-term consequences on neurogenesis. The occurrence of an increased proportion of immature granule cells and putative stem cells with irregular morphology in the absence of neurodegeneration suggests that progenitors may not differentiate properly and remain in an immature state.
The present experiments focused on the morphological interaction between serotonergic (5-HT) and noradrenergic (NA) axons during regeneration following partial axonal denervation in the cerebral cortex in adult rats. The denervation paradigm used employed two neurotoxins, one for 5-HT and one for NA axons, infused together at one cortical site while a single neurotoxin to either 5-HT or NA was infused at the symmetrical cortical site in the other hemisphere. This treatment enabled us to assess the role of 5-HT or NA axons in the regeneration of the other monoaminergic axon. 5-HT axon regeneration became apparent as early as 28 days after the toxin injection, whereas the regeneration of NA axons was not evident even at 60 days after the toxin injection. Since NA axons revealed marked regeneration in the cortical site with denervation of 5-HT axons, intact 5-HT axons may be inhibitory on the regeneration of NA axons. In contrast, since the regeneration of 5-HT axons was suppressed in the absence of NA axons, NA axons appear to exert a facilitatory effect on 5-HT axon regeneration. These results suggest that the role of 5-HT axons in the regeneration of NA axons is opposite to that of NA axons in the regeneration of 5-HT axons. In addition, the regeneration of 5-HT axons occurred much faster than that of NA axons in response to axonal damage. The differential roles of 5-HT and NA axons in axonal regeneration may play a role in a variety of physiological functions related to these monoamines and possibly in the pathophysiology of clinical depression.
A novel mutation in exon 9 of tau, I260V, is associated with a clinical syndrome consistent with frontotemporal dementia with extensive tau pathology; however, neurofibrillary tangles and Pick bodies are absent. Significantly, Sarkosyl-insoluble tau extracted from affected brain tissue consisted almost exclusively of four-repeat isoforms. Consistent with these findings, in vitro biochemical assays demonstrated that the I260V mutation causes a selective increase in tau aggregation and a decrease in tau-induced microtubule assembly with four-repeat isoforms only. The contrasting pathology and biochemical effects of this mutation suggest a different disease mechanism from the other exon 9 mutations and demonstrates the critical role for the first microtubule-binding domain in tau-promoted microtubule assembly and the pathogenic aggregation of tau.
Studies in animal models have suggested a role for stem cells in repair and regeneration of the nervous system. Human equivalents of stem and precursor cells have been isolated and their efficacy is being evaluated in rodent and primate models. Difficulties exist in translating results of these preclinical models to therapy in humans. Evolutionary differences among rodents, primates, and humans; fundamental differences in the anatomy and physiology; differences in immune responses in xenotransplant models; the paucity of good transplant models of chronic disease; and allelic variability in the cells themselves make any study evaluating the efficacy of cells in transplant models difficult to interpret. As no better alternatives to testing in animals exist, we suggest that at this early stage a considered step-by-step approach to testing and comparison of different transplant strategies in isolation will prepare us better for clinical trials than simple evaluation of functional outcomes in various models of disease. We emphasize that we do not recommend delaying or abandoning clinical trials; rather, we suggest that one anticipate failures and design experiments and data collection such that we learn from these failures to ensure future success in as rapid a time frame as possible.

The metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are a family of glutamate-sensitive receptors that regulate neuronal function separately from the ionotropic glutamate receptors. By coupling to guanosine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins), mGluRs are able to regulate neuronal injury and survival, likely through a series of downstream protein kinase and cysteine protease signaling pathways that affect mitochondrial regulated programmed cell death (PCD). The physiological relevance of this system is supported by evidence that mGluRs are associated with cell survival in several central nervous system neurodegenerative diseases. Evidence is presented that mGluRs are also able to prevent PCD in the peripheral nervous system, and that this may provide a novel mechanism for treatment of diabetic neuropathy. In dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, a high glucose load increases generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), destabilizes the inner mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsi(M)), induces cytochrome c release from the mitochondrial intermembrane space, and induces downstream activation of caspases. In high-glucose conditions, the group II metabotropic glutamate agonist N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) blocks caspase activation and is completely reversed by the mGluR3 antagonist (S)-alpha-ethylglutamic acid (EGLU). Furthermore, the direct mGluR3 agonist (2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2, 4-dicarboxylate (APDC) prevents induction of ROS. Together these findings are consistent with an emerging concept that mGluRs may protect against cellular injury by regulating oxidative stress in the neuron. More complete understanding of the complex PCD regulatory pathways mediated by mGluRs will provide new therapeutic approaches for the treatment of a wide variety of neurodegenerative diseases.
Molecular misreading of the ubiquitin-B (UBB) gene results in a dinucleotide deletion in UBB mRNA. The resulting mutant protein, UBB+1, accumulates in the neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer disease. In vitro, UBB+1 inhibits proteasomal proteolysis, although it is also an ubiquitin fusion degradation substrate for the proteasome. Using the ligase chain reaction to detect dinucleotide deletions, we report here that UBB+1 transcripts are present in each neurodegenerative disease studied (tauo- and synucleinopathies) and even in control brain samples. In contrast to UBB+1 transcripts, UBB+1 protein accumulation in the ubiquitin-containing neuropathological hallmarks is restricted to the tauopathies such as Pick disease, frontotemporal dementia, progressive supranuclear palsy, and argyrophilic grain disease. Remarkably, UBB+1 protein is not detected in the major forms of synucleinopathies (Lewy body disease and multiple system atrophy). The neurologically intact brain can cope with UBB+1 as lentivirally delivered UBB+1 protein is rapidly degraded in rat hippocampus, whereas the K29,48R mutant of UBB+1, which is not ubiquitinated, is abundantly expressed. The finding that UBB+1 protein only accumulates in tauopathies thus implies that the ubiquitin-proteasome system is impaired specifically in this group of neurodegenerative diseases and not in synucleinopathies and that the presence of UBB+1 protein reports proteasomal dysfunction in the brain.

The sex steroids testosterone (T) and estradiol-17beta (E2) play important roles in vertebrate reproduction and development. However, little is known about the relationship between plasma steroid levels (which can influence reproductive function) and yolk steroid levels (which can influence embryonic development) in oviparous species. Therefore, we examined the extent to which T and E2 are coupled in plasma and yolking follicles in adult females and explored the dynamics of yolk and embryo steroid content during egg incubation in green anoles (Anolis carolinensis). T and E2 levels were determined for the plasma and yolking follicles of breeding females and for whole embryos and yolks at several developmental stages by radioimmunoassay. Plasma and yolk concentrations of T and E2 were not correlated. On average, plasma T was only 30% that of plasma E2, but yolking follicle T was over 600% that of yolking follicle E2. Total yolk T and E2 content generally declined over the course of incubation. However, yolk T was an order of magnitude higher than yolk E2, and it showed a secondary peak in magnitude after approximately 75% of incubation was completed. Similarly, total embryonic T content rose by over 400% in the latter half of incubation whereas E2 did not change. These results demonstrate that plasma and yolking follicle steroid levels produced by breeding females can be uncoupled. Furthermore, embryos themselves may begin producing T, but likely not E2, during the latter stages of incubation. Thus, steroid exposure may be independently shaped by selection to serve both reproductive and developmental functions.
In secretory cells filamentous actin (f-actin) is mostly present subjacent to the plasma membrane, referred to as cortical actin. While the function of cortical actin in the secretory processes has been extensively studied, little attention has been given to the role of actin in signal transduction and intracellular second messenger dynamics. Analysis with the fluorescent f-actin probe Alexa-phalloidin shows that Xenopus laevis pituitary melanotrope cells possess a thick cortical actin ring. This cell is a good model to study the possible function(s) of f-actin in signal transduction processes. Regulation of the release of alpha-MSH from this cell involves a convergence of various receptor mechanisms to regulate the activity of voltage-operated Ca2+ channels. We have considered three potential functions for the cortical actin ring in the signaling process of the melanotrope: (1) it functions as a barrier for access of secretory granules to the membrane for exocytosis, (2) it is involved in anchoring components of the Ca2+ signalling machinery of the cell, and/or (3) it helps to form a scaffold for components of the signal transduction machinery used by the various neurotransmitters and neuropeptides that regulate the activity of the cell. To test these possibilities we have examined the effect of the f-actin depolymerising toxin latrunculin B on Ca2+ signaling, signal transduction and alpha-MSH secretion in the melanotrope. We show that while the toxin is effective in disrupting the cortical actin ring, this treatment has no effect on either Ca2+ signaling or the signal transduction processes studied. The toxin does induce an increase in alpha-MSH release, indicating that the cortical actin ring acts as a barrier for secretory granule access to the membrane.
The rapid, efficient, and faithful propagation of action potentials in myelinated nerve fibers depends on the appropriate complement and localization of ion channels. Recent work has suggested that specific voltage-dependent sodium (Nav) channel isoforms are differentially regulated both spatially and temporally in a myelin-dependent manner. Since the principal site of axoglial contact occurs at the paranode, we postulated that disrupted paranodal structure might result in altered nodal Nav channel isoform localization and clustering. We have used UDP-galactose/ceramide galactosyl transferase (CGT)-deficient mice, which form compact myelin and paranodal loops but lack the transverse bands normally found at the interface of the axon and overlying glial cell, to determine if this structure contributes to the signaling machinery responsible for clustering and localization of distinct Nav channel isoforms. We find that as in control animals, most mutant nodes of Ranvier had Nav1.6 in high-density clusters in the peripheral and central nervous systems; the localization of Nav1.2 and the protein levels of Nav1.2 and Nav1.6 were also normal in the CGT-deficient mouse. However, with increasing age, in the mutant mouse we observed a decrease in the total number of nodal Nav1.6 clusters, a decrease in the density of Nav1.6 channels at nodes, and an increase in the average size of the Nav1.6 clusters. Thus, transverse bands are not required for Nav1.6 clustering and localization at nodes or for exclusion of Nav1.2 from myelinated nerve fibers, but are required for the maintenance of nodal Nav1.6 cluster size and density.
Neuronal-glial interactions are important for normal brain function and contribute to the maintenance of the brain's extracellular environment. Damage to glial cells following traumatic brain injury (TBI) could therefore be an important contributing factor to brain dysfunction and neuronal injury. We examined the early fate of astrocytes and neurons after TBI in rats. A total of 27 rats were euthanized at 0.5, 1, 2, 4, or 24 h after moderate lateral fluid percussion TBI or after sham TBI. Ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampi were examined in coronal sections from -2.12 to -4.80 mm relative to bregma. Adjacent sections were processed with markers for either astrocytes or degenerating neurons. Astrocytes were visualized using glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) or glutamine synthetase immunohistochemistry. Neuronal degeneration was visualized using Fluoro-Jade (FJ) histofluorescence. At 30 min, there was a significant loss of GFAP immunoreactivity in ipsilateral hippocampal CA3 with some loss of normal astrocyte morphology in the remaining cells. The number of normal staining astrocytes decreased progressively over time with extensive astrocyte loss at 24 h. At 4 h, lightly stained FJ-positive neurons were scattered in the ipsilateral CA3. The intensity and number of FJ-positive neurons progressively increased over time with moderate numbers of degenerating neurons in the ipsilateral hippocampal CA3 evident at 24 h. We conclude that astrocyte loss occurs in the hippocampus early after TBI. The data suggest that loss of supporting glial cell may contribute to subsequent neuronal degeneration.


Real-time quantitative reverse transcription-PCR is a highly sensitive technology that allows high throughput quantification of gene expression. Application of this technique to the inner ear is potentially very important, but is not straightforward because tissue harvesting can be challenging, RNA yield from individual inner ears is low, and cDNA synthesis from scant RNA can be inefficient. To overcome these challenges, we tested many parameters and reagents, and developed an approach to reliably quantitate small changes in low-abundance transcripts. Using this technique we demonstrate the presence and quantify amounts of the neurotrophic factors neurotrophin 3 (NT-3), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), in the cochlea and vestibular end organs of postnatal murine inner ear (P26). We show that out of the factors tested, BDNF is the only one differentially expressed between the cochlea and vestibular end organs, being 23.4+/-0.3 times more abundant in the vestibular end organs. Within the cochlea, GDNF gene expression is 4.9+/-0.2 times greater than NT-3 expression. Within the combined vestibular end organs, BDNF expression is 43.0+/-1.5 times greater than NT-3 expression. Our results suggest that neurotrophic factors continue to play a role in the postnatal inner ear, in addition to their previously shown essential role during development.
The presence and distribution of P2Y (nucleotide) receptor subtypes in rat sensory neurons has been investigated. RT-PCR showed that P2Y(1), P2Y(2), P2Y(4) and P2Y(6) receptor mRNA is expressed in sensory ganglia [dorsal root ganglion (DRG), nodose ganglion (NG) and trigeminal ganglion (TG)]. The regional and cellular distribution of P2Y(1) and P2Y(4) receptor proteins in these ganglia was investigated using immunohistochemistry. P2Y(1) polyclonal antibodies stained over 80% of the sensory neurons, particularly the small-diameter (neurofilament-negative) neurons. The P2Y(4) receptor antibody stained more medium- and large- (neurofilament-positive) diameter neurons than small-diameter neurons. P2Y(1) and P2Y(4) receptor immunoreactivity (P2Y(1)-IR and P2Y(4)-IR) was often coexpressed with P2X(3) receptor immunoreactivity (P2X(3)-IR) in subpopulations of neurons. Double immunohistochemistry showed that 73-84% of P2X(3) receptor-positive neurons also stained for the P2Y(1) receptor in DRG, TG and NG while only 25-35% also stained for the P2Y(4) receptor. Subpopulations of P2Y(1)-IR neurons were coexpressed with NF200, CGRP and IB(4); most P2Y(4)-IR neurons were coexpressed with NF200, while only a few neurons were coexpressed with CGRP (10-20%) or with IB(4) (1-2%). The results suggest that P2Y as well as P2X receptor subtypes contribute to purinergic signalling in sensory ganglia.
We contend that powerful group studies can be conducted using magnetoencephalography (MEG), which can provide useful insights into the approximate distribution of the neural activity detected with MEG without requiring magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for each participant. Instead, a participant's MRI is approximated with one chosen as a best match on the basis of the scalp surface from a database of available MRIs. Because large inter-individual variability in sulcal and gyral patterns is an inherent source of blurring in studies using grouped functional activity, the additional error introduced by this approximation procedure has little effect on the group results, and offers a sufficiently close approximation to that of the participants to yield a good indication of the true distribution of the grouped neural activity. T1-weighted MRIs of 28 adults were acquired in a variety of MR systems. An artificial functional image was prepared for each person in which eight 5 x 5 x 5 mm regions of brain activation were simulated. Spatial normalisation was applied to each image using transformations calculated using SPM99 with (1) the participant's actual MRI, and (2) the best matched MRI substituted from those of the other 27 participants. The distribution of distances between the locations of points using real and substituted MRIs had a modal value of 6 mm with 90% of cases falling below 12.5 mm. The effects of this approach on real grouped SAM source imaging of MEG data in a verbal fluency task are also shown. The distribution of MEG activity in the estimated average response is very similar to that produced when using the real MRIs.
The ability to overexpress full-length huntingtin or large fragments represents an important challenge to mimic Huntington's pathology and reproduce all stages of the disease in a time frame compatible with rodent life span. In the present study, tetracycline-regulated lentiviral vectors leading to high expression levels were used to accelerate the pathological process. Rats were simultaneously injected with vectors coding for the transactivator and wild type (WT) or mutated huntingtin (TRE-853-19Q/82Q) in the left and right striatum, respectively, and analyzed in the 'on' and 'off' conditions. Overexpression of TRE-853-19Q protein or residual expression of TRE-853-82Q in 'off' condition did not cause any significant neuronal pathology. Overexpressed TRE-853-82Q protein led to proteolytic release of N-terminal htt fragments, nuclear aggregation, and a striatal dysfunction as revealed by decrease of DARPP-32 staining but absence of NeuN down-regulation. The differential effect on the DARPP-32/NeuN neuronal staining was observed as early as 1 month after injection and maintained at 3 months. In contrast, expression of a shorter htt form (htt171-82Q) did not require processing prior formation of nuclear aggregates and caused decrease of both DARPP-32 and NeuN neuronal markers at one month post-injection suggesting that polyQ pathology may be dependent on protein context. Finally, the reversibility of the pathology was assessed. Huntingtin expression was turn 'on' for 1 month and then shut 'off' for 2 months. Recovery of DARPP-32 immunoreactivity and clearance of huntingtin aggregates were observed in animals treated with doxycycline. These results suggest that a tetracycline-regulated system may be particularly attractive to model Huntington's disease and induce early and reversible striatal neuropathology in vivo.
Although hypertension is a major risk factor for atherosclerosis, its underlying mechanisms remain to be delineated. We have recently reported that both endothelin-1 (ET-1) and vascular cellular adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) levels, key early markers of atherosclerosis, are significantly elevated in carotid arteries of deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats, a model known for its suppressed plasma renin levels. This study tested the hypothesis that ET-1 augments arterial VCAM-1 expression through NADPH oxidase-derived superoxide (O2-). Carotid arteries of DOCA-salt or sham-operated rats were transduced ex vivo with extracellular superoxide dismutase (EC-SOD), dominant negative HA-tagged N17Rac1 that inhibits Rac1, the small GTPase component of NADPH oxidase, or beta-galactosidase (beta-gal) reporter gene (5x10(10) plaque formation units [pfu]/mL), and the effect of transgene expression on O2- and VCAM-1 levels was assayed 24 hours afterward. The arterial activity of NADPH oxidase but not xanthine oxidase was significantly higher in DOCA-salt than in sham rats, which was abolished by the selective ETA receptor antagonist ABT-627 (3x10(-8) mol/L), NADPH oxidase inhibitor apocynin (10(-4) mol/L), or dominant negative Rac1 gene transfer. The levels of O2- and VCAM-1 were significantly increased in arteries of DOCA-salt rats, an effect that was ameliorated after EC-SOD or dominant negative Rac1 but not beta-gal reporter gene transfer. ABT-627 and apocynin also significantly reduced elevated VCAM-1 levels in ET-1-treated arteries of normal rats and arteries of DOCA-salt rats. The results of this study indicate that ET-1 stimulates arterial VCAM-1 expression by producing O2- from an ETA receptor/NADPH oxidase pathway in low-renin mineralocorticoid hypertension.

Blood feeding is an essential developmental process for many arthropods and plays a significant role in disease transmission. Understanding physiological responses in the midgut is important because it is the primary site of blood meal digestion and pathogenic infection. Processes that occur in the midgut in response to a blood meal have been studied but are poorly understood. Here, we use cDNA microarrays to examine midgut gene expression on a global level in response to blood feeding to assist in unraveling these processes. We have developed Aedes aegypti microarrays consisting of clones obtained from an expressed sequence tag project. Individual clones were amplified by polymerase chain reaction and printed onto glass slides. These microarrays were used to study the effects of a blood meal on midgut gene expression over a 72-h time course. As a result, a number of genes involved in processes such as nutrient uptake and metabolism, cellular stress responses, ion balance, and PM formation, as well as a number of unknown genes were induced or repressed in response to a blood meal based on this microarray data.
Medication non-adherence is a major obstacle in the treatment of affective disorders. The primary objective of this study was to evaluate two different interventions to improve adherence to antidepressant drugs. Secondary objectives included response to treatment, relation between adherence and response, patient satisfaction and tolerability. A randomized controlled design was used to assess the effect of a patient educational compliance enhancing programme (CP) and therapeutic drug monitoring in 1031 major depressed patients treated with sertraline for 24 weeks and managed by their general practitioner. Adherence was measured by questioning, measurable serum levels of sertraline and desmethylsertraline, appointments kept and a composite index including all three methods. Treatment adherence was found in 37-70% of patients, depending on the method used. Neither of the interventions resulted in a significant increase in adherence rate. However, significantly more patients in the CP group had responded at week 24 compared to patients in the control group. Overall, significantly more adherent patients responded to treatment compared to non-adherent patients, regardless of method used to determine adherence. This large study demonstrates that treatment response increases when using an educational compliance programme and that a strong relationship between treatment adherence and response exists.
Although there have been many attempts to find predictors of therapeutic response to antidepressant treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), few reports have evaluated the joint predictive value of a number of clinical characteristics. This study aimed to identify clinical predictors of outcome in OCD, and to develop an easily applicable method to predict response to drug treatment. One hundred and fifty patients with primary OCD according to DSM-IV criteria were randomly assigned in a 12-week, double-blind, comparison trial with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (paroxetine), and a serotonin-noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (venlafaxine). The primary efficacy parameter was the Yale-Brown obsessive-compulsive scale (Y-BOCS) score, and response to treatment was prospectively defined as a &gt;/= 35% decrease from the beginning. A stepwise multivariate analysis was used to identify predictors. The absence of previous therapies, moderate baseline severity of obsessive-compulsive symptoms (Y-BOCS score &lt; 23), and low Hamilton Depressive Rating Scale scores (6-15) were found to be prognostic determinants of good response to pharmacotherapy. The prognostic ability of the prediction model to discriminate between responders and non-responders was quantified as the area under the receiver operating/operator characteristic curve (ROC area), which was 0.71 (95% confidence interval 0.63-0.8), demonstrating a reasonable discriminatory power. This study is the first to present a model that can estimate by the use of prediction rules the probability of treatment response to antidepressants in patients with OCD.
Hypoxic brain injury during fetal or neonatal development leads to damaged immature neurons and can result in cognitive or behavioral dysfunction. Hyperoxia therapy (treatment with oxygen) is commonly applied to infants with signs of perinatal hypoxia-anoxia. Both hypoxia and hyperoxia have been shown to result in apoptosis in the brains of rats in several animal models. One determinant of cellular commitment to cell death is the differential expression of the Bcl-2 family of proteins in response to trauma. Here, we characterize cell death and the expression of Bcl-2 homologous proteins in 7-day-old neonatal rat cerebral cortex after hypoxia (5% O(2) for 40 min) and/or hyperoxia (&gt;95% O(2) for 2 h after hypoxia). The expression of Bcl-2 and Bcl-X(L), two anti-apoptotic proteins, decreased at 24 h after hypoxia. Bcl-X(L) increased after either hyperoxia or hypoxia+hyperoxia. We did not detect significant changes in the cytoplasmic levels of pro-apoptotic protein Bax after any of these three treatments. Using cell death ELISA and DNA FragEL assays, we observed increased cell death at 24h after hypoxia, hyperoxia or hypoxia+hyperoxia treatments. At 24 h after either hypoxia, hyperoxia or hypoxia+hyperoxia, caspase 3 activity also increased significantly. Our results suggest that both hypoxia and hyperoxia alone can induce cell death. The Bcl-2 --&gt; cytochrome c --&gt; caspase 3 pathway played a role in hypoxia-induced cell death, while other pathways may be involved in hyperoxia-induced cell death.

To get insight into the stimulus-dependent translocation of mRNA encoding neuropeptides to the axonal compartment of neurons, we investigated this process in the egg-laying hormone producing caudodorsal cells of the mollusk Lymnaea stagnalis. The axonal compartment including the nerve terminals of these neurons harbors high amounts of mRNA encoding the egg-laying hormone precursor. We determined how a sensory stimulus, that results in egg-laying, affected the amount of egg-laying hormone encoding transcripts in the axon endings. Four hours after stimulation high amounts of transcripts were detected in the axonal compartment and maximum values were reached after 8 h. Transcript levels in the somata were affected in a similar fashion, although the increase was not as pronounced as in the axons. Next, we investigated the ultrastructural localization of egg-laying hormone encoding transcripts in axons and axon terminals by means of electron microscopic in situ hybridization and showed that transcripts were localized in the axoplasm. By means of conventional electron microscopy we showed that axon terminals of egg-laying hormone producing neurons contained large amounts of polyribosomes. Together, these data support the notion that egg-laying hormone encoding transcripts are translated in the axonal compartment.
The development of multidrug-resistance (MDR) in neoplastic cells is often responsible for the therapy failure and poor outcome of a number of human cancers. MDR may be associated with the expression of the multidrug transporter glycoprotein p170, encoded by the MDR1 gene, which acts as an ATP-dependent efflux pump by reducing the intracellular accumulation of some cytotoxic agents. A variety of iminodibenzyl and phenothiazine derivatives, characterized by the presence of a bicyclic, strongly basic, and highly lipophilic quinolizidine nucleus, were synthesized to investigate their ability to modulate the MDR phenotype. A set of 10 of them (named 1-10), bearing quinolizidine moiety linked through different connecting chains, were tested as chemoresistance-reversing agents on doxorubicin-resistant ovarian cancer cells (A2780-DX3). A 51-fold resistance to doxorubicin was reported in the A2780-DX3 compared to the parental sensitive A2780 WT with mean IC(50) values of 0.02 and 1.02 muM, respectively. Moreover, overexpression of the glycoprotein p170 in the resistant cell line was detected by Western blot analysis. By cytotoxicity assays and time-course experiments, different treatment schedules with resistance modulators (including clomipramine as reference drug) and doxorubicin were taken into account. The 16 h exposure of cells to 1 muM of modulator before doxorubicin demonstrated to be superior in sensitizing the resistant cell line. In particular, compounds 8, 7, 10, and 4 increasingly potentiated doxorubicin cytotoxicity, up to 5.6-fold in A2780-DX3 cells. The present results suggest promising indications for further development of these compounds as chemosensitizing drugs.



Ca2+ release via ryanodine receptors (RyRs) is vital in cell signalling and regulates diverse activities such as gene expression and excitation-contraction coupling. Cyclic ADP ribose (cADPR), a proposed modulator of RyR activity, releases Ca2+ from the intracellular store in sea urchin eggs but its mechanism of action in other cell types is controversial. In this study, caged cADPR was used to examine the effect of cADPR on Ca2+ signalling in single voltage-clamped smooth muscle cells that have RyR but lack FKBP12.6, a proposed target for cADPR. Although cADPR released Ca2+ in sea urchin eggs (a positive control), it failed to alter global or subsarcolemma [Ca2+]c, to cause Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release or to enhance caffeine responses in colonic myocytes. By contrast, caffeine (an accepted modulator of RyR) was effective in these respects. The lack of cADPR activity on Ca2+ release was unaffected by the introduction of recombinant FKBP12.6 into the myocytes. Indeed in western blots, using brain membrane preparations as a source of FKBP12.6, cADPR did not bind to FKBPs, although FK506 was effective. However, cADPR increased and its antagonist 8-bromo-cADPR slowed the rate of Ca2+ removal from the cytoplasm. The evidence indicates that cADPR modulates [Ca2+]c but not via RyR; the mechanism may involve the sarcolemma Ca2+ pump.
The nucleus pretectalis (PT) of birds is an ovoid-shaped visuomotor cell group of the pretectum that receives tectal input and projects back to the optic tectum. We performed immunohistochemical single- and double-labeling to determine the distribution and abundance of neurons containing three calcium-binding proteins, parvalbumin (PV), calretinin (CR), and calbindin (CB), in the PT in chickens at three ages. We found that PV-positive and CR-positive cells co-localize and are largely found in the outer part of PT at all ages. The GluR4 subunit of the AMPA-type glutamate receptor was selectively localized to these neurons. CB-positive neurons, however, were largely absent from the PT in young and adult chickens. The abundance of PV-positive and CR-positive neurons in PT in old birds was indistinguishable from that in the younger birds, but CB-positive perikarya were 10-20-fold more common than in young birds, and were again mainly found in the outer part of PT. The overall abundance of neurons in PT was reduced to about 50% of its former abundance in the old birds, with this loss restricted to the central part of the nucleus. These data indicate that a cell loss process develops in PT as birds age, that parvalbuminergic and calretinergic neurons resist this process, and that this process is associated with increased expression of CB.
Neuropeptide Y, one of the most abundant brain peptides, has been found to modulate several important biological functions via a family of G-protein coupled receptors. To investigate the localization of functional NPY receptor subtypes in the rat brain, we performed agonist-induced [35S]GTPgammaS autoradiography. The Y1/Y4/Y5 agonist Leu(31), Pro(34)-NPY increased [35S]GTPgammaS binding in several brain areas with a regional distribution consistent with that produced when labeling adjacent sections with [125I]-Leu(31), Pro(34)-PYY. The Y1 selective antagonist BIBP3226 antagonized the Leu(31), Pro(34)-NPY stimulated increase in [35S]GTPgammaS binding in all areas examined. The Y2 agonist C2-NPY stimulated [35S]GTPgamma binding in numerous brain areas with a regional distribution similar to the binding observed with [125I]-PYY 3-36. No increase in [35S]GTPgammaS binding above basal was observed in any brain area evaluated using Y4 and Y5 selective agonists. This study demonstrates abundant Y1 and Y2 receptor activation in the rat brain, while evidence for functional Y4 and Y5 receptors was not observed.
The effects on serotoninergic, noradrenergic and cholinergic markers on neurons of the pontomesencephalic tegmentum nuclei were studied in rats following local administration of fibrillar beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta1-40) into the left retrosplenial cortex. Focal deposition of Abeta in the retrosplenial cortex resulted in a loss of serotoninergic neurons in the dorsal and median raphe nuclei. The dorsal raphe nucleus showed a statistically significant reduction of 31.7% in the number of serotoninergic neurons and a decrease (up to 17.38%) in neuronal density in comparison with the same parameters in uninjected controls. A statistically significant reduction of 50.3%, together with a significant decrease of 53.94% in the density of serotoninergic neurons, was also observed in the median raphe nucleus as compared with control animals. Furthermore, a significant reduction of 35.07% in the number of noradrenergic neurons as well as a statistically significant decrease of 56.55% in the density of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons were also found in the locus coeruleus as compared with the corresponding hemisphere in uninjected controls. By contrast, a reduction of 24.37% in the number of choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons and a slight decrease (up to 22.28%) in the density of cholinergic neurons, which were not statistically significant, was observed in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus in comparison with the same parameters in control animals. These results show that three different neurochemically defined populations of neurons in the pontomesencephalic tegmentum are affected by the neurotoxicity of Abeta in vivo and that Abeta might indirectly affect serotoninergic, noradrenergic and cholinergic innervation in the retrosplenial cortex.
The Journal of Child Neurology (JCN) began in 1986 as a quarterly publication focused on child neurology and the related clinical pediatric neuroscience areas of pediatric neurosurgery, child psychiatry, pediatric neuroradiology, and developmental and behavioral pediatrics. As submitted material increased, JCN expanded in publication frequency and now appears monthly. Article quality has always been high and many articles have been frequently cited. Over the years, the ratings produced for the ISI Journal Citation Reports have identified JCN as a high-ranking pediatric journal based upon the impact factor value. Currently (year 2002 figures), JCN (with its impact factor of 1.338) ranks 24th out of 68 pediatric journals.
Landau-Kleffner syndrome (LKS) and the syndrome of continuous spikes and waves during slow wave sleep (CSWS) are two points on the spectrum of functional childhood epileptic encephalopathies. They are characterized by a severe paroxysmal EEG disturbance that may permanently alter the critical synaptogenesis by strengthening synaptic contacts that should have been naturally &quot;pruned.&quot; The much more common benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes is also related to LKS and CSWS by a common pathophysiology. Although prognosis in LKS and CSWS for seizure control is good, cognitive function declines and permanent neuropsychologic dysfunction is seen in many cases. This permanent damage is most evident in those patients who had early-onset EEG abnormality and a prolonged active phase of continuous spike-and-wave discharges during sleep. If the active phase of paroxysmal activity persists for over 2 to 3 years, even successful treatment does not resolve neuropsychologic sequelae. In LKS, the paroxysmal activity permanently affects the posterior temporal area and results in auditory agnosia and language deficits; in CSWS, the frontal lobes are more involved and other cognitive disturbances predominate. Aggressive treatment should include high-dose antiepileptic drugs, corticosteroids, and surgery in specific cases.
Infantile spasms is a unique disorder peculiar to infancy and early childhood. In this article, the clinical manifestations and electroencephalographic features of the disorder are described. The possible pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying infantile spasms and the relation of this disorder to other childhood encephalopathies are discussed. Finally, the treatment of patients with infantile spasms and their long-term outcome are briefly reviewed.
Stereoisomers are compounds that have identical sets of atoms configured in the same positions but are arranged differently spatially. Approximately 25% of contemporary drugs are marketed and used as racemates (i.e., as equimolar mixtures of stereoisomers). This may have major clinical implications, as stereoisomers may possess qualitative and/or quantitative differences in pharmacological effects, plasma protein and tissue binding, metabolic and renal clearance. There are many examples of racemic drugs manufactured and used as single stereoisomers in the field of neurology including the anti-Parkinsonian drugs levodopa, selegiline, apomorphine and entacapone, the antiepileptic drugs tiagabine and levetiracetam, the secondary stroke prevention agent clopidogrel and the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor rivastigmine. The role of drug stereochemistry in the re-evaluation of established drugs and the production of new agents is becoming increasingly important as pharmaceutical companies endeavour to show proof of &quot;no penalty&quot; for the introduction of a racemic new drug over one or other of its single stereoisomers.


We have previously found that estradiol increases (within 4 h) but then decreases (within 48 h) cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of adult female ovariectomized (OVX) rats and of intact meadow voles and that estradiol partially stimulates adrenal activity to suppress cell proliferation in rats. Estradiol enhances N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAr) activity and NMDAr activation suppresses cell proliferation in the adult rodent dentate gyrus. Therefore, we tested whether estradiol alters cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of adult OVX female meadow voles by stimulating NMDAr activity. In experiment 1, OVX females were injected with estradiol (10 micro g) or oil and then with NMDA (30 mg/kg) or vehicle 3 h later and bromodeoxyuridine 4 h later (BrdU; 50 mg/kg). Voles were perfused 1 h after BrdU injection. Relative to oil vehicle, estradiol increased (P&lt;/=0.001) and NMDA decreased (P&lt;/=0.006) labeled cell number. Coadministration of estradiol/NMDA increased labeled cell numbers relative to NMDA alone (P&lt;/=0.03), suggesting that within 4 h estradiol does not influence the effect of NMDA receptors on cell proliferation. In experiment 2, OVX females were injected with either estradiol or oil and then with either MK-801 (1 mg/kg) or vehicle 47 h later and BrdU 48 h later. The animals were perfused 1 h after BrdU was injected. Relative to oil-treated voles, estradiol-treated voles had fewer (P&lt;0.006) and MK-801-treated voles had more labeled cells (P&lt;/=0.0001) in the dentate gyrus. However, estradiol did not appear to stimulate NMDA receptors to suppress cell proliferation because estradiol (48 h)/MK-801-treated voles had fewer BrdU-labeled cells than oil (48 h)/MK-801-treated voles (P&lt;/=0.06). The results show that estradiol time-dependently influences cell proliferation but that estradiol does not stimulate NMDAr activity to influence cell proliferation in the dentate gyrus of adult voles.
Membrane transport in insect epithelia appears to be energized through proton-motive force generated by the vacuolar type proton ATPase (V-ATPase). However, secondary transport mechanisms that are coupled to V-ATPase activity have not been fully elucidated. Following a blood meal, the female mosquito regulates fluid and ion homeostasis through a series of characteristic behaviors that require brain-derived factors to regulate ion secretion. Despite the knowledge on the behaviors of the mosquito, little is known of the targets of several factors that have been implicated in cellular changes following a blood meal. This review discusses current models of membrane transport in insects and specific data on mosquito ion regulation together with the molecular aspects of membrane transport systems that are potentially linked to V-ATPase activity, which collectively determine the functioning of mosquito midgut and Malpighian tubules. Ion transport mechanisms will be discussed from a comparative physiology perspective to gain appreciation of the exquisite mechanisms of mosquito ion regulation.
The transfer-appropriate monitoring (TAM) hypothesis of metamemory predicts that judgment of learning (JOL) accuracy should improve when conditions during JOLs closely match conditions of the memory test. The authors devised 5 types of delayed JOLs for paired associates and varied them along with the type of memory test (cued recall or recognition). If the TAM hypothesis is correct, JOL and test type should interact to influence metamemory. Contrary to TAM, metamemory accuracy did not improve when JOL and test conditions matched but instead tended to vary according to whether the answer was apparent at time of JOL. Memory test scores and JOL magnitude were both greater when the correct target was evident during JOLs. Overall, the results are largely consistent with a monitoring retrieval view of delayed JOLs and do not support TAM as a viable account of JOL accuracy.
The opening and closing of chloride (Cl-) channels in the ClC family are thought to tightly couple to ion permeation through the channel pore. In the prototype channel of the family, the ClC-0 channel from the Torpedo electric organ, the opening-closing of the pore in the millisecond time range known as &quot;fast gating&quot; is regulated by both external and internal Cl- ions. Although the external Cl- effect on the fast-gate opening has been extensively studied at a quantitative level, the internal Cl- regulation remains to be characterized. In this study, we examine the internal Cl- effects and the electrostatic controls of the fast-gating mechanism. While having little effect on the opening rate, raising [Cl-]i reduces the closing rate (or increases the open time) of the fast gate, with an apparent affinity of &gt;1 M, a value very different from the one observed in the external Cl- regulation on the opening rate. Mutating charged residues in the pore also changes the fast-gating properties-the effects are more prominent on the closing rate than on the opening rate, a phenomenon similar to the effect of [Cl-]i on the fast gating. Thus, the alteration of fast-gate closing by charge mutations may come from a combination of two effects: a direct electrostatic interaction between the manipulated charge and the negatively charged glutamate gate and a repulsive force on the gate mediated by the permeant ion. Likewise, the regulations of internal Cl- on the fast gating may also be due to the competition of Cl- with the glutamate gate as well as the overall more negative potential brought to the pore by the binding of Cl-. In contrast, the opening rate of the fast gate is only minimally affected by manipulations of [Cl-]i and charges in the inner pore region. The very different nature of external and internal Cl- regulations on the fast gating thus may suggest that the opening and the closing of the fast gate are not microscopically reversible processes, but form a nonequilibrium cycle in the ClC-0 fast-gating mechanism.

The role of the basal ganglia in syntactic language processing was investigated with event-related brain potentials in fourteen neurologically impaired patients. Seven of these patients had basal ganglia lesions while 7 other patients primarily had lesions of the left temporo-parietal region excluding the basal ganglia. All patients listened to sentences that were either correct or included a verb argument structure violation. In previous experiments this type of violation elicited a biphasic pattern of an N400-P600 complex in young healthy participants. While the N400 may result from incorrect semantic-thematic role assignment, the P600 reflects the fact that verb information does not license the syntactic structure at present. Results of the patient experiment revealed a double dissociation: patients with left temporo-parietal lesions only show a P600, whereas patients with lesions of the basal ganglia showed no P600, but a negativity with extended duration that resembled an N400. The latter pattern not only confirms previous reports that the basal ganglia modulate the P600 but extends these results by showing that the N400 as a late semantic-thematic integration process appears partially modulated by the basal ganglia.
We have investigated the expression of P2X5, P2X7, P2Y1, and P2Y2 receptor subtypes in 8- to 11-wk-old human fetal epidermis in relation to markers of proliferation (proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and Ki-67), keratinocyte differentiation (cytokeratin K10 and involucrin), and markers of apoptosis (TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) and anti-caspase-3). Immunohistochemistry showed that each of the four receptors was expressed in spatially distinct zones of the developing epidermis: P2Y1 receptors were found in the basal layer, P2X5 receptors were predominantly in the basal and intermediate layers, and both P2Y2 and P2X7 receptors were in the periderm. Colocalization experiments suggested different functional roles for these receptors. P2Y1 receptors were found in fetal keratinocytes positive for PCNA and Ki-67, suggesting a role in proliferation. P2X5 receptors double labeled with differentiated fetal keratinocytes that were positive for cytokeratin K10, suggesting a role in differentiation. P2X7 receptors colocalized with anti-caspase-3 antibody and were also expressed in periderm cells positive for TUNEL, suggesting a role in periderm cell apoptosis. P2Y2 receptors were found only in periderm cells and may have a role in chloride and fluid secretion into the amniotic fluid.

At 0 to 20 degrees C, the Ca(2+)-ATPase activity of the scallop sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) was observed to be 7-60% of the peak activity at 30 degrees C, while the ATPase activity of the rabbit SR was 0-7% of its peak at 55 degrees C. The relative rabbit ATPase activity (0.7-7.0%) at 7-20 degrees C became higher (6-15 times) and lower (1/4-1/2), respectively, by the solubilization of the rabbit ATPase with a detergent, dodecyloctaethylenglycol monoether, and by the reconstitution of the ATPase with asolectin (soybean lecithin). No activity at 0 degrees C remained irrespective of these treatments. The relative scallop ATPase activity at 0-20 degrees C was, however, scarcely affected by such solubilization and reconstitution. In contrast to the rabbit ATPase, the scallop ATPase seems to be capable of operating independently without the help of the membrane lipid at low temperature.
It is controversial whether the Na+/Ca2+-exchanger (NCX) can induce cardiomyocyte contraction through reverse-mode exchange and Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release (CICR). Information about the spatial distribution and functional activity within different sarcolemmal (SL) regions could shed light on this potential role. We raised a new antibody to the NCX and showed by confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) that immunoreactivity is strongly expressed throughout the surface SL and intercalated disk regions with punctate labeling of the vertical transverse (T)-tubules but not the longitudinal T-tubules. Immuno-electron microscopy confirmed CLSM observations. Gold particles associated with the exchanger were within nanometer range of particles signaling ryanodine receptors. A similar close association was found between the L-type Ca2+ channel (known to be concentrated in the dyad) and ryanodine receptors. In whole-cell patch-clamped cardiomyocytes, peak I(NCX) (measured at 90 mV) decreased by approximately 40% (497 +/- 32 vs. 304 +/- 12 pA, P &lt; 0.001) after detubulation, while membrane capacitance decreased by 27% (204 +/- 11 vs. 150 +/- 7 pF, P &lt; 0.01) thus giving a small but significant 16% reduction in current density. Thus, the density and/or functional activity of the NCX is greater in the vertical T-tubules than in the longitudinal T-tubules, surface SL or disk regions, pointing to important functional differences between these plasma membrane domains. Our combined co-immunolocalization and physiological data suggest that the NCX has multiple functions depending upon membrane location. We suggest the possibility that NCX modulates CICR, sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ load, and that it also serves to regulate Ca2+ handling in neighboring cells.
Cerebrolysin is a peptide mixture with neurotrophic effects that might have the ability of both reducing amyloid burden and improving synaptic plasticity in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In order to determine if Cerebrolysin is capable of ameliorating the neurodegenerative and behavioral alterations associated with amyloid beta (A beta) production; transgenic (tg) mice expressing mutant human amyloid precursor protein (APP) under the Thy1 promoter were treated with Cerebrolysin or saline alone starting at 3 or 6 months of age for a total of three months. Animals were then tested behaviorally (at 6 and 9 months of age respectively) in the water maze and then analyzed neuropathologically for amyloid burden, synaptic density, astrogliosis and apoptosis. Performance analysis in the water maze showed that in the younger tg mice cohort, Cerebrolysin treatment significantly ameliorated the performance deficits. In the older cohort, there was a trend toward improved performance in the learning curve. Neuropathological examination showed that in both age/treatment groups, Cerebrolysin promoted synaptic regeneration, and reduced the proportion of neurons displaying DNA fragmentation by the (TdT)-mediated dUTP-biotin nick-end labeling (TUNEL) method. Moreover, Cerebrolysin treatment reduced A beta burden by 43% in the young group and by 27% in the older group. Taken together, these results suggest that Cerebrolysin treatment might have beneficial effects in patients with cognitive impairment by reducing A beta accumulation and promoting the preservation of synaptic terminals.
Following partial denervation of rat hindlimb muscle, terminal Schwann cells extend processes from denervated endplates to induce and guide sprouting from the remaining intact axons. Increased neuromuscular activity significantly reduces motor unit enlargement and sprouting during the acute phase of sprouting. These findings led to the hypothesis that increased neuromuscular activity perturbs formation of Schwann cell bridges and thereby reduces sprouting. Adult rat tibialis anterior (TA) muscles were extensively denervated by avulsion of L4 spinal root and were immediately subjected to normal caged activity or running exercise (8 h daily) for 3, 7, 14, 21, and 28 days. Combined silver/cholinesterase histochemical staining revealed that the progressive reinnervation of denervated endplates by sprouts over a 1 month period in the extensively partially denervated TA muscles was completely abolished by increased neuromuscular activity. Immunohistochemical staining and triple immunofluorescence revealed that the increased neuromuscular activity did not perturb the production of Schwann cell processes, but prevented bridging between Schwann cell processes at innervated and denervated endplates. Our findings suggest that failure of Schwann cell processes to bridge between endplates accounts, at least in part, for the inhibitory effect of increased neuromuscular activity on sprouting.
We are interested in the mechanisms that generate neuronal diversity within the Drosophila central nervous system (CNS), and in particular in the development of a single identified motoneuron called RP2. Expression of the homeodomain transcription factor Even-skipped (Eve) is required for RP2 to establish proper connectivity with its muscle target. Here we investigate the mechanisms by which eve is specifically expressed within the RP2 motoneuron lineage. Within the NB4-2 lineage, expression of eve first occurs in the precursor of RP2, called GMC4-2a. We identify a small 500 base pair eve enhancer that mediates eve expression in GMC4-2a. We show that four different transcription factors (Prospero, Huckebein, Fushi tarazu, and Pdm1) are all expressed in GMC4-2a, and are required to activate eve via this minimal enhancer, and that one transcription factor (Klumpfuss) represses eve expression via this element. All four positively acting transcription factors act independently, regulating eve but not each other. Thus, the eve enhancer integrates multiple positive and negative transcription factor inputs to restrict eve expression to a single precursor cell (GMC4-2a) and its RP2 motoneuron progeny.
Developmental changes in cell numbers represent the dynamic balance between cell proliferation and death. One obstacle to assessing this balance is an inability to quantify the total amount of cell death, i.e., with a positive indicator such as terminal dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) or caspase activity. A novel mathematical model is described wherein data on daily cell growth (the change in cell number) and cell cycle kinetics can be used to determine the total amount of cell death. Two sets of data from previously published studies were tested in this model; primary cultured cortical neurons and B104 neuroblastoma cells. These two preparations have contrasting features: neuronal cultures are heterogeneous and have relatively few cells that are actively cycling (i.e., the growth fraction for these cells is low), whereas B104 cells are relatively homogeneous cultures in which the growth fraction is high. In primary cortical cultures, there was a balance in cell production and death. Treatment with a potent anti-mitogen, ethanol (400 mg/dl), affected this balance principally by reducing cell production, although the rate of cell death was also increased. In untreated B104 cells, there was eight-fold more cell production than cell death. Growth factors such as platelet-derived growth factor BB doubled cell production. Ethanol reduced cell production by &gt;60%, and it eliminated growth factor-mediated cell production. All of these changes occurred in the absence of an effect on the amount of cell death. Thus, the model is ideal for predicting the effects of an epigenetic factor (e.g., a growth factor, toxin, or pharmacological agent) on cell development and can be useful in determining the consequences of a genetic manipulation as well.
Myelin-axolemmal interactions regulate many cellular and molecular events, including gene expression, oligodendrocyte survival and ion channel clustering. Here we report the biochemical fractionation and enrichment of distinct subcellular domains from myelinated nerve fibers. Using antibodies against proteins found in compact myelin, non-compact myelin and axolemma, we show that a rigorous procedure designed to purify myelin also results in the isolation of the myelin-axolemmal complex, a high-affinity protein complex consisting of axonal and oligodendroglial components. Further, the isolation of distinct subcellular domains from galactolipid-deficient mice with disrupted axoglial junctions is altered in a manner consistent with the delocalization of axolemmal proteins observed in these animals. These results suggest a paradigm for identification of proteins involved in neuroglial signaling.
We have previously reported that Bcl-2 is up-regulated in the CNS of aged F344 rats as a consequence of oxidative stress. In addition to increased levels of expression, we now report that there is a subcellular redistribution of Bcl-2 in the CNS of aged F344 rats. Using western blotting, we found Bcl-2 predominantly located in the cytosol of young rats. However, in aged rats Bcl-2 was found primarily in the nucleus. This distribution, in the hippocampus and cerebellum, was reversed by treatment with the nitrone spin trap N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (PBN). Paradoxically, PBN treatment in young rats had the opposite effect, changing Bcl-2 from predominantly cytosolic to nuclear. We also detected an increase in Bax in aged hippocampal samples (both nuclear and cytosolic), which was reversed by treatment with PBN. The distribution of Bcl-2 and Bax in the cytosol of aged rats dramatically decreased the Bcl-2/Bax ratio, a probable indicator of neuronal vulnerability, which was restored upon treatment with PBN. In order to assess the effect of nuclear association of Bcl-2 we used PC12 cells stably transfected with a Bcl-2 construct to which we added the nuclear localization sequence of the SV40 large T antigen to the N-terminus which resulted in nuclear targeting of Bcl-2. Measurement of cell death using lactate dehydrogenase assays showed that, contrary to wild-type Bcl-2, Bcl-2 localized to the nucleus was not effective in protecting cells from treatment with 250 microm H2O2. These results suggest that nuclear localization of Bcl-2 observed in the aged CNS may not reflect a protective mechanism against oxidative stress, a major component of age-associated CNS impairments.
We have previously reported that rat primary microglial cultures express the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) and that several functions associated with the activation of these cells, including nitric oxide (NO) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha synthesis, are down-regulated by 15-deoxy-delta12,14-prostaglandin J2 (15d-PGJ2) and ciglitazone, two specific PPAR-gamma agonists. Here we demonstrate that microglial cells not only express a functionally active PPAR-gamma, but also synthesize large amounts of 15d-PGJ2 upon stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). In addition, we show that, although 15d-PGJ2 and ciglitazone were equally effective in reducing microglial activation when used at 1-5 microm concentrations, 15d-PGJ2, but not of ciglitazone, reduced PGE2 production at low concentration (0.1 microm) and induced a time-dependent microglial impairment and apoptosis at high concentration (10 microm). Interestingly, the inhibition of PGE2 production was achieved mainly through the inhibition of cycloxygenase-2 enzymatic activity, as the expression of this enzyme and that of the microsomal isoform of PGE synthase remained unaltered. These findings suggest that 15d-PGJ2 affects the functional state and the survival of activated microglia through mechanisms only in part dependent on PPAR-gamma and that the concentration of 15d-PGJ2 is crucial in determining the particular microglial function affected.
The amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP) is proteolytically cleaved to generate the amyloid beta-protein (Abeta), the principal constituent of senile plaques found in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In addition, Abeta in its oligomeric and fibrillar forms have been hypothesized to induce neuronal toxicity. We and others have previously shown that APP can be cleaved by caspases at the C-terminus to generate a potentially cytotoxic peptide termed C31. Furthermore, this cleavage event and caspase activation were increased in the brains of AD, but not control, cases. In this study, we show that in cultured cells, Abeta induces caspase cleavage of APP in the C-terminus and that the subsequent generation of C31 contributes to the apoptotic cell death associated with Abeta. Interestingly, both Abeta toxicity and C31 pathway are dependent on the presence of APP. Both APP-dependent Abeta toxicity and C31-induced apoptotic cell death involve apical or initiator caspases-8 and -9. Our results suggest that Abeta-mediated toxicity initiates a cascade of events that includes caspase activation and APP cleavage. These findings link C31 generation and its potential cell death activity to Abeta cytotoxicity, the leading mechanism proposed for neuronal death in AD.
Recombinant, human dopamine D3 and D2 receptors form functional heterodimers upon co-expression in COS-7 cells. Herein, actions of the antiparkinsonian agents, S32504, ropinirole and pramipexole, at D3/D2L heterodimers were compared to their effects at the respective monomers and at split, chimeric D3trunk/D2tail and D2trunk/D3tail receptors: the trunk incorporated transmembrane domains (TDs) I-V and the tail TDs VI and VII. In binding assays with the antagonist [3H]nemonapride, all agonists were potent ligands of D3 receptors showing, respectively, 100-, 18- and 56-fold lower affinity at D2L receptors, mimicking the selective D3 receptor antagonist, S33084 (100-fold). At D3trunk/D2tail receptors, except for ropinirole, all drugs showed lower affinities than at D3 sites, whereas for D2trunk/D3tail receptors, affinities of all drugs were higher than at D2L sites. The proportion of high affinity binding sites recognized by S32504, pramipexole and ropinirole in membranes derived from cells co-expressing D3 and D2L sites was higher than in an equivalent mixture of membranes from cells expressing D3 or D2L sites, consistent with the promotion of heterodimer formation. In contrast, the percentage of high and low affinity sites (biphasic isotherms) recognized by S33084 was identical. Functional actions were determined by co-transfection of a chimeric adenylyl cyclase (AC)-V/VI insensitive to D3 receptors. Accordingly, D3 receptor-transfected cells were irresponsive whereas, in D2L receptor-transfected cells, agonists suppressed forskolin-stimulated cAMP production with modest potencies. In cells co-transfected with D3 and D2L receptors, S32504, ropinirole and pramipexole potently suppressed AC-V/VI with EC50s 33-, 19- and 11-fold lower than at D2L receptors, respectively. S32504 also suppressed AC-V/VI activity at split D3trunk/D2tail and D2trunk/D3tail chimeras transfected into COS-7 cells. In conclusion, antiparkinson agents behave as potent agonists at D3/D2'heterodimers', though any role in their actions in vivo remains to be demonstrated.
Abundant evidence indicates important functional differences between the two cerebral hemispheres of humans, although the cellular basis of these differences is unknown. A recent hypothesis proposes that these functional differences depend on differences between sides in the &quot;repertoire&quot; of axonal conduction delays for cortico-cortical axons. In morphological terms this corresponds to differences in caliber, or proportion, of myelinated versus unmyelinated axons. Several behavioural studies have indicated that cerebral asymmetry occurs in rodents, in which rigorous morphological analysis is possible. The hypothesis was therefore tested for the first time in adult male Wistar rats, using transmission electron microscopy and stereological methods. Subcortical white matter was compared between left and right sides in three regions (frontal, parietal, and occipital). The average caliber and numerical density of unmyelinated and myelinated axons was compared between sides and between regions. All data were corrected for shrinkage. No significant differences between sides were found in the average caliber of either type of axon in any region. The numerical density of either type of axon also yielded no significant differences between sides in any region. Significant differences were evident between regions in both caliber and numerical density of the two axonal types, and these quantitative data are reported. The proportion of unmyelinated axons in the lateral white matter was also higher than in previous studies of hemispheric white matter that studied the corpus callosum. The present study provides no evidence supporting the hypothesis that functional hemispheric specialization is due to differences in axonal number, caliber or type.
The apelin receptor (APJ receptor, APJR) has recently come to prominence following the isolation and identification of its endogenous ligand, apelin, from bovine stomach tissue extracts. Investigation of APJR mRNA expression has revealed a hypothalamic distribution similar to that of vasopressin suggesting that the apelin-APJR system may be involved in the regulation of the hypothalamic-adrenal-pituitary (HPA) stress axis. To investigate whether APJR is involved in the regulation of hypothalamic function during stress, APJR mRNA expression levels were measured by in situ hybridization in the hypothalamus of rats subjected to acute and repeated restraint stress. Acute stress caused an increase in APJR mRNA expression in the hypothalamic parvocellular paraventricular nucleus (pPVN) while repeated restraint stress induced a sustained up-regulation of pPVN APJR mRNA expression in intact rats. Removal of endogenous glucocorticoids by adrenalectomy also resulted in an increased expression of APJR mRNA in the PVN, suggesting a negative regulation of APJR mRNA expression by glucocorticoids. The role of glucocorticoids in mediating these stress-induced changes was investigated by analysing the effects of acute and repeated restraint stress on APJR mRNA levels in adrenalectomized rats. In these rats, APJR mRNA expression levels did not change above the already elevated levels of adrenalectomized-control rats. These data suggest that acute and repeated stress exert a stimulatory influence on APJR mRNA expression at the hypothalamic level that may be dependent on basal levels of circulating glucocorticoids, and further suggest a role for APJR in the regulation of hypothalamic function.
Corticosterone regulates both basal and stress-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity in a negative-feedback fashion. However, the cellular and molecular mechanisms of this negative feedback have yet to be explicitly characterized. By comparing stress-induced c-fos and corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) expression in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN), we may be able to determine whether acute glucocorticoid treatment affects the net neural excitatory input to the PVN (represented primarily by c-fos mRNA expression) or directly affects the ability of cells in the PVN to respond to that input (represented primarily by CRH hnRNA expression). In the following studies, we observed the effect of acute glucocorticoid (RU28362) treatment on subsequent HPA axis reactivity by measuring stress-induced plasma hormone concentration [corticosterone and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)] and gene expression (c-fos and CRH) in the PVN. First, we examined the dose-response relationship between systemically administered RU28362 (1-150 microg/kg, i.p) and suppression of the stress-induced corticosterone response. We then confirmed central nervous system access of the maximally suppressive dose of RU28362 (150 microg/kg) by an ex vivo radioligand binding assay. RU28362 selectively occupied the majority of glucocorticoid receptors in the hippocampus and hypothalamus while having no effect on mineralocorticoid receptors. In separate studies, RU28362 (150 microg/kg) and corticosterone (5 mg/kg) were injected i.p. 1 h before restraint stress. Compared to vehicle-treated controls, rats treated with RU28362 and corticosterone had substantially blunted stress-induced corticosterone and ACTH production, respectively. Furthermore, treatment with RU28362 significantly blunted stress-induced CRH hnRNA expression in the PVN. By contrast, neither RU28362 nor corticosterone treatment had an effect on stress-induced neuronal activation as measured by c-fos mRNA and its protein product in the PVN. This dissociation between c-fos and CRH gene expression suggests that glucocorticoid suppression of HPA activity within this time-frame is not a result of decreased excitatory neural input to the PVN, but instead depends on some direct effect of RU28362 on cells intrinsic to the HPA axis.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and arginine vasopressin (AVP) are expressed in cells of the immune system where they exert immunomodulatory roles, but these neuropeptides are poorly characterized in human immune tissues. The aim of this study was to determine concentrations and distribution of CRH and AVP in nonactivated human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). PBMC from normal human subjects were separated into enriched subpopulations of T and B cells and monocytes/macrophages by a magnetic bead/monoclonal antibody technique. CRH and AVP were measured in cell extracts by radioimmunoassay (RIA). CRH-immunoreactivity (ir) ranged 0.24-0.8 fmol/million cells (n = 6 subjects) in T cell extracts, 0.4-2.7 fmol/million cells (n = 4) in B cells and 0.63-2.16 fmol/million cells (n = 4) in macrophages. AVP-ir ranged 0.2-0.95 fmol/million cells in T cell extracts, &lt;0.1-0.8 fmol/million cells in B cells and 0.14-3.19 fmol/million cells in macrophages. Reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) of T and B cell extracts revealed a peak of CRH-ir which coeluted with synthetic CRH-41; this peak was not present in macrophages. A second peak of CRH-ir which eluted in a more hydrophobic position was observed in extracts of T and B cells and macrophages. This unidentified form of CRH-ir is the predominant form of CRH-ir in nonactivated human PBMC. This is the first study to demonstrate that CRH-ir and AVP-ir are colocalized within human T cells, B cells and monocytes/macrophages. We have confirmed observations of a variant form of CRH-ir in human PBMC and show that this is the predominant form in macrophages and B cells whereas CRH-ir, which coelutes with CRH(1-41) on HPLC, is present in significant amounts only in T cells. These data also confirm that CRH-ir in human PBMC is not urocortin because the antiserum used in the CRH RIA does not bind to urocortin.

This review discusses the most important lower motor neuron syndromes. This relatively rare group of syndromes has not been well described clinically. Two subgroups can be distinguished: patients in whom motor neurons (lower motor neuron disease (LMND)) are primarily affected or motor axons and their surrounding myelin (multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN)), both leading to muscle atrophy and weakness. Both hereditary and sporadic forms of LMND have been described. The discussion of recent advances in the genetic knowledge of several hereditary forms of LMND may lead to a better understanding of the pathophysiology and the development of therapeutic strategies. By contrast, the pathogenesis of sporadic LMND is largely unknown. It is, therefore, difficult to consider the various sporadic forms of LMND, discussed in this review, as separate diseases. Because the diagnostic and therapeutic options may differ, it would seem rational to consider sporadic LMND as a spectrum of syndromes which can be distinguished from each other on the basis of clinical presentation.MMN is a lower motor neuron syndrome with presumed immunemediated pathogenesis. Evidence of motor conduction block on nerve conduction studies and a positive response to treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg) are considered the most relevant criteria for the diagnosis of MMN. As it is treatable, it is important to distinguish MMN from LMND. Careful electrophysiological analysis in the search for conduction block is, therefore, required in all adult patients with pure lower motor neuron syndromes. For the individual patient, distinction between the various lower motor neuron syndromes is important as it enables the physician to provide adequate information over the disease course in LMND and to facilitate early treatment in MMN.
Clinical experience suggests an important role of the indirect basal ganglia pathway in the genesis of childhood onset generalised dystonia, but it has been difficult to reconcile the increased muscle activity in dystonia with the current model of basal ganglia function in which the indirect pathway is considered primarily inhibitory. The aim of this study was to present a modification of the direct-indirect pathway model, in which the indirect pathway is inverting rather than purely inhibitory, so that while high signals are inhibited, low signals are amplified. As the basal ganglia may be a feedback loop that modifies cortical activity, instability from excessive gain in this feedback loop could explain features of dystonia. A detailed mathematical model is provided, together with simulations of cortical cell population spiking behaviour when connected through a basal ganglia loop. The simulations show that increased gain in the indirect pathway relative to the direct pathway can lead to unstable uncontrolled synchronous oscillations in cortex and basal ganglia. This behaviour could result in dystonia. The model provides a consistent explanation for the association of dystonia with parkinsonism and disorders characterised by dopamine depletion, the ability to treat some dystonias with dopamine, the ability of neuroleptic drug treatment to cause an acute dystonic reaction treatable with anticholinergic drugs, and the ability of pallidotomy or deep brain stimulation of the internal pallidum to alleviate symptoms of generalised dystonia.

Cortical dysplasia has a strong clinical association with epilepsy and mental retardation, but the relationship between alterations in cortical structure and function in dysplasia-related disorders is poorly understood. The cerebral cortex of irradiated rats, an experimental model of cortical dysplasia, was studied using cresyl violet-stained sections and the Golgi-Cox method. The irradiated cortex is characterized by reductions in size, volume, and number of neurons and fibers reflecting the original lethal injury to neuronal precursors. Consequently, only neurons that survived this injury were able to continue their, albeit altered, development. The result is an altered corticogenesis characterized by neuronal, fiber circuitry, and microvascular alterations. Abnormal aggregates (nodules) of excitatory pyramidal neurons with altered dendritic profiles and functional territories are found between 200 and 400 microm from the pial surface. Their horizontal dendritic profiles and functional territories contrast with the vertical (columnar) dendritic profiles and functional territories of normal pyramidal neurons. This horizontal concentration of spiny dendrites and, hence, of excitatory synaptic contacts suggests a response to the presence of an abnormal horizontal plexus of afferent fibers terminals. Stellate neurons, some morphologically compatible with inhibitory basket cells, are also essential components of these nodules. Some neuronal nodules are characterized by a rich plexus of anastomotic capillaries that contrasts with the sparser vasculature of surrounding gray matter tissue. The presence of well-vascularized aggregates of altered pyramidal and inhibitory neurons suggests a high level of metabolic activity. Well-vascularized deep heterotopias are also found. We propose that the functional activity of well-vascularized neuronal nodules and heterotopias could play a role in the abnormal cortical function in this model.
Dorsal spinocerebellar tract (DSCT) neurons receive converging sensory inputs from muscle, skin, and joint receptors and their cerebellar projection is a product of the spinal sensory processing of movement-related information. We concluded earlier that DSCT activity relates to global rather than to local parameters of hindlimb postures and movement, specifically to a kinematic representation of the limb endpoint. The waveforms of principal components (PCs) derived from an ensemble of DSCT movement responses were found to correlate with either the waveform of the limb axis length or orientation trajectories. It was not clear, however, whether these global representations resulted from neural processing or from biomechanical factors. In this study, we perturbed the limb biomechanical factors by decoupling limb geometry from endpoint position during passively applied limb trajectories patterned after a step cycle. We used two types of perturbations: mechanical constraints that limited joint rotations and electrical stimulation of hindlimb muscles. We found that about half of the 89 cells studied showed statistically different response patterns during the perturbations. We compared the PCs of the altered responses with the PCs of the control responses, and found two basic results. With the joint constraints, &gt;85% of the total variance in both control and changed responses was accounted for by the same five PCs that were also observed in the earlier study. The differences between altered and control responses could be fully accounted for by changes in the PC weighting, suggesting a modulation of global response components rather than an explicit representation of local parameters. With the muscle stimulation, only the first and third PCs were the same for the control and altered responses. The second PC was modified, and additional PCs were also required to account for the altered responses. This suggests that the stimulus parameters were specifically represented in the responses. The changes induced by both types of perturbation affected primarily the weighting or waveform of the second PC, which relates to the limb axis length trajectory. The results are consistent with the suggestion that information about limb orientation and length may be separately modulated.
Spinocerebellar neurons (DSCT) receive converging sensory information from various sensory receptors in the hindlimbs and lower trunk. Previous studies have shown that sensory processing by DSCT neurons results in a representation of global hindlimb kinematic parameters such as the length and the orientation of the limb axis. In addition to the sensory input, the DSCT circuitry also receives a descending input from the raphe nuclei in the brain stem. Recent studies have demonstrated that the raphe serotonergic terminals synapse directly on DSCT neurons and exert a differential modulatory influence on their sensory inputs. We examined the role of serotonergic modulation on the DSCT representation of hindlimb kinematic parameters by recording DSCT activity during passive hindlimb movements before and after perturbing serotonergic transmission. We used two types of perturbation: electrical stimulation of the raphe areas in the brain stem to release serotonin in the spinal cord (42 neurons) and intravenous administration of serotonergic agonists or antagonists, mostly the 5HTP2 antagonist ketanserin (30 neurons). We found that movement responses were altered in approximately 70% of the DSCT units studied with each protocol. Changes could include shifts in mean firing rate, increases or decreases in response amplitude, and changes in response waveform. We used a principal component analysis (PCA) to examine waveform components and to determine how they contributed to the response waveform changes caused by serotonin perturbation. Such changes could be explained by new or different response components that might indicate a modification in the data processing or by a different weighting of existing components that might indicate a modification of synaptic weighting. The results were consistent with the second alternative. We found that the same underlying response components could account for both control responses and those altered by serotonin perturbations. The observed changes in waveform could be entirely accounted for by a re-weighting of response components. In particular, the changes observed after raphe stimulation could be accounted for by selective changes in the weighting of the first principal component (PC) with only minor changes of the weighting of the second PC. Because these response components were shown previously to correlate with the limb axis orientation and length trajectories respectively, the finding is consistent with the idea that limb axis length and orientation information are processed separately within the spinal circuitry.
We investigate whether imagery of voluntary movements of different body parts activates somatotopical sections of the human motor cortices. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to detect the cortical activity when 7 healthy subjects imagine performing repetitive (0.5-Hz) flexion/extension movements of the right fingers or right toes, or horizontal movements of the tongue. We also collected functional images when the subjects actually executed these movements and used these data to define somatotopical representations in the motor areas. In this study, we relate the functional activation maps to cytoarchitectural population maps of areas 4a, 4p, and 6 in the same standard anatomical space. The important novel findings are 1). that imagery of hand movements specifically activates the hand sections of the contralateral primary motor cortex (area 4a) and the contralateral dorsal premotor cortex (area 6) and a hand representation located in the caudal cingulate motor area and the most ventral part of the supplementary motor area; 2). that when imagining making foot movements, the foot zones of the posterior part of the contralateral supplementary motor area (area 6) and the contralateral primary motor cortex (area 4a) are active; and 3). that imagery of tongue movements activates the tongue region of the primary motor cortex and the premotor cortex bilaterally (areas 4a, 4p, and 6). These results demonstrate that imagery of action engages the somatotopically organized sections of the primary motor cortex in a systematic manner as well as activating some body-part-specific representations in the nonprimary motor areas. Thus the content of the mental motor image, in this case the body part, is reflected in the pattern of motor cortical activation.
This study compared adaptation in novel force fields where trajectories were initially either stable or unstable to elucidate the processes of learning novel skills and adapting to new environments. Subjects learned to move in a null force field (NF), which was unexpectedly changed either to a velocity-dependent force field (VF), which resulted in perturbed but stable hand trajectories, or a position-dependent divergent force field (DF), which resulted in unstable trajectories. With practice, subjects learned to compensate for the perturbations produced by both force fields. Adaptation was characterized by an initial increase in the activation of all muscles followed by a gradual reduction. The time course of the increase in activation was correlated with a reduction in hand-path error for the DF but not for the VF. Adaptation to the VF could have been achieved solely by formation of an inverse dynamics model and adaptation to the DF solely by impedance control. However, indices of learning, such as hand-path error, joint torque, and electromyographic activation and deactivation suggest that the CNS combined these processes during adaptation to both force fields. Our results suggest that during the early phase of learning there is an increase in endpoint stiffness that serves to reduce hand-path error and provides additional stability, regardless of whether the dynamics are stable or unstable. We suggest that the motor control system utilizes an inverse dynamics model to learn the mean dynamics and an impedance controller to assist in the formation of the inverse dynamics model and to generate needed stability.
Recently, we demonstrated that humans can learn to make accurate movements in an unstable environment by controlling magnitude, shape, and orientation of the endpoint impedance. Although previous studies of human motor learning suggest that the brain acquires an inverse dynamics model of the novel environment, it is not known whether this control mechanism is operative in unstable environments. We compared learning of multijoint arm movements in a &quot;velocity-dependent force field&quot; (VF), which interacted with the arm in a stable manner, and learning in a &quot;divergent force field&quot; (DF), where the interaction was unstable. The characteristics of error evolution were markedly different in the 2 fields. The direction of trajectory error in the DF alternated to the left and right during the early stage of learning; that is, signed error was inconsistent from movement to movement and could not have guided learning of an inverse dynamics model. This contrasted sharply with trajectory error in the VF, which was initially biased and decayed in a manner that was consistent with rapid feedback error learning. EMG recorded before and after learning in the DF and VF are also consistent with different learning and control mechanisms for adapting to stable and unstable dynamics, that is, inverse dynamics model formation and impedance control. We also investigated adaptation to a rotated DF to examine the interplay between inverse dynamics model formation and impedance control. Our results suggest that an inverse dynamics model can function in parallel with an impedance controller to compensate for consistent perturbing force in unstable environments.
In the lamprey (a lower vertebrate), motor commands from the brain to the spinal cord are transmitted through the reticulospinal (RS) and vestibulospinal (VS) pathways. The axons of larger RS neurons reach the most caudal of approximately 100 spinal segments, whereas the VS pathway does not descend below the 15th segment. This study was carried out to compare functional projections of RS and VS neurons in the rostral spinal segments that the neurons innervate together. To reveal these projections, individual RS or VS neurons were stimulated, and the responses of different groups of spinal motoneurons were recorded in ventral root branches to dorsal and ventral parts of myotomes. The responses were detected using a spike-triggered averaging technique on the background of ongoing motoneuronal activity. Individual RS and VS neurons exerted uniform effects on segmental motor output within this rostral part of the spinal cord. The effects of VS neurons on different groups of motoneurons were weaker and less diverse than those of RS neurons. The results indicate that VS neurons are able to elicit a flexion of the rostral part of the body and to turn the head in different planes without affecting more caudal parts. By contrast, larger RS neurons can elicit head movement only together with movement of a considerable part of the body and thus seem to be responsible for formation of gross motor synergies.
Axonal degeneration within the spinal cord contributes substantially to neurological disability in multiple sclerosis (MS). Thus neuroprotective therapies that preserve axons, so that they maintain their integrity and continue to function, might be expected to result in improved neurological outcome. Sodium channels are known to provide a route for sodium influx that can drive calcium influx, via reverse operation of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger, after injury to axons within the CNS, and sodium channel blockers have been shown to protect CNS axons from degeneration after experimental anoxic, traumatic, and nitric oxide (NO)-induced injury. In this study, we asked whether phenytoin, which is known to block sodium channels, can protect spinal cord axons from degeneration in mice with experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), which display substantial axonal degeneration and clinical paralysis. We demonstrate that the loss of dorsal corticospinal tract (63%) and dorsal column (cuneate fasciculus; 43%) axons in EAE is significantly ameliorated (corticospinal tract: 28%; cuneate fasciculus: 17%) by treatment with phenytoin. Spinal cord compound action potentials (CAP) were significantly attenuated in untreated EAE, whereas spinal cords from phenytoin-treated EAE had robust CAPs, similar to those from phenytoin-treated control mice. Clinical scores in phenytoin-treated EAE at 28 days were significantly improved (1.5, i.e., minor righting reflex abnormalities) compared with untreated EAE (3.8, i.e., near-complete hindlimb paralysis). Our results demonstrate that phenytoin has a protective effect in vivo on spinal cord axons, preventing their degeneration, maintaining their ability to conduct action potentials, and improving clinical status in a model of neuroinflammation.
A subset of neurons in the rat limbic system encodes head direction (HD) by selectively discharging when the rat points its head in a preferred direction in the horizontal plane. The preferred firing direction is sensitive to the location of landmark cues, as well as idiothetic or self-motion cues (i.e., vestibular, motor efference copy, proprioception, and optic flow). Previous studies have shown that the preferred firing direction remains relatively stable (average shift +/- 18 degrees ) after the rat walks from a familiar environment into a novel one, suggesting that without familiar landmarks, the preferred firing direction can be maintained using idiothetic cues, a process called directional path integration. This study repeated this experiment and manipulated the idiothetic cues available to the rat as it moved between the familiar and novel environment. Motor efference copy/proprioceptive cues were disrupted by passively transporting the animal between the familiar and novel environment. Darkening the room as the animal moved to the novel environment eliminated optic flow cues. HD cell preferred firing directions shifted in the novel environment by an average of 30 degrees after locomotion from the familiar environment with the room lights off; by an average of 70 degrees after passive transport from the familiar environment with the room lights on; and by an average of 67 degrees after passive transport with the room lights off. These findings are consistent with the view that motor efference copy/proprioception cues are important for maintaining the preferred firing direction of HD cells under conditions requiring path integration.
In our companion paper, we reported on interaural time difference (ITD)-sensitive neurons that enhanced, suppressed, or did not change their response when identical AM was added to both ears. Here, we first examined physical factors such as the difference in the interaural correlation, spectrum, or energy between the modulated and unmodulated signals. These were insufficient to explain the observed enhancement and suppression. We then examined neural mechanisms by selectively modulating the signal to each ear, varying modulation depth, and adding background noise to the unmodulated signal. These experiments implicated excitatory and inhibitory monaural inputs to the inferior colliculus (IC). These monaural inputs are postulated to adapt to an unmodulated signal and adapt less to a modulated signal. Thus enhancement or suppression is created by the convergence of these excitatory or inhibitory inputs with the inputs from the binaural comparators. Under modulation, the role of the monaural input is to shift the threshold of the IC neuron. Consistent with this role, background noise mimicked the effect of modulation. Functionally, enhancement and suppression may serve in detecting the degree of modulation in a sound source while preserving ITD information.
Most sounds in the natural environment are amplitude-modulated (AM). To determine if AM alters the neuronal sensitivity to interaural time differences (ITDs) in low-frequency sounds, we tested neuronal responses to a binaural beat stimulus with and without modulation. We recorded from single units in the inferior colliculus of the unanesthetized rabbit. We primarily used low frequency ( approximately 25 Hz) modulation that was identical at both ears. We found that modulation could enhance, suppress, or not affect the discharge rate. In extreme cases, a neuron that showed no response to the unmodulated binaural beat did so when modulation was added to both ears. At the other extreme, a neuron that showed sensitivity to the unmodulated binaural beat ceased firing with modulation. Modulation could also affect the frequency range of ITD sensitivity, best ITD, and ITD tuning width. Despite these changes in individual neurons, averaging across all neurons, the peak and width of the population ITD function remained unchanged. Because ITD-sensitive neurons also time-locked to the modulation frequency, the location and sound attributes are processed simultaneously by these neurons.
We used auditory responsiveness in the avian song system to investigate the complex relationship between behavioral state and sensory processing in a high-order sensorimotor brain area. We present evidence from recordings in awake, anesthetized, and sleeping male zebra finches (Taeniopygia guttata) that auditory responsiveness in nucleus HVc is profoundly affected by changes in behavioral state. In anesthetized and sleeping birds, auditory responses were characterized by an increase in firing rate that was selective for the bird's own song (BOS) and highly stable over time. In contrast, HVc responses during wakefulness were extremely variable and transitioned between undetectable and robust levels over short intervals. Surprisingly, auditory responses in awake birds were not selective for the BOS stimulus. The variability of HVc auditory responses in awake birds suggests that, as in mammals, wakefulness is not a uniform behavioral state. Rather, auditory responsiveness likely is continually influenced by variables such as arousal state. We therefore developed several experimental paradigms in which we could manipulate arousal levels during auditory stimulus presentation. In all cases, arousal suppressed HVc auditory responses. This effect was specific to the song system, as auditory responses in Field L, a primary auditory area that is a source of auditory input to HVc, were unaffected. While arousal acts as a negative regulator of HVc auditory responsiveness, the presence and variability of the responses observed in awake, alert birds suggests that other mechanisms, such as attention, may enhance auditory responsiveness. The interplay between behavioral state and sensory processing may regulate song system responsiveness according to the bird's behavioral and social context.
Eye movement potentials (EMPs) associated with saccades appear in both subcortical and cortical structures of the primate visual system. In this study, EMPs are recorded across sites in the occipitotemporal (OT) pathway of monkeys performing a pattern-recognition task. We characterize pair recordings of saccade-triggered local field potentials (LFPs) in early extrastriate and inferotemporal regions of the ventral visual pathway using time-frequency spectrograms. Parameters of the spectrograms, including the centroids of identified regions of interest in the time-frequency plane, are extracted and analyzed. Comparisons among the distributions of the extracted parameters reveal that the occipital lobe EMPs are largely postsaccadic events centered at 100 ms after saccade onset that are typically not influenced in timing by the direction of the saccade or the appearance of a stimulus transient appearing either before or after the saccade. The occipital lobe EMPs also demonstrate a significant shift in frequency content during their transient time course that is influenced, in a few cases, by saccade direction. Temporal lobe EMPs, on the other hand, may be centered in either the presaccadic or postsaccadic intervals; the time of their appearance is significantly influenced by the direction of the saccade. Temporal lobe EMPs demonstrate less frequency modulation than those recorded in the occipital lobe. The prevalence of EMPs in the OT pathway suggests that many cortical regions important for pattern recognition can be modulated by saccades. The timing and frequency characteristics of these signals suggest that the nature of this perisaccadic modulation varies across the cortex.
It has been shown that stimulation of cutaneous nerves innervating the hand (superficial radial, SR) and foot (superficial peroneal, SP) elicit widespread reflex responses in many muscles across the body. These interlimb reflex responses were suggested to be functionally relevant to assist in motor coordination between the arms and legs during motor tasks such as walking. The experiments described in this paper were conducted to test the hypothesis that interlimb reflexes were phase-dependently modulated and produced functional kinematic changes during locomotion. Subjects walked on a treadmill while electromyographic (EMG) activity was collected continuously from all four limbs, and kinematic recordings were made of angular changes across the ankle, knee, elbow, and shoulder joints. Cutaneous reflexes were evoked by delivering trains of electrical stimulation pseudorandomly to the SP nerve or SR nerves in separate trials. Reflexes were phase-averaged according to the time of occurrence in the step cycle, and phasic amplitudes and latencies were calculated. For both nerves, significant phase-dependent modulation (including reflex reversals) of interlimb cutaneous reflex responses was seen in most muscles studied. Both SR and SP nerve stimulation resulted in significant alteration in ankle joint kinematics. The results suggest coordinated and functionally relevant reflex pathways from the SP and SR nerves onto motoneurons innervating muscles in nonstimulated limbs during walking, thus extending observations from the cat to that of the bipedal human.
Normal operations of the neocortex depend critically on several types of inhibitory interneurons, but the specific function of each type is unknown. One possibility is that interneurons are differentially engaged by patterns of activity that vary in frequency and timing. To explore this, we studied the strength and short-term dynamics of chemical synapses interconnecting local excitatory neurons (regular-spiking, or RS, cells) with two types of inhibitory interneurons: fast-spiking (FS) cells, and low-threshold spiking (LTS) cells of layer 4 in the rat barrel cortex. We also tested two other pathways onto the interneurons: thalamocortical connections and recurrent collaterals from corticothalamic projection neurons of layer 6. The excitatory and inhibitory synapses interconnecting RS cells and FS cells were highly reliable in response to single stimuli and displayed strong short-term depression. In contrast, excitatory and inhibitory synapses interconnecting the RS and LTS cells were less reliable when initially activated. Excitatory synapses from RS cells onto LTS cells showed dramatic short-term facilitation, whereas inhibitory synapses made by LTS cells onto RS cells facilitated modestly or slightly depressed. Thalamocortical inputs strongly excited both RS and FS cells but rarely and only weakly contacted LTS cells. Both types of interneurons were strongly excited by facilitating synapses from axon collaterals of corticothalamic neurons. We conclude that there are two parallel but dynamically distinct systems of synaptic inhibition in layer 4 of neocortex, each defined by its intrinsic spiking properties, the short-term plasticity of its chemical synapses, and (as shown previously) an exclusive set of electrical synapses. Because of their unique dynamic properties, each inhibitory network will be recruited by different temporal patterns of cortical activity.
In many rhythmic neuronal networks that operate in a wide range of frequencies, the time of neuronal firing relative to the cycle period (the phase) is invariant. This invariance suggests that when frequency changes, firing time is precisely adjusted either by intrinsic or synaptic mechanisms. We study the maintenance of phase in a computational model in which an oscillator neuron (O) inhibits a follower neuron (F) by comparing the dependency of phase on cycle period in two cases: when the inhibitory synapse is depressing and when it is nondepressing. Of the numerous ways of changing the cycle period, we focus on three cases where either the duration of the active state, the inactive state, or the duty cycle of neuron O remains constant. In each case, we measure the phase at which neuron F fires with respect to the onset of firing in neuron O. With a nondepressing synapse, this phase is generally a monotonic function of cycle period except in a small parameter range in the case of the constant inactive duration. In contrast, with a depressing synapse, there is always a parameter regime in which phase is a cubic function of cycle period: it decreases at short cycle periods, increases in an intermediate range, and decreases at long cycle periods. This complex shape for the phase-period relationship arises because of the interaction between synaptic dynamics and intrinsic properties of the postsynaptic neuron. By choosing appropriate parameters, the cubic shape of the phase-period curve results in a small variation in phase for a large interval of periods. Consequently, we find that although a depressing synapse does not produce perfect phase maintenance, in most cases it is superior to a nondepressing synapse in promoting a constant phase difference.
An important question in neuroscience is whether and how temporal patterns and fluctuations in neuronal spike trains contribute to information processing in the cortex. We have addressed this issue in the memory-related circuits of the prefrontal cortex by analyzing spike trains from a database of 229 neurons recorded in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of 4 macaque monkeys during the performance of an oculomotor delayed-response task. For each task epoch, we have estimated their power spectrum together with interspike interval histograms and autocorrelograms. We find that 1). the properties of most (about 60%) neurons approximated the characteristics of a Poisson process. For about 25% of cells, with characteristics typical of interneurons, the power spectrum showed a trough at low frequencies (&lt;20 Hz) and the autocorrelogram a dip near zero time lag. About 15% of neurons had a peak at &lt;20 Hz in the power spectrum, associated with the burstiness of the spike train; 2). a small but significant task dependency of spike-train temporal structure: delay responses to preferred locations were characterized not only by elevated firing, but also by suppressed power at low (&lt;20 Hz) frequencies; and 3). the variability of interspike intervals is typically higher during the mnemonic delay period than during the fixation period, regardless of the remembered cue. The high irregularity of neural persistent activity during the delay period is likely to be a characteristic signature of recurrent prefrontal network dynamics underlying working memory.

To date, nine polyglutamine disorders have been characterised, including Huntington's disease (HD), spinobulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA), dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA), and spinocerebellar ataxias 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 17 (SCAs). Although knockout and transgenic mouse experiments suggest that a toxic gain of function is central to neuronal death in these diseases (with the probable exception of SCA6), the exact mechanisms of neurotoxicity remain contentious. A further conundrum is the characteristic distribution of neuronal damage in each disease, despite ubiquitous expression of the abnormal proteins. One mechanism that could possibly underlie the specific distribution of neuronal toxicity is proteolytic cleavage of the full-length expanded polyglutamine tract-containing proteins. There is evidence found in vitro or in vivo (or both) of proteolytic cleavage in HD, SBMA, DRPLA, and SCAs 2, 3, and 7. In HD, cleavage has been demonstrated to be regionally specific, occurring as a result of caspase activation. These diseases are also characterised by development of intraneuronal aggregates of the abnormal protein that co-localise with components of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. It remains unclear whether these aggregates are pathogenic or merely disease markers; however, at least in the case of ataxin-3, cleavage promotes aggregation. Inhibition of specific proteases constitutes a potential therapeutic approach in these diseases.

Stretching of cultured neurons has been used to model diffuse axonal injury associated with brain trauma. N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) activation and group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are implicated in the pathophysiology of such injury. Here we detail the effects of culture condition and mGluR1 modulation on stretch-enhanced NMDA receptor activity, and show the presence of mGluR1 in addition to mGluR5 in glia. In cortical neurons grown in the absence (PN) or presence (NG) of a glial monolayer, stretch injury (5.7 mm) enhances NMDAR activity by increasing maximal NMDAR current, decreasing the voltage-dependent Mg(2+) block, and altering the kinetic behavior of these receptors. In PN cultures, activation of mGluR1 increases stretch-enhanced NMDAR activity, whereas in NG cultures, such activity is reduced. In contrast, inhibition of mGluR1 in PN cultures limits stretch-enhanced NMDAR activity, whereas in NG cultures activity is increased. MGluR1 modulate stretch-enhanced NMDAR activity through multiple mechanisms including: altering peak or steady state current, affecting Mg(2+) blockade of the NMDAR, or by changing NMDAR kinetics. The presence of glia significantly alters the nature of mGluR1-mediated modulation of NMDAR activity and stretch-induced injury. Together these data indicate a significant neuronal/glial interaction between glial mGluR1 and neuronal NMDA receptor activity.
Previous studies have shown that administration of vitamin B(3) (B(3)) in animal models of ischemia significantly reduced the size of infarction and improved functional recovery. The present study evaluated the effect of administration of B(3) on recovery of function following traumatic brain injury (TBI), incorporating the bilateral medial frontal cortex contusion injury model. Groups of rats were assigned to B(3) (500 mg/kg) or saline (1.0 ml/kg) treatment conditions and received contusion injuries or sham surgeries. Drug treatment was administered 15 min and 24 h following injury. Rats were examined on a variety of tests to measure sensorimotor performance (bilateral tactile adhesive removal), skilled forelimb use (staircase test), and cognitive ability (reference and working memory) in the Morris Water Maze. Administration of B(3) following injury significantly reduced the behavioral impairments observed on the bilateral tactile removal test, but not on skilled forelimb use. The acquisition of reference and working memory tests were also significantly improved compared to saline-treated rats. Examination of the brains revealed that administration of B(3) significantly reduced the size of the lesion compared to treatment with saline. In addition, examination of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression around the lesion revealed that B(3) significantly reduced the number of GFAP(+) astrocytes. These results indicate that B(3) administration significantly improved behavioral outcome following injury, reduced the size of the lesion, and reduced the expression of GFAP. The current findings suggest that B(3) may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of TBI.

The concept of chronic sorrow has been used to describe the reaction of parents to the ongoing losses associated with caring for a child with chronic illness or disability. A middle-range theory of chronic sorrow provides a framework for further understanding of this phenomenon. This theory is applied to a case of a family burdened with the unrelenting stress of caring for 2 children with lissencephaly. With an understanding of chronic sorrow, nurses can plan interventions that recognize it as a normal reaction, promote healthy adaptation, and provide empathetic support.
Antagonists of serotonin 6 (5-HT6) receptors have been reported to enhance cognition in animal models of learning, although this finding has not been universal. We have assessed the therapeutic potential of the specific 5-HT6 receptor antagonists 4-amino-N-(2,6-bis-methylamino-pyrimidin-4-yl)-benzenesulfonamide (Ro 04-6790) and 5-chloro-N-(4-methoxy-3-piperazin-1-yl-phenyl)-3-methyl-2-benzothiophenesulfonamide (SB-271046) in rodent models of cognitive function. Although mice express the 5-HT6 receptor and the function of this receptor has been investigated in mice, all reports of activity with 5-HT6 receptor antagonists have used rat models. In the present study, receptor binding revealed that the pharmacological properties of the mouse receptor are different from the rat and human receptor: Ro 04-6790 does not bind to the mouse 5-HT6 receptor, so all in vivo testing included in the present report was conducted in rats. We replicated previous reports that 5-HT6 receptor antagonists produce a stretching syndrome previously shown to be mediated through cholinergic mechanisms, but Ro 04-6790 and SB-271046 failed to attenuate scopolamine-induced deficits in a test of contextual fear conditioning. We also failed to replicate the significant effects reported previously in both an autoshaping task and in a version of the Morris water maze. The results of our experiments are not consistent with previous reports that suggested that 5-HT6 antagonists might have therapeutic potential for cognitive disorders.
It has been shown that morphine-tolerant animals have an altered immunological sensitivity to stress. Although the glutamatergic system has been implicated in the neuroadaptive process underlying this tolerant state, its potential role in development of the altered immunological sensitivity consequent to chronic morphine treatment is not known. To determine this, a morphine-tolerant state was induced by 10-day administration of an escalating dose of morphine from 10 to 40 mg/kg (s.c., b.i.d.), and lymphocyte proliferative response to a T-cell mitogen was measured. Morphine challenge (10 mg/kg s.c.) after days of treatment was gradually less immunosuppressive, and this tolerance progression was delayed by concurrent administration of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist (-)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801) (0.1 mg/kg s.c.) with chronic morphine. The effect was independent of glucocorticoid level changes and was not a result of an acute interaction of the drugs or the prolonged presence of the antagonist alone. Subsequent to chronic treatment, animals were subjected to opioid withdrawal and water stress. Both stressors induced 50% immunosuppression in morphine-tolerant animals compared with saline-treated controls. Increased immunological sensitivity to these stressors was attenuated when MK-801 was administered with chronic morphine as demonstrated by an accelerated recovery rate and lack of immunosuppression from opioid withdrawal and water stress, respectively. Together, these findings provide the first evidence that the neuroadapted state of the immune response after chronic morphine can be modified by NMDA receptor antagonism, as illustrated by a temporal deceleration of the development of immunological tolerance during chronic treatment that is associated with an attenuation of the immunological vulnerability of morphine-tolerant animals to stress.
Chronic cocaine administration induces a number of biochemical alterations within the mesolimbic dopamine system that may mediate various aspects of the addictive process such as sensitization, craving, withdrawal, and relapse. In the present study, rats were allowed to self-administer cocaine (0.5 mg/infusion) for 1 or 20 days. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunopositive cells were microdissected from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) using laser capture microdissection, and changes in the abundances of 95 mRNAs were assessed using cDNA macroarrays. Five GABA-A receptor subunit mRNAs (alpha4, alpha6, beta2, gamma2, and delta) were down-regulated at both 1 and 20 days of cocaine self-administration. In contrast, the catalytic subunit of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2alpha), GABA-A alpha1, and Galphai2 were significantly increased at both time points. Additionally, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIalpha mRNA levels were increased initially followed by a slight decrease after 20 days, whereas neuronal nitric-oxide synthase mRNA levels were initially decreased but returned to near control levels by day 20. These results indicate that alterations of specific GABA-A receptor subtypes and other signal transduction transcripts seem to be specific neuroadaptations associated with cocaine self-administration. Moreover, as subunit composition determines the functional properties of GABA-A receptors, the observed changes may indicate alterations in the excitability of dopamine transmission underlying long-term biochemical and behavioral effects of cocaine.
P2X receptors are ATP-gated cation channels composed of one or more of seven different subunits. ATP acts at P2X receptors to contribute to fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in myenteric neurons but the subunit composition of enteric P2X receptors is unknown. These studies used tissues from P2X2 wild-type (P2X2+/+) and P2X2 gene knockout (P2X2-/-) mice to investigate the role of this subunit in enteric neurotransmission. Intracellular electrophysiological methods were used to record synaptic and drug-induced responses from ileal myenteric neurons in vitro. Drug-induced longitudinal muscle contractions and peristaltic contractions of ileal segments were also studied in vitro. Gastrointestinal transit was measured as the progression in 30 min of a liquid radioactive marker administered by gavage to fasted mice. RT-PCR analysis of mRNA from intestinal tissues and data from immunohistochemical studies verified P2X2 gene deletion. The fEPSPs recorded from S neurons in tissues from P2X2+/+ mice were reduced by mecamylamine (nicotinic cholinergic receptor antagonist) and PPADS (P2X receptor antagonist). The fEPSPs recorded from S neurons from P2X2-/- mice were unaffected by PPADS but were blocked by mecamylamine. ATP depolarized S and AH neurons from P2X2+/+ mice. ATP depolarized AH but not S neurons from P2X2-/- mice. alpha,beta-Methylene ATP (alpha,beta-mATP)(an agonist at P2X3 subunit-containing receptors) did not depolarize S neurons but it did depolarize AH neurons in P2X2+/+ and P2X2-/- mice. Peristalsis was inhibited in ileal segments from P2X2-/- mice but longitudinal muscle contractions caused by nicotine and bethanechol were similar in segments from P2X2+/+ and P2X2-/- mice. Gastrointestinal transit was similar in P2X2+/+ and P2X2-/- mice. It is concluded that P2X2 homomeric receptors contribute to fEPSPs in neural pathways underlying peristalsis studied in vitro.
It has been suggested that the dysfunction of the prefrontal cortex in schizophrenics is due to dysfunctional connections between the prefrontal cortex and more posterior structures. The present study uses a recent stereological method that allows quantitation of the myelinated nerve fibers in the brain white matter. As especially the prefrontal region is of interest in schizophrenics, the prefrontal white matter was quantitated separately. The total length of nerve fibers in post-mortem brains was estimated from eight male chronic schizophrenics and nine male controls (age-range: 40-81 years). Samples were taken systematically and randomly from both the entire white matter and selectively from the prefrontal white matter. The biopsies were rotated randomly before sectioning to avoid bias due to the anisotropic nature of nerve fibers. The fibers were counted at light microscopic level at about 10,000 x magnification and the fiber diameter of each counted fiber was measured to get the size distribution of the fibers. The schizophrenics had a total of 129,000 km myelinated fibers in the white matter and 25,700 km in the prefrontal white matter, which was non-significantly different from a total of 137,000 km in the entire white matter and 27,600 km in the prefrontal white matter in controls. The size distribution of the fibers in schizophrenics was within normal limits compared to controls. Our results do not show a larger loss of nerve fibers in neither the white matter globally or in the prefrontal white matter of schizophrenics.
Alterations in the density and size of pyramidal neurons in the prefrontal cortex have been described in schizophrenia and mood disorder. However, the changes are generally modest and have not always been replicated. We investigated the possibility that specific pyramidal neuron sub-populations, defined by their immunoreactivity with the anti-neurofilament antibodies SMI32, N200, and FNP7, are differentially affected in these disorders. First, we assessed the distribution and characteristics of pyramidal neurons labelled by the antibodies in the human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (Brodmann areas 9, 32, 46), using single and double label immunocytochemistry and immunofluorescence. Three largely separate sub-populations of pyramidal neurons were identified, although with more substantial overlap between SMI32- and FNP7-positive neurons in lamina V. We then determined the density, size and shape of the three pyramidal neuron sub-populations in area 9 in patients with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, or major depressive disorder, compared to controls (n=15 in each group). We found a lower density of lamina III N200-positive neurons in major depressive disorder than in schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. There were no other overall differences in neuronal density, or in neuronal size or shape, although a planned secondary analysis supported the previously reported decrease of neuronal size in lamina V in bipolar disorder. In summary, our study illustrates a conceptual and methodological approach which may be of value for investigating the differential neuropathological involvement of pyramidal neuron sub-populations. However, we found no clear evidence that the prefrontal neuropathology of schizophrenia or mood disorders preferentially affects SMI32-, N200- or FNP7-immunoreactive pyramidal neurons.
We systematically reviewed the localization of focal brain lesions that cause isolated hallucination in a single sensory modality. Case reports of post-lesion nonparoxysmal hallucination in 1 (and only 1) of 3 sensory modalities (i.e., visual, auditory, somatic) were reviewed, and the content of the qualitative descriptions was analyzed for each modality. The lesion is practically always located in the brain pathway of the sensory modality of the hallucination. There seem to exist localized sensory brain circuits that in healthy people diminish the intensity of internal sensory representation. After a lesion, hallucinosis seems to be caused also by compensatory overactivation of tissue in the nearby brain sensory pathway. This type of hallucination may indeed be termed a &quot;release&quot; form, whereby patients are aware of the hallucinatory nature of their experience, but not usually of &quot;dream centres&quot; as proposed by Lhermitte. Instead, we propose that it is dreaming that should be considered a special case of neural &quot;release.&quot;

Thomas Willis (1621-1675) is recognized as the founder of clinical neuroscience. He conceived the word &quot;neurologie&quot; and, although immortalized by the arterial anastamosis at the base of the brain, his contributions to neuroscience were far wider and equally fundamental. This paper examines Willis' descriptions of cerebrovascular disorders, which he encountered in his practice.
Intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) occurred in a 32-year-old man following the use of both ephedrine and pseudoephedrine. Cerebral angiography and transcranial Doppler studies showed changes suggestive of vasculitis. We describe the management and investigations of a unique case of IVH. This patient was treated with ventriculostomy and intraventricular urokinase (UK). A favorable outcome was obtained with independent function at 10 weeks post hemorrhage. The use of intraventricular thrombolysis for drug-induced IVH has not previously been reported, although it has been shown to be a safe and potentially beneficial intervention.

The effects of age on cue learning, spatial reference memory, and strategy preference were assessed in B6 x SJL F1 mice by using the Morris water maze. This mouse strain is of particular interest because it is the background strain for a common transgenic model of Alzheimer's disease, the Tg2576 mouse, which develops plaques and other neurobiological markers of pathology beginning at 8 mo and increasing in severity with advanced age. In the current study, 12- and 23-mo-old C57B6 x SJL F1 mice were serially trained in cue and place versions of the Morris water maze task. At the completion of training, mice received a strategy probe test in which place (hidden) and cue (visible) strategies were in competition. Cue and spatial learning ability was maintained between 12 and 23 mo of age; however, on the strategy preference probe test, the 23-mo-old mice exhibited a significant bias toward the selection of a cue strategy. There was no relationship between strategy preference in the probe test and spatial learning ability, but the 23-mo-old mice did exhibit a strong trend toward shorter latencies during visible platform training, possibly reflecting the enhanced function of striatal-based neural systems in aging. These data demonstrate that 23-mo-old C57B6 x SJL F1 mice are capable of effective place learning, but if a place strategy is pitted against the use of a cue strategy, the use of a cue strategy predominates in the aged mice. The strategy preference observed here may reflect an emergence of differential processing in underlying brain circuitry with age in the B6 x SJL F1 mouse strain.
Age-related memory decline is associated with a combined dysfunction of the cholinergic and serotonergic systems in the hippocampus and frontal cortex, in particular. The 5-HT1B receptor occupies strategic cellular and subcellular locations in these structures, where it plays a role in the modulation of ACh release. In an attempt to characterize the contribution of this receptor to memory functions, 5-HT1B receptor knockout (KO) mice were submitted to various behavioral paradigms carried out in the same experimental context (water maze), which were aimed at exposing mice to various levels of memory demand. 5-HT1BKO mice exhibited a facilitation in the acquisition of a hippocampal-dependent spatial reference memory task in the Morris water maze. This facilitation was selective of task difficulty, showing thus that the genetic inactivation of the 5-HT1B receptor is associated with facilitation when the complexity of the task is increased, and reveals a protective effect on age-related hippocampal-dependent memory decline. Young-adult and aged KO and wild-type (WT) mice were equally able to learn a delayed spatial matching-to-sample working memory task in a radial-arm water maze with short (0 or 5 min) delays. However, 5-HT1BKO mice, only, exhibited a selective memory impairment at intermediate and long (15, 30, and 60 min) delays. Treatment by scopolamine induced the same pattern of performance in wild type as did the mutation for short (5 min, no impairment) and long (60 min, impairment) delays. Taken together, these studies revealed a beneficial effect of the mutation on the acquisition of a spatial reference memory task, but a deleterious effect on a working memory task for long delays. This 5-HT1BKO mouse story highlights the problem of the potential existence of &quot;global memory enhancers.&quot;
Classical conditioning of the eyeblink reflex to a neutral stimulus that predicts an aversive stimulus is a basic form of associative learning. Acquisition and retention of this learned response require the cerebellum and associated sensory and motor pathways and engage several other brain regions including the hippocampus, neocortex, neostriatum, septum, and amygdala. The cerebellum and its associated circuitry form the essential neural system for delay eyeblink conditioning. Trace eyeblink conditioning, a learning paradigm in which the conditioned and unconditioned stimuli are noncontiguous, requires both the cerebellum and the hippocampus and exhibits striking parallels to declarative memory formation in humans. Identification of the neural structures critical to the development and maintenance of the conditioned eyeblink response is an essential precursor to the investigation of the mechanisms responsible for the formation of these associative memories. In this review, we describe the evidence used to identify the neural substrates of classical eyeblink conditioning and potential mechanisms of memory formation in critical regions of the hippocampus and cerebellum. Addressing a central goal of behavioral neuroscience, exploitation of this simple yet robust model of learning and memory has yielded one of the most comprehensive descriptions to date of the physical basis of a learned behavior in mammals.
A chromosome substitution strain (CSS) is an inbred strain in which one chromosome has been substituted from a different inbred strain by repeated backcrossing. A complete CSS set has one strain representing each chromosome against a uniform background, thus allowing genome-wide scans to be carried out for quantitative trait loci (QTLs) influencing any trait of interest. A one-way ANOVA by strain is first carried out, followed by planned comparisons using Dunnett's method. A QTL is detected and mapped to a chromosome when a significant difference is observed in a background strain vs CSS comparison. The most efficient ratio of background to CSS mice in any one comparison is 4.5:1, and the threshold for p &lt;.05 genome-wide significance is estimated to be p =.003 to.004, a much less stringent criterion than any other mammalian mapping population. The use of false discovery rates tends to further reduce threshold stringency. Comparisons are made to the widely used conventional F(2) intercross, and both advantages and disadvantages are noted. The proportion of the trait variance due to a QTL is often much larger than the same QTL in an F(2), and the number of generations to attain fine mapping is greatly reduced. To serve as guidelines for planning experiments, methods to estimate sample sizes for QTL detection are presented for the initial genome scan and for subsequent fine mapping.


This study investigated student acceptance of a digital laboratory guide in a medical neuroscience course. The guide was created in Macromedia Authorware 5.2 by transforming a text-based lab manual into a comprehensive multimedia program. Student attitudinal survey data indicated that the guide was used primarily as a study tool at home. Some 53% of students (primarily males) used the guide for independent study exclusively, while the remainder used it for both independent and group study; 87% of the class used the guide as a routine study tool rather than as a final review for examinations. Most students perceived that the guide increased their study efficiency and lab performance while decreasing their out-of-class study time in the lab. Female students were significantly more enthusiastic about the guide's impact on their study efficiency, lab performance and laboratory study time. Gender differences in student satisfaction with and use of instructional multimedia are discussed.
Endothelin is an endogenous vasoactive peptide that is considered among the most potent vasoconstrictor substances known. In addition to its vascular effects, endothelins and their receptors have been shown to be present in the eye and to have a number of ocular actions that may be important for ocular homeostasis, but, in excess can be a potential contributor to ocular neuropathy in glaucoma. The current review focuses on the cellular and molecular aspects of endothelins and its receptors in the eye with an emphasis on its relationship to ocular function and its potential role in the etiology of glaucoma pathophysiology.
Neuronal calcium sensor (NCS) proteins including the subfamily of visinin-like-proteins (VILIPs) are involved in regulation of various signaling cascades. One molecular regulation mechanism is the calcium-myristoyl switch. VILIPs show a calcium-dependent membrane association in brain homogenates; however, differences in calcium-induced conformation changes and degree of membrane association are reported. Little is known about differences in the calcium-myristoyl switch in living cells leading to localization of VILIPs to distinct subcellular compartments. Therefore, we studied the calcium-dependent localization of green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged VILIP-3 in living cell lines and hippocampal neurons and compared it with that of GFP-VILIP-1. Interestingly, the observed fast and reversible calcium-myristoyl switch of VILIP-3-GFP and VILIP-1-GFP differed, e.g., in calcium-dependent translocation to Golgi membranes. Similarily, the calcium-dependent localization of endogenously expressed VILIP-3 and -1 in dendrites differed. Thus, VILIPs co-expressed in the same neuron show clear differences in calcium-dependent localization which may allow neurons a highly selective response to various calcium stimuli.
Phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) hydrolyzes phosphatidylcholine to lysophosphatidylcholine and arachidonic acid. The former can induce myelin breakdown and the latter, via eicosanoids, can stimulate inflammatory responses. Immunohistochemical analysis of secreted (sPLA(2)) and cytosolic (cPLA(2)) forms of the enzyme was assessed in the injured adult rat sciatic and optic nerves. sPLA(2) and cPLA(2) are expressed in the first 2 weeks in the injured sciatic nerve, which correlates with rapid Wallerian degeneration in peripheral nerves. In contrast, both forms of PLA(2) were not expressed in the optic nerve for the first 3 weeks after crush injury, which correlates with slow Wallerian degeneration in the central nervous system (CNS). In addition, PLA(2) is not expressed in the lesioned sciatic nerve of C57BL/Wld(s) mutant mice in which Wallerian degeneration is severely retarded. Blocking cPLA(2) in the transected sciatic nerve of C57BL/6 mice, which have a naturally occurring null mutation for the major from of sPLA(2), resulted in a marked slowing of myelin and axonal degradation and phagocytosis in the distal nerve segment. These results provide direct evidence of an important role for cPLA(2) in Wallerian degeneration.
We have studied the molecular identity of adult mouse SVZ cells in situ, and after isolation and expansion as neurospheres in vitro. The gene and protein expression patterns of the adult cells have been compared to that of the cells from the lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE), their putative embryonic counterparts. The LGE gives rise to both striatal projection neurons and olfactory bulb interneurons via spatially and molecularly distinct progenitor populations present in the SVZ of the LGE. These two populations are thought to have a common origin in the GSH2 expressing cells of the embryonic LGE ventricular zone. We found that a significant number of cells in the adult SVZ, and in the in vitro expanded neurospheres, derived from the adult SVZ express GSH2. However, under normal conditions, GSH2-expressing cells in the adult SVZ and in the in vitro expanded neurospheres appear to specify only olfactory bulb progenitors and not striatal progenitors.
In retinal photoreceptors, the duration of G protein signalling is tightly regulated by the GTPase-activating protein RGS9-1. RGS9-1 is anchored to the disk membranes of photoreceptor outer segments by association with the membrane-spanning protein R9AP. Here we report the cloning of chicken R9AP from an inner ear cDNA library and the isolation of a murine R9AP cDNA from a retinal library. In the chicken, R9AP appears to be expressed in a variety of neuronal tissues, particularly in sensory cells including inner ear hair cells, photoreceptors, and dorsal root ganglion neurons. In the mouse, R9AP is detectable predominantly in photoreceptors, but it is also weakly expressed in other areas of the central nervous system. The expression of R9AP beyond photoreceptors led us to examine potential alternative roles for R9AP besides anchoring RGS9-1 and we found sequence homology and structural similarity of the protein with members of the SNARE protein family. Expression of chicken and mouse R9AP interfered with intracellular trafficking of an indicator protein in an in vitro assay, suggesting a more active role of the protein, possibly in targeting. GTPase-activating proteins to specific membranous compartments.
The longstanding question of how the pattern of skin sensory innervation arises led us to investigate the behavior of rat DRG sensory axonal outgrowth. Outgrowing neurites from NGF-stimulated DRGs placed in close vicinity demonstrated repulsive behavior in the form of turning responses. In contrast, NT3-dependent neurites intermingled, as did neurites cultured without collagen embedding. These observations raise the possibility that secretion and not contact repulsion is the dermatome-building mechanism of nociceptive territories. Further experiments with functional antibodies against known secreted guidance molecules had no blocking effect. Our data provide evidence that the segmented pattern of skin nociceptive sensory maps is supported by unknown intrinsic cues released from the sensory axons themselves.
We report peripheral actions in rats of Neotrofin, a purine derivative of therapeutic interest. Systemic injections mimicked NGF in eliciting sprouting of nociceptive nerves without affecting their regeneration. The sprouting was prevented by anti-NGF treatment, implicating endogenous NGF. We detected no Neotrofin-induced increases in cutaneous NGF levels or in retrograde NGF transport. In contrast, both NGF and phosphorylation of trkA increased significantly in DRGs, with a marginal appearance of phosphorylated trkA in axons. We conclude that the DRG effects of Neotrofin are responsible for its induction of sprouting. Neotrofin also induced a striking phosphorylation of axonal erk 1 and 2, which was, however, unaffected by anti-NGF treatment. We suggest that this NGF-independent MAP kinase activation is involved in nonsprouting functions of Neotrofin such as neuroprotection. Unlike injected NGF, Neotrofin did not induce hyperalgesia, supporting its candidacy as a treatment for peripheral neuropathies like those induced by diabetes and anticancer chemotherapy.
To identify genes that render the adult-injured spinal cord nonpermissive and the embryonic spinal cord permissive to regeneration, we used subtraction hybridization and suppression PCR to generate subtractive cDNA populations representing (1) genes expressed in the embryonic but not in the adult-injured or uninjured spinal cords, (2) genes expressed in the adult-injured but not in the embryonic or adult-uninjured spinal cords, and (3) genes expressed in the embryonic and adult-injured spinal cords but not in the adult-uninjured spinal cord. Between 85 and 98% of the cDNAs identified are differentially represented in each population. Genes in each cDNA population were identified by microarray hybridization. Genes involved in inflammation, apoptosis, and neuroprotection were overrepresented in injured spinal cord cDNA, whereas genes involved in cell signaling and differentiation were overrepresented in the embryonic cDNA. This gene expression profiling suggests new hypotheses regarding the genes involved in inhibition and promotion of spinal cord regeneration.
The peptide KLVFF-K6 was observed by Lowe et al. to simultaneously enhance amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) fibrillogenesis and decrease cellular toxicity, as measured in a 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction assay. It was postulated that accelerated Abeta aggregation and precipitation induced by KLVFF-K6 may lead to an increase in less toxic insoluble fibrils at the expense of more toxic soluble protofibrils. In a previous study, we distinguished between two modes of protofibril growth: elongation by monomer deposition and direct protofibril-protofibril association. These growth mechanisms could be resolved by varying Abeta monomer and NaCl concentrations. Using assays designed to isolate these distinct modes of protofibril growth, we report here that larger Abeta aggregates formed in the presence of KLVFF-K6 resulted from enhanced protofibril association. 3H-Radiomethylated KLVFF-K6 bound to associated protofibrils with an apparent Kd of 180 nM, and concentrations of free [3H]KLVFF-K6 in this range were sufficient to convert soluble protofibrils to sedimentable fibrils. However, promotion of Abeta protofibril association by KLVFF-K6 had no effect on Abeta-induced decreases in cellular MTT reduction. Therefore, our data do not support the proposal that insoluble fibrils formed with KLVFF-K6 are less toxic than soluble protofibrils. KLVFF-K6 did not alter rates of protofibril elongation by monomer deposition. In contrast, when added to Abeta monomers isolated with the use of size-exclusion chromatography, KLVFF-K6 inhibited fibrillogenesis, as measured by thioflavin T fluorescence, and this inhibition was paralleled by a failure to alter cellular MTT reduction.
We investigated whether myoclonus in corticobasal degeneration (CBD) is cortical or subcortical in origin. Many authors have suggested that the myoclonus in CBD is a subtype of cortical myoclonus, despite the fact that back-averaging fails to detect a cortical correlate to spontaneous or action induced jerks and giant sensory evoked potentials are seldom found. Electroencephalographic-electromyographic (EEG-EMG) and EMG-EMG frequency analysis may be more sensitive to cortical drives when EMG bursts occur at a high frequency and at low amplitudes as in CBD. We evaluated EEG-EMG and EMG-EMG coherence and phase in 5 patients with clinically probable CBD and unilateral, action-induced and stimulus-sensitive myoclonus. We found negligible corticomuscular coherence despite a dramatically exaggerated EMG-EMG coherence. We conclude that an inflated EMG-EMG coherence is found in some patients with CBD and that this is unlikely to be due to an exaggerated cortical drive.
We compared the antitremor effect of pramipexole, pergolide, or placebo in Parkinson's disease (PD). A double-blind, randomly controlled, parallel protocol was deployed to examine the effects of placebo, pergolide, and pramipexole [doses escalated to 1.5 mg three times daily (t.i.d.) over 3 months] on a compound Tremor Index (TI) and Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) part III. Thirty PD patients (19 men, 11 women; mean age 69 years, range 54-80 years; mean disease duration 3.9 years, range, 0.5-10 years) participated in the study, with 10 patients in each arm. Six subjects failed to complete the study (4 on pergolide and 2 on placebo). Analysis of covariance demonstrated strong evidence for a treatment effect on both TI and UPDRS III. There was no significant difference between the active treatments on either TI or UPDRS III. Both pergolide and pramipexole were significantly better than placebo. The results indicate that pergolide and pramipexole (1.5 mg t.i.d.) have similar anti-PD tremor and UPDRS III actions that are significantly superior to placebo. Patients on pergolide were more likely to drop out because of adverse events than those on pramipexole.
This community-based study of Parkinson's disease (PD) investigated age at death and cause of death in a cohort of 170 previously studied patients. The current study is a 9-year follow-up, and the results are compared to 510 sex- and age-matched controls from the same area. A total of 170 patients were diagnosed with PD on August 31, 1989, within a defined area of Sweden. A control group of 510 persons from the same area and with the same age and sex distribution was also examined regarding age at death and cause of death. After 9.4 years, 121 cases (71.1%) and 229 controls (44.9%) were no longer alive. Thus, the mortality rate ratio was 1.6 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.3-1.8) when comparing PD patients with controls. The all-cause hazard ratio for cases compared to controls was 2.4 (95% CI, 1.9-3.0). The mean age at death for the cases was 81.9 (95% CI, 80.3-83.0) years and for the controls 82.9 (95% CI, 82.0-83.7) years. Survival analysis also showed a shorter survival time (P &lt; 0.001) for PD patients. Only 53% of the death certificates for the deceased patients recorded PD as an underlying or contributory cause of death. Many PD patients reached a high age but had a shorter survival than the controls. There was a significant increase in deaths from pneumonia.
We report on an evaluation of coding variants within the parkin gene to assess their frequency in a North American clinical series of 313 Parkinson's disease (PD) cases and 192 unrelated controls. We hypothesized that the carrier frequency of parkin coding mutations, exon deletions, or duplications may be greater in PD cases. However, point mutations and exonic deletions/duplications, reported previously as pathogenic in homozygous or compound heterozygous individuals, occurred in both cases and controls with similar frequencies (3.8% in cases, 3.1% in controls). Furthermore, only stratified subanalyses detected any genetic association between the V380L common coding polymorphism and PD. We discuss the implication of parkin mutations for Parkinson's disease from this population perspective.
Long-term dopamine replacement therapy of Parkinson's disease leads to the occurrence of dyskinesias. Altered firing patterns of neurons of the internal globus pallidus, involving a pathological synchronization/desynchronization process, may contribute significantly to the genesis of dyskinesia. Levetiracetam, an antiepileptic drug that counteracts neuronal (hyper)synchronization in animal models of epilepsy, was assessed in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset model of Parkinson's disease, after coadministration with (1) levodopa (L-dopa) or (2) ropinirole/L-dopa combination. Oral administration of levetiracetam (13-60 mg/kg) in combination with either L-dopa (12 mg/kg) alone or L-dopa (8 mg/kg)/ropinirole (1.25 mg/kg) treatments was associated with significantly less dyskinesia, in comparison to L-dopa monotherapy during the first hour after administration. Thus, new nondopaminergic treatment strategies targeting normalization of abnormal firing patterns in basal ganglia structures may prove useful as an adjunct to reduce dyskinesia induced by dopamine replacement therapy without affecting its antiparkinsonian action.
The effect of Parkinson's disease (PD) on young patients' lives is likely to differ from that in older patients. For this study, 75 patients with onset of PD before the age of 50 and 66 patients with later onset completed a booklet of questionnaires on demographic and clinical variables, quality of life, and psychosocial factors. Apart from a higher rate of treatment-related dyskinesias in the younger onset group, the two groups did not differ in self-reported disease severity or disability. A higher percentage of young-onset patients was unemployed due to disability or had retired early. Quality of life as measured on the PDQ-39 was significantly worse in young-onset patients than in older-onset patients. Young-onset patients also had worse scores on the stigma and marital satisfaction scales, and were depressed more frequently. Differences between the two groups in their most commonly employed coping strategies and in terms of their satisfaction with emotional support did not reach significance. We conclude that young-onset patients more frequently experience loss of employment, disruption of family life, greater perceived stigmatization, and depression than do older-onset patients with PD. In addition to more severe treatment-related motor complications, social and psychosocial factors may contribute to greater impairment of quality of life in young patients with PD.
Severe chronic liver disease may be associated with a peripheral somatic and an autonomic neuropathy. There are only a limited number of reports on the incidence and features of these neuropathies. In addition the effects of liver transplantation on these neuropathies have not been well studied. We examined peripheral somatic and autonomic nerve function in 42 patients with endstage liver disease prior to transplantation and also examined the effect of liver transplantation on these neuropathies in 14 patients. Peripheral somatic neuropathy (93%) and autonomic neuropathy (50%) were common in patients with endstage liver disease and were more frequent than previously reported. Abnormalities improved in some patients after liver transplantation, particularly if there was return of normal hepatic function.
Neurodegenerative diseases of the human brain comprise a variety of disorders that affect an increasing percentage of the population. Some of these are age dependent (e.g. Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases) and some are infection dependent, e.g. human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). The vulnerable brain regions in HIV/AIDS individuals include the dentate nucleus in the cerebellum, the red nucleus, substantia nigra (SN) in the mid-brain, the subthalamic nucleus, thalamic fasciculus in the diencephalons, the globus pallidus and striatum (or neostriatum, which consists of caudate and putamen) in the forebrain. Lesion in these regions may lead to progressive dementia, which is similar to what is observed in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. The entry of calcium into the cytoplasm of cells at concentrations that can activate oxidative enzymes such as phospholipase A(2) and xanthine oxidase, deplete cells of cysteine and glutathione, cause mitochondrial release of free radicals and cell death. Glutamate and its receptors are key molecular elements at the interface between neurons and glia. Dietary factors can modulate physiological functions (including brain function) thereby increasing the economic productivity of a population as a function of health. A greater understanding of the molecular mechanisms of neuroprotection, oxidative stress and immune function will facilitate definition of the prophylactic potentials of diet, nutritional/food supplements, medicinal plants and herbal extracts.
A series of naturally occurring isoquinoline alkaloids, besides their distribution in the environment and presence in certain food stuffs, have been detected in human tissues including particular regions of brain. An example is salsolinol (1-methyl-6,7-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline) that not only induces neuronal cell death, but also causes DNA damage and genotoxicity. Tetrahydropapaveroline [THP; 6,7-dihydroxy-1-(3',4'-dihydroxybenzyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline], a dopamine-derived tetrahydroisoquinoline alkaloid, has been reported to inhibit mitochondrial respiration and is considered to contribute to neurodegeneration implicated in Parkinson's disease. Since THP bears two catechol moieties, the compound may readily undergo redox cycling to produce reactive oxygen species (ROS) as well as toxic quinoids. In the present study, we have examined the capability of THP to cause oxidative DNA damage and cell death. Incubation of THP with phiX174 supercoiled DNA or calf thymus DNA in the presence of cupric ion caused substantial DNA damage as determined by strand scission or formation of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodGuo), respectively. THP plus copper-induced DNA damage was ameliorated by some ROS scavengers/antioxidants and catalase. Treatment of C6 glioma cells with THP led to a concentration-dependent reduction in cell viability, which was prevented by the antioxidant N-acetyl-L-cysteine. When these cells were treated with 10microM THP, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) were rapidly activated via phosphorylation, whereas activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) was inhibited. Furthermore, pretreatment with inhibitors of JNK and p38 MAPK rescued the glioma cells from THP-induced cytotoxicity, suggestive of the involvement of these kinases in THP-induced C6 glioma cell damage.

Neural representations created in the absence of external sensory stimuli are referred to as imagery, and such representations may be augmented by reenactment of sensorimotor processes. We measured nasal airflow in human subjects while they imagined sights, sounds and smells, and only during olfactory imagery did subjects spontaneously enact the motor component of olfaction--that is, they sniffed. Moreover, as in perception, imagery of pleasant odors involved larger sniffs than imagery of unpleasant odors, suggesting that the act of sniffing has a functional role in creating of olfactory percepts.
DeltaFosB (a truncated form of FosB) and CREB (cAMP response element binding protein) are transcription factors induced in the brain's reward pathways after chronic exposure to drugs of abuse. However, their mechanisms of action and the genes they regulate remain unclear. Using microarray analysis in the nucleus accumbens of inducible transgenic mice, we found that CREB and a dominant-negative CREB have opposite effects on gene expression, as do prolonged expression of DeltaFosB and the activator protein-1 (AP-1) antagonist DeltacJun. However, unlike CREB, short-term and prolonged DeltaFosB induction had opposing effects on gene expression. Gene expression induced by short-term DeltaFosB and by CREB was strikingly similar, and both reduced the rewarding effects of cocaine, whereas prolonged DeltaFosB expression increased drug reward. Gene expression after a short cocaine treatment was more dependent on CREB, whereas gene expression after a longer cocaine treatment became increasingly DeltaFosB dependent. These findings help define the molecular functions of CREB and DeltaFosB and identify clusters of genes that contribute to cocaine addiction.
Here we studied the role of signaling through ErbB-family receptors in interactions between unmyelinated axons and non-myelinating Schwann cells in adult nerves. We generated transgenic mice that postnatally express a dominant-negative ErbB receptor in non-myelinating but not in myelinating Schwann cells. These mutant mice present a progressive peripheral neuropathy characterized by extensive Schwann cell proliferation and death, loss of unmyelinated axons and marked heat and cold pain insensitivity. At later stages, C-fiber sensory neurons die by apoptosis, a process that may result from reduced GDNF (glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor) expression in the sciatic nerve. Neuregulin 1 (NRG1)-ErbB signaling mediates, therefore, reciprocal interactions between non-myelinating Schwann cells and unmyelinated sensory neuron axons that are critical for Schwann cell and C-fiber sensory neuron survival. This study provides new insights into ErbB signaling in adult Schwann cells, the contribution of non-myelinating Schwann cells in maintaining trophic support of sensory neurons, and the possible role of disrupted ErbB signaling in peripheral sensory neuropathies.
Half the members of the KE family suffer from a speech and language disorder caused by a mutation in the FOXP2 gene. We examined functional brain abnormalities associated with this mutation using two fMRI language experiments, one involving covert (silent) verb generation and the other overt (spoken) verb generation and word repetition. The unaffected family members showed a typical left-dominant distribution of activation involving Broca's area in the generation tasks and a more bilateral distribution in the repetition task, whereas the affected members showed a more posterior and more extensively bilateral pattern of activation in all tasks. Consistent with previously reported bilateral morphological abnormalities, the affected members showed significant underactivation relative to the unaffected members in Broca's area and its right homolog, as well as in other cortical language-related regions and in the putamen. Our findings suggest that the FOXP2 gene is critically involved in the development of the neural systems that mediate speech and language.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) mediates fast inhibitory neurotransmission by activating anion-selective ligand-gated ion channels. Although electrophysiological studies indicate that GABA may activate cation-selective ligand-gated ion channels in some cell types, such a channel has never been characterized at the molecular level. Here we show that GABA mediates enteric muscle contraction in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans via the EXP-1 receptor, a cation-selective ligand-gated ion channel. The EXP-1 protein resembles ionotropic GABA receptor subunits in almost all domains. In the pore-forming domain of EXP-1, however, the residues that confer anion selectivity are exchanged for those that specify cation selectivity. When expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes, EXP-1 forms a GABA receptor that is permeable to cations and not anions. We conclude that some of the excitatory functions assigned to GABA are mediated by cation channels rather than by anion channels.



The interaction of the glutamate receptor subunits 2 and 3 (GluR2/3) with multi-PDZ domain glutamate receptor-interacting protein (GRIP) is important for the synaptic trafficking and clustering of the receptors. Binding of GluR2/3 to GRIP requires both the fourth and fifth PDZ domains (PDZ4 and PDZ5) to be covalently linked, although only one PDZ domain is directly involved in binding to the receptor tail. To elucidate the molecular basis of this mode of PDZ domain-mediated target recognition, we solved the solution structures of the PDZ45 tandem and the isolated PDZ4 of GRIP. The two PDZ domains form a compact structure with a fixed interdomain orientation. The interdomain packing and the stable folding of both PDZ domains require a short stretch of amino acids N-terminal to PDZ4 and a conserved linker connecting PDZ4 and PDZ5. PDZ4 contains a deformed aB-bB groove that is unlikely to bind to carboxyl peptides. Instead, the domain stabilizes the structure of PDZ5.
This review covers basic principles of attachment research and its relationship to and implications for psychiatric and psychosomatic disorders. A great number of studies deal with the importance of attachment theory in the development of these disorders associated with distinct attachment styles. The most well-known concept is the attachment theory created by John Bowlby (1907-1990), which has strengthened our knowledge on early mother-infant relationships and influenced guidelines for child care. Within this concept, family structure is of great importance for the psychological development of the child and later the adult. Attachment research indicates that disturbances of patients with psychosomatic, e.g., somatoform disorders, in establishing relations must be seen in a developmental genetic context. A model of vulnerability is introduced which describes the development of psychopathology concerning the formation of representations taking advantage of attachment theory. Additionally, recent progress in cognitive neurosciences addresses attachment theory. During the last decade, neurobiological studies in rodents, primates, and humans indicate that early influences of psychosocial factors could have permanent consequences for brain structure and function. Besides the psychoanalytical and behavioral view concerning psychiatric and especially psychosomatic disorders, the integration of neurobiological findings will be a major challenge for the generation of further concepts.
Technological advances allowing simultaneous recording of neuronal ensembles have led to many developments in our understanding of how the brain performs neural computations. One key technique for extracting information from neural populations has been population reconstruction. While reconstruction is a powerful tool, it only provides a value and gives no indication of the quality of the representation itself. In this paper, we present a mathematically and statistically justified measure for assessing the quality of a representation in a neuronal ensemble. Using a simulated neural network, we show that this measure can distinguish between system states and identify moments of dynamical change within the system. While the examples used in this paper all derive from a standard network model, the measure itself is very general. It requires only a representational space, measured tuning curves, and neural ensembles.
Synaptic noise due to intense network activity can have a significant impact on the electrophysiological properties of individual neurons. This is the case for the cerebral cortex, where ongoing activity leads to strong barrages of synaptic inputs, which act as the main source of synaptic noise affecting on neuronal dynamics. Here, we characterize the subthreshold behavior of neuronal models in which synaptic noise is represented by either additive or multiplicative noise, described by Ornstein-Uhlenbeck processes. We derive and solve the Fokker-Planck equation for this system, which describes the time evolution of the probability density function for the membrane potential. We obtain an analytic expression for the membrane potential distribution at steady state and compare this expression with the subthreshold activity obtained in Hodgkin-Huxley-type models with stochastic synaptic inputs. The differences between multiplicative and additive noise models suggest that multiplicative noise is adequate to describe the high-conductance states similar to in vivo conditions. Because the steady-state membrane potential distribution is easily obtained experimentally, this approach provides a possible method to estimate the mean and variance of synaptic conductances in real neurons.
This article is about how the brain data mines its sensory inputs. There are several architectural principles of functional brain anatomy that have emerged from careful anatomic and physiologic studies over the past century. These principles are considered in the light of representational learning to see if they could have been predicted a priori on the basis of purely theoretical considerations. We first review the organisation of hierarchical sensory cortices, paying special attention to the distinction between forward and backward connections. We then review various approaches to representational learning as special cases of generative models, starting with supervised learning and ending with learning based upon empirical Bayes. The latter predicts many features, such as a hierarchical cortical system, prevalent top-down backward influences and functional asymmetries between forward and backward connections that are seen in the real brain. The key points made in article are: (i). hierarchical generative models enable the learning of empirical priors and eschew prior assumptions about the causes of sensory input that are inherent in non-hierarchical models. These assumptions are necessary for learning schemes based on information theory and efficient or sparse coding, but are not necessary in a hierarchical context. Critically, the anatomical infrastructure that may implement generative models in the brain is hierarchical. Furthermore, learning based on empirical Bayes can proceed in a biologically plausible way. (ii). The second point is that backward connections are essential if the processes generating inputs cannot be inverted, or the inversion cannot be parameterised. Because these processes involve many-to-one mappings, are non-linear and dynamic in nature, they are generally non-invertible. This enforces an explicit parameterisation of generative models (i.e. backward connections) to afford recognition and suggests that forward architectures, on their own, are not sufficient for perception. (iii). Finally, non-linearities in generative models, mediated by backward connections, require these connections to be modulatory, so that representations in higher cortical levels can interact to predict responses in lower levels. This is important in relation to functional asymmetries in forward and backward connections that have been demonstrated empirically.
Independent component analysis (ICA) has proven useful for modeling brain and electroencephalographic (EEG) data. Here, we present a new, generalized method to better capture the dynamics of brain signals than previous ICA algorithms. We regard EEG sources as eliciting spatio-temporal activity patterns, corresponding to, e.g. trajectories of activation propagating across cortex. This leads to a model of convolutive signal superposition, in contrast with the commonly used instantaneous mixing model. In the frequency-domain, convolutive mixing is equivalent to multiplicative mixing of complex signal sources within distinct spectral bands. We decompose the recorded spectral-domain signals into independent components by a complex infomax ICA algorithm. First results from a visual attention EEG experiment exhibit: (1). sources of spatio-temporal dynamics in the data, (2). links to subject behavior, (3). sources with a limited spectral extent, and (4). a higher degree of independence compared to sources derived by standard ICA.
To develop a high-resolution in vivo human neuroanatomy database for Japanese brains, a data set on 1547 normal subjects between the ages of 16 and 79 years has been collected. First, we determined individual reference brains of normal Japanese for each age and gender group. We found there exists cross-generational changes in brain shape, that is, the young generation has a shorter and wider brain than the older generation. Second, we determined the effect of aging on the volume of gray matter and white matter by voxel based morphometry. A significant negative correlation between the gray matter volume and age was observed. We assume that this kind of database is quite useful to investigators who are engaged in basic neuroscience, clinical diagnostics and evaluation of neuropsychiatric disorders in patients.
This paper contributes to neurolinguistics by grounding an evolutionary account of the readiness of the human brain for language in the search for homologies between different cortical areas in macaque and human. We consider two hypotheses for this grounding, that of Aboitiz and Garci;a [Brain Res. Rev. 25 (1997) 381] and the Mirror System Hypothesis of Rizzolatti and Arbib [Trends Neurosci. 21 (1998) 188] and note the promise of computational modeling of neural circuitry of the macaque and its linkage to analysis of human brain imaging data. In addition to the functional differences between the two hypotheses, problems arise because they are grounded in different cortical maps of the macaque brain. In order to address these divergences, we have developed several neuroinformatics tools included in an on-line knowledge management system, the NeuroHomology Database, which is equipped with inference engines both to relate and translate information across equivalent cortical maps and to evaluate degrees of homology for brain regions of interest in different species.
In this functional MRI (fMRI) study, we investigated ageing effects on motor skill learning. We applied an adapted version of the serial reaction time (SRT) task to extensive groups of young (N=26) and elderly (N=40) subjects. Since indications have been provided for age-related shrinkage of brain regions assumed to be critical to motor skill learning, we tested the hypothesis that age effects on implicit sequence learning are larger on a neurofunctional level than on a behavioural level. The SRT task consisted of two identical scan sessions, in which subjects had to manually trail an asterisk appearing serially in one of four spatial positions by means of button-pressing. Reliable response time reductions were already found in the first session for both the young and the elderly groups, when comparing a fixed sequence condition to a random sequence, but the learning effect was greater for the young subjects. In the second session, though, both groups showed a similar degree of learning. This indicates that implicit sequence learning is still intact in elderly adults, but that the rate of learning is somewhat slower. Reliable learning-related changes in brain activity were also observed. A similar network of brain regions was recruited by both groups during the fixed compared to the random sequence, involving several regions that have been previously associated with implicit sequence learning, including bilateral parietal, and frontal regions, the supplementary motor area (SMA), cerebellum and the basal ganglia. The direct group comparison did not reveal any differences in brain activity. In addition, we did not observe any significant differences in activity when comparing the different sessions either, neither for the young nor for the elderly subjects. Hence, we did not find indications for an age-related functional reorganisation of neural networks involved in motor sequence learning. In view of earlier reports of pronounced ageing effects on the performance on declarative memory tasks, our finding of age-related sparing of processes that sustain motor skill learning, provides further support for the proposition of different memory systems relying on different brain substrates.
Age-related impairments in episodic memory have been related to a deficiency in semantic processing, based on the finding that elderly adults typically benefit less than young adults from deep, semantic as opposed to shallow, nonsemantic processing of study items. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that elderly adults are not able to perform certain cognitive operations under deep processing conditions. We further hypothesised that this inability does not involve regions commonly associated with lexical/semantic retrieval processes, but rather involves a dysfunction of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) memory system. To this end, we used functional MRI on rather extensive groups of young and elderly adults to compare brain activity patterns obtained during a deep (living/nonliving) and a shallow (uppercase/lowercase) classification task. Common activity in relation to semantic classification was observed in regions that have been previously related to semantic retrieval, including mainly left-lateralised activity in the inferior prefrontal, middle temporal, and middle frontal/anterior cingulate gyrus. Although the young adults showed more activity in some of these areas, the finding of mainly overlapping activation patterns during semantic classification supports the idea that lexical/semantic retrieval processes are still intact in elderly adults. This received further support by the finding that both groups showed similar behavioural performances as well on the deep and shallow classification tasks. Importantly, though, the young revealed significantly more activity than the elderly adults in the left anterior hippocampus during deep relative to shallow classification. This finding is in line with the idea that age-related impairments in episodic encoding are, at least partly, due to an under-recruitment of the medial temporal lobe memory system.
17-beta-Estradiol (E2), by activating Src and ERK/MAP kinases, enhances NMDA receptor phosphorylation and function. NR2 subunits of NMDA receptors are truncated by calpain, an effect prevented by tyrosine phosphorylation of the subunits. The present study investigated whether E2-mediated activation of ERK and NR2 subunits phosphorylation were altered in 24-month-old female rats. Ovariectomy reduced ERK2 phosphorylation in brains from 3- but not 24-month-old female rats. In ovariectomized rats, restoration of estrogen levels increased ERK2 and NR2 phosphorylation in young but not aged animals. Calcium treatment of frozen-thawed brain sections decreased NR2 levels in both young and aged female rats. This effect was absent in E2-treated young ovariectomized female rats, but was not modified in aged ovariectomized female rats. These results indicate that E2 activation of ERK2 and NR2 phosphorylation is markedly reduced in aged female rats, whereas calpain-mediated truncation of NR2 subunits is not different in young and aged rats. They suggest that several key elements of the mechanisms involved in estrogen-mediated regulation of synaptic plasticity are altered in aged animals.
We have investigated whether polymorphic differences in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II molecules influence humoral and cellular immune responses against Abeta1-42. To analyze the effects of mouse MHC class II and tolerance effects of overexpression of human APP in mice, we immunized Tg2576 and non-transgenic littermates bred into two different MHC backgrounds with Abeta1-42 and compared both B and T cell responses. We found that in the presence of the mouse C57BL/6 background, both B and T cell responses against Abeta1-42 were significantly suppressed. To directly test the contribution of human MHC class II, we immunized various human HLA class II transgenic (TG) mice with Abeta1-42 and analyzed anti-Abeta immune responses. HLA-DR3 and HLA-DQ8 TG mice generated modest B and T cell responses against Abeta1-42. The presence of HLA-DR3/DQ8 in double TG mice enhanced the overall immune response against Abeta1-42. In contrast, HLA-DR4 TG mice mounted strong T cell responses but failed to generate high titer antibody responses against Abeta1-42, whereas, the HLA-DQ6 TG mice were not able to mount significant B or T cell responses against Abeta1-42. These studies in mice suggest that the presence of certain MHC class II molecules or combinations of class II molecules can potentially influence the overall immune response against Abeta1-42.
Mammalian cells utilize multiple mechanisms to repair DNA damage that occurs during normal cellular respiration and in response to genotoxic stress. This study sought to determine if chronic oxidative stress proposed to occur during Alzheimer's disease alters the expression or activity of DNA double-strand break repair or base excision repair proteins. Double-strand break repair requires DNA-dependent protein kinase, composed of a catalytic subunit, DNA-PKcs, and a regulatory component, Ku. Ku DNA binding activity was reduced in extracts of postmortem AD midfrontal cortex, but was not significantly different from the age-matched controls. Decreased Ku DNA binding correlated with reduced protein levels of Ku subunits, DNA-PKcs, and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1. Expression of the base excision repair enzyme Ref-1, however, was significantly increased in AD extracts compared to controls. Ku DNA binding and DNA-PK protein levels in the AD cases correlated significantly with synaptophysin immunoreactivity, which is a measure of synaptic loss, a major correlate of cognitive deficits in AD. Immunohistochemical analysis suggested that DNA-PK protein levels reflected both number of neurons and regulation of cellular expression.
Interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha) and IL-1beta are two pro-inflammatory cytokines involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The genes coding for IL-1alpha (IL-1A) and for IL-1beta (IL-1B) are clustered in chromosome 2q14-2q14.2. In a previous work, we investigated the role of IL-1A promoter polymorphism (-889 position) in AD pathogenesis: IL-1A -889 TT genotype was associated with sporadic early onset AD. We now report the study on polymorphism of exon 5 IL-1B in position +3953, the nearest polymorphism to -889 IL-1A. We found that the genotype distribution of IL-1B +3953 varied significantly between patients with early and late onset of AD (P&lt;0.0001). Patients carrying IL-1B +3953 CT or TT genotypes had 4 or 5 years anticipation of AD onset (P=0.0034; odds ratio for early onset, 3.01) and 7 years anticipation if they also carried the IL-1A -889 TT genotype (P&lt;0.0001; odds ratio for early onset, 7.4). These data further support a role for inflammation-related genes in AD or indicate linkage disequilibrium with an unknown chromosome 2 locus.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) probably involves several pathobiochemical mechanisms and this may be reflected by changes in different serum components. The present study investigated whether the combined analysis of serum molecules related to different mechanisms improves the discrimination of AD patients from healthy controls. Serum of patients with AD was analyzed for a broad spectrum of marker molecules, including 11 inflammatory proteins, 12 sterol intermediates and phytosterols, 2 brain-specific proteins and 4 constituents involved in homocysteine homeostasis. The serum molecule concentrations were combined in a logistic regression model, using a forward stepwise inclusion mode. The results showed that the combination of interleukin-6 (IL-6) receptor, protein alpha1 fraction, cysteine and cholesterol concentrations improved the discrimination between AD patients and healthy controls compared to the single markers. In conclusion, the results of this study have shown that the complex pathology in AD is reflected in a pattern of altered serum concentrations of several marker molecules related to several pathobiochemical mechanisms.
Computational modeling assists in analyzing the specific functional role of the cellular effects of acetylcholine within cortical structures. In particular, acetylcholine may regulate the dynamics of encoding and retrieval of information by regulating the magnitude of synaptic transmission at excitatory recurrent connections. Many abstract models of associative memory function ignore the influence of changes in synaptic strength during the storage process and apply the effect of these changes only during a so-called recall-phase. Efforts to ensure stable activity with more realistic, continuous updating of the synaptic strength during the storage process have shown that the memory capacity of a realistic cortical network can be greatly enhanced if cholinergic modulation blocks transmission at synaptic connections of the association fibers during the learning process. We here present experimental data from an olfactory cortex brain slice preparation showing that previously potentiated fibers show significantly greater suppression (presynaptic inhibition) by the cholinergic agonist carbachol than unpotentiated fibers. We conclude that low suppression of non-potentiated fibers during the learning process ensures the formation of self-organized representations in the neural network while the higher suppression of previously potentiated fibers minimizes interference between overlapping patterns. We show in a computational model of olfactory cortex, that, together, these two phenomena reduce the overlap between patterns that are stored within the same neural network structure. These results further demonstrate the contribution of acetylcholine to mechanisms of cortical plasticity. The results are consistent with the extensive evidence supporting a role for acetylcholine in encoding of new memories and enhancement of response to salient sensory stimuli.
The hypothesis that cortical cholinergic inputs mediate attentional functions and capacities has been extensively substantiated by experiments assessing the attentional effects of specific cholinotoxic lesions of cortical cholinergic inputs, attentional performance-associated cortical acetylcholine release, and the effects of pharmacological manipulations of the excitability of basal forebrain corticopetal cholinergic projections on attentional performance. At the same time, numerous animal experiments have suggested that the integrity of cortical cholinergic inputs is not necessary for learning and memory, and a dissociation between the role of the cortical cholinergic input system in attentional functions and in learning and memory has been proposed. We speculate that this dissociation is due, at least in part, to the use of standard animal behavioral tests for the assessment of learning and memory which do not sufficiently tax defined attentional functions. Attentional processes and the allocation of attentional capacities would be expected to influence the efficacy of the acquisition and recall of declarative information and therefore, persistent abnormalities in the regulation of the cortical cholinergic input system may yield escalating impairments in learning and memory. Furthermore, the cognitive effects of loss of cortical cholinergic inputs are augmented by the disruption of the top-down regulation of attentional functions that normally acts to optimize information processing in posterior cortical areas. Because cortical cholinergic inputs play an integral role in the mediation of attentional processing, the activity of cortical cholinergic inputs is hypothesized to also determine the efficacy of learning and memory.
Four cholinesterase inhibitors have been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for treating behavioral symptoms of Alzheimer's disease. Here we review our experiences with two cholinesterase inhibitors (metrifonate and galanthamine) and a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor agonist (CI-1017) in behavioral pharmacological and brain slice experiments in aging and young rabbits. Aging rabbits are impaired in their ability to acquire the hippocampus-dependent trace eyeblink conditioning task, as compared to young controls. A large proportion of aging animals cannot reach behavioral criterion in this task. Those that do learn, do so more slowly. In addition, the post-burst afterhyperpolarization and spike frequency accommodation is increased in hippocampal pyramidal neurons from aging animals, i.e., cellular excitability is reduced as compared to those from young animals. Metrifonate, galanthamine, and CI-1017 reduced the learning deficits observed in aging rabbits so that they learned almost as quickly as young controls. These cholinergic compounds also enhanced the postsynaptic excitability of hippocampal pyramidal neurons in vitro. Therefore, we propose that the amelioration of learning impairment with the cholinergic compounds may in part be due to the enhanced excitability of hippocampal pyramidal neurons. The potential relevance of our studies to further understanding the cellular and behavioral changes that occur with normal aging and Alzheimer's Disease is discussed.
Extensive evidence supports the view that cholinergic mechanisms modulate learning and memory formation. This paper reviews evidence for cholinergic regulation of multiple memory systems, noting that manipulations of cholinergic functions in many neural systems can enhance or impair memory for tasks generally associated with those neural systems. While parallel memory systems can be identified by combining lesions with carefully crafted tasks, most-if not all-tasks require the combinatorial participation of multiple neural systems. This paper offers the hypothesis that the magnitude of acetylcholine (ACh) release in different neural systems may regulate the relative contributions of these systems to learning. Recent studies of ACh release, obtained with in vivo microdialysis samples during training, together with direct injections of cholinergic drugs into different neural systems, provide evidence that release of ACh is important in engaging these systems during learning, and that the extent to which the systems are engaged is associated with individual differences in learning and memory.
To assess the possible implication of the allosteric coupling of different modulatory sites at the GABA-A receptor complex in hepatic encephalopathy (HE), we investigated in autopsied frontal cortex of six cirrhotic patients and six appropriately-matched controls, the modulatory effects of the benzodiazepine site agonist flunitrazepam on the binding of [3H]muscimol and the effect of the neurosteroid site agonist allopregnanolone (5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one) on the binding of [3H]muscimol and [3H]flunitrazepam. There were no significant differences in either the magnitude E(max): 11.5+/-1.1% (controls) versus 10.2+/-2.2% (HE patients) or the efficacy EC(50): 20.2+/-5.5 nM (controls) versus 17.7+/-6.2 nM (HE patients) of flunitrazepam modulation of [3H]muscimol binding. Allopregnanolone also showed modulation of both sites to a comparable extent in brain tissue from cirrhotic patients and controls E(max): [3H]muscimol, 15.1+/-2.8% (controls) versus 13.8+/-1.9% (HE patients); [3H]flunitrazepam, 17.9+/-2.3% (controls) versus 19.1+/-2.3% (HE patients), EC(50): [3H]muscimol, 386.5+/-25.8 nM (controls) versus 373.8+/-13.1 nM (HE patients); [3H]flunitrazepam, 49.8+/-22.9 nM (controls) versus 55.5+/-14.0 nM (HE patients). These findings demonstrate unequivocally that the GABA-A sites and their benzodiazepine and neurosteroid modulatory sites manifest normal allosteric coupling in brain in human HE. Therefore, if increased &quot;GABAergic tone&quot; is implicated in the pathophysiology of HE, this must be the consequence of increased brain concentrations of endogenous benzodiazepine and/or neurosteroid ligands for components of the GABA-A receptor complex rather than alterations of the receptor proteins themselves.

Voluntary exercise, treadmill activity, skills training, and forced limb use have been utilized in animal studies to promote brain plasticity and functional change. Motor enrichment may prime the brain to respond more adaptively to injury, in part by upregulating trophic factors such as GDNF, FGF-2, or BDNF. Discontinuation of exercise in advance of brain injury may cause levels of trophic factor expression to plummet below baseline, which may leave the brain more vulnerable to degeneration. Underfeeding and motor enrichment induce remarkably similar molecular and cellular changes that could underlie their beneficial effects in the aged or injured brain. Exercise begun before focal ischemic injury increases BDNF and other defenses against cell death and can maintain or expand motor representations defined by cortical microstimulation. Interfering with BDNF synthesis causes the motor representations to recede or disappear. Injury to the brain, even in sedentary rats, causes a small, gradual increase in astrocytic expression of neurotrophic factors in both local and remote brain regions. The neurotrophic factors may inoculate those areas against further damage and enable brain repair and use-dependent synaptogenesis associated with recovery of function or compensatory motor learning. Plasticity mechanisms are particularly active during time-windows early after focal cortical damage or exposure to dopamine neurotoxins. Motor and cognitive impairments may contribute to self-imposed behavioral impoverishment, leading to a reduced plasticity. For slow degenerative models, early forced forelimb use or exercise has been shown to halt cell loss, whereas delayed rehabilitation training is ineffective and disuse is prodegenerative. However, it is possible that, in the chronic stages after brain injury, a regimen of exercise would reactivate mechanisms of plasticity and thus enhance rehabilitation targeting residual functional deficits.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) are the most common neurodegenerative disorders affecting the elderly. The cognitive and motor deficits in these diseases are associated with the disruption of neuritic substructure, loss of synaptic contacts in selectively vulnerable circuitries, and aberrant sprouting. Where as in AD, accumulation of misfolded forms of Abeta triggers neurodegeneration, in DLB accumulation of alpha-synuclein might play a central role. The mechanisms by which oligomeric forms of these proteins might lead to cycles of synapse loss and aberrant sprouting are currently under investigation. Several possibilities are being considered, including mitochondrial damage, caspase activation, lysosomal leakage, fragmentation of the Golgi apparatus, interference with synaptic vesicle transport and function, and interference with gene transcription and signaling. Among them, recent lines of research support the possibility that alterations in signaling pathways such extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 relevant to synaptic plasticity and cell survival might play a pivotal role. A wide range of cellular functions are affected by the accumulation of misfolded Abeta and alpha-synuclein; thus it is possible that a more fundamental cellular alteration may underlie the mechanisms of synaptic pathology in these disorders. Among them, one possibility is that scaffold proteins, such as caveolin and JNK-interacting protein (JIP), which are necessary to integrate signaling pathways, are affected, leading to cycles of synapse loss and aberrant sprouting. This is significant because both caveolar dysfunction and altered axonal plasticity might be universally important in the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative disorders, and therefore these signaling pathways might be common therapeutic targets for these devastating diseases.
This article recounts some of the scientific endeavors of Carl W. Cotman (CWC) during his journeys through the cellular circuitry of the mammalian brain. I have selected for consideration his findings that have been an important impetus for my own research; in several cases our different experiments have provided complementary data to support an hypothesis. Three examples are (i) Carl's studies of the roles of glutamate in synaptic transmission and plasticity in the adult brain and my studies of how glutamate regulates neurite outgrowth and cell survival in brain development; (ii) his and our studies of the mechanisms whereby amyloid beta-peptide damages and kills neurons; and (iii) Carl's evidence that physical activity regulates neurotrophin levels in the brain and our evidence that dietary restriction has similar effects and is neuroprotective. In case you have not yet realized how I chose a title for this article it is because Carl has a (very distant) connection with Charles Darwin-Darwin sailed on a vessel called the Beagle and Carl has studied beagle dogs, establishing them as a model for understanding the neurobiology of human brain aging.
Early experiments resulting in partial deafferentation of the rodent hippocampus demonstrated a robust reactive plasticity response that includes the replacement of lost synaptic contacts. Similar experiments carried out in the hippocampus of aged animals produced an alteration in the temporal sequence of the reactive plasticity response and a slowing of synaptic replacement. In Alzheimer's disease, one observes a marked reduction in the number of synaptic contacts in important association areas of the cortex and hippocampus. This reduction may be the result of an altered reactive plasticity response.



We examined the retinotopic mapping of the visual world in the primary visual cortex of the marmoset monkey using differential optical imaging. Two sets of complementary stripe-like locations were visually stimulated in turn. Their difference depicts the cortical representations of continuous bands of visual space. By rotating the sets of stripe-like locations it is possible to map different spatial axes. Analogous to the macaque we found that the V1/V2 border represented the vertical meridian, while horizontal, 45-, and 135-degree angled stripes of space were also represented in a continuous manner. We developed a new automatic method of calculating local measures of cortical magnification from our optical retinotopic maps. Using this method we found no evidence of any local anisotropies in cortical representation. Overall our results indicate that space is mapped isotropically in the primary visual cortex of the common marmoset.
In a within-subject design we investigated the levels-of-processing (LOP) effect using visual material in a behavioral and a corresponding PET study. In the behavioral study we characterize a generalized LOP effect, using pleasantness and graphical quality judgments in the encoding situation, with two types of visual material, figurative and nonfigurative line drawings. In the PET study we investigate the related pattern of brain activations along these two dimensions. The behavioral results indicate that instruction and material contribute independently to the level of recognition performance. Therefore the LOP effect appears to stem both from the relative relevance of the stimuli (encoding opportunity) and an altered processing of stimuli brought about by the explicit instruction (encoding mode). In the PET study, encoding of visual material under the pleasantness (deep) instruction yielded left lateralized frontoparietal and anterior temporal activations while surface-based perceptually oriented processing (shallow instruction) yielded right lateralized frontoparietal, posterior temporal, and occipitotemporal activations. The result that deep encoding was related to the left prefrontal cortex while shallow encoding was related to the right prefrontal cortex, holding the material constant, is not consistent with the HERA model. In addition, we suggest that the anterior medial superior frontal region is related to aspects of self-referential semantic processing and that the inferior parts of the anterior cingulate as well as the medial orbitofrontal cortex is related to affective processing, in this case pleasantness evaluation of the stimuli regardless of explicit semantic content. Finally, the left medial temporal lobe appears more actively engaged by elaborate meaning-based processing and the complex response pattern observed in different subregions of the MTL lends support to the suggestion that this region is functionally segregated.
Although MEG/EEG signals are highly variable, systematic changes in distinct frequency bands are commonly encountered. These frequency-specific changes represent robust neural correlates of cognitive or perceptual processes (for example, alpha rhythms emerge on closing the eyes). However, their functional significance remains a matter of debate. Some of the mechanisms that generate these signals are known at the cellular level and rest on a balance of excitatory and inhibitory interactions within and between populations of neurons. The kinetics of the ensuing population dynamics determine the frequency of oscillations. In this work we extended the classical nonlinear lumped-parameter model of alpha rhythms, initially developed by Lopes da Silva and colleagues [Kybernetik 15 (1974) 27], to generate more complex dynamics. We show that the whole spectrum of MEG/EEG signals can be reproduced within the oscillatory regime of this model by simply changing the population kinetics. We used the model to examine the influence of coupling strength and propagation delay on the rhythms generated by coupled cortical areas. The main findings were that (1) coupling induces phase-locked activity, with a phase shift of 0 or pi when the coupling is bidirectional, and (2) both coupling and propagation delay are critical determinants of the MEG/EEG spectrum. In forthcoming articles, we will use this model to (1) estimate how neuronal interactions are expressed in MEG/EEG oscillations and establish the construct validity of various indices of nonlinear coupling, and (2) generate event-related transients to derive physiologically informed basis functions for statistical modelling of average evoked responses.
Cognitive reserve (CR) has been established as a mechanism that can explain individual differences in the clinical manifestation of neural changes associated with aging or neurodegenerative diseases. CR may represent individual differences in how tasks are processed (i.e., differences in the component processes), or in the underlying neural circuitry (of the component processes). CR may be a function of innate differences or differential life experiences. To investigate to what extent CR can account for individual differences in brain activation and task performance, we used fMRI to image healthy young individuals while performing a nonverbal memory task. We used IQ estimates as a proxy for CR. During both study and test phase of the task, we identified regional covariance patterns whose change in subject expression across two task conditions correlated with performance and CR. Common brain regions in both activation patterns were suggestive of a brain network previously found to underlie overt and covert shifts of spatial attention. After partialing out the influence of task performance variables, this network still showed an association with the CR, i.e., there were reserve-related physiological differences that presumably would persist were there no subject differences in task performance. This suggests that this network may represent a neural correlate of CR.
Event-related potential (ERP) studies of the human brain have shown that object categories can be reliably distinguished as early as 130-170 ms on the surface of occipito-temporal cortex, peaking at the level of the N170 component. Consistent with this finding, neuropsychological and neuroimaging studies suggest major functional distinctions within the human object recognition system, particularly in hemispheric advantage, between the processing of words (left), faces (right), and objects (bilateral). Given these observations, our aim was to (1) characterize the differential response properties of the N170 to pictures of faces, objects, and words across hemispheres; and (2) test whether an effect of inversion for highly familiar and monooriented nonface stimuli such as printed words can be observed at the level of the N170. Scalp EEG (53 channels) was recorded in 15 subjects performing an orientation decision task with pictures of faces, words, and cars presented upright or inverted. All three categories elicited at the same latency a robust N170 component associated with a positive counterpart at centro-frontal sites (vertex-positive potential, VPP). While there were minor amplitude differences at the level of the occipital medial P1 between linguistic and nonlinguistic categories, scalp topographies and source analyses indicated strong hemispheric and orientation effects starting at the level of the N170, which was right lateralized for faces, smaller and bilateral for cars, and as large for printed words in the left hemisphere as for faces. The entire N170/VPP complex was accounted for by two dipolar sources located in the lateral inferior occipital cortex/posterior fusiform gyrus. These two locations were roughly equivalent across conditions but differed in strength and lateralization. Inversion delayed the N170 (and VPP) response for all categories, with an increasing delay for cars, words, and faces, respectively, as suggested by source modeling analysis. Such results show that early processes in object recognition respond to category-specific visual information, and are associated with strong lateralization and orientation bias.
The technique of fiber tracking based on diffusion tensor imaging offers the unique possibility of localizing the white matter pathways of the brain in vivo. In patients with cerebral tumors or space-occupying lesions of the brain, these pathways are often damaged or significantly displaced. Knowledge of the exact location of the lesion with respect to clinically eloquent white matter pathways is of great value to the neurosurgeon in planning the appropriate surgical strategy. We present here preliminary findings using the fiber tracking technique in four patients with space-occupying lesions and discuss the potential and limitations of the technique for lesion localization and neurosurgical planning.
The magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-detectable T1 contrast agent manganese (Mn2+) has recently been introduced as a neural tracer in rodents, birds, and monkeys. We have tested to what extent this in vivo method is useful for three-dimensional (3-D) survey of connectivity patterns in the rat somatosensory system. A commonly available 3 T human clinical MRI scanner was used to trace neural pathways following focal injection of manganese chloride (MnCl2) in the somatosensory cortex. Six to 10 h after MnCl2 injection, we found significant signal enhancement in major projection systems, including corticocortical, corticostriatal, corticothalamic, corticotectal, corticopontine, and corticospinal pathways. To facilitate the assignment of anatomic localization to the observed Mn2+ signal enhancement, we registered the MRI data with a 3-D digital reconstruction of a stereotaxic rat brain atlas. Across-animal comparison using the digital model allowed demonstration of a corticothalamic 3-D topographic organization in agreement with previously published two-dimensional topographic schemes based on classical neural tracing data. We conclude that anterograde MnCl2/MRI tracing allows rapid analysis of topographic organization across multiple brain regions. The method allows a higher data throughput for 3-D studies of large-scale brain connectivity than conventional methods based on tissue sectioning.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is widely believed to subserve mental manipulation and monitoring processes ascribed to the central executive (CE) of working memory (WM). We attempted to examine and localize the CE by functional imaging of the frontal cortex during tasks designed to require the CE. Using near-infrared spectroscopy, we studied the spatiotemporal dynamics of oxygenated hemoglobin (oxy-Hb), an indicator of changes in regional cerebral blood flow, in both sides of lateral PFC during WM intensive tasks. In most participants, increases in oxy-Hb were localized within one subdivison during performance of the n-back task, whereas oxy-Hb increased more diffusely during the random number generation (RNG) task. Activation of the ventrolateral PFC (VLPFC) was prominent in the n-back task; both sustained and transient dynamics were observed. Transient dynamics means that oxy-Hb first increases but then decreases to less than 50% of the peak value or below the baseline level before the end of the task. For the RNG task sustained activity was also observed in the dorsolateral PFC (DLPFC), especially in the right hemisphere. However, details of patterns of activation varied across participants: subdivisions commonly activated during performance of the two tasks were the bilateral VLPFCs, either side of the VLPFC, and either side of the DLPFC in 4, 2, and 4 of the 12 participants, respectively. The remaining 2 of the 12 participants had no regions commonly activated by these tasks. These results suggest that although the PFC is implicated in the CE, there is no stereotyped anatomical PFC substrate for the CE.
It is argued that in poorly understood domains functional imaging and neuropsychology findings on cognitive processes can be related only through functional models of normal cognition. The psychological concept of &quot;resource&quot; can, however, be simply extrapolated to functional imaging. It is then argued that double dissociations can have analogous inferential power for extrapolation to models of normal cognition in functional imaging as in neuropsychology. The argument is illustrated by the example of the control processes involved in functional episodic memory imaging of experiments.

In this paper we discuss cognitive and anatomical models of reading that have emerged from behavioral and lesion studies of dyslexia and functional neuroimaging studies of normal subjects. We then suggest that discrepancies in their findings can partly be overcome by functional neuroimaging studies of patients with acquired dyslexia. We present two such studies. One patient had a large left temporoparietal lesion which limited his reading to words with high semantic associations. When he read these words aloud, activation was observed in all areas of the normal reading system with the exception of the damaged left superior temporal lobe. The second patient had anterior temporal lobe atrophy with semantic dementia and a deficit in reading words that rely on lexical or semantic mediation. When asked to read aloud words on which she was likely to succeed, she activated all the normal areas, with increased activation in a left sensorimotor area associated with phonological processing and decreased activation in several areas associated with semantic processing. By relating these findings to those from lesion studies and imaging studies of normals, we propose that the translation of orthography to phonology is mediated semantically by the anterior part of the left midfusiform gyrus. In contrast, when semantic processing is compromised, the translation of orthography to phonology will be more reliant on the posterior part of the left midfusiform and the left frontal areas associated with phonology. Future studies are required to examine the connectivity between these areas during normal and abnormal reading.
Language comprehension can be subdivided into three processing steps: initial structure building, semantic integration, and late syntactic integration. The two syntactic processing phases are correlated with two distinct components in the event-related brain potential, namely an early left anterior negativity (ELAN) and a late centroparietal positivity (P600). Moreover, ERP findings from healthy adults suggest that early structure-building processes as reflected by the ELAN are independent of semantic processes. fMRI results have revealed that semantic and syntactic processes are supported by separable temporofrontal networks, with the syntactic processes involving the left superior temporal gyrus (STG), the left frontal operculum, and the basal ganglia (BG) in particular. MEG data from healthy adults have indicated that the left anterior temporal region and the left inferior frontal region subserve the early structure building processes. ERP data from patients with lesions in the left anterior temporal region and from patients with lesions in the left inferior frontal gyrus support this view, as these patients do not demonstrate an ELAN, although they do demonstrate a P600. Further results from patients with BG dysfunction suggest that parts of this subcortical structure are involved in late syntactic integrational processes. The data from the different experiments lead to the notion of separable brain systems responsible for early and late syntactic processes, with the former being subserved by the inferior frontal gyrus and the anterior STG and the latter being supported by the BG and more posterior portions of the STG.
Genetics, neuroscience, and imaging science have advanced greatly in the last few years. These advances can be brought together and applied in creative new ways to make available better drugs for treating neuropsychiatric disorders and for getting candidate drugs through the development process faster. One particular approach, built around [18F]fluordeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, is described.
The rapid expansion of modern molecular imaging methods since the time of their initial conception in the 1970s has given rise to numerous discoveries of molecular mechanisms that underlie brain function in health and disease. Uses in clinical diagnosis and therapy monitoring are still evolving. Future clinical trials, in which molecular imaging is imbedded and correlated with clinical outcomes, will be critical to advancing new uses for patient management. Receptor occupancy studies are already well integrated into many drug development studies and clinical trials; such studies will provide a basis for new studies that will further advance clinical uses of brain molecular imaging.
Childhood sleep-wake disorders are common and associated with significant impairment of quality of life. The recent discovery of hypocretin deficiency as the pathophysiologic basis for narcolepsy-cataplexy is likely to spur the development of hypocretin analogs for definitive treatment [82,83]. The link between disrupted sleep and daytime learning and childhood inattention is a challenging area of mind-brain interaction in which further progress is likely, once methodologic issues have been sorted out. The recent recognition of genetic influences in the control of circadian rhythms also may spur the development of specific therapies for circadian rhythm disorders. In many ways, sleep medicine is benefiting from recent progress in the basic neurosciences, genetics, and technology.
An association between multiple sclerosis (MS) and exposure to organic solvents has been discussed. Organic solvents are metabolised by enzyme systems like glutathione Stransferase M1 (GSTM1) and CYP2D6, which express polymorphisms in the general population. GSTM1 null genotype has been associated with solvent-induced chronic toxic encephalopathy. Our aim was to see if a defect in one of these enzyme systems could explain the association between MS and exposure to organic solvents. In our study, 50 patients with MS were investigated, including 24 who had been significantly exposed to organic solvents and 26 who were not exposed. Polymerase chain reaction-based methods were used for genotyping GSTM1 and CYP2D6 polymorphisms in leukocyte DNA. No differences in genetic predisposition were found between MS patients exposed and those not exposed to organic solvents regarding GSTM1 null or CYP2D6 poor metaboliser genotypes. The possible association between multiple sclerosis and solvents may not, as for chronic toxic encephalopathy, be explained by defects in these systems.
Danon disease, primary lysosome-associated membrane protein-2 (LAMP-2) deficiency, is histologically characterized by unusual vacuoles bound by membranes with sarcolemmal features in skeletal muscle. We studied skeletal muscle specimens from a male patient with genetically confirmed Danon disease who had two muscle biopsies, at age 20 months and 16 years, and from his mother with cardiomyopathy but without clinically apparent skeletal myopathy. In the patient, the number of vacuoles increased over the 14-year interval between biopsies, suggesting that the number of vacuolated fibers increases with age, and correlates with the development of muscle symptoms. In contrast, in the muscle biopsy from the mother there were no vacuoles even though she had decreased LAMP-2.
The neurosteroid 5beta-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (5beta3alpha) is a potent, endogenous, positive allosteric modulator of the GABA(A) receptor. Relatively low concentrations of 5beta3alpha (10-100 nM), thought to occur physiologically, caused a concentration-dependent slowing of the decay of GABA-mediated miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) recorded from hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurones. However, much greater concentrations of this neurosteroid (&gt; or =300 nM) were required to similarly influence dentate granule cell mIPSCs. By contrast, the allosteric modulators pentobarbitone and flunitrazepam were equi-effective in prolonging mIPSCs in both neuronal types. Hence, the neurosteroid selectively differentiates between the synaptic GABA(A) receptors of these hippocampal neurones. Inhibition of either protein kinase A, or C, greatly reduced the sensitivity of CA1 synaptic GABA(A) receptors to 5beta3alpha, but not pentobarbitone, whereas stimulation of PKC had no effect on steroid sensitivity. However, in dentate gyrus granule cells, activation of PKC made mIPSCs sensitive to a previously ineffective concentration of 5beta3alpha. Collectively, these results suggest that the GABA-modulatory effects of physiological levels of the neurosteroid will not be uniformly experienced throughout the central nervous system, or even within the same brain region such as the hippocampus, but will be neurone-specific and will be dependent on the phosphorylation status of the GABA(A) receptor, or associated proteins.
Dynamic regulation of synaptic AMPA receptor localization underlies certain forms of synaptic plasticity and researchers are just beginning to identify molecules that may play a role in the synaptic delivery of glutamate receptors. One candidate is mLin-10, the mammalian homolog of the C. elegans receptor targeting protein LIN-10. Here, we investigated the role of mLin-10 in glutamate receptor trafficking. Cellular localization studies, in both whole brain and cultured neurons, revealed that mLin-10 is enriched in the trans-Golgi network and present in dendrites and spines--regions where protein sorting and synaptic delivery are known to occur. The specific localization of mLin-10 in Golgi is disrupted by a point mutation in an mLin-10 PDZ domain, indicating that a PDZ domain mediates this localization. Interactions between mLin-10 and glutamate receptors in both intracellular and synaptic membrane fractions were detected through biochemical assays. GST-pull down and co-immunoprecipitation experiments in heterologous cells delineated the protein domains required for interaction. These results demonstrated that glutamate receptors interact directly with mLin-10 through a PDZ domain-mediated mechanism. A PDZ point mutation enhances surface delivery of exogenous glutamate receptors in transfected neurons, suggesting that mLin-10 may regulate AMPA receptor trafficking in vivo.
SNAREs (soluble NSF attachment protein receptors) are membrane proteins that catalyze membrane fusion. SNAREs are defined by a characteristic 70 residue sequence called the SNARE motif. During synaptic vesicle fusion, the single SNARE motif of the synaptic vesicle SNARE protein synaptobrevin/VAMP associates into a four-helical bundle with SNARE motifs from the plasma membrane SNARE proteins syntaxin 1 and SNAP-25. The four SNARE motifs (one each from synaptobrevin and syntaxin, and two from SNAP-25) assume a parallel orientation in the complex, suggesting that formation of the complex initiates fusion by forcing the membranes containing the SNAREs into close proximity. It has been proposed that SNARE complexes assemble in an N- to C-terminal progression, a process referred to as zippering, but little direct evidence for zippering exists. Furthermore, the SM protein Munc18-1, which binds to syntaxin 1 and is essential for synaptic fusion, is thought to prepare SNAREs for complex formation by an unknown mechanism, possibly by nucleating zippering. We now show that fragments containing the N- and C-terminal regions of the SNARE motif from syntaxin 1A bind SNAP-25 similarly. However, in permeabilized PC12 cells which are used as a biochemical model system to study synaptic fusion, only fragments containing the N-terminal region are powerful inhibitors of fusion. Furthermore, mutations in the N-terminal part of the Syntaxin SNARE motif have only a moderate effect on SNAP-25 binding but abolish the inhibitory activity of the SNARE motif. Finally, larger fragments of syntaxin 1A that strongly bind to Munc18-1 but do not readily assemble into SNARE complexes had no effect on exocytosis in permeabilized PC12 cells. Together these results suggest that Munc18-1 acts before SNARE complex assembly, and is no longer required at the stage of fusion assayed in permeabilized PC12 cells. The selective effect of the N-terminal half of the syntaxin 1A SNARE motif on PC12 cell exocytosis shows that the SNARE motif is functionally polarized, and supports the notion that SNARE complexes assemble in an N- to C-terminal zippering reaction during fusion without a stable, partially assembled intermediate.
Slob modulates the activity of the Drosophila Slowpoke calcium-dependent potassium channel (dSlo) via its direct binding to the channel. To characterize the molecular detail of the protein-protein interaction between Slob and dSlo, we constructed a series of Slob mutants that are progressively truncated at either the carboxyl or amino terminal end, and examined the binding of these Slob mutants to dSlo using a co-immunoprecipitation approach. Our data suggest that a small region of 42 amino acids (residues 191-233) in Slob is essential for Slob to interact with the dSlo channel.
Phosphorylation of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunit GluR1 at Ser(845) enhances AMPA channel activity. This study demonstrates that Ser(845) is rapidly dephosphorylated upon AMPA receptor activation in nucleus accumbens slices. AMPA-induced dephosphorylation at Ser(845) was blocked by CNQX, an AMPA receptor antagonist, by nifedipine, an L-type Ca(2+) channel antagonist, or by cyclosporin A, a calcineurin inhibitor. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) treatment also decreased phosphorylation of Ser(845), an effect that was blocked by MK-801, an NMDA receptor antagonist, but not by nifedipine. Accumbens neurons are enriched for dopamine- and cyclic AMP (cAMP)-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr 32,000 (DARPP-32), a potent inhibitor of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) when phosphorylated by PKA (at Thr(34)). We tested the hypothesis that the AMPA/KA or NMDA-stimulated dephosphorylation of DARPP-32 via calcineurin, leading to increased PP1 activity and dephosphorylation of GluR1. AMPA or NMDA treatment decreased phospho-Thr(34)-DARPP-32 levels, effects that were blocked by receptor antagonists, or cyclosporin A. However, dephosphorylation of Ser(845) mediated by AMPA or NMDA receptors was unaffected in DARPP-32/inhibitor-1 knockout mice. These data suggest that AMPA- or NMDA-induced dephosphorylation of GluR1 at Ser(845) occurs by a mechanism that is independent of DARPP-32 and PP1, but involves activation of calcineurin. Thus, Ca(2+)-dependent dephosphorylation of GluR1 may serve as a negative feedback mechanism for the regulation of AMPA receptor activity in neurons.
Although constant treatment with morphine (implanted pellets) does not activate the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, intermittent injections of morphine may constitute a chronic stressor in rats. To test this hypothesis, we compared the effects of morphine in escalating doses (10-40 mg/kg, s.c.) or saline injected twice daily for 4 days on energy balance, hormones, HPA responses to novel restraint and central corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) mRNA 12 h and 8 days after the last morphine injection in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Weight gain stopped at the onset of morphine, weight loss was marked 36 h postmorphine; thereafter, body weight gain paralleled saline controls. At 12 h, insulin, leptin, and testosterone concentrations were reduced but normalized by 8 days. Restraint and tail nicks caused facilitated ACTH responses at 12 h, under-responsiveness at 8 days. CRF mRNA, measured only at 12 h, was increased in the paraventricular (PVN) and Barrington's nuclei (BAR), decreased in the bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BNST) and unchanged in the amygdala (CeA) in morphine-treated rats. After stress, CRF mRNA increased in PVN in both groups, increased in BAR and decreased in BNST in saline but not morphine groups, and was unchanged in CeA in both groups. Results from all variables characterize intermittent morphine injections as a chronic stressor. In contrast to constant treatment, injected morphine probably allows some withdrawal during each 12 h interval, causing repeated stress. Drug addicts treat themselves intermittently, and stress causes relapse after withdrawal. Thus, intermittent morphine, itself, may promote relapse.
The clinical effectiveness of opioid maintenance for heroin dependence is believed to result from a medication's ability to decrease mu-opioid receptor (muOR) availability thereby replacing agonist effects, alleviating withdrawal symptoms and attenuating heroin effects. We empirically tested this hypothesis in five heroin-dependent volunteers who were successively maintained on 32, 16, 2, and 0 mg daily buprenorphine (BUP) tablet doses. We predicted and confirmed that higher BUP doses would decrease in vivo muOR availability (measured with PET and [(11)C]carfentanil), increase plasma levels of BUP and its metabolite nor-BUP, and decrease withdrawal symptoms and hydromorphone (HYD) responses. Relative to placebo, BUP significantly decreased mean (+/-SEM) whole-brain muOR availability 41+/-8, 80+/-2, and 84+/-2% at 2, 16, and 32 mg, respectively. Regions of interest (ROIs) (prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate, thalamus, amygdala, nucleus accumbens, caudate) showed similar dose-dependent effects. Changes in muOR availability varied across ROIs (prefrontal cortex, 47% vs amygdala, 27%) at BUP 2 mg, but were more homogeneous across ROIs at BUP 32 mg (94-98%; except thalamus, 88%). Relative to placebo (0 ng/ml), peak plasma levels of BUP and nor-BUP were comparable and dose-dependent (0.5-1, 5-6, and 13-14 ng/ml at 2, 16, and 32 mg, respectively). muOR availability decreases were negatively correlated with BUP plasma level and positively correlated with questionnaire-based opioid withdrawal symptoms and attenuation of HYD symptoms. These findings suggest that high-dose BUP maintenance produces near-maximal muOR occupation, muOR availability correlates well with plasma levels, and BUP-related opioid symptoms and antagonist blockade exhibit concentration-effect relationships.
Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a neuropsychiatric syndrome, affecting human infants and adolescents. Two main behavioural features are reported: (1). impaired attention and (2). an impulsive-hyperactive behavioural trait. The latter has been studied in a series of experiments, using the spontaneously hypertensive-rat (SHR) strain (which is regarded as a validated animal model for ADHD) in operant tasks. Food-restricted SHRs and their Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) controls were tested during adolescence (i.e. post-natal days 30-45), in operant chambers provided with two nose-poking holes. Nose-poking in one hole (H1) resulted in the immediate delivery of a small amount of food, whereas nose-poking in the other hole (H5) delivered a larger amount of food after a delay, which was increased progressively each day (0-100 s). As expected, all animals showed a shift in preference from the large (H5) to the immediate (H1) reinforcer as the delay length increased. Impulsivity can be measured by the steepness of this preference-delay curve. The two strains differed in home-cage circadian activity, SHRs being more active than WKYs at several time-points. During the test for impulsivity, inter-individual differences were completely absent in the WKY strain, whereas a huge inter-individual variability was evident for SHRs. On the basis of the median value of average hole-preference, we found an 'impulsive' SHR subgroup, with a very quick shift towards the H1 hole, and a flat-slope ('non-impulsive') SHR subgroup, with little or no shift. The impulsive subpopulation also presented reduced noradrenaline levels in both cingulated and medial-frontal cortex, as well as reduced serotonin turnover in the latter. Also, cannabinoid CB1 receptor density resulted significantly lower in the prefrontal cortex of impulsive SHRs, when compared to both the non-impulsive subgroup and control WKYs. Interestingly, acute administration of a cannabinoid agonist (WIN 55,212, 2 mg/kg s.c.) normalized the impulsive behavioural profile, without any effect on WKY rats. Thus, two distinct subpopulations, differing for impulsive behaviour and specific neurochemical parameters, were evidenced within adolescent SHRs. These results support the notion that a reduced cortical density of cannabinoid CB1 receptors is associated with enhanced impulsivity. This behavioural trait can be positively modulated by administration of a cannabinoid agonist. Present results confirm and extend previous literature, indicating that adolescent SHRs represent a suitable animal model for the preclinical investigation of the early-onset ADHD syndrome.
Cross-modal binding in auditory-visual speech perception was investigated by using the McGurk effect, a phenomenon in which hearing is altered by incongruent visual mouth movements. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and positron emission tomography (PET). In each experiment, the subjects were asked to identify spoken syllables ('ba', 'da', 'ga') presented auditorily, visually, or audiovisually (incongruent stimuli). For the auditory component of the stimuli, there were two conditions of intelligibility (High versus Low) as determined by the signal-to-noise (SN) ratio. The control task was visual talker identification of still faces. In the Low intelligibility condition in which the auditory component of the speech was harder to hear, the visual influence was much stronger. Brain imaging data showed bilateral activations specific to the unimodal auditory stimuli (in the temporal cortex) and visual stimuli (in the MT/V5). For the bimodal audiovisual stimuli, activation in the left temporal cortex extended more posteriorly toward the visual-specific area in the Low intelligibility condition. The direct comparison between the Low and High audiovisual conditions showed increased activations in the posterior part of the left superior temporal sulcus (STS), indicating its relationship with the stronger visual influence. It was discussed that this region is likely to be involved in cross-modal binding of auditory-visual speech.
It has been demonstrated that subcutaneous injection of bee venom (BV) can produce different types of pain and hypersensitivity including persistent spontaneous nociception (PSN), primary heat and mechanical hypersensitivity (hyperalgesia) and mirror-image heat (MIH) hypersensitivity in an individual animal, and the changes of spinal neurons are likely to be responsible for the production of these pain-related behaviors. In this study, we examined the roles of spinal protein kinase C (PKC) and protein kinase A (PKA) in the BV-induced different types of pain and hypersensitivity in conscious rats. We found that: (1). BV-induced primary heat hypersensitivity could be blocked by intrathecal pre- or posttreatment with a PKC inhibitor, chelerythrine chloride (CH), while a PKA inhibitor, N-(2-[P-bromocinnamylamino]ethyl)-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide hydrochloride (H89), had no effect. (2). BV-induced primary mechanical hypersensitivity could be blocked by pre- or posttreatment with H89, whereas CH had no effect. (3). Both pre- and posttreatment with H89 produced suppressive effects on both induction and maintenance of the BV-induced PSN and MIH hypersensitivity. Based on the present findings, we proposed that spinal PKC might be activated during the central processes of primary heat hypersensitivity, while spinal PKA is likely to be involved in primary mechanical hypersensitivity induced by subcutaneous BV chemical injury. Taken together with our previous report however, spinal PKC and PKA are likely to be simultaneously involved in the central processes of both PSN and MIH hypersensitivity.


Whereas there are numerous reported ocular side effects from systemic sulpha medication, most are rare and reversible, with myopia being the most common reaction observed. A case report is presented of sudden bilateral onset of -1.0 DS of myopia (from -3.0 to -4.0 DS) in a young adult female following the addition of a sulphonamide (sulphasalazine) to oral non-steroidal anti-inflammatory treatment (meloxicam) for rheumatoid arthritis. The myopia regressed to -3.50 DS after 2 weeks when all medication was withdrawn and stabilised at this level when subsequent treatment was resumed after 8 weeks with the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug celecoxib. The case indicates that account needs to be taken of the possibility that relatively modest myopic shifts encountered in young adult contact lens wearers may be associated with concomitant systemic medication.

It has recently been suggested that correction of the monochromatic aberration of the eye could lead to substantial improvements in visual acuity and contrast sensitivity function. After consideration of the best-corrected visual acuity of normal eyes, the optical and neural limits to visual performance are reviewed. It is concluded that, even if current problems with the accuracy of the suggested techniques of aberration correction, through corneal excimer laser ablation or customised contact lenses, can be overcome, changes in monochromatic ocular aberration over time, the continuing presence of chromatic aberration, errors of focus associated with lags and leads in accommodation, and other factors, are likely to result in only minor improvements in the high-contrast acuity performance of most normal eyes being produced by attempted aberration control. Significant gains in contrast sensitivity might, however, be achievable, particularly under mesopic and scotopic conditions when the pupil is large, provided that correct focus can be maintained. In the immediate future, reduction of the high levels of aberration that are currently found in eyes that have undergone refractive surgery and in some abnormal eyes should bring useful benefits.

Joint manipulation has long been used for pain relief. However, the underlying mechanisms for manipulation-related pain relief remain largely unexplored. The purpose of the current study was to determine which spinal neurotransmitter receptors mediate manipulation-induced antihyperalgesia. Rats were injected with capsaicin (50 microl, 0.2%) into one ankle joint and mechanical withdrawal threshold measured before and after injection. The mechanical withdrawal threshold decreases 2 h after capsaicin injection. Two hours after capsaicin injection, the following drugs were administered intrathecally: bicuculline, blocks gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) receptors; naloxone, blocks opioid receptors; yohimbine blocks, alpha2-adrenergic receptors; and methysergide, blocks 5-HT(1/2) receptors. In addition, NAN-190, ketanserin, and MDL-72222 were administered to selectively block 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, and 5-HT3 receptors, respectively. Knee joint manipulation was performed 15 min after administration of drug. The knee joint was flexed and extended to end range of extension while the tibia was simultaneously translated in an anterior to posterior direction. The treatment group received three applications of manipulation, each 3 min in duration separated by 1 min of rest. Knee joint manipulation after capsaicin injection into the ankle joint significantly increases the mechanical withdrawal threshold for 45 min after treatment. Spinal blockade of 5-HT(1/2) receptors with methysergide prevented, while blockade of alpha2-adrenergic receptors attenuated, the manipulation-induced antihyperalgesia. NAN-190 also blocked manipulation-induced antihyperalgesia suggesting that effects of methysergide are mediated by 5-HT1A receptor blockade. However, spinal blockade of opioid or GABAA receptors had no effect on manipulation induced-antihyperalgesia. Thus, the antihyperalgesia produced by joint manipulation appears to involve descending inhibitory mechanisms that utilize serotonin and noradrenaline.
Several studies suggest that females exhibit greater sensitivity to experimentally induced thermal pain than males. These investigations have focused mainly on the sensory-discriminative rather than the affective aspect of pain. Moreover, potential gender differences for the affective components of innocuous thermal sensations have yet to be examined. The primary aim of the present study was to evaluate gender differences in the sensory and the affective dimensions of the entire thermosensory system, including warmth, coolness, heat pain and cold pain. The secondary aim was to evaluate laterality differences in these same perceptual dimensions and ranges. Twenty healthy females and 20 healthy males immersed their hands in water baths maintained at temperatures ranging from 10 to 47 degrees C, and rated their perceived thermal intensity, (un)pleasantness, and pain intensity. There was a progressive growth in the thermal intensity ratings as bath temperatures either increased or decreased from the adapting temperature of 33 degrees C. No gender differences emerged for these thermal intensity ratings. However, a significant sex effect emerged for the pain intensity ratings (P&lt;0.01), and a significant sex x temperature interaction for the affective ratings (P&lt;0.01). Females provided higher unpleasantness and pain intensity ratings for the more extreme temperatures (10, 15 and 47 degrees C), compared to males. Moreover, women perceived the milder temperature baths as more pleasant than men did. For a given painful temperature, unpleasantness ratings were higher than pain intensity ratings. This relationship between unpleasantness ratings and pain ratings was not significantly different between the sexes. No laterality differences emerged for the thermal intensity ratings. However, perceived pain intensity was significantly higher for the left as compared to the right hand (P&lt;0.01). Ratings of unpleasantness also tended to be higher for the left vs. right hand, but this difference fell just short of statistical significance (P=0.06). These findings indicate that sex differences in thermosensory perception are not general, but occur only for the painful and affective components. Of particular note is the sex difference for affective but not intensive ratings of innocuous temperatures, revealing sex differences in thermal perception outside the nociceptive system.
Despite the many dire pronouncements of the moribund status of the academic triple threat, this species is far from extinct. Maintenance and, indeed, expansion of this pool of individuals requires their identification and support early in their careers, and nurturing and mentoring throughout their careers. Increasing demands for clinical service and revenue generation make it all the more critical that institutions and their faculty and administrative personnel in leadership positions support these increasingly rare academicians and that the individuals themselves develop and maintain diligence, superlative organizational skills, the ability to prioritize and the flexibility to reprioritize, perseverance, and above all, a sense of humor. Early in career development, perhaps the most important element in this equation is the mentor. The present article is in large measure a tribute to the mentoring role played by Dr. Michael J. Painter in the careers of his residents, fellows, and faculty throughout more than two decades as Chief of the Division of Child Neurology at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh.
Clinical and epidemiological evidence suggests that migraine often co-occurs with psychopathological conditions. Several longitudinal and population-based studies have suggested that migraine and panic disorder might share a common predisposition. An abnormal dopaminergic function has been hypothesized to be involved as etiological factor in panic disorder as well as in migraine. Epidemiological and molecular data suggest the role of genetic factors in the pathogenesis of both migraine and panic attack disorder. We assessed the presence of panic disorder in 100 probands suffering from migraine without aura and the present study was designed to analyse the possible association of the migraine-panic phenotype with dopaminergic genes. In our sample, 17 out of 100 migraineurs were affected by panic disorder and were thus considered for the genetic association study. The allele frequencies of DRD1, DRD3, DRD5, DRD2 in probands did not differ from that of parental non-transmitted chromosomes. This result does not seem to support, in our limited sample, a common pathological basis, with regard to the dopaminergic system, between migraine and panic. Should migraine and panic disorder share some common mechanisms, these could be sought in neuro-chemical systems other than the dopaminergic one.
Fluorescent molecules bound to receptors can show their location and, if binding is reversible, can provide pharmacological information such as affinity and proximity between interacting molecules. The spatial precision offered by visualisation transcends the diverse localisation and low molecular concentration of receptor molecules. Consequently, the relationships between receptor location and function and life cycles of receptors have become better understood as a result of fluorescent labeling. Each of these aspects contributes new insights to drug action and potential new targets. The relationships between spatial distribution of receptor and function are largely unknown. This is particularly apparent for native receptors expressed in their normal host tissues where communication between heterogeneous cell types influences receptor distribution and function. In cultured cell systems, particularly for G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR), fluorescence-based methods have enabled the visualisation of the cycle of agonist-stimulated receptor clustering, endocytic internalisation to the perinuclear region, degradation of the receptor-ligand complex, and recycling back to the surface membrane. Using variant forms of green fluorescent protein (GFP), antibodies, or fluorescent ligands, it is possible to detect or visualise the formation of oligomeric receptor complexes. Careful selection of fluorescent molecules based on their spectral properties enables resonance energy transfer and multilabel visualisation with colocalisation studies. Fluorescent agonist and antagonist ligands are now being used in parallel with GFP to study receptor cycling in live cells. This review covers how labeling and visualisation technologies have been applied to the study of major pharmacologically important receptors and illustrates this by giving examples of recent techniques that have relied on GFP, antibodies, or fluorescent ligands alone or in combination for the purpose of studying GPCR.
Emotional neuroscience maps neurocircuits associated with the processing of affective stimuli. To assess gender differences in brain activation elicited by affective stimuli, we used pictures from the International Affective Picture System in a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study. Ten male and ten female age-matched healthy volunteers were included and viewed affectively negative versus positive pictures, which were presented in an event related design. There was a significant interaction between valence of emotional stimuli and gender in the sublenticular extended amygdala (SLEA) and the rostral anterior cingulate. fMRI activation in these regions was stronger for negative compared to positive cues in women. In men fMRI activation was independent of stimulus valence. These results suggest to take gender differences into account when emotional paradigms are tested in functional brain imaging.

In male golden hamsters, repeated social subjugation during puberty accelerates the development of adult aggressive behavior and enhances its intensity in the presence of smaller individuals. The current study is focused on the characterization of the hormonal and behavioral responses to social subjugation during puberty. Subjugation consisted of daily exposure to an aggressive adult for 20-min periods from postnatal day 28 (P-28) to P-42, while controls were placed into an empty clean cage. Plasma cortisol levels were measured prior to or immediately after treatment on P-28 and P-42. On P-28, exposure to an aggressive adult or a clean and empty cage caused an increase in plasma cortisol levels. However, only social subjugation resulted in elevated cortisol levels on P-42, showing that juvenile hamsters habituate to an unfamiliar environment but not to social subjugation. In addition, we found a relationship between the frequency of submissive responses during social subjugation and the development of aggressive behavior. The transition from play fighting to adult aggression was most accelerated in the least submissive animals. These data show that behavioral response to social subjugation determines the development of aggressive behavior in golden hamsters. Our data also suggest that submissive behavior is a form of coping that attenuates the behavioral consequences of social subjugation in male golden hamsters.
Activity-based anorexia occurs in rats maintained on a restricted-feeding schedule while given free access to running wheels. These conditions induce high levels of wheel running and rapid weight loss. Although this procedure was developed as an animal model of anorexia nervosa, it has been studied primarily in male rats. Our goal was to examine the development of, and recovery from, activity-based anorexia in female rats. Food intake, wheel running, body weight, and phase of the estrous cycle were monitored daily prior to, during, and after a period of restricted feeding in which access to food was limited to 2 h/day. Food intake, body weight, and estrous cyclicity were also monitored in a control group housed without access to running wheels. Prior to food restriction, rats with wheels displayed high levels of wheel running and consumed more food than rats without wheels. Despite that both groups consumed similar amounts of food during the restricted-feeding phase, only rats with wheels developed symptoms of activity-based anorexia, including increased wheel running, rapid weight loss, and disruptions in estrous cyclicity. Recovery from activity-based anorexia was associated with hypoactivity and hyperphagia. Resumption of estrous cycles occurred when the weight lost during food restriction was regained. Hyperphagia, but not hypoactivity, was maintained following resumption of estrous cycles; however, this hyperphagia was limited to nonestrous phases. Our findings suggest that recovery from activity-based anorexia is mediated primarily by an increase in orexigenic signaling that promotes pronounced hyperphagia, and that the increase in satiogenic signaling during estrus abolishes this compensatory hyperphagia.
This study was to investigate the appearance of P-selectin, tissue factor (TF) and CD40 ligand (CD40L) on platelet-leucocyte conjugates in the absence and presence of a GPIIb/IIIa antagonist, MK-852, and the effect of adding EDTA to pre-formed conjugates. The purpose was to find out whether these antigens are displaced from the conjugates along with the platelets, thus providing information on their location. Hirudinized blood was stirred with collagen ((2 microg/mL) in the absence and presence of MK-852 (10 micromol/mL)). P-selectin, TF and CD40L were measured on platelet-leucocyte conjugates (CD42a positive monocytes and neutrophils) and on single platelets by flow cytometry. Measurements were also made after subsequent addition of EDTA (4 mmol/L). Platelet-leucocyte conjugate formation was markedly enhanced in the presence of MK-852. P-selectin, TF and CD40L expression on the conjugates was also enhanced. Monocytes bound more platelets and expressed more P-selectin, TF and CD40L than neutrophils. EDTA displaced the majority of platelets from the conjugates and also the P-selectin, TF and CD40L, whereas it did not displaced P-selectin or CD40 ligand from the platelets themselves. It is concluded that a GPIIb/IIIa antagonist promotes formation of platelet-leucocyte conjugates, which display P-selectin, TF and CD40L that appears to be associated with the adherent platelets. Platelet-monocyte conjugates are prime candidates for arterial inflammation and thrombosis. Pro-inflammatory and pro-thrombotic effects of CD40L and tissue factor may be an explanation of the negative clinical effects using GPIIb/IIIa antagonists.

In the present work, a comparative study of 5-FdUrd, thy-, and metabolic in vivo labeling methods for plasmid and chromosomal DNA in E. coli DH5alpha cells was performed in order to achieve the best thymidine substitution method by 5-BrdUrd. According to the colorimetric immunoenzymatic results, we found that the minimal detectable labeled DNA (MDLD) was 312pg with the 5-FdUrd and thy- methods for 5-BrdUrd labeled plasmid DNA. 5-BrdUrd replaced about 96% of the total thymidine by 5-FdUrd methods; for the thy- and metabolic labeling methods, the MDLD value was 1,25 ng for denatured 5-BrdUrd chromosomal DNA. Pyrimidine nucleoside analogues were also evaluated as immunochemical markers for their in vivo introduction into DNA.
Previous studies have suggested that schizophrenic psychopathology segregates into three orthogonal dimensions, viz., psychosis, negative and disorganization. Most of these reports were based on studies on medicated patients with varying degrees of chronicity. The present study aimed at exploring the dimensionality of psychopathology rated on the Scale for the Assessment of Negative Symptoms (SANS) and the Scale for the Assessment of Positive Symptoms (SAPS) in a sample of 43 neuroleptic-nave patients with recent-onset schizophrenia/schizophreniform disorder. Principal Components Analysis (PCA) of SANS and SAPS global ratings, excluding inattention but including inappropriate affect as a separate global rating, revealed that the symptoms segregated into three dimensions, viz., negative (affective flattening, alogia, avolition anhedonia and inappropriate affect), psychosis (delusions and hallucinations) and disorganization (positive formal thought disorder and bizarre behavior). Cumulatively these three dimensions explained 74.07% of the variance. The results suggest that the three dimensions of schizophrenic psychopathology are valid even in neuroleptic-nave, recent-onset patients with schizophrenia/schizophreniform disorder. PCA of the SANS and SAPS individual items revealed similar findings, but psychotic symptoms loaded under two components, thus yielding a four-factor solution; however, this observation needs to be confirmed in a larger sample of neuroleptic-nave schizophrenic patients.
The study sought to determine the psychometric properties of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) in individuals with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) assessed using a web-based data collection tool. Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses were conducted on the HADS to determine its psychometric properties in 117 individuals with CFS. Seven models were tested to determine model fit to the data. Internal reliability estimations of the anxiety and depression sub-scales were found to be acceptable, however, a three-factor model was found to provide a significantly better fit to the data when compared to the bi-dimensional two-factor structure previously assumed to underpin the HADS' construct validity. The clinical utility of the HADS in the assessment of anxiety and depression in CFS appears to be fundamentally compromised by the presence of a three-dimensional underlying factor structure. Future revision of the HADS is recommended if the instrument is to be used reliably to screen CFS patients.

Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), the minimal immunogenic component of Gram-negative bacteria, is released during infection and causes a variety of sickness behaviors including decreased locomotor activity. This study considered how photoperiod and sex influence the effects of LPS in the meadow vole, Microtus pennsylvanicus. Male and female voles were housed under either reproductively stimulatory (long day: 16 h) or inhibitory (short day: 8 h) photoperiods. On Days 1 and 8, voles were injected with LPS (200 microg/kg, i.p.) or saline vehicle and locomotor activity was assessed 2 h later in an automated open field for 1 h. The first exposure to LPS caused significant decrements in locomotor activity in all LPS-treated groups, regardless of photoperiod or sex. On Day 8, both short day males and females exhibited behavioral tolerance to LPS, no longer displaying significant activity decrements. In contrast, long day females reinjected with LPS on Day 8 still exhibited significant hypoactivity on all locomotor measures. Similarly, long day males also appeared to exhibit a sustained expression of sickness behaviors on Day 8. In long day females, higher circulating progesterone levels were associated with an attenuated rate of tolerance formation to LPS. The present findings support the winter immunoenhancement hypothesis, which states that small mammals which undergo severe seasonal fluctuations undergo compromised immune functioning during the breeding season, and further indicate a potential role for progesterone in modulating these seasonal immune fluctuations in females.


Research suggests that when people are fear conditioned to masked spiders and snakes (electric shocks are contingent on only spiders or snakes), they acquire a conditional skin conductance response and can predict the occurrence of shocks even though they are unable to identify the masked spiders and snakes. Because in prior studies trial order was not completely random, it is unclear if findings were due to the contingencies from differential conditioning or a restricted trial order or both. When participants were assigned to four groups to disentangle effects of trial order and differential conditioning to masked pictures in acquisition, effects were obtained only for trial order. These findings demonstrate that trial order can result in conditioning. However, because effects were observed even for participants who reported unawareness of the contingency from trial order, results are consistent with the notion of hunches or gut feelings.
During language production and comprehension, information about a word's syntactic properties is sometimes needed. While the decision about the grammatical gender of a word requires access to syntactic knowledge, it has also been hypothesized that semantic (i.e., biological gender) or phonological information (i.e., sound regularities) may influence this decision. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were measured while native speakers of German processed written words that were or were not semantically and/or phonologically marked for gender. Behavioral and ERP results showed that participants were faster in making a gender decision when words were semantically and/or phonologically gender marked than when this was not the case, although the phonological effects were less clear. In conclusion, our data provide evidence that even though participants performed a grammatical gender decision, this task can be influenced by semantic and phonological factors.
Many recent computational models of verbal short-term memory postulate a separation between processes supporting memory for the identity of items and processes supporting memory for their serial order. Furthermore, some of these models assume that memory for serial order is supported by a timing signal. We report an attempt to find evidence for such a timing signal by comparing an item probe task, requiring memory for items, with a list probe task, requiring memory for serial order. Four experiments investigated effects of irrelevant speech, articulatory suppression, temporal grouping, and paced finger tapping on these two tasks. In Experiments 1 and 2, irrelevant speech and articulatory suppression had a greater detrimental effect on the list probe task than on the item probe task. Reaction time data indicated that the list probe task, but not the item probe task, induced serial rehearsal of items. Phonological similarity effects confirmed that both probe tasks induced phonological recoding of visual inputs. Experiment 3 showed that temporal grouping of items during list presentation improved performance on the list probe task more than on the item probe task. In Experiment 4, paced tapping had a greater detrimental effect on the list probe task than on the item probe task. However, there was no differential effect of whether tapping was to a simple or a complex rhythm. Overall, the data illustrate the utility of the item probe/list probe paradigm and provide support for models that assume memory for serial order and memory for items involve separate processes. Results are generally consistent with the timing-signal hypothesis but suggest further factors that need to be explored to distinguish it from other accounts.
Metal ions affect ion channels either by blocking the current or by modifying the gating. In the present review we analyse the effects on the gating of voltage-gated channels. We show that the effects can be understood in terms of three main mechanisms. Mechanism A assumes screening of fixed surface charges. Mechanism B assumes binding to fixed charges and an associated electrostatic modification of the voltage sensor. Mechanism C assumes binding and an associated non electrostatic modification of the gating. To quantify the non-electrostatic effect we introduced a slowing factor, A. A fourth mechanism (D) is binding to the pore with a consequent pore block, and could be a special case of Mechanisms B or C. A further classification considers whether the metal ion affects a single site or multiple sites. Analysing the properties of these mechanisms and the vast number of studies of metal ion effects on different voltage-gated on channels we conclude that group 2 ions mainly affect channels by classical screening (a version of Mechanism A). The transition metals and the Zn group ions mainly bind to the channel and electrostatically modify the gating (Mechanism B), causing larger shifts of the steady-state parameters than the group 2 ions, but also different shifts of activation and deactivation curves. The lanthanides mainly bind to the channel and both electrostatically and non-electrostatically modify the gating (Mechanisms B and C). With the exception of the ether--go-go-like channels, most channel types show remarkably similar ion-specific sensitivities.
Healthcare providers are paying more attention to behavioral neuroscience research that confirms what patients intuitively know: physical environments deeply influence one's sense of well being. Recognizing the importance of comforting environments, healthcare providers have been working with architects to design new facilities around the patient's experience. This doesn't mean that functional and technical considerations are unimportant; it's just that the patient's experience comes first. The patient is the most important user of a healthcare facility, and yet is the only user not sitting at the table during design meetings. For this reason, some healthcare providers work with their architects to develop the conceptual design from the patient's standpoint before seeking detailed staff input. Many indignities experienced by patients may be unwittingly imposed by caring and dedicated professional staff. Medical clutter, waste containers, water coolers, coffee makers, personal displays and decorations add up to create a distressing level of visual chaos. Departments are required to eliminate clutter and maintain a calm, pleasing environment. Employees appreciate a well-designed physical environment, too. Facilities that reduce stress for patients have the same impact on staff, alleviating tension as they care for patients. Putting the patient's experience first need not add capital construction cost to a project. Rearranging spaces for the sake of the patient adds no more to floor area. Added windows, skylights and interior finishes can add cost, but the incremental cost of these amenities is small in proportion to the total project cost. Facilities project powerful visual dues about an institution's values. Providers who carefully plan for a positive patient experience traditionally enjoy strong reputations and exceptional customer loyalty. These providers know that good design is not simply wrapping a pretty facade around a building or decorating the lobby. Good design is the careful orchestration of uplifting and encouraging experiences for patients throughout their entire visit. For providers who achieve this, architecture becomes evidence that they put their patients first.

Through many experimental brain ischemia studies, it has been suggested that all of the cellular elements in the central nervous system show dynamic stress responses depending on the degree of environmental changes induced by ischemia and reperfusion. In this symposium, first we reviewed the pathogenic role of microvascular stasis (i.e., secondary ischemia) caused by the primary ischemic event and demonstrated the important role of cell adhesion molecules through the experiments using ICAM-1 knock-out mouse as a model of brain ischemia/reperfusion. Next, we discussed the ischemia-induced neuronal cell responses in relation to the apoptosis-like selective neuronal death and the induction of adopted stress responses including stress protein synthesis and 'ischemic tolerance' phenomenon. A variety of stress proteins induced by ischemic stress have been reviewed in relation to their pathophysiological roles in the ischemic brain. Finally, we reviewed the important pathogenic roles of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress as well as adaptive responses of ubiquitin-proteasome system in ischemia-induced neuronal cell death. For the development of a novel therapeutic agent against ischemic stroke, it is quite important to clarify both the negative and positive cellular responses induced by brain ischemia/reperfusion.
According to the previous survey of postgraduate neurology education in Japan, there is a wide range of variability among training hospitals in terms of the number of neurologists available for the postgraduate education, the number of beds available for neurological teaching, facilities, the number of residents, diseases of main interests, and subspecialty fields within neurology. Practically speaking, therefore, it is not suitable and it is even impossible to completely standardize the way of postgraduate education throughout the country. 'Essential core curriculum' which consists of history taking and neurological examination, and education of basic neuroscience knowledge related to clinical neurology, combined with clinical neurophysiology including electroencephalography (EEG) and electromyography (EMG), clinical neuropathology including muscle and nerve biopsy, and neuroradiology, could be standardized to a certain degree at least in part. Other related fields such as neuropsychology, rehabilitation, neuro-ophthalmology, pediatric neurology, neurosurgery, psychiatry and neurogenetics can be educated in certain designated centers of each specific field depending on the resident's choice. Although 'essential core curriculum' could be standardized to a certain degree, 'flexibility program' is more practical in Japan at least in the years to come.
Migraine is a very common disorder. In Japan, an estimated 8.4% of population experience migraine, but most of them go undiagnosed and undertreated. Recent advances in basic and applied clinical neuroscience have led to the development of sumatriptan, a new class of selective serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)) receptor agonists that activate 5-HT 1B/1D receptors. Following sumatriptan several other triptans were produced. They have three main mechanism of action: cranial vasoconstriction, peripheral trigeminal inhibition, and inhibition of transmission through second order neurons of the trigeminocervical complex. Even in our country, we can now use three kinds of triptans, which are very effective medicine against acute migraine with a well-developed scientific rationale. Despite the higher price, triptans were preferred over ergots in most patients. Recently Limmroth et al reported a prospective study for medication overuse headache (MOH) in 98 patients. The mean critical duration until onset of MOH was shortest for triptans (1.7 years), longer for ergots (2.7 years), and longest for analgesics (4.8 years). The mean critical monthly intake frequencies was lowest for triptans (18 single doses per month), higher for ergots (37), and highest for analgesics (114). We should keep in mind that overuse of triptans leads to MOH faster and with lower dosages compared with ergots and analgesics.
The fusiform gyrus is important for face and object recognition, is abnormal in schizophrenia, but has not been studied in schizotypal personality disorder (SPD). Thin-slice MR images showed no differences, either in right, left or total fusiform gyri volumes, between subjects with SPD (N=21) and normal controls (N=19). However, there was a correlation between severity of illusions and magical thinking suffered by the SPD subjects and smaller right fusiform gyrus volumes. This suggests that future studies may be useful in determining the functional competence of this gyrus in SPD.
Brain weight is often said to be decreased in schizophrenia, but a reduction has only been found in a minority of studies. We have therefore carried out a meta-analysis to answer this basic neuropathological question. Data were identified from literature searches and from contacting researchers in the field who were invited to submit unpublished data. Inclusion criteria were: an operational diagnosis of schizophrenia, or comparison subjects with no neurological or psychiatric history, aged 18 or over, for whom brain weight, age and sex were known. Exclusion criteria were: a history of head injury, epilepsy, substance dependence or leucotomy; neuropathological evidence of neurodegenerative disorder or focal brain lesion. Results were analysed by multilevel modelling. Brain weight was, as expected, related to age and sex (both p&lt;0.0001). After control for these factors, there was an effect of diagnosis, with brains from the 540 schizophrenia subjects being 2% lighter than from the 794 controls (weighted mean difference=24 g [95% confidence interval, 1-47 g]; p=0.04). The difference was similar in male and female patients. There was no correlation with duration of illness. In conclusion, brain weight is slightly but significantly reduced in schizophrenia, consistent in direction and magnitude with MRI volumetric findings. The result encourages a continuing search for the histological and molecular correlates of schizophrenia.
It has been hypothesized that schizophrenia could be due to a defect of neural circuitry, that is a misconnection between different cerebral areas, particularly those involved in language processing and production. A group of 28 patients with chronic schizophrenia were investigated in order to detect differences in locations of white matter voxel signal intensity in comparison with a control group of 28 normal subjects matched for age, gender and educational level. Voxel-based morphometry was used to assess the white matter of the brain. Significant voxel signal hypointensity was identified in schizophrenic patients bilaterally (mainly in the left hemisphere) in the post-central gyrus and superior temporal gyrus and unilaterally (in the left hemisphere) in the inferior frontal gyrus-pars triangularis and pars pretriangularis, the medial orbital gyrus, the lateral orbital gyrus and the rectus gyrus. Thus, the white matters of these cerebral areas were structurally modified particularly in the left hemisphere and in those structures that control language and hearing processes.

The orbitopterional approach is an anterior skull base extension of the pterional approach that provides greater exposure to the anterior cranial fossa, supra- and parasellar regions, and anterior communicating artery complex. We describe the surgical technique in a stepwise manner to create a one-piece orbitopterional craniotomy flap; keyholes for the bone cuts are the MacCarty burr-hole and the anterolateral portion of the inferior orbital fissure. This one-piece technique is less complicated than the two-piece orbitopterional craniotomy and eliminates the need for complex reconstruction of cosmetically important areas (i.e., the orbit and forehead).
We retrospectively studied 18 pregnant women from 600 cases of meningioma treated at this Institution between 1986 and 2001. The variables evaluated included clinical presentation; radiological findings; timing and extent of surgical resection; and an overview of gestational, clinical, and surgical outcomes. Visual impairment was the chief complaint followed by headache and seizures. The tumors involved the tuberculum sella (8), sphenoid wing (4), convexity (2), parasellar (2), cerebellopontine angle (CPA) (1), and anterior falx (1). Gross total resection was achieved in 14, and subtotal resection was achieved in two patients. There were no related fetal or maternal deaths. Of seven patients with advanced or progressive visual impairment who underwent resection during pregnancy, three improved noticeably, two worsened, and two were unchanged. Five other patients with visual disturbance achieved full-term spontaneous delivery with improved vision in two and improved vision after post-confinement surgery in one. Vision remained unchanged in two. Intracranial meningioma during pregnancy challenges the skill of obstetricians and neurosurgeons to secure delivery of the baby and resection of the tumor. Advances in fetal and maternal monitoring, neuroanesthesia, and microsurgical techniques allow safe neurosurgical management of these patients, and pregnancy usually continues successfully to term. Surgical intervention has no major effect on minimal residual vision or advanced optic nerve atrophy.

Current knowledge on the neuronal substrates of Pavlovian conditioning in animals and man is briefly reviewed. First, work on conditioning in aplysia, that has showed amplified pre-synaptic facilitation as the basic mechanism of associative learning, is summarized. Then, two exemplars of associative learning in vertebrates, fear conditioning in rodents and eyelid conditioning in rabbits, are described and research into its neuronal substrates discussed. Research showing the role of the amygdala in fear conditioning and of the cerebellum in eyelid conditioning is reviewed, both at the circuit and cellular plasticity levels. Special attention is given to the parallelism suggested by this research between the neuronal mechanisms of conditioning and the principles of formal learning theory. Finally, recent evidence showing a similar role of the amygdala and of the cerebellum in human Pavlovian conditioning is discussed.
The scientific adventure of the Ivan Pavlov Department of Physiology is traced from Pavlov's and his students pioneer work on &quot;psychic salivation&quot; to the times of the Biological Station at Koltushi. The development of the Department after Pavlov's death is described and the research trends of the three present laboratories (Neurobiology of Integrative Brain Functions, Psychophysiology of Emotions, and Neurodynamic Correction of Psycho Neurological Pathology) are discussed.
Reflexology has been present throughout Spanish science since the last third of the nineteenth century and its importance can be seen in the works of authors such as Martn Salazar, Ramn y Cajal, Gmez Ocaa, Simarro and Turr. The most important research in Reflexology in Spain takes place a) at the Schools of Neurophysiology and Psychology in Barcelona and Madrid, b) with a group of authors specializing in pathological medicine and c) in the Military's Health Department, Pavlov's work was received in Spain with special interest. Fernndez-Espaa, who could be considered the &quot;first Spanish Pavlovian,&quot; emphasized Pavlov's work in a series dedicated to the study of objective psychology which was published between 1914 and 1924. Planelles was the first investigator to develop a program in pavlovian experimentation, presenting his results in 1935. The Civil War (1936-1939) ended these and many other Spanish projects in psychology. After the war, interest in Reflexology and Pavlov's theories slowly rose again, first through psychosomatic medicine and then in the 60's because of the works of such authors as Monserrat-Esteve, Rof Carballo and Colodrn. The progressive inclusion of psychology in the Schools of Philosophy and Arts after 1968 marked the beginning of a new era.
Progesterone is known to be involved in many steps in female reproduction including control of implantation and uterine-cervical function during pregnancy. Our studies in rats and guinea pigs indicate that progesterone inhibits uterine contractility and cervical softening during pregnancy. Progesterone levels or actions decline near the end of pregnancy leading to the onset of labor. Treatment with progestin agonists prolongs pregnancy and inhibits cervical softening, whereas treatment with antiprogestins (mifepristone or onapristone) stimulates uterine contractility, cervical softening and premature delivery. Thus the effect of progesterone receptor modulators in the uterus and cervix depend up on the degree of intrinsic agonistic/antagonistic activities. Our recent studies show that progesterone interacts with nitric oxide (NO) to maintain pregnancy and that administration of progesterone antagonists with NO synthase inhibitors act synergistically to stimulate labor. In addition our studies show that combinations of progesterone antagonists with aromatase inhibitors act synergistically to induce labor. Similarly antiprogestins interact with NO synthase or aromatase inhibitors to block implantation through action on the endometrium. These studies suggest new applications for combined therapies of progestin receptor modulators with aromatase inhibitors or agents that modify NO production for contraception, stimulation of labor, estrogen-dependent diseases and improved outcomes in pregnancy.



Glutamate is transported into synaptic vesicles by vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) proteins. Three different VGLUTs, VGLUT1, VGLUT2, and VGLUT3, have recently been characterized, and they are considered to represent the most specific marker so far for neurons using glutamate as transmitter. We analyzed the cellular localization of VGLUT1-3 in the rat spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) in control rats and after dorsal rhizotomy. Using in situ hybridization, VGLUT1 mRNA containing neurons were shown in the dorsomedial part of the intermediate zone, whereas VGLUT2 mRNA-expressing neurons were present in the entire intermediate zone, both populations most likely representing interneurons. VGLUT3 mRNA could not be detected in the spinal cord. In the ventral horn, a dense plexus of VGLUT1-immunoreactive (ir) nerve terminals was present, with large varicosities abutting on presumed motoneurons. In the dorsal horn a similarly dense plexus was seen, except in laminae I and II. A very dense plexus of VGLUT2-ir fibers was distributed in the entire gray matter of the spinal cord, with many fibers lying close to presumed motoneurons. Few VGLUT3-ir fibers were distributed in the white and gray matter, including lamina IX. However, a dense VGLUT3-ir plexus was seen in the sympathetic intermedio-lateral column (IML). Multiple-labeling immunohistochemistry revealed that the VGLUT1-, VGLUT2-, and VAChT-containing varicosities in lamina IX all represent separate entities. There was no colocalization of VGLUT3 with VAChT or 5-HT in varicose fibers of the ventral horn, but some VGLUT3-ir fibers in the IML were 5-HT-positive. Lesioning of the dorsal roots resulted in an almost complete disappearance of VGLUT1-ir fibers around motoneurons and a less pronounced decrease in the remaining gray matter, whereas the density of VGLUT2- and VAChT-ir fibers appeared unaltered after lesion. Many VGLUT1-ir neurons were observed in DRGs; they were almost all large and did not colocalize calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and there was no overlap between these markers in fibers in the superficial dorsal horn. VGLUT2 was, at most, seen in a few DRG neurons. Taken together, these results suggest that the VGLUTs mRNAs are present in distinct subsets of neuronal populations at the spinal level. VGLUT1 is mainly present in primary afferents from large, CGRP-negative DRG neurons, VGLUT2 has mainly a local origin, and VGLUT3 fibers probably have a supraspinal origin.
In human vision, acuity and color sensitivity are best at the point of fixation, and the visual-cognitive system exploits this fact by actively controlling gaze to direct fixation towards important and informative scene regions in real time as needed. How gaze control operates over complex real-world scenes has recently become of central concern in several core cognitive science disciplines including cognitive psychology, visual neuroscience, and machine vision. This article reviews current approaches and empirical findings in human gaze control during real-world scene perception.
Research into the perception of space, time and quantity has generated three separate literatures. That number can be represented spatially is, of course, well accepted and forms a basis for research into spatial aspects of numerical processing. Links between number and time or between space and time, on the other hand, are rarely discussed and the shared properties of all three systems have not been considered. I propose here that time, space and quantity are part of a generalized magnitude system. I outline A Theory Of Magnitude (ATOM) as a conceptually new framework within which to re-interpret the cortical processing of these elements of the environment.
Gap junctions are clusters of aqueous channels that connect the cytoplasm of adjoining cells. Each cell contributes a hemichannel, or connexon, to each cell-cell channel. The cell-cell channels are permeable to relatively large molecules, and it was thought that opening of hemichannels to the extracellular space would kill cells through loss of metabolites, collapse of ionic gradients and influx of Ca(2+). Recent findings indicate that specific non-junctional hemichannels do open under both physiological and pathological conditions, and that opening is functional or deleterious depending on the situation. Most of these studies utilized cells in tissue culture that expressed a specific gap junction protein, connexin 43. Several such examples are reviewed here, with a particular focus on astrocytes.
The term neuropeptide was advanced by de Wied and collaborators in the early seventies. At that time, they defined neuropeptides as endogenous substances synthesized in nerve cells and involved in nervous system functions. Since then, several studies have revealed that the very same 'neuropeptides' are also expressed in non-neuronal cells. It is therefore generally accepted that the original definition of these peptides was too limited and, consequently, it has recently been revised. Among the non-neuronal cells that synthesize neuropeptides are several glial cell types.
Like a newly popular nightspot, the biology of adult stem cells has emerged from obscurity to become one of the most lively new disciplines of the decade. The neurosciences have not escaped this trendy pastime and, from amid the noise and excitement, the astrocyte emerges as a beguiling companion to the adult neural stem cell. A once receding partner to neurons and oligodendrocytes, the astrocyte even takes on an alter ego of the stem cell itself (S. Goldman, this issue of TINS). Putting ego aside, the 'astrocyte' is also (and perhaps more importantly) an integral component of neural progenitor hotspots, where the craziness or 'la vida loca' of the nightlife might not be so wild when compared with our traditional understanding of the astrocyte. Here, astrocytes contribute to the instructive confluence of location, atmosphere and cellular neighbors that define the daily 'vida local' or everyday local life of an adult stem cell. This review discusses astrocytes as influential components in the local stem cell niche.
Increasing knowledge of the genome sequences of several organisms and the development of genome-wide, high-throughput screening techniques for gene expression are likely to generate a vast amount of data aimed at elucidating the molecular mechanisms of addiction. These findings are likely to have potential for future addiction pharmacotherapies. However, it is important to employ animal models that dissociate the molecular and cellular consequences of the direct pharmacological effects of addictive drugs from those that result from the cognitive processes associated with self-administration of these drugs. In this article, we suggest that the short-term and long-term neuroadaptive effects of addictive drugs in the brain depend crucially on the drug-exposure paradigm used [i.e. passive (non-contingent) drug exposure and active (contingent) self-administration]. This has important ramifications for future molecular and cellular studies of drug addiction.

Lesion or inactivation of the superior colliculus (SC) of the cat results in an animal that fails to orient toward peripheral visual stimuli which normally evoke a brisk, reflexive orienting response. A failure to orient toward a visual stimulus could be the result of a sensory impairment (a failure to detect the visual stimulus) or a motor impairment (an inability to generate the orienting response). Either mechanism could explain the deficit observed during SC inactivation since neurons in the SC can carry visual sensory signals as well as motor commands involved in the generation of head and eye movements. We investigated the effects of SC inactivation in the cat in two ways. First, we tested cats in a visual detection task that required the animals to press a central, stationary foot pedal to indicate detection of a peripheral visual stimulus. Such a motor response does not involve any components of the orienting response and is unlikely to depend on SC motor commands. A deficit in this task would indicate that the SC plays an important role in the detection of visual targets even in a task that does not require visual orienting. Second, to further investigate the visual orienting deficit observed during SC inactivation and to make direct comparisons between detection and orienting performance, we tested cats in a standard perimetry paradigm. Performance in both tasks was tested following focal inactivation of the SC with microinjections of muscimol at various depths and rostral/caudal locations throughout the SC. Our results reveal a dramatic deficit in both the visual detection task and the visual orienting task following inactivation of the SC with muscimol.
Light-evoked synaptic currents were recorded from on-cone bipolar cells in the mouse retina. Fluctuations in the synaptic current observed during maintained light steps were analyzed in order to estimate the amplitude of the underlying unitary event. The maximal synaptic current variance was 5-fold larger than the maximum expected from fluctuations in the number of active postsynaptic channels. Due to uncertainty in the contribution from channel variance, we calculated a range of values for the unitary event amplitude. The observed variance could be accounted for if 30-39 synaptic sites randomly generated unitary events with a waveform identical to the flash-response, and an amplitude of -3.1 to -2.4 pA. The amplitude is consistent with gating about five mGluR6 channels. The shape of the variance-mean relation suggests that in bright light transmitter release approaches zero, while in darkness transmitter release saturates the postsynaptic response. Thus the on-cone bipolar cell synapse is operating over its entire possible range. If it is assumed that the postsynaptic response saturates when one unitary event occurs per integration time, then a lower bound for the unitary event rate is 18 events/s/synaptic site. If the unitary event is generated by a single synaptic vesicle, the results suggest the total vesicle cycling rate available for encoding the on-cone bipolar cell signal is about 540-700 s(-1).
Reaction times (RTs) are obtained for a wide range of contrasts of vertical sinusoidal gratings. The data are plotted as a function of the reciprocal of contrast. In some conditions, a single linear function accounts for the data. In others a clear bi-linear function is obtained. The low and high contrast regions of the function are interpreted as representing magno and parvo activity, respectively. RT-based supra-threshold sensitivity functions are obtained for different luminances, stimulus durations and eccentricities and these are compared with conventional threshold-based sensitivities to establish the extent to which RTs and contrast sensitivity are constrained by the same sensory processes.
The depth of each point on a binocularly presented untextured horizontal bar is physically ambiguous except for the two vertical edges at both ends, since the correspondence between left and right images is not unique on such a uniform region. These depths, however, are unambiguously perceived, and this suggests the existence of some mechanism that interpolates the depth information from the two ends toward the center. Temporal properties of this integration process were examined by a phase-matching task, which allowed us to measure the phase of the perceived depth at the center of a horizontal bar when disparities at the ends were sinusoidally oscillated. We found that the perceived depth at the center of the bar was slightly temporally delayed for 7-60 ms relative to the physical depth at the ends. The difference increased with the length of the bar, decreased as the vertical position of the bar became farther from the fixation point, and increased in the presence of occluders. This finding indicates that depth information is propagated over an object to solve this ambiguity by using a time-consuming process. Accordingly, we suggest that depth propagation is accomplished by spatially local diffusion-like interactions of locally represented depth information.


It has been suggested that when the delivery of several rewards is separated in time, e.g. one reward immediately and a second reward a few moments later, the value of an alternative that includes these &quot;bundled&quot; rewards will be the sum of the hyperbolic discount functions of the individual rewards. The current study examined this hypothesis using an adjusting amount procedure. In this procedure, rats chose between a delayed food alternative and an immediate food alternative, where the amount of immediate food altered according to each rat's choices. The size of the immediate reward when rats were indifferent between the delayed and immediate alternatives indexed the value of the delayed alternative. Discount functions describing the relationship between the indifference points and the delay to food were created for conditions in which the delay alternative consisted of a single reward (150mul of sucrose solution) delayed by 0, 2, 4, 8, or 16s following the reinforced response. These functions were used to predict the indifference points in other conditions for which an additional 150mul of sucrose solution was delivered at 0, 4, 8, or 16s following the reinforced response. The model fit the data well. However, there were systematic deviations that suggested animals were sensitive to the context within which delays were presented, in addition to the delays themselves. That is, preference for the delayed alternative was lower than predicted when the delay to the additional reward was long (8 or 16s) and higher than the predicted values when it was short (0 or 4s).
Slo2 channels are a type of sodium-activated K+ channels and possess a typical PDZ binding motif at the carboxy-terminal end. Thus, we investigated whether Slo2 channels bind to PSD-95, because it is well known that other types of K+ channels, voltage-gated and inward rectifier K+ channels, bind to PSD-95 via the PDZ binding motif and are involved in excitatory synaptic transmission. By using an extract prepared from cultured neocortical neurons, we demonstrated a biochemical interaction between mSlo2 channels and PSD-95, and a mutational analysis revealed that mSlo2 channels bound to the first PDZ domain of PSD-95 via the PDZ binding motif. To investigate the expression of mSlo2 protein in primary neocortical neurons, we raised anti-mSlo2 channel antibody and immunostained neocortical neurons. The immunocytochemical study showed that mSlo2 channels partly colocalized with PSD-95 in mouse neocortical neurons.
Sweet and umami (the taste of monosodium glutamate) are the main attractive taste modalities in humans. T1Rs are candidate mammalian taste receptors that combine to assemble two heteromeric G-protein-coupled receptor complexes: T1R1+3, an umami sensor, and T1R2+3, a sweet receptor. We now report the behavioral and physiological characterization of T1R1, T1R2, and T1R3 knockout mice. We demonstrate that sweet and umami taste are strictly dependent on T1R-receptors, and show that selective elimination of T1R-subunits differentially abolishes detection and perception of these two taste modalities. To examine the basis of sweet tastant recognition and coding, we engineered animals expressing either the human T1R2-receptor (hT1R2), or a modified opioid-receptor (RASSL) in sweet cells. Expression of hT1R2 in mice generates animals with humanized sweet taste preferences, while expression of RASSL drives strong attraction to a synthetic opiate, demonstrating that sweet cells trigger dedicated behavioral outputs, but their tastant selectivity is determined by the nature of the receptors.
Although the presence of Zn2+ in the brain has been known for nearly half a century, only recently has its precise location and potential roles as a neuromodulator and signaling molecule as well as neurotoxic agent come to the forefront. Unfortunately, our understanding of Zn2+ homeostatic mechanisms lags far behind. The recent identification of presumed Zn2+ transporters has opened new approaches to studying Zn2+ homeostatic mechanisms in neurons. Zn2+ transporters are involved in separate Zn2+ influx and efflux pathways in neurons. However, we are only beginning to understand the mechanism of Zn2+ transport and much more research needs to be done. We are only beginning to understand the transcriptional control and cellular location of Zn2+ transporters, as well. Finally, this review presents a working model of neuronal Zn2+ homeostasis and discusses the experimental evidence for the proposed roles that Zn2+ transporters might play.
Pharmacological alterations in dopamine transporter (DAT) function not only modulate dopamine reuptake, but they can induce rapid changes in the plasmalemmal expression of the transporter. By modifying transporter membrane expression, drugs may alter the maximum rate of neurotransmitter clearance, shifting cellular transport capacity and disrupting normal receptor stimulation. DAT-interacting drugs include the illicit and highly abused psychostimulants amphetamine and cocaine. Regulation of transporter activity and plasma membrane expression by these drugs has been implicated in the long-term processes of reward and addiction. This review summarizes the regulation of DAT by transporter substrates and blockers with particular emphasis on the modulation of DAT cell surface expression by acute exposure to amphetamine and cocaine.
The extracellular actions of dopamine are terminated primarily through its binding to dopamine transporters and translocation back into dopamine neurons. The transporter thereby serves as an optimal target to regulate dopamine neurotransmission. Although acute pharmacological blockade of dopamine transporters is known to reversibly inhibit transporter function by preventing the binding of its endogenous substrate dopamine, it recently has become clear that dopamine transporter substrates, such as amphetamines, and blockers, such as cocaine, also have the ability to rapidly and persistently regulate transporter function after their direct pharmacological effect has subsided. Presynaptic receptor ligands can also regulate dopamine transporter function. This has been investigated most extensively for dopamine D2 receptors, but there is also evidence for regulation by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) GABAB receptors, metabotropic glutamate, nicotinic acetylcholine, serotonin, sigma2- and kappa-opioid receptors. The focus of this review is the rapid, typically reversible, regulation of dopamine transporter velocity by substrates, blockers and presynaptic receptor ligands. The research discussed here suggests that a common mechanism through which these different classes of compounds regulate transporter activity is by altering the cell surface expression of dopamine transporters.
Ischemic stroke triggers lipid peroxidation and neuronal injury. Docosahexaenoic acid released from membrane phospholipids during brain ischemia is a major source of lipid peroxides. Leukocyte infiltration and pro-inflammatory gene expression also contribute to stroke damage. In this study using lipidomic analysis, we have identified stereospecific messengers from docosahexaenoate-oxygenation pathways in a mouse stroke model. Aspirin, widely used to prevent cerebrovascular disease, activates an additional pathway, which includes the 17R-resolvins. The newly discovered brain messenger 10,17S-docosatriene potently inhibited leukocyte infiltration, NFkappaB, and cyclooxygenase-2 induction in experimental stroke and elicited neuroprotection. In addition, in neural cells in culture, this lipid messenger also inhibited both interleukin 1-beta-induced NFkappaB activation and cyclooxygenase-2 expression. Thus, the specific novel bioactive docosanoids generated in vivo counteract leukocyte-mediated injury as well as pro-inflammatory gene induction. These results challenge the view that docosahexaenoate only participates in brain damage and demonstrate that this fatty acid is also the endogenous precursor to a neuroprotective signaling response to ischemia-reperfusion.
Histaminergic H3 receptors modulate the release of neurotransmitters within the CNS and periphery. Ligands for these receptors have potential clinical utility in a variety of disease states. However, the pharmacological characteristics of these receptors have been enigmatic for more than a decade because of the diversity of pharmacological effects observed with the limited number of heretofore-available compounds. Recent cloning of the H3 receptor has revealed interspecies differences in the protein sequences in key regions, the existence of splice variants that differ in composition between species, and potential differences in signal transduction processes between either different tissues and/or species. This review attempts to summarize these findings within the context of the molecular biological and pharmacological data accumulated to date. Also, we suggest a nomenclature strategy to reduce potential confusion that has arisen from different naming systems used by various investigators. While some facets of this genetic and pharmacological diversity help to rationalize various aspects of H3 receptor heterogeneity, there remains an insufficient repertoire of selective ligands, assays, or other measures to completely resolve all components of this diversity. The promise of newly available tools to further explore H3 receptor function may provide the insight to bring the promised clinical potential of H3 receptor ligands to realization.
In conjunction with histone modifications, DNA methylation plays critical roles in gene silencing through chromatin remodeling. Changes in DNA methylation perturb neuronal function, and mutations in a methyl-CpG-binding protein, MeCP2, are associated with Rett syndrome. We report that increased synthesis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in neurons after depolarization correlates with a decrease in CpG methylation within the regulatory region of the Bdnf gene. Moreover, increased Bdnf transcription involves dissociation of the MeCP2-histone deacetylase-mSin3A repression complex from its promoter. Our findings suggest that DNA methylation-related chromatin remodeling is important for activity-dependent gene regulation that may be critical for neural plasticity.
Mutations in MeCP2, which encodes a protein that has been proposed to function as a global transcriptional repressor, are the cause of Rett syndrome (RT T), an X-linked progressive neurological disorder. Although the selective inactivation of MeCP2 in neurons is sufficient to confer a Rett-like phenotype in mice, the specific functions of MeCP2 in postmitotic neurons are not known. We find that MeCP2 binds selectively to BDNF promoter III and functions to repress expression of the BDNF gene. Membrane depolarization triggers the calcium-dependent phosphorylation and release of MeCP2 from BDNF promoter III, thereby facilitating transcription. These studies indicate that MeCP2 plays a key role in the control of neuronal activity-dependent gene regulation and suggest that the deregulation of this process may underlie the pathology of RT T.
Early detection of neurodegenerative disorders would provide clues to the underlying pathobiology of these diseases and would enable more effective diagnosis and treatment of patients. Recent advances in molecular neuroscience have begun to provide the tools to detect diseases like Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and others early in their course and potentially even before the development of clinical manifestations of disease. These genetic, imaging, clinical, and biochemical tools are being validated in a number of studies. Early detection of these slowly progressive diseases offers the promise of presymptomatic diagnosis and, ultimately, of disease-modifying medications for use early in disease and during the presymptomatic period.
We often think of neurodevelopmental disorders as beginning before birth, and many certainly do. A handful, however, strike many months after birth, following a period of apparently normal growth and development. Autism and Rett syndrome are two such disorders, and here I consider some of their similarities at the phenotypic and pathogenic levels. I propose that both disorders result from disruption of postnatal or experience-dependent synaptic plasticity.


Odorants evoke characteristic, but complex, local field potentials (LFPs) in the molluscan brain. Wavelet tools in combination with Fourier analysis can detect and characterize hitherto unknown discrete, slow potentials underlying the conspicuous oscillations. Ethanol was one of the odorants that we have extensively studied (J. Neurosci. Methods, 119 (2002) 89). To detect new features and to elucidate their functions, we tested the wavelet tools on the ethanol-evoked LFP responses of the slug (Limax) procerebrum. Recordings were made in vitro from the neuropile and the cell layer. The present study led to the following findings: (i) Mutual exclusion. Energy concentrated mainly in two ranges, (a) 0.1-0.4 Hz and (b) 1.56-12.5 Hz, and the sum of energy remained constant throughout experiments regardless of the condition. A redistribution of relative energy within this sum seemed to occur in the course of main, possible interactions between the two components excluding each other ('mutual exclusion'). (ii) Transient signal ordering and disordering. Ethanol stimulation alternatingly evoked periods of strongly time evolving oscillation dominated by the energy of 1.56-12.5 Hz (increase of entropy=disordered or complexly ordered state) and those of near-silence were predominated by the energy of 0.1-0.4 Hz (decrease of entropy=ordered state). (iii) About 0.1 Hz slow wave oscillation. It was robust. The dominant energy oscillation and the resulting large entropy fluctuation were negatively correlated to each other, and revealed strong frequency-tuning or synchronization at this frequency. Our findings suggest that discrete slow waves play functionally important roles in the invertebrate brain, as widely known in vertebrate EEG. Wavelet tools allow an easy interpretation of several minutes of frequency variations in a single display and give precise information on stimulus-evoked complex change of the neural system describing the new state 'more ordered' or 'non-ordered or more complexly ordered'.
A new, easy to construct electrode, microdrive and headstage for electrophysiological recording system which is specifically adapted for freely behaving mice is described. The system uses printed circuit boards and light, flexible cables to enable the animal's free movement for behavioral testing. A clip attachment system permits rapid and secure connection of the headstage and cables to the microdrive assembly on the animal's head. The current system provides eight recording channels, but the design can be modified to accommodate additional channels.
In this paper, we describe the preparation of a rat template intended for use together with SPM to enable spatial normalisation of individual rat brains. The template was created from T2-weighted images of the brains of five adult female Sprague-Dawley rats. A large number of anatomical landmarks were manually identified in each of these image volumes and recorded in the appurtenant image space. The same landmarks were defined in the space of the commonly used atlas by Paxinos and Watson. For each individual volume the affine transformation that best (in a least square sense) matched the two sets of points was estimated. These transforms were used to resample the individual volumes into the &quot;Paxinos space&quot;, and a template was created from the average of these. Hence, a rat brain spatially normalised to this template will facilitate reporting results in co-ordinates directly corresponding to the Paxinos co-ordinate system. The usage of the template is exemplified with a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study of the somatosensory cortex of the rat. The template image volumes together with the necessary modifications to the SPM software code can be downloaded from http://mr.imaging-ks.nu/expmr.htm.
Comparison of birds and pterosaurs, the two archosaurian flyers, sheds light on adaptation to an aerial lifestyle. The neurological basis of control holds particular interest in that flight demands on sensory integration, equilibrium, and muscular coordination are acute. Here we compare the brain and vestibular apparatus in two pterosaurs based on high-resolution computed tomographic (CT) scans from which we constructed digital endocasts. Although general neural organization resembles birds, pterosaurs had smaller brains relative to body mass than do birds. This difference probably has more to do with phylogeny than flight, in that birds evolved from nonavian theropods that had already established trends for greater encephalization. Orientation of the osseous labyrinth relative to the long axis of the skull was different in these two pterosaur species, suggesting very different head postures and reflecting differing behaviours. Their enlarged semicircular canals reflect a highly refined organ of equilibrium, which is concordant with pterosaurs being visually based, aerial predators. Their enormous cerebellar floccular lobes may suggest neural integration of extensive sensory information from the wing, further enhancing eye- and neck-based reflex mechanisms for stabilizing gaze.
The mammalian central nervous system (CNS) contains a remarkable array of neural cells, each with a complex pattern of connections that together generate perceptions and higher brain functions. Here we describe a large-scale screen to create an atlas of CNS gene expression at the cellular level, and to provide a library of verified bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) vectors and transgenic mouse lines that offer experimental access to CNS regions, cell classes and pathways. We illustrate the use of this atlas to derive novel insights into gene function in neural cells, and into principal steps of CNS development. The atlas, library of BAC vectors and BAC transgenic mice generated in this screen provide a rich resource that allows a broad array of investigations not previously available to the neuroscience community.




What neural mechanism underlies the capacity to understand the emotions of others? Does this mechanism involve brain areas normally involved in experiencing the same emotion? We performed an fMRI study in which participants inhaled odorants producing a strong feeling of disgust. The same participants observed video clips showing the emotional facial expression of disgust. Observing such faces and feeling disgust activated the same sites in the anterior insula and to a lesser extent in the anterior cingulate cortex. Thus, as observing hand actions activates the observer's motor representation of that action, observing an emotion activates the neural representation of that emotion. This finding provides a unifying mechanism for understanding the behaviors of others.
Learning how the incredible diversity of neurons in the vertebrate central nervous system (CNS) is generated is a central focus of developmental neuroscience. Three studies in the September 25, 2003, issue of Neuron bring us closer to this goal by revealing how the interplay between Fibroblast Growth Factor (FGF), retinoic acid (RA), and Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling regulate progression of spinal cord progenitor cells through various phases of development and specify particular types of spinal motor neurons (MNs).
Many bitter stimuli are believed to bind to specific G-protein-coupled membrane receptors on taste cells. Despite the compelling evidence for its pivotal role in bitter taste sensation, a direct involvement of the G-protein subunit alpha-gustducin in bitter taste transduction in taste cells has not been demonstrated in situ at the cellular level. We recorded activation of taste cells by bitter stimuli using Ca2+ imaging in lingual slices and examined alpha-gustducin immunoreactivity in the same cells. In mice vallate papillae, many, but not all, bitter-responsive cells expressed alpha-gustducin. In agreement with this correlation, the incidence of cells responding to bitter stimuli was reduced by 70% in mutant mice lacking alpha-gustducin. Nevertheless, some taste cells lacking alpha-gustducin responded to bitter stimuli, suggesting that other G-protein alpha subunits are involved. We found that the G-protein alpha subunit Galpha(i2) is present in most bitter-responsive cells and thus may also play a role in bitter taste transduction. The reduced behavioral sensitivity to bitter stimuli in alpha-gustducin knock-out mice thus appears to be the consequence of a reduced number of bitter-activated taste cells, as well as reduced sensitivity.
Psychostimulant drugs such as amphetamine are prescribed to increase vigilance, suppress appetite, and treat attention disorders, but they powerfully activate the dopamine system and have serious abuse potential. Repeated psychostimulant exposure induces neuronal plasticity within the mesolimbic dopamine system. Here we present evidence that repeated amphetamine exposure results in a suppression of intrinsic neuronal excitability in the ventral subiculum, a hippocampal region that activates dopamine neurotransmission. We used patch-clamp recordings from brain slices obtained at different times after withdrawal from repeated amphetamine exposure to determine the long-term effects of amphetamine on subicular excitability. Using several postsynaptic indices of sodium channel function, our results show that excitability is decreased for days, but not weeks, after repeated amphetamine exposure. The resulting increase in action potential threshold and decrease in postsynaptic amplification of excitatory synaptic input provide the first direct evidence that psychostimulants induce plasticity of hippocampal output and suggest one mechanism by which drug withdrawal may influence limbic dopamine-dependent learning and memory.
In vertebrates, individual olfactory neurons are thought to express a single odorant receptor (Or) gene, but it is not clear that all odor-evoked activity in each neuron is exclusively dependent on an individual odorant receptor. In Drosophila, little is known about what receptors impart odor sensitivity to particular olfactory neurons. Here, we demonstrate the use of gene targeting to produce a null mutant of the putative odorant receptor Or43b and find that the mutant is defective for odor-evoked activity in ab8A neurons, a single functional class of olfactory neurons in Drosophila. ab8A neurons lacking Or43b are still present in the mutants and display spontaneous activity but are insensitive to odor stimulation. Therefore, Or43b is required for odor responsiveness in these olfactory neurons in vivo. Or83b, a receptor expressed in a large fraction of olfactory neurons including Or43b neurons, does not confer odor responsiveness in the absence of Or43b. Olfactory behavior elicited by odorants that activate the ab8A neurons is indistinguishable between Or43b mutants and controls, demonstrating a surprising degree of functional redundancy among the limited odor receptor repertoire in this species. These studies demonstrate that a reverse genetic approach can be used to correlate specific olfactory receptors with odor specificity of functional classes of olfactory neurons.
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) is thought to play an important role in different pathological conditions of the human brain. Here we investigated the interaction between CSD and Ca2+ waves within the astrocyte population in slices from mouse neocortex (postnatal days 10-14). After local KCl ejection as a trigger for CSD, we recorded the propagation of Ca2+ increases within a large population of identified astrocytes in synchrony with CSD measured as intrinsic optical signal (IOS) or negative DC-potential shift. The two events spread with 39.2 +/- 3.3 mum/sec until the IOS and negative DC-potential shift decayed after approximately 1 mm. However, the astrocyte Ca2+ wave continued to propagate for up to another 500 microm but with a reduced speed of 18.3 +/- 2.5 microm/sec that is also typical for glial Ca2+ waves in white matter or culture. While blocking CSD using MK-801 (40 microm), an NMDA-receptor antagonist, the astrocyte Ca2+ wave persisted with a reduced speed (13.2 +/- 1.5 microm/sec). The specific gap junction blocker carbenoxolon (100 microm) did not prevent CSD but decelerated the speed (2.9 +/- 0.9 microm/sec) of the astrocyte Ca2+ wave in the periphery of CSD. We also found that interfering with intracellular astrocytic Ca2+ signaling by depletion of internal Ca2+ stores does not affect the spread of the IOS. We conclude that CSD determines the velocity of an accompanying astrocytic Ca2+ response, but the astrocyte Ca2+ wave penetrates a larger territory and by this represents a self-reliant phenomenon with a different mechanism of propagation.
Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha), a proinflammatory cytokine, was shown previously to promote remyelination and oligodendrocyte precursor proliferation in a murine model for demyelination and remyelination. We used Affymetrix microarrays in this study to identify (1) changes in gene expression that accompany demyelination versus remyelination and (2) changes in gene expression during the successful remyelination of wild-type mice versus the unsuccessful attempts in mice lacking TNFalpha. Alterations in inflammatory genes represented the most prominent changes, with major histocompatibility complex (MHC) genes dramatically enhanced in microglia and astrocytes during demyelination, remyelination, and as a consequence of TNFalpha stimulation. Studies to examine the roles of these genes in remyelination were then performed using mice lacking specific genes identified by the microarray. Analysis of MHC-II-null mice showed delayed remyelination and regeneration of oligodendrocytes, whereas removal of MHC-I had little effect. These data point to the induction of MHC-II by TNFalpha as an important regulatory event in remyelination and emphasize the active inflammatory response in regeneration after pathology in the brain.
Neurodegeneration and inflammation are fundamental aspects of many neurological diseases. A genome-wide scan of the response to ventral root avulsion (VRA) in a rat F2 cross discloses specific gene regions that regulate these processes. Two gene loci displayed linkage to neurodegeneration and T cell infiltration, respectively, and a single locus displayed extreme linkage to VRA-induced major histocompatibility complex class II expression on microglia. The demonstration that polymorphic genes in different loci control neurodegeneration and CNS inflammation has implications for various experimental rodent nervous system paradigms and potentially for genetically regulated susceptibility to a variety of human CNS diseases.
The occurrence of cells that encode spatial location (place cells) or head direction (HD cells) in the rat limbic system suggests that these cell types are important for spatial navigation. We sought to determine whether place fields of hippocampal CA1 place cells would be altered in animals receiving lesions of brain areas containing HD cells. Rats received bilateral lesions of anterodorsal thalamic nuclei (ADN), postsubiculum (PoS), or sham lesions, before place cell recording. Although place cells from lesioned animals did not differ from controls on many place-field characteristics, such as place-field size and infield firing rate, the signal was significantly degraded with respect to measures of outfield firing rate, spatial coherence, and information content. Surprisingly, place cells from lesioned animals were more likely modulated by the directional heading of the animal. Rotation of the landmark cue showed that place fields from PoS-lesioned animals were not controlled by the cue and shifted unpredictably between sessions. Although fields from ADN-lesioned animals tended to have less landmark control than fields from control animals, this impairment was mild compared with cells recorded from PoS-lesioned animals. Removal of the prominent visual cue also led to instability of place-field representations in PoS-lesioned, but not ADN-lesioned, animals. Together, these findings suggest that an intact HD system is not necessary for the maintenance of place fields, but lesions of brain areas that convey the HD signal can degrade this signal, and lesions of the PoS might lead to perceptual or mnemonic deficits, leading to place-field instability between sessions.
Presynaptic synthesis of acetylcholine (ACh) requires a steady supply of choline, acquired by a plasma membrane, hemicholinium-3-sensitive (HC-3) choline transporter (CHT). A significant fraction of synaptic choline is recovered from ACh hydrolyzed by acetylcholinesterase (AChE) after vesicular release. Although antecedent neuronal activity is known to dictate presynaptic CHT activity, the mechanisms supporting this regulation are unknown. We observe an exclusive localization of CHT to cholinergic neurons and demonstrate that the majority of CHTs reside on small vesicles within cholinergic presynaptic terminals in the rat and mouse brain. Furthermore, immunoisolation of presynaptic vesicles with multiple antibodies reveals that CHT-positive vesicles carry the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) and synaptic vesicle markers such as synaptophysin and Rab3A and also contain acetylcholine. Depolarization of synaptosomes evokes a Ca2+-dependent botulinum neurotoxin C-sensitive increase in the Vmax for HC-3-sensitive choline uptake that is accompanied by an increase in the density of CHTs in the synaptic plasma membrane. Our study leads to the novel hypothesis that CHTs reside on a subpopulation of synaptic vesicles in cholinergic terminals that can transit to the plasma membrane in response to neuronal activity to couple levels of choline re-uptake to the rate of ACh release.
The pulvinar is an 'associative' thalamic nucleus, meaning that most of its input and output relationships are formed with the cerebral cortex. The function of this circuitry is little understood and its anatomy, though much investigated, is notably recondite. This is because pulvinar connection patterns disrespect the architectural subunits (anterior, medial, lateral and inferior pulvinar nuclei) that have been the traditional reference system. This article presents a simplified, global model of the organization of cortico-pulvinar connections so as to pursue their structure-function relationships. Connections between the cortex and pulvinar are topographically organized, and as a result the pulvinar contains a 'map' of the cortical sheet. However, the topography is very blurred. Hence the pulvinar connection zones of nearby cortical areas overlap, allowing indirect transcortical communication via the pulvinar. A general observation is that indirect cortico-pulvino-cortical circuits tend to mimic direct cortico-cortical pathways: this is termed 'the replication principle'. It is equally apt for certain pairs (or groups) of nearby cortical areas that happen not to connect with each other. The 'replication' of this non-connection is achieved by discontinuities and dislocations of the cortical topography within the pulvinar, such that the associated pair of connection zones do not overlap. Certain of these deformations can be used to divide the global cortical topography into specific sub-domains, which form the natural units of a connectional subdivision of the pulvinar. A substantial part of the pulvinar also expresses visual topography, reflecting visual maps in occipital cortex. There are just two well-ordered visual maps in the pulvinar, that both receive projections from area V1, and several other occipital areas; the resulting duplication of cortical topography means that each visual map also acts as a separate connection domain. In summary, the model identifies four topographically ordered connection domains, and reconciles the coexistence of visual and cortical maps in two of them. The replication principle operates at and below the level of domain structure. It is argued that cortico-pulvinar circuitry replicates the pattern of cortical circuitry but not its function, playing a more regulatory role instead. Thalamic neurons differ from cortical neurons in their inherent rhythmicity, and the pattern of cortico-thalamic connections must govern the formation of specific resonant circuits. The broad implication is that the pulvinar acts to coordinate cortical information processing by facilitating and sustaining the formation of synchronized trans-areal assemblies; a more pointed suggestion is that, owing to the considerable blurring of cortical topography in the pulvinar, rival cortical assemblies may be in competition to recruit thalamic elements in order to outlast each other in activity.
GluR6 is an ionotropic glutamate receptor subunit of the kainate subtype. It plays an essential role in synaptic plasticity and epilepsy. We expressed this recombinant receptor in HEK-293 cells and characterized the glutamate-induced channel-opening reaction, using a laser-pulse photolysis technique with the caged glutamate (gamma-O-(alpha-carboxy-2-nitrobenzyl)glutamate). This technique permits glutamate to be liberated photolytically from the caged glutamate with a time constant of approximately 30 micros. Prior to laser photolysis, the caged glutamate did not activate the GluR6 channel, nor did it inhibit or potentiate the glutamate response. At the transmembrane voltage of -60 mV, pH 7.4 and 22 degrees C, the channel-opening and -closing rate constants were determined to be (1.1 +/- 0. 4) x 10(4) and (4.2 +/- 0.2) x 10(2) s(-1), respectively. The intrinsic dissociation constant of glutamate and the channel-opening probability were found to be 450 +/- 200 microM and 0.96, respectively. These constants are derived from a minimal kinetic mechanism of the channel activation involving the binding of two glutamate molecules. This mechanism describes the time course of the open-channel form of the receptor as a function of glutamate concentration. On the basis of the channel-opening rate constants obtained, the shortest rise time (20-80% of the receptor current response) or the fastest time by which the GluR6Q channel can open is predicted to be 120 micros. The open-channel form of the receptor determines the transmembrane voltage change, which in turn controls synaptic signal transmission between two neurons. The comparison of the channel-opening kinetic rate constants between GluR6Q and GluR2Q(flip), reported in the companion paper, suggests that at a glutamate concentration of 100 microM, for instance, the integrated neuronal signal will be dominated by a slower GluR6Q receptor response, as compared to the GluR2Q(flip) component.
AMPA receptors mediate fast excitatory neurotransmission in the central nervous system. GluR2 is an AMPA receptor subunit that controls some key heteromeric AMPA receptor properties, such as calcium permeability. The kinetic properties of GluR2, relevant to the time scale of its channel opening, however, are poorly understood. Here, to measure the channel-opening kinetics, we use a laser-pulse photolysis technique, which permits glutamate to be liberated photolytically from gamma-O-(alpha-carboxy-2-nitrobenzyl)glutamate (caged glutamate) with a time constant of approximately 30 micros. We show that GluR2Q(flip), an unedited and Ca(2+) permeable isoform, is by far the fastest ligand-gated channel with the channel-opening and -closing rate constants being (8.0 +/- 0.49) x 10(4) and (2.6 +/- 0.20) x 10(3) s(-1), respectively. Therefore, the shortest rise time (20-80% of the receptor current response) or the fastest observed time by which the GluR2Q(flip) channel can open is predicted to be 17 micros. The minimal kinetic mechanism for the channel opening is further consistent with the binding of two glutamate molecules with the channel-opening probability of 0.96. These results suggest that GluR2 is a temporally, highly efficient receptor to transduce the binding of chemical signals (i.e., glutamate) into an electrical impulse.
From nematodes to humans, animals employ neuromodulators like serotonin to regulate behavioral patterns and states. In the nematode C. elegans, serotonin has been shown to act in a modulatory fashion to increase the rate and alter the temporal pattern of egg laying. Though many candidate effectors and regulators of serotonin have been identified in genetic studies, their effects on specific neurons and muscles in the egg-laying circuitry have been difficult to determine. Using the genetically encoded Ca(2+) indicator cameleon, we found that serotonin acts directly on the vulval muscles to increase the frequency of Ca(2+) transients. In contrast, we found that the spontaneous activity of the egg-laying motorneurons was silenced by serotonin. Mutations in G protein alpha subunit genes altered the responses of both vulval muscles and egg-laying neurons to serotonin; specifically, mutations in the G(q)alpha homolog egl-30 blocked serotonin stimulation of vulval muscle Ca(2+) transients, while mutations in the G(o)alpha homolog goa-1 prevented the silencing of motorneuron activity by serotonin. These data indicate that serotonin stimulates egg laying by directly modulating the functional state of the vulval muscles. In addition, serotonin inhibits the activity of the motorneurons that release it, providing a feedback regulatory effect that may contribute to serotonin adaptation.
In a cohort of 337 patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), we investigated the relationship between blood glucose levels, baseline characteristics, and outcome by means of Student's t-test and multivariate logistic regression. The mean glucose levels on admission and from day 1 to 10 were significantly higher in patients with poor condition on admission and in patients with poor outcome. In a multivariate analysis, glucose level on admission was not an independent predictor of outcome. Hyperglycemia may be a link in the association between poor condition on admission and poor outcome.

Brain-damaged patients experience difficulties in recognizing a face (prosopagnosics), but they can still recognize its expression. The dissociation between these two face-related skills has served as a keystone of models of face processing. We now report that the presence of a facial expression can influence face identification. For normal viewers, the presence of a facial expression influences performance negatively, whereas for prosopagnosic patients, it improves performance dramatically. Accordingly, although prosopagnosic patients show a failure to process the facial configuration in the interest of face identification, that ability returns when the face shows an emotional expression. Accompanying brain-imaging results indicate activation in brain areas (amygdala, superior temporal sulcus, parietal cortex) outside the occipitotemporal areas normally activated for face identification and lesioned in these patients. This finding suggests a modulatory role of these areas in face identification that is independent of occipitotemporal face areas.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a critical modulator of central synaptic functions such as long-term potentiation in the hippocampal and visual cortex. Little is known, however, about its role in the development of excitatory glutamatergic synapses in vivo. We investigated the development of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR)-only synapses (silent synapses) and found that silent synapses were prominent in acute thalamocortical brain slices from BDNF knockout mice even after the critical period. These synapses could be partially converted to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor (AMPAR)-containing ones by adding back BDNF alone to the slice or fully converted to together with electric stimulation without affecting NMDAR transmission. Electric stimulation alone was ineffective under the BDNF knockout background. Postsynaptically applied TrkB kinase inhibitor or calcium-chelating reagent blocked this conversion. Furthermore, the AMPAR C-terminal peptides essential for interaction with PDZ proteins postsynaptically prevented the unmasking of silent synapses. These results suggest that endogenous BDNF and neuronal activity synergistically activate AMPAR trafficking into synaptic sites.
Early steps in myelination in the central nervous system (CNS) include a specialized and extreme form of cell spreading in which oligodendrocytes extend large lamellae that spiral around axons to form myelin. Recent studies have demonstrated that laminin-2 (LN-2; alpha2beta1gamma1) stimulates oligodendrocytes to extend elaborate membrane sheets in vitro (cell spreading), mediated by integrin alpha6beta1. Although a congenital LN-2 deficiency in humans is associated with CNS white matter changes, LN-2-deficient (dy/dy) mice have shown abnormalities primarily within the peripheral nervous system. Here, we demonstrate a critical role for LN-2 in CNS myelination by showing that dy/dy mice have quantitative and morphologic defects in CNS myelin. We have defined the molecular pathway through which LN-2 signals oligodendrocyte cell spreading by demonstrating requirements for phosphoinositide 3-kinase activity and integrin-linked kinase (ILK). Interaction of oligodendrocytes with LN-2 stimulates ILK activity. A dominant negative ILK inhibits LN-2-induced myelinlike membrane formation. A critical component of the myelination signaling cascade includes LN-2 and integrin signals through ILK.
In different insect taxa, ears can be found on virtually any part of the body. Comparative anatomy and similarities in the embryological development of ears in divergent taxa suggest that they have evolved multiple times from ubiquitous stretch or vibration receptors, but the homology of these structures has not yet been rigorously tested. Here we provide detailed analysis of a novel set of hearing organs in a relatively &quot;primitive&quot; atympanate bladder grasshopper (Bullacris membracioides) that is capable of signaling acoustically over 2 km. We use morphological, physiological, and behavioral experiments to demonstrate that this species has six pairs of serially repeated abdominal ears derived from proprioceptive pleural chordotonal organs (plCOs). We demonstrate continuity in auditory function from the five posterior pairs, which are simple forms comprising 11 sensilla and resembling plCOs in other grasshoppers, to the more complex anterior pair, which contains 2000 sensilla and is homologous to the single pair of tympanate ears found in &quot;modern&quot; grasshoppers. All 12 ears are morphologically differentiated, responsive to airborne sound at frequencies and intensities that are biologically significant (tuned to 1.5 and 4 kHz; 60-98 dB SPL), and capable of mediating behavioral responses of prospective mates. These data provide evidence for the transition in function and selective advantage that must occur during evolutionary development of relatively complex organs from simpler precursors. Our results suggest that ancestral insects with simple atympanate pleural receptors may have had hearing ranges that equal or exceed those of contemporary insects with complex tympanal ears. Moreover, auditory capability may be more prevalent among modern insect taxa than the presence of overt tympana indicates.
Neurons in the principal bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTp) integrate hormonal and sensory information associated with reproduction and transmit this information to hypothalamic nuclei that regulate neuroendocrine and behavioral functions. The neuropeptides galanin (GAL), cholecystokinin (CCK), and substance P (SP) are highly expressed in BSTp neurons and are differentially regulated by sex steroids. The current experiments investigated whether developmental or peripubertal hormone-mediated changes in GAL, CCK, and SP expression are reflected within efferent pathways to the preoptic structures that regulate gonadotropin secretion and sexual behavior. Anterograde labeling of projections from the BSTp of male and female juvenile rats combined with immunohistochemical labeling of GAL-, CCK-, and SP-containing fibers in the anteroventral periventricular preoptic nucleus (AVPV) and the central and medial divisions of the medial preoptic nucleus (MPNc, MPNm, respectively) revealed unique sex differences in each region. In the AVPV, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-labeled fibers were seen at a greater density in males than in females, and higher percentages of these fibers contained GAL in males than in females. In contrast, fibers projecting from the BSTp to the MPNc were more likely to contain SP in females than in males. Treatment of gonadectomized, peripubertal males and females with exogenous testosterone and estradiol did not alter the densities of GAL-, CCK-, or SP-containing fibers in any of the three brain areas examined. Collectively, these results suggest that patterns of neuropeptide expression in BSTp projections are established during development, resulting in a distinct, stable, and sex-specific chemoarchitectural profile for each projection pathway.
Previous studies indicate an important role for estrogen in memory and learning. Aromatase-knockout (ArKO) mice are unable to produce estrogen because they lack a functional Cyp 19 gene that encodes for aromatase, the enzyme that converts testosterone into estrogen. Using a Y-maze test for short-term spatial reference memory, we found that both male and female ArKO mice performed significantly worse than wildtype controls. Gonadectomy reduced Y-maze responses in male and female wildtype controls, but had no effect in ArKO mice. After gonadectomy, there was no significant difference between wildtype and ArKO mice. For the first time using ArKO mice, our findings confirm the importance of estrogen in memory in both males and females.
We hypothesised that apolipoprotein E (apoE) influences brain tumours by delivery of lipids to tumour cells and by analogy with other brain insults. APOE gene analysis was performed for 126 glioblastomas, the commonest primary brain tumour. Neither APOE epsilon2 nor epsilon4 alleles were significantly associated with differences in post-operative survival. However, there was apoE immunoreactivity of tumour cells, macrophages in areas of necrosis and astrocytes nearby. The immunohistochemistry findings support the hypothesis that apoE is involved in the delivery of lipids to tumour cells and in the recycling of lipids by macrophages in necrotic areas, raising the possibility that apoE-mediated lipid transport may represent a new therapeutic target in brain tumours.
The characteristic pathological changes of Parkinson s disease (PD) include a severe loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra and a severe decrease in dopamine in the striatum. Since the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) in the biosynthetic pathway for dopamine are low, a promising approach to the gene therapy of PD is to augment the gene expression of the enzymes in the biosynthetic pathway for dopamine. In the present study, human TH and AADC genes were reconstructed into retrovirous vectors pLHCX and pLNCX(2) respectively. Then pLHCX/TH and pLNCX(2)/AADC were transfected into packaging cell line PA317 with liposome. PA317/TH and PA317/AADC were selected by different antibiotics. Gene expression was examined by methods of immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. The catalytic activity of two cloned gene enzymes was assessed in vitro by HPLC-EC. Immunocytochemical staining showed that TH and AADC were expressed efficiently in vitro. Both TH and AADC mRNA were transcripted in PA317 cell lines by using in situ hybridazation. HPLC-EC experiments revealed that the transfected cells produced a significantly higher level of dopamine and L-dopa than the untransfected cells. The two genetically modified cells could improve the production of L-dopa and dopamine in response to suitable substrate. The present results suggest that not only recombinant TH and AADC genes are successfully expressed in vitro, but also the enzymes have respective functional activities. These results have set up a way for in vivo gene therapy of PD with TH and AADC genes.
Iron plays a key role in Parkinson s disease (PD). To illustrate the mechanism underlying the increase of iron in substantia nigra (SN) in PD, changes of the expression of divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) and iron content were examined in SN in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) treated mice using immunohistochemistry and histochemistry respectively. Following MPTP treatment for 3 d, elevated iron staining was found in SN. A further increase in iron content was observed after 7 d. In these lesioned animals, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive DA neurons exhibited a decrease in number and morphological changes as well. There were two isoforms of DMT1 expressed in SN of mice. After MPTP treatment, the expression of DMT1 without IRE form increased in either group, whereas DMT1 with IRE form increased only after 7 d of MPTP treatment. These observations suggest that DMT1 is possibly involved in the process of iron accumulation in SN of MPTP-treated mice, which might be responsible for the subsequent death of DA neurons.
To study whether commercial traditional Chinese medicinal preparations Injection Paederiae (IP) or Injection Stauntonia (IS) has anti-nociceptive and/or anti-inflammatory effects, we used two persistent pain models (bee venom and formalin test) to evaluate the systemic effects of IP or IS on the chemical tissue injury-induced persistent spontaneous pain-related responses (PSPR), primary thermal/mechanical hyperalgesia and inflammation in conscious rats. Injection of bee venom (BV, 0.1 mg, 50 microl) into the plantar surface of one hind paw resulted in not only a 1-h monophasic PSPR such as flinching reflex in the injected paw and a subsequent period of 3-4 days primary heat and mechanical hyperalgesia, but also a marked sign of inflammation, including redness and swelling of the plantar surface in the injected paw. Intraplantar injection of formalin produced two phases of PSPR as reported previously. Systemic pre-treatment with three doses of IP (0.32, 1.6 and 9.0 ml/kg, 500%) or IS (0.32, 1.6 and 9.0 ml/kg, 250%) produced a dose-dependent suppression of the BV- or formalin-induced flinching reflex of 1 h time course as compared with the saline control group. Post-treatment with IP or IS 5 min after BV injection also produced a significant suppression of the flinching reflex in both BV test and formalin test respectively, as compared with the control group. However, neither pre- nor post-treatment with IP or IS produced any significantly suppressive effect on the BV-induced primary heat and mechanical hyperalgesia and inflammation. The analgesia produced by IP or IS was not mediated by the endogenous opioid receptors since naloxone, a non-selective opioid receptor antagonist, had no reversal effect on the IP and IS-produced analgesia in the BV-induced PSPR. Our present results suggest that IP or IS might prevent and relieve clinical persistent spontaneous pain, but without any anti-nociceptive and anti-inflammatory effects on the primary heat hyperalgesia, mechanical hyperalgesia, as well as inflammatory responses. The BV test might be a useful model of pain to evaluate and screen anti-nociceptive and anti-inflammatory effects of certain compounds of the Chinese medicinal herbs on the pathological origins of pain.
Secreted phospholipase A(2) (sPLA(2)) has been shown to cause both necrotic and apoptotic neuronal injury in the central nervous system. The acute effects of group III sPLA(2) (sPLA(2)-III) include an ability to potentiate glutamate-induced necrosis and calcium influx in primary rat neuronal cultures. Thus, a brief exposure to glutamate and sPLA(2)-III results in an immediate potentiated calcium influx and a potentiated necrosis the following day after treatment, compared to addition of either agonist alone. In contrast to these acute effects, sPLA(2) from both groups IB and IIA have been shown to induce neuronal cell death via apoptosis. Here, we offer the first evidence that group III sPLA(2) potently causes extensive neuronal apoptosis in rat cortical cultures, as evidenced by DNA fragmentation. Distinct from this effect, even high concentrations of glutamate did not cause neuronal damage under the same conditions, and there was no evidence of sPLA(2) damage to cortical astrocytes.
3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) is a widely used drug of abuse chemically related to both the amphetamines and mescaline. Laboratory animal studies have shown that MDMA is a potent re-uptake inhibitor and releaser of dopamine and serotonin. Although the subjective and physiological effects of MDMA have been compared to d-amphetamine in humans, no direct comparison with a serotonin releasing agent has been reported and reinforcing effects have not been evaluated. In this paper we report a direct comparison of the reinforcing, subjective, and physiological effects of MDMA (1 and 2 mg/kg) to d-amphetamine (10 and 20 mg), to metachlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP--a serotonin releasing agent (0.5 and 0.75 mg/kg)), and to placebo using a within-subject design in 12 volunteers with moderate MDMA experience. Both the high dose of d-amphetamine and MDMA showed significant reinforcing effects as indicated by high cross-over values on the multiple choice procedure compared to all other treatments. All three drugs showed dose-dependent changes in subjective effects whereas physiological effects were most pronounced for MDMA with almost no changes seen with mCPP. The subjective effects of MDMA were similar both to those of mCPP and d-amphetamine, suggesting that both dopamine and serotonin systems are involved in mediating these effects. In contrast, only the dopaminergic agents, d-amphetamine and MDMA, had reinforcing effects.
alpha-Synuclein is a presynaptic protein involved in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease. Pyk2/related adhesion focal tyrosine kinase (RAFTK) tyrosine kinase is an upstream regulator of Src family kinases in the central nervous system that is involved in alpha-synuclein phosphorylation. The present study reports the cloning and characterization of a novel adaptor protein, Pyk2/RAFTK-associated protein (PRAP), that specifically binds to Pyk2/RAFTK and inhibits alpha-synuclein tyrosine phosphorylation. PRAP contains a coiled-coil domain, a pleckstrin homology domain, and a SH3 domain; the SH3 domain binds to the proline-rich domain of Pyk2/RAFTK. PRAP was observed to be present throughout the brain, including substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons, in which it localized to the cytoplasm. PRAP was found to function as a substrate for Src family kinases, such as c-Src or Fyn, but not for Pyk2/RAFTK. Hyperosmotic stress induced phosphorylation of tyrosine 125 of alpha-synuclein via Pyk2/RAFTK, which acted through Src family kinases. Such phosphorylation was inhibited by PRAP expression, suggesting that PRAP negatively regulates alpha-synuclein phosphorylation following cell stress. In conclusion, PRAP functions as a downstream target for Pyk2/RAFTK and plays a role in alpha-synuclein phosphorylation.
Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) is widely believed to play a central role in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Coordinate regulation of cerebral Abeta level is important in the pathogenesis of AD since either increased production of Abeta from amyloid precursor protein or decreased degradation causes elevated levels of Abeta, leading to accumulation of cerebral plaque formation or amyloid angiopathy. Here we studied neprilysin, a putative proteolytic enzyme for Abeta, and found that it degraded not only monomeric but also oligomeric forms of Abeta1-40. Moreover, neprilysin was found to be capable of degradation of the oligomeric form of Abeta1-42, a significant Abeta species in early pathogenesis. Neprilysin to decrease cerebral Abeta is suggested to be inevitable factor as a vital therapeutic target.
Recent results suggest that the error-related negativity (ERN/Ne), a negative scalp potential which has so far been associated with error-related processing, is also found for correct responses. This potential is thought to be generated in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). To investigate the functional significance of the ERN/Ne, a modified Continuous Performance Task was used. Data analysis was carried out using conventional averaging techniques as well as source localization with low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (LORETA). Results showed a pronounced negativity associated with correct responses at a frontocentral electrode position, if an expected second imperative stimulus was not presented. LORETA analysis yielded evidence for a source located within the ACC on such trials. Results suggest that a negative scalp potential may be elicited by errorless responses and yield evidence for an evaluative role of the ACC.
Nocistatin (NST) and nociception/orphanin FQ (OFQ) are peptides derived from the same precursor that play opposing roles in pain modulation. OFQ antagonizes morphine analgesia and electroacupuncture (EA)-induced antinociceptive effect. The present study investigates whether NST potentiates EA-induced antinociceptive effect and reverses chronic tolerance to EA in mice. Injection of NST (0.5, 5.0 and 50.0 ng) intracerebroventricularly had no effect on basal thermal latency, but produced a dose-dependent potentiation of EA-induced antinociceptive effect in mice with the maximum response at 5.0 ng. NST (5.0 ng) partly reversed chronic tolerance to EA. These results suggest that NST in the brain might play roles in EA-induced antinociceptive effect and the development of chronic tolerance to EA in mice.
Although the function of sleep remains elusive, several lines of evidence suggest that sleep has an important role in learning and memory. In light of the available data and with the prevalence of sleep deprivation (SD), we sought to determine the effect of SD on neuronal functioning. We found that the exposure of rats to 72 hr of primarily rapid eye movement SD impaired their subsequent performance on a hippocampus-dependent spatial learning task but had no effect on an amygdala-dependent learning task. To determine the underlying cellular level mechanisms of this hippocampal deficit, we examined the impact of SD on several fundamental aspects of membrane excitability and synaptic physiology in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons and dentate gyrus granule cells. We found that neuronal excitability was severely reduced in CA1 neurons but not in granule cells and that the production of long-term potentiation of synaptic strength was inhibited in both areas. Using multiple SD methods we further attempted to differentiate the effects of sleep deprivation from those associated with the nonspecific stress induced by the sleep deprivation methods. Together these data suggest that failure to acquire adequate sleep produces several molecular and cellular level alterations that profoundly inhibit hippocampal functioning.
The aim of this study was to provide a systematic examination of the ontogenesis of the mammalian respiratory rhythm generating center, the pre-Btzinger complex (pre-BtC). A combination of immunohistochemical markers and electrophysiological recordings was used to determine the time of inception of the pre-BtC and the developmental changes during the perinatal period in rats spanning from embryonic day 15 (E15) to postnatal day 7. The first clear indication of neurons immunopositive for neurokinin-1 receptors (NK1Rs) and somatostatin expression, two proposed markers for pre-BtC neurons, was at approximately E17. Birth dating of neurons in the ventrolateral medulla using 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine demonstrated that NK1R-positive neurons populating the area of the pre-BtC during late E16-E18 are born at E12.5-E13.5, approximately 2 d later than adjacent NK1R-positive neurons in the ventrolateral medulla. Extracellular recordings of neuronal populations within the pre-BtC of perinatal medullary slice preparations demonstrated that the onset of rhythmical respiratory discharge commences at approximately E17. Application of substance P, a ligand for NK1R receptors, to the media bathing E17 medullary slice and brainstem-spinal cord preparations resulted in a marked increase in respiratory frequency. These data provide insights into the ontogeny of the pre-BtC, giving fundamental information on the genesis, settlement, and inception of rhythmic activity within the group of neurons proposed to be responsible for the respiratory rhythm generation. Furthermore, this provides the foundation for further analyses of cell lineage, the transcriptional control of respiratory neuronal development, and electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of the pre-BtC during the prenatal period.
In the rhythmically active pyloric circuit of the spiny lobster, the synapse between the lateral pyloric (LP) neuron and pyloric constrictor (PY) neuron has an inhibitory depressing chemical and an electrical component. To understand how the dynamics of the LP--&gt;PY synapse affect the relative firing times between these two neurons in an ongoing rhythm, we characterized the dynamics of the LP--&gt;PY synapse after a pharmacological block of ongoing activity. When a train of voltage pulses was applied to the voltage-clamped LP neuron, the inhibitory chemical component of the postsynaptic potential (PSP) in the PY neuron rapidly depressed. Thus, after the first few pulses, the PSP was either hyperpolarizing or depolarizing, depending on the interpulse duration, with shorter interpulse durations producing depolarizing PSPs. To characterize the synaptic response during rhythmic activity, we played back prerecorded realistic waveforms in the voltage-clamped LP neuron. After an initial transient, the resulting PSP in PY was always depolarizing, suggesting that in an ongoing rhythm, the electrical component of the synapse is dominant. However, our results indicate that the chemical component of the synapse acts to delay the peak time of the PSP and to reduce its amplitude, and that these effects become more important at slower cycle periods.
Previous studies have shown that male faces with extreme features associated with testosterone are perceived as dominant and masculine. Women have been reported to prefer more masculinized male faces as they may consider testosterone markers to be an 'honest' indication of good health, and such considerations may underlie their aesthetic preferences. However, pronounced testosterone facial markers are also associated with dominance, and several negative personality traits. This suggests that female aesthetic preferences may be an adaptive compromise between positive attributes associated with higher than average testosterone, and negative attributes associated with more extreme masculinization. This current study attempts to clarify the role of hormone markers in female perceptions of dominance, masculinity and attractiveness, in male facial images. Recent evidence suggests that the relative length of the 2nd to 4th finger (2D : 4D ratio) is a pointer to prenatal testosterone levels and may thus serve as a window to the prenatal hormonal environment. We measured 2D : 4D in a sample of male college students and took salivary samples to analyse circulating levels of testosterone. Women rated facial images of these males for dominance, masculinity and attractiveness. Our results show that male 2D : 4D was significantly negatively related to perceived dominance and masculinity but not attractiveness. Circulating testosterone levels were not related to dominance, masculinity or attractiveness. These findings suggest that: (i) high prenatal levels of testosterone serve to 'organize' male facial features to subsequently reflect dominance and masculine characteristics presumably activated during puberty; and (ii) attractiveness is not directly related to testosterone levels. We conclude that facial dominance and masculinity reflect a male's perceived status rather than his physical attraction to women.
By comparing the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteome between Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and controls, it may be possible to identify proteins that play a role in the disease process and thus to study the pathogenesis of AD. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE), SYPRO Ruby staining and mass spectrometry were used for clinical screening of disease-influenced CSF proteins in AD patients compared to controls. In order to increase the detection of CSF proteins and to improve the separation of protein isoforms in a 2-D gel, micro-narrow range IPG strips were used. The levels of eight proteins and their isoforms, including apolipoprotein A1, apolipoprotein E, apolipoprotein J, beta-trace, retinol-binding protein, kininogen, alpha-1 antitrypsin, cell cycle progression 8 protein, and alpha-1beta glycoprotein were significantly altered in CSF of AD patients compared to controls. Furthermore, we also used liquid-phase IEF, as a prefractionation step, prior to 2-DE for comparison of CSF proteins between individual AD patients and controls. The levels of 37 proteins spots were altered in AD patients. One of the identified proteins, alpha-2-HS glycoprotein, has not previously been linked to AD. Our study shows that several glycoproteins are altered in AD.
A mouse mu opioid receptor was engineered to contain a FLAG epitope at the amino-terminus and a hexahistidine tag at the carboxyl-terminus to facilitate purification. Selection of transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells yielded a cell line that expressed the receptor with a B(max) of 10 pmol/mg protein. 3[H]Bremazocine exhibited high affinity binding to the epitope-tagged mu opioid receptor with a KD of 1.0 nM. The agonists [D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly(5)-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO), morphine and [D-Ala(2),D-Leu(5)]enkephalin (DADL) competitively inhibited bremazocine binding to the tagged mu receptor with KI's of 3.5, 17 and 70 nM, respectively. Chronic treatment of cells expressing the epitope-tagged mu receptor with DAMGO resulted in down-regulation of the receptor, indicating that the tagged receptor retained the capacity to mediate signal transduction. The mu receptor was solubilized from HEK 293 cell membranes with n-dodecyl-beta-D-maltoside in an active form that maintained high affinity bremazocine binding. Sequential use of wheat germ agglutinin (WGA)-agarose chromatography, Sephacryl S300 gel filtration chromatography, immobilized metal affinity chromatography, immunoaffinity chromatography, and sodium dodecyl sulfate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS/PAGE) permitted purification of the receptor. The purified mu opioid receptor was a glycoprotein that migrated on SDS/PAGE with an apparent molecular mass of 80 kDa. Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry was used to identify and characterize peptides derived from the mu opioid receptor following in-gel digestion with trypsin or chymotrypsin, and precursor-derived tandem mass spectrometry (ms/ms) confirmed the identity of several peptides derived from enzymatic digestion of the mu opioid receptor.
Alcohols and volatile anesthetics affect the function of members of the nicotinic acetylcholine (nACh) superfamily of receptors. Studies on glycine and GABA(A) receptors implicate amino acid residues within transmembrane (TM) regions two and three of these receptors as critical for alcohol and anesthetic enhancement of receptor function. The serotonin-3 (5-HT(3)) receptor is a member of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor superfamily, sharing sequence and structural homology with the other members. We tested the hypothesis that amino acids of the 5-HT(3) receptor homologous to those shown to affect alcohol and anesthetic potentiation in GABA(A) and glycine receptors also determine the effects of these compounds on the 5-HT(3) receptor. Six 5-HT(3A) mutant cDNAs were generated by site-directed mutagenesis of two amino acids, phenylalanine-269 (14') and lecucine-270 (15') in transmembrane domain two (TM2). When assayed electrophysiologically in Xenopus oocytes, wild-type 5-HT(3) receptors exhibit enhancement of function by enflurane, halothane, isoflurane, chloroform and ethanol, but not by decanol and propofol. Mutations in transmembrane domain two markedly affected alcohol and anesthetic enhancement of 5-HT(3) receptor function. Some mutations had differential effects on the abilities of the isomers enflurane and isoflurane to potentiate 5-HT(3) receptor function.
Serum tumor necrosis factor (TNF) functions as a mediator of the immune-to-brain axis. Numerous TNF receptor-mediated effects on the nervous system are described but the knowledge about the regional and cellular expression of TNF receptor p55TNFR and p75TNFR in vivo is far from being complete. It is unclear whether TNF mediates its neuroimmune effects alone or in combination with other factors, e.g., bacterial mitogens. Here, we investigated the distribution of TNFalpha, p55TNFR, and p75TNFR in normal mouse brain and examined the stimulus-specific effects of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) on the expression of the cerebral TNF system. Both mitogens caused enhanced TNFalpha serum levels and induced c-fos mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus but exhibited different effects on the cerebral gene expression of the TNF system. LPS but not SEB rapidly induced TNFalpha mRNA in circumventricular organs (CVOs) followed by spreading of TNFalpha mRNA into brain parenchyma close to the CVOs. The p55TNFR gene was constitutively expressed in many neurons with high levels in brainstem motor nuclei and in neurons of the sensory mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus. Moderate levels of p75TNFR mRNA were seen in single cells scattered throughout the brain in a pattern resembling microglia. Neither LPS nor SEB modulated the p55TNFR gene expression in any region or cell type of the brain, and LPS but not SEB induced p75TNFR mRNA in the CVOs. Thus, enhanced TNF serum levels able to stimulate c-fos mRNA expression in the paraventricular nucleus did not necessarily result in a modulation of the cerebral TNF system.
The circadian clock in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) receives direct retinal input via the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT), and the retinal ganglion cells contributing to this projection may be specialized with respect to direct regulation of the circadian clock. However, some ganglion cells forming the RHT bifurcate, sending axon collaterals to the intergeniculate leaflet (IGL) through which light has secondary access to the circadian clock. The present studies provide a more extensive examination of ganglion cell bifurcation and evaluate whether ganglion cells projecting to several subcortical visual nuclei contain melanopsin, a putative ganglion cell photopigment. The results showed that retinal ganglion cells projecting to the SCN send collaterals to the IGL, olivary pretectal nucleus, and superior colliculus, among other places. Melanopsin-immunoreactive (IR) ganglion cells are present in the hamster retina, and some of these cells project to the SCN, IGL, olivary pretectal nucleus, or superior colliculus. Triple-label analysis showed that melanopsin-IR cells bifurcate and project bilaterally to each SCN, but not to the other visual nuclei evaluated. The melanopsin-IR cells have photoreceptive characteristics optimal for circadian rhythm regulation. However, the presence of moderately widespread bifurcation among ganglion cells projecting to the SCN, and projection by melanopsin-IR cells to locations distinct from the SCN and without known rhythm function, suggest that this ganglion cell type is generalized, rather than specialized, with respect to the conveyance of photic information to the brain.
The bradykinin 1 and 2 receptors (B1R, B2R) are important mediators of cardiovascular homeostasis, inflammation, and nociception. While B2R is constitutively expressed in many tissues, B1R expression is thought to be absent, but induced under proinflammatory conditions. However, recent data from knockout mice have indicated that B1R acts centrally to mediate nociception, a finding that suggests the constitutive presence of B1R in brain and/or spinal cord. The purpose of the present study was to further elucidate the physiological role of B1R by evaluating the localization of B1R mRNA in the nonhuman primate brain and spinal cord with in situ hybridization. Cryostat sections from monkey brain and spinal cord were hybridized with a [(35)S]-labeled riboprobe complementary to B1R mRNA, stringently washed, and apposed to film and emulsion. The results of these studies revealed the presence of B1R mRNA throughout the rostral-caudal extent of the brain and spinal cord. In particular, labeled cells were seen in the cerebral and entorhinal cortex, dentate gyrus, and pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus, in the thalamus, hypothalamus, amygdala, pontine nuclei, spinal cord, and dorsal root ganglion. Together the present findings offer detailed information about the distribution of B1R mRNA in the primate brain and spinal cord and demonstrate a basal level of expression in the primate nervous system. Moreover, these data provide a foundation for understanding the central actions of kinins and their putative role in mediating a number of processes, including pain and nociception.
Many rat strains are used for neurobiological studies of nervous system function and behavior. The most widely used strain for studies of the neural basis of movement is the out bred, pigmented Long-Evans strain, while the most widely used strains for the study of movement impairments in neurological disease are out bred albino rats, including Sprague-Dawley rats. Although previous research has indicated that there are strain differences in skilled movements displayed by different rat strains, there has been no explicit comparison of the Long-Evans and Sprague-Dawley strains. This was the purpose of the present study. The rats were video recorded as they learned to reach for single food pellets and the video records were subjected to frame-by-frame analysis. Component movements of reaching were scored using a system derived from Eshkol-Wachman Movement Notation (EWMN). The quality of movements was described using Laban Movement Analysis (LMA). Forelimb representations in motor cortex were defined electrophysiologically. Acquisition scores and success in reaching did not differ between the two strains, nor did the topographical representation of the forelimb in motor cortex. Long-Evans and Sprague-Dawley rats did differ in the movements used for reaching and on the quality of their movements. The movements of Sprague-Dawley rats resembled the movements of Long-Evans rats with motor system injury. That rat strains can show both quantitative and qualitative differences in movement is useful for the understanding of the genetic, neural, and behavioral organization of the motor system. The results are also relevant to the question of appropriateness of particular rat strains for studies of neurological diseases and the effects of albinism on motor behavior, and suggest that some of the most widely used rat strains for neurological investigations may be less than appropriate.
Spontaneously occurring abnormal behaviors in animals have recently received considerable attention, both in veterinary medicine and as a potential model for abnormal behavior in several human mental disorders. Stereotypies are abnormal repetitive, unvarying, and functionless behaviors that are often performed by captive and domesticated animals housed in barren environments. They closely resemble the stereotypies of autistic and mentally retarded patients, stereotypies of unmedicated chronic schizophrenic patients, certain classes of simple tic in Tourette's syndrome, and several drug-induced behaviors. However, evidence for a common mechanism has been lacking. Stereotypies in human mental disorders are indicative of profound brain dysfunction involving the basal ganglia, and are associated with pervasive voluntary-motor impairments and psychological distress. Here we show that stereotypy in captive Orange-Wing Amazon Parrots (Amazona amazonica) is correlated with poor performance on the same psychiatric task (the 'gambling task') as stereotypy in autistic and schizophrenic patients. The task measures recurrent perseveration-the tendency to inappropriately repeat responses. Thus, the more stereotypy a parrot performed, the more likely it was to inappropriately repeat itself from trial-to-trial on the task; and the more rapidly it made repeated, but not switched, responses. These results parallel the executive motor impairments seen in human patients, and therefore suggest that, like in human patients, stereotypy in caged parrots reflects a general disinhibition of the behavioral control mechanisms of the dorsal basal ganglia. If this result holds true in other laboratory species, stereotypic animals are likely to be of questionable utility in behavior, neuroscience, and neuropharmacological experiments. In humans, stereotypies and obsessive-compulsive behaviors are considered to be mutually exclusive categories of behavior, with different neural substrates, and different treatment strategies. These results, therefore, suggest that the pharmacological treatment of stereotypies in veterinary medicine based on the assumption that they are equivalent to human Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder may be inappropriate. As stereotypies in captive animals develop in response to the captive environment, these results also emphasize the role that the environment may play in eliciting or exacerbating stereotypy in human patients. Finally, by parallel to human patients, there is a potential psychological distress in animals showing these behaviors.
Behavioural activation repeatedly induced by a stimulant in rodents can persist in the absence of the drug if the animals are tested in the context where the drug was previously given, a phenomenon often explained in terms of Pavlovian conditioning. The aim of this study was to verify whether the amplitude of the putative CR (the drug-like activity) increases with the number of the US-CS associations (the number of drug-context pairings), one of the most representative rules of Pavlovian conditioning. The effect of the number of trials on the speed of extinction was also considered. C57BL/6J mice received 3, 6 or 12 once-daily injections of either saline or 12 mg/kg (-)-cocaine hydrochloride (s.c.) in the same test context, a photocell activity-box in which they were tested for 60 min after every injection. Other groups received the same treatments outside of the test context (being placed in a novel cage tub after each injection). Twenty-four hours after the last treatment session, all mice were challenged with saline in the test context (test for conditioned activity), extinction sessions taking place on the three subsequent days. Sensitisation to the locomotor-activating effect of cocaine developed only amongst the animals injected 6 or 12 times, the magnitude of the last sensitised response being comparable for these two injections regimen. On saline challenge, only the animals that had received 6 or 12 cocaine injections showed significant conditioned activity (CR), with the greatest response occurring following 12 injections. The 6-trial group reached the level of non-significance after fewer extinction sessions than the 12-trial group; however, the rates of extinction did not differ (comparable regression coefficients and quasi-parallel curves). These results suggest that the amplitude of the CR (cocaine-like stimulation after saline), and perhaps less convincingly the duration of extinction, are functions of the number of the US-CS (cocaine-context) pairings, supporting the Pavlovian nature of post-sensitisation placebo drug-like effects.
We previously reported that acute 1-day food deprivation reinstates heroin seeking in rats. The goal of the present study was to begin identifying brain sites potentially involved in this effect. For this purpose, we measured, by immunohistochemistry, the expression of c-Fos following a test for food deprivation-induced reinstatement. Groups of rats (n=9-10 per group) were trained to lever-press for heroin (0.05-0.1mg/kg/infusion) or saline for 10 days (9 h/day); each infusion was paired with a cue light. Rats were then given 10 days of extinction during which the heroin and saline syringes were removed. Next, a test for reinstatement was conducted after exposure to 0 (baseline) or 1-day food deprivation. During training, lever pressing for heroin increased over days, while responding for saline infusions paired with the cue light decreased over time. During extinction, responding on the heroin-paired lever decreased over time, while responding on the saline-paired lever remained low. In heroin-trained rats, food deprivation induced a large increase in responding on the lever associated with drug infusions. Surprisingly, food deprivation also modestly increased responding in the saline-trained rats. Food deprivation selectively increased c-Fos immunoreactivity (IR) in the prelimbic cortex of heroin-trained, but not saline-trained, rats (n=4 per condition). Food deprivation also increased c-Fos IR in both heroin- and saline-trained rats in the basolateral amygdala and the ventrolateral bed nucleus of stria terminalis (BNST), but had no effect on c-Fos expression in the dorsolateral BNST, cingulate cortex, nucleus accumbens, and central amygdala. These results raise the possibility that the prelimbic cortex is involved in food deprivation-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking.
Vitamin A and its derivatives, the retinoids, have recently been reported to be implicated in the synaptic plasticity of the hippocampus and in cognitive functions. Acting via transcription factors, retinoids can regulate gene expression via their nuclear receptors [retinoic acid receptors (RARs) and retinoid X receptors (RXRs)]. We recently showed that a moderate (about 30%) hypoexpression of brain (and hippocampal) retinoid signalling, like that naturally occurring in the aged brain of mice, might be related to a selective relational memory deficit. To further assess this hypothesis, the present study investigated the effects of Vitamin A deprivation of varying duration both on the brain expression of retinoid receptors (RARbeta and RXRbeta/gamma) and two associated target genes [tissue-type transglutaminase (tTG) and neurogranin, (RC3)], and on radial maze discrimination learning using young adult mice as subjects. We observed that irrespective of its duration (i.e. 31 or 39 weeks), Vitamin A deprivation resulted in a significant reduction (25-30%) in the expression of brain RARbeta, RXRbeta/gamma and tTG mRNAs. Conversely, only the 39-week condition was found to induce a significant decrease in brain RC3 mRNAs contents and a selective relational memory impairment. Finally, daily administration of retinoic acid (RA) failed to reverse the 39-week Vitamin A deficiency (VAD)-related cognitive deficit and to fully normalise the associated brain retinoid hyposignalling. In particular, there was no evidence for an up-regulating effect of RA on whole brain (and hippocampal) RC3 mRNAs of the 39-week-depleted mice. The results show that post-natal VAD may induce a selective memory impairment and give further support to the hypothesis that the fine regulation of retinoid-mediated gene expression is important for optimal brain functioning and higher cognition.
Recent experimental evidences point to the active role of central serotonin (5-HT) elicited mechanisms in the pathogenesis of tremor. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effects of p-chlorophenylalanine (pCPA), a specific tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor and a central 5-HT depletor, on the neurochemical processes that occur synchronously in olivary nucleus (ON) and cerebellum during harmaline-induced tremor in mice. Tremor appeared by 3-4 min following harmaline administration, and reached its peak by 25 min for the doses (10-30 mg/kg) studied. Peak of harmaline-tremor coincided with increases in 5-HT in ON and cerebellum, as assayed employing HPLC-electrochemistry. Administration of pCPA caused significant depletion in 5-HT level in both the regions analyzed, and also significantly inhibited harmaline-induced tremor. Our present results support the earlier electrophysiological evidences that harmaline-induced tremor originates from ON, and confirm the role of 5-HT in the genesis of this motor neuronal dysfunction.
We previously found that the dopamine D3 receptor can be split at the third cytoplasmic loop into two fragments (D3trunk and D3tail), and that the mixture of the two fragments retains the binding and functional activity of the wild type receptor. The dopamine D3 receptor gene gives rise to several inactive receptor splice variants, one of which is the D3nf. Since this gene variant very closely resembles our D3trunk fragment, in this study we investigated if the transfection of D3nf with D3tail could result in the rescue of a functional dopamine receptor. Our experiments showed that D3tail can indeed rescue the activity of D3nf, and that the pharmacological profile of this split D3nf/D3tail receptor is identical to that of the wild type D3 receptor.
The effects of neurotoxic destruction of catecholaminergic projections to the spinal cord on cannabinoid antinociception were examined in models of acute and tonic nociception. High performance liquid chromatography was used to quantify monoamine levels in sham-operated and lesioned rats. Intrathecal administration of the catecholamine neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) induced a selective depletion of norepinephrine (by approximately 85% of control) in rat lumbar spinal cord without altering levels of dopamine or serotonin. By contrast, brain levels of monoamines did not differ in sham-operated and lesioned rats. Pain behavior was similar in sham-operated and lesioned rats receiving vehicle in models of both acute and tonic nociception. The cannabinoid agonist WIN55,212-2 (5 or 10 mg/kg, i.p.) produced antinociception in the tail-flick test in sham-operated rats. The antinociceptive effect of WIN55,212-2 was attenuated relative to control conditions in rats depleted of spinal norepinephrine. WIN55,212-2 suppressed tonic pain behavior in the formalin test in sham-operated rats during phase 2 (15-60 min post formalin) of nociceptive responding. By contrast, in lesioned rats, WIN55,212-2 suppressed pain behavior during phase 1 (0-9.9 min) and phase 2A (10-39.9 min), but not during phase 2B (40-60 min). The cannabinoid agonist suppressed formalin-evoked Fos protein expression, a marker of neuronal activity, in the lumbar dorsal horn of sham-operated rats, but no suppression was observed in lesioned rats. The number of formalin-evoked Fos-like immunoreactive (FLI) cells was greater in lamina I and II of lesioned rats relative to sham-operated rats. These data indicate that the suppressive effect of the cannabinoid on formalin-evoked Fos protein expression in the superficial dorsal horn was attenuated following destruction of descending noradrenergic pathways. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that cannabinoids produce antinociception, in part, by modulating descending noradrenergic systems and support a differential involvement of noradrenergic projections to the spinal cord in cannabinoid modulation of acute versus tonic nociception.
Kv3.3 K+ channels are believed to incorporate an NH2-terminal domain to produce an intermediate rate of inactivation relative to the fast inactivating K+ channels Kv3.4 and Kv1.4. The rate of Kv3.3 inactivation has, however, been difficult to establish given problems in obtaining consistent rates of inactivation in expression systems. This study characterized the properties of AptKv3.3, the teleost homologue of Kv3.3, when expressed in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) or human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells. We show that the properties of AptKv3.3 differ significantly between CHO and HEK cells, with the largest difference occurring in the rate and voltage dependence of inactivation. While AptKv3.3 in CHO cells showed a fast and voltage-dependent rate of inactivation consistent with N-type inactivation, currents in HEK cells showed rates of inactivation that were voltage-independent and more consistent with a slower C-type inactivation. Examination of the mRNA sequence revealed that the first methionine start site had a weak Kozak consensus sequence, suggesting that the lack of inactivation in HEK cells could be due to translation at a second methionine start site downstream of the NH2-terminal coding region. Mutating the nucleotide sequence surrounding the first methionine start site to one more closely resembling a Kozak consensus sequence produced currents that inactivated with a fast and voltage-dependent rate of inactivation in both CHO and HEK cells. These results indicate that under the appropriate conditions Kv3.3 channels can exhibit fast and reliable inactivation that approaches that more typically expected of &quot;A&quot;-type K+ currents.
The bestrophins are a newly described family of anion channels unrelated in primary sequence to any previously characterized channel proteins. The human genome codes for four bestrophins, each of which confers a distinctive plasma membrane conductance on transfected 293 cells. Extracellular treatment with methanethiosulfonate ethyltrimethylammonium (MTSET) of a series of substitution mutants that eliminate one or more cysteines from human bestrophin1 demonstrates that cysteine 69 is the single endogenous cysteine responsible for MTSET inhibition of whole-cell current. Cysteines introduced between positions 78-99 and 223-226 are also accessible to external MTSET, with MTSET modification at positions 79, 80, 83, and 90 producing a 2-6-fold increase in whole-cell current. The latter set of four cysteine-substitution mutants define a region that appears to mediate allosteric control of channel activity. Mapping of transmembrane topography by insertion of N-linked glycosylation sites and tobacco etch virus protease cleavage sites provides evidence for cytosolic N and C termini and an unexpected transmembrane topography with at least three extracellular loops that include positions 60-63, 212-227, and 261-267. These experiments provide the first structural analysis of the bestrophin channel family.
The 8-kDa light chain of dynein (DLC8) is ubiquitously expressed in various cell types. Other than serving as a light chain of the dynein complexes, this highly conserved protein has been shown to bind a larger number of proteins with diverse biological functions. DLC8 forms a homodimer via three-dimensional domain swapping of an internal beta-strand (the beta2-strand) at neutral pH. The protein undergoes non-reversible dimer-to-monomer dissociation when the pH value of the protein solution decreases. The three-dimensional structure of the DLC8 monomer determined by NMR spectroscopy at pH 3.0 showed that the protein is well folded. The major conformational change accompanied by dimer dissociation is in the beta2-strand of the protein, which undergoes transition from a beta-strand to a nascent alpha-helix. The monomer form of DLC8 is not capable of binding to target proteins. Insertion of two flexible amino acid residues in the tight beta1/beta2-loop dramatically stabilized the monomer conformation of the protein. NMR studies showed that the mutation altered the conformation as well as the three-dimensional domain swapping-mediated assembly of the DLC8 dimer. The mutant DLC8 was unable to bind to its targets even at physiological pH. The three-dimensional structure of the mutant protein in its monomeric form provides the structural basis of the mutation-induced stabilization of the monomer conformation. Based on the experimental data, we conclude that the formation of the beta2-strand swapping-mediated dimer is mandatory for the structure and function of DLC8. We further note that the DLC8 dimer represents a novel mode of three-dimensional domain swapping.
The cAMP-protein kinase A (PKA) pathway, important in neuronal signaling, is regulated by molecules that bind and target PKA regulatory subunits. Of four regulatory subunits, RIbeta is most abundantly expressed in brain. The RIbeta knockout mouse has defects in hippocampal synaptic plasticity, suggesting a role for RIbeta in learning and memory-related functions. Molecules that interact with or regulate RIbeta are still unknown. We identified the neurofibromatosis 2 tumor suppressor protein merlin (schwannomin), a molecule related to the ezrin-radixin-moesin family of membrane-cytoskeleton linker proteins, as a binding partner for RIbeta. Merlin and RIbeta demonstrated a similar expression pattern in central nervous system neurons and an overlapping subcellular localization in cultured hippocampal neurons and transfected cells. The proteins were coprecipitated from brain lysates by cAMP-agarose and coimmunoprecipited from cellular lysates with specific antibodies. In vitro binding studies verified that the interaction is direct. The interaction appeared to be under conformational regulation and was mediated via the alpha-helical region of merlin. Sequence comparison between merlin and known PKA anchoring proteins identified a conserved alpha-helical PKA anchoring protein motif in merlin. These results identify merlin as the first neuronal binding partner for PKA-RIbeta and suggest a novel function for merlin in connecting neuronal cytoskeleton to PKA signaling.
Among 10 breakthroughs that Science announced at the end of 2002 was the discovery of a photosensing (melanopsin-containing) retinal ganglion cell (RGC) and its role in entraining the circadian clock. This breakthrough exemplifies the ultimate goal of neuroscience: to understand the nervous system from molecules to behavior. Light-sensing RGCs constitute one of a dozen discrete RGC populations coding various aspects of visual scenes by virtue of their unique morphology, physiology, and coverage of the retina. Interestingly, the function of the melanopsin-containing RGCs in entraining the circadian clock need not involve much retinal processing, making it the simplest form of processing in the retina. This review focuses on recent advances in our understanding of retinal circuitry, visual processing, and retinal development demonstrated by innovative experimental techniques. It also discusses the advantages of using the retina as a model system to address some of the key questions in neuroscience.
The role of the area postrema (AP) in baseline cardiovascular function was evaluated by radio telemetry in rats with lesions of AP (APX), along with the effect of APX on circadian patterns of cardiovascular function and ingestive behavior. Despite lesion-induced hypophagia and body weight loss, APX did not affect circadian patterns of mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), or ingestion but did cause a substantial decrease (-60 bpm) in resting HR. The bradycardia was not attributable to weight loss, as resting HR in weight-matched controls, though decreased from baseline, was significantly greater than that in rats with APX. In weight-matched controls, HR increased slightly when weight returned to baseline; however, the bradycardia persisted in rats with APX. These results suggest that AP contributes to resting HR, independent of weight loss or changes in circadian patterns of HR or MAP.
Several studies have been carried out to evaluate the alterations in mitochondrial functions of diabetic rats. However, results are sometimes controversial, since experimental conditions diverge, including age and strain of used animals. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the metabolic modifications in liver mitochondria, both in the presence of severe (STZ-treated rats) and mild hyperglycaemia [Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats], when compared with control animals of similar age. Moreover, metabolic alterations were evaluated also at initial and advanced stages of the disease. We observed that both models of diabetes (type 1 and type 2) presented a decreased susceptibility of liver mitochondria to the induction of permeability transition (MPT). Apparently, there is a positive correlation between the severity of diabetes mellitus (and duration of the disease) and the decline in the susceptibility to MPT induction. We also found that liver mitochondria isolated from diabetic rats presented some metabolic adaptations, such as an increase in coenzyme Q and cardiolipin contents, that can be responsible for the observed decrease in the susceptibility to multiprotein pore (MPTP) opening.

A tissue-based biosensor is described for screening chemical compounds that rapidly affect the nervous system. The proposed sensor is an extension of a previous work on cultured hippocampal slices [Biosens. Bioelectron. 16 (2001) 491]. The detection of the chemical compounds is based on a novel quantification method of short-term plasticity (STP) of the CA1 system in acute hippocampal slices, using random electrical impulse sequences as inputs and population spike (PS) amplitudes as outputs. STP is quantified by the first and the second order kernels using a variant of the Volterra modeling approach. This approach is more specific and time-efficient than the conventional paired pulse and fixed frequency train methods [J. Neurosci. Methods 2 (2002) 111]. Describing the functional state of the biosensor, the kernels changed accordingly as chemical compounds were added. The second order kernel was decomposed into nine Laguerre functions. The corresponding Laguerre coefficients along with the first order kernel were used as features for classification purposes. The biosensor was tested using picrotoxin (100 microM), trimethylopropane phosphate (10 microM), tetraethylammonium (4 mM), valproate (5 mM), carbachol (5 mM), DAP5 (25 microM), CNQX (3 microM), and DNQX (0.15, 1.5, 3, 5 and 10 microM). Each chemical compound gave a different feature profile corresponding to its pharmacological class. The first order kernel and the Laguerre coefficients formed the input to an artificial neural network (ANN) comprised of a single layer of perceptrons. The ANN was able to classify each tested compound into its respective class.
Although the migratory property of lymphocytes is critical for protective immunity, tissue infiltration of lymphocytes sometimes causes harmful immune responses. DOCK2 plays a critical role in lymphocyte migration by regulating actin cytoskeleton through Rac activation, yet the mechanism by which DOCK2 activates Rac remains unknown. We found that DOCK2 associates with engulfment and cell motility (ELMO1) through its Src-homology 3 (SH3) domain. When DOCK2 was expressed in T-hybridoma cells lacking endogenous expression of DOCK2, Rac activation and actin polymerization were induced. However, such responses were not elicited by the DOCK2 mutant lacking the region required for ELMO1 binding. On the other hand, we found that the expression of ELMO1 induces Rac activation in the plasmacytoma cells expressing DOCK2 but not ELMO1. These results indicate that the association of DOCK2 with ELMO1 is critical for DOCK2-mediated Rac activation, thereby suggesting that their association might be a therapeutic target for immunologic disorders caused by lymphocyte infiltration.

The zebrafish nlz gene has a rostral expression limit at the presumptive rhombomere (r) 3/r4 boundary during gastrula stages, and its expression progressively expands rostrally to encompass both r3 and r2 by segmentation stages, suggesting a role for nlz in hindbrain development. We find that Nlz is a nuclear protein that associates with the corepressor Groucho, suggesting that Nlz acts to repress transcription. Consistent with a role as a repressor, misexpression of nlz causes a loss of gene expression in the rostral hindbrain, likely due to ectopic nlz acting prematurely in this domain, and this repression is accompanied by a partial expansion in the expression domains of r4-specific genes. To interfere with endogenous nlz function, we generated a form of nlz that lacks the Groucho binding site and demonstrate that this construct has a dominant negative effect. We find that interfering with endogenous Nlz function promotes the expansion of r5 and, to a lesser extent, r3 gene expression into r4, leading to a reduction in the size of r4. We conclude that Nlz is a transcriptional repressor that controls segmental gene expression in the hindbrain. Lastly, we identify additional nlz-related genes, suggesting that Nlz belongs to a family of zinc-finger proteins.
The speed of synaptic vesicle recycling determines the efficacy of neurotransmission during repetitive stimulation. Synaptotagmins are synaptic C(2)-domain proteins that are involved in exocytosis, but have also been linked to endocytosis. We now demonstrate that upon expression in transfected neurons, a short splice variant of synaptotagmin 7 that lacks C(2)-domains accelerates endocytic recycling of synaptic vesicles, whereas a longer splice variant that contains C(2)-domains decelerates recycling. These results suggest that alternative splicing of synaptotagmin 7 acts as a molecular switch, which targets vesicles to fast and slow recycling pathways.
Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is a late-onset autosomal dominant muscular dystrophy that results from small expansions of a polyalanine tract in the PABPN1 gene. Intranuclear inclusions are the pathological hallmark of OPMD. The mechanism by which protein aggregation in OPMD might relate to a toxic gain-of-function has so far remained elusive. Whether protein aggregates themselves are pathogenic or are the consequence of an unidentified underlying molecular mechanism is still unclear. Here, we report that protein aggregation in a cell model of OPMD directly impaires the function of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway (UPP) as well as molecular chaperone functions. The proteasome inhibitor lactacystin causes significant increase of protein aggregation and toxicity. Moreover, overexpression of molecular chaperones (HSP40 and HSP70) suppressed protein aggregation and toxicity. We also provide evidence that mPABPN1-ala17 protein aggregation proportionally correlates with toxicity. Furthermore, we show that co-expression of chaperones in our OPMD cell model increases the solubility of mPABPN1-ala17 and transfected cell survival rate. Our studies suggest that molecular regulators of polyalanine protein solubility and degradation may provide insights into new mechanisms in OPMD pathogenesis. Further analysis of the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which UPP and molecular chaperones influence the degradation of misfolded proteins could provide novel concepts and targets for the treatment and understanding of the pathogenesis of OPMD and neurodegenerative diseases.
Slow channel congenital myasthenic syndrome (SCCMS) is a disorder of the neuromuscular synapse caused by dominantly inherited missense mutations in genes that encode the muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR) subunits. Here we investigate the potential of post-transcriptional gene silencing using RNA interference (RNAi) for the selective down-regulation of pathogenic mutant AChR. By transfection of both siRNA and shRNA into mammalian cells expressing wild-type or mutant AChR subunits, we show, using 125I-alpha-bungarotoxin binding and immunofluorescence to measure cell surface AChR expression, efficient discrimination between the silencing of alphaS226F AChR mutant RNA transcripts and the wild-type. In this model we find that selectivity between mutant and wild-type transcripts is optimized with the nucleotide mismatch at position 9 in the shRNA complementary sequence. We also find that allele-specific silencing using shRNA has comparable efficiency to that using siRNA, underlining the general potential of stable expression of shRNA molecules as a long term therapeutic approach for allele-specific silencing of mutant transcripts in dominant genetic disorders.
The sensory epithelium of the mammalian cochlea is composed of a regular mosaic of sensory hair cells and nonsensory supporting cells. During development, differentiation occurs in a gradient that progresses along the axis of the cochlea from base to apex. To begin to identify some of the factors that regulate this developmental process, the potential roles of planar and vertical signals were examined during early stages of cochlear development. We demonstrate roles for both underlying mesenchymal cells and adjacent epithelial cells in the differentiation and patterning of the sensory epithelium, and in particular in the development of mechanosensory hair cells. As development proceeds, the requirements for both planar and vertical signals decrease, and development of the sensory epithelium becomes essentially independent from these cues. Finally, we demonstrate that the temporal gradient of cellular differentiation is not dependent on planar signals within the developing sensory epithelium.
Local protein synthesis is required for long-lasting synapse-specific plasticity in cultured Aplysia sensorimotor synapses. To identify synaptically localized mRNAs, we prepared a cDNA library from isolated sensory neurites. By sequence analysis, we estimate that the library contains 263 distinct mRNAs, with 98 of these mRNAs constituting 70% of all clones. The localized transcripts are enriched for mRNAs encoding cytoskeletal elements and components of the translational machinery. In situ hybridization confirms that the mRNAs for at least eight of these transcripts are present in distal neurites. Immunocytochemistry reveals that serotonin regulates the translation of one of the localized mRNAs, that encoding alpha1-tubulin. Our identification of mRNAs encoding cytoskeletal elements suggests that local protein synthesis is required for the growth of new synaptic connections associated with persistent synaptic strengthening. Our finding of mRNAs encoding components of the translational machinery suggests that local protein synthesis serves to increase the translational capacity of synapses.
Cannabinoids have been shown to critically modulate cholinergic neurotransmission in the hippocampus, yet opposing effects of cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1R) agonists on hippocampal synaptic acetylcholine (ACh) efflux have been reported. This study shows that administration of a synthetic CB1R agonist results in a biphasic, dose-dependent, effect on hippocampal ACh: a low (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) and a high (5 mg/kg, i.p) dose of WIN55,212-2 induces a transient stimulation and a prolonged inhibition of hippocampal ACh efflux, respectively. Both effects of WIN55,212-2 are mediated through CB1 receptors coupled to Gi but involve different neuroanatomical sites. Thus, intrahippocampal infusion of the CB1R antagonist SR141716A or pertussis toxin blocked the inhibition of hippocampal ACh release induced by the high dose of WIN55,212-2, but was without effect on the stimulatory action of the low dose. In contrast, this latter effect was blocked by SR141716A or pertussis toxin infused, in dual microdialysis experiments, in the septum, in which the majority of cholinergic cell bodies projecting to the hippocampus reside. The stimulatory and inhibitory effects of WIN55,212-2 on hippocampal ACh involve dopamine D1 and D2 receptor activation, respectively, given that pretreatment with D1 and D2 receptor antagonists prevents the respective actions of WIN55,212-2. We propose that the in vivo observed biphasic effects of CB1R agonists on hippocampal ACh release result from a differential, functional association of anatomicaly distinct subpopulations of CB1-Gi coupled receptors to neurotransmitter systems that have opposing effects on ACh release. This concept could provide a theoretical framework to understand endocannabinoids as state-dependent modulators of neuronal activity.
Cocaine has multiple actions and multiple sites of action in the brain. Evidence from pharmacological studies indicates that it is the ability of cocaine to block dopamine uptake and elevate extracellular dopamine concentrations, and thus increase dopaminergic receptor activation, that makes cocaine rewarding. Lesion studies have implicated the nucleus accumbens (the dorsal portion of the &quot;ventral striatum&quot;) as the probable site of the rewarding action of the drug. However, the drug is only marginally self-administered into this site. We now report that cocaine (60 or 200 mm in 75 nl/infusion) is readily self-administered into the olfactory tubercle, the most ventral portion of the ventral striatum. Cocaine (200 mm) was self-administered marginally into the accumbens shell but not into the core, dorsal striatum, or ventral pallidum. In addition, cocaine injections (200 mm in 300 nl) into the tubercle but not the shell or ventral pallidum induced conditioned place preference. Rewarding effects of cocaine in the tubercle were blocked by coadministration of dopamine D1 or D2 antagonists (1 mm SCH 23390 or 3 mm raclopride) and were not mimicked by injections of the local anesthetic procaine (800 mm). In conclusion, the tubercle plays a critical role in mediating rewarding action of cocaine.
Increased expression of certain extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules after CNS injury is believed to restrict axonal regeneration. The chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) are one such class of ECM molecules that inhibit neurite outgrowth in vitro and are upregulated after CNS injury. We examined growth responses of several classes of axons to this inhibitory environment in the presence of a cellular fibroblast bridge in a spinal cord lesion site and after a growth factor stimulus at the lesion site (fibroblasts genetically modified to secrete NGF). Immunohistochemical analysis showed dense labeling of the CSPGs NG2, brevican, neurocan, versican, and phosphacan at the host-lesion interface after spinal cord injury (SCI). Furthermore, robust expression of NG2, and to a lesser extent versican, was also observed throughout grafts of control and NGF-secreting fibroblasts. Despite this inhibitory milieu, several axonal classes penetrated control fibroblast grafts, including dorsal column sensory, rubrospinal, and nociceptive axons. Axon growth was amplified more in the presence of NGF-secreting grafts. Confocal microscopy demonstrated that axon growth was, paradoxically, preferentially associated with NG2-rich substrates in both graft types. NG2 expression also increased after sciatic nerve injury, wherein axons successfully regenerate. Cellular sources of NG2 in SCI and peripheral nerve lesion sites included Schwann cells and endothelial cells. Notably, these same cellular sources in lesion sites produced the cell adhesion molecules L1 and laminin, and these molecules all colocalized. Thus, axons grow along substrates coexpressing both inhibitory and permissive molecules, suggesting that regeneration is successful when local permissive signals balance and exceed inhibitory signals.
The ability to simultaneously move in the world and maintain stable visual perception depends critically on the contribution of vestibulo-ocular reflexes (VORs) to gaze stabilization. It is traditionally believed that semicircular canal signals drive compensatory responses to rotational head disturbances (rotational VOR), whereas otolith signals compensate for translational movements [translational VOR (TVOR)]. However, a sensory ambiguity exists because otolith afferents are activated similarly during head translations and reorientations relative to gravity (i.e., tilts). Extra-otolith cues are, therefore, necessary to ensure that dynamic head tilts do not elicit a TVOR. To investigate how extra-otolith signals contribute, we characterized the temporal and viewing distance-dependent properties of a TVOR elicited in the absence of a lateral acceleration stimulus to the otoliths during combined translational/rotational motion. We show that, in addition to otolith signals, angular head position signals derived by integrating sensory canal information drive the TVOR. A physiological basis for these results is proposed in a model with two distinct integration steps. Upstream of the well known oculomotor velocity-to-position neural integrator, the model incorporates a separate integration element that could represent the &quot;velocity storage integrator,&quot; whose functional role in the oculomotor system has so far remained controversial. We propose that a key functional purpose of the velocity storage network is to temporally integrate semicircular canal signals, so that they may be used to extract translation information from ambiguous otolith afferent signals in the natural and functionally relevant bandwidth of head movements.
Physiological studies have shown that synaptically released zinc plays an important role in neural signaling by modulating a number of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors and intracellular signaling proteins. In order to localize neurons having a zincergic phenotype, Slomianka et al. [Neuroscience 38 (1990) 843] developed a labeling technique, based on the systemic administration of sodium selenite, that results in the retrograde transport of zinc-selenide crystals from axonal boutons to the cell bodies of origin. A major problem associated with this method is that the zincergic neurons are obscured by high levels of staining within synaptic boutons. In the present study, we describe a modification of the procedure for retrograde labeling of zincergic neurons, that uses a preincubation step with H2O2, which eliminates labeling of axon terminals while leaving the staining of cell bodies intact. Using this method we reveal that zincergic neurons comprise a large proportion of neurons in the murine forebrain, underscoring their contribution to network properties therein.
Halothane is a widely used anesthetic in research. It produces several alterations in organs, especially in the brain. Recently, isoflurane emerged in neuroscience laboratories. For many reasons it appears to be better than halothane for animal brain research (e.g. isoflurane induces lower intracranial pressure, and is less detrimental on the cardiovascular system). However, no one is in a position to recommend it in electrophysiology research because its effects on specific brain functions are relatively unknown. Given that both anesthetics yield different actions on gross brain activity (EEG, VEP), it is likely that they differentially affect single neuron activity. The goal of this study is to determine whether halothane or isoflurane use is best suited to study the receptive field properties of neurons in the cat's primary visual cortex. Extra-cellular recordings were made for both anesthetics in area 17 of adult cats under different levels of anesthesia. Results indicate that various cell parameters differ under halothane anesthesia when compared with isoflurane. The main difference between the two anesthetics is the greater depression of the cell optimal visual response amplitude induced by isoflurane at equipotent concentration. Due to its stronger depressive effects, isoflurane may not be the ideal anesthetic for single-cell recordings in the primary visual cortex.
Mice lacking JIP1, a scaffold protein that organizes JNK pathway components, were constructed independently by two groups. The proposed in vivo function, however, remains contradictory; One study reported that targeted disruption of the jip1 caused embryonic death due to the requirement of JIP1 for fertilized eggs (Thompson et al. [2001] J. Biol. Chem. 276:27745-27748). In contrast, another group (Whitmarsh et al. [2001] Genes Dev. 15:2421-2432) demonstrated that JIP1-deficient mice were viable and that the JIP1 null mutation inhibited the kainic acid-induced JNK activation and neuronal death. The current study was undertaken to re-elucidate the in vivo roles of JIP1 using newly generated JIP1 knockout mice. Our JIP1-deficient mice were viable and healthy. The transient focal ischemic insult produced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) strongly activated JNK in brain of jip1(+/+), jip1(+/-), and jip1(-/-) mice. Increased JNK activity was sustained for more than 22 hr in jip1(+/+) and jip1(+/-), whereas it was repressed rapidly in jip1(-/-). Concomitantly, the infarct volume produced by the ischemic insult in jip1(-/-) was reduced notably compared to that in jip1(+/+) brain. These results suggest that JIP1 plays a pivotal role in regulating the maintenance of phosphorylated JNK and neuronal survival in postischemic brain, but is not essential for JNK activation and early development.
An in vitro ischemia model was established and the effect of the metabolic inhibitors cycloheximide (CHX) and actinomycin D (ActD) on apoptosis in astrocytes under ischemia studied. CHX decreased by 75% the number of cells dying after 6 hr of ischemia compared with control cultures. TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labelling (TUNEL) staining of comparable cultures was reduced by 40%. ActD decreased cell death by 60% compared with controls. The number of TUNEL-positive cells was reduced by 38%. The nuclear shrinkage in TUNEL-positive astrocytes in control cultures did not occur in ActD-treated astrocytes, indicating that nuclear shrinkage and DNA fragmentation during apoptosis are two unrelated processes. Expression of bcl-2 (alpha and beta), bax, and Ice in astrocytes under similar ischemic conditions, as measured by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, indicated that ischemia down-regulated bcl-2 (alpha and beta) and bax. Ice was initially down-regulated from 0 to 4 hr, before returning to control levels after 8 hr of ischemia. ActD decreased the expression of these genes. CHX reduced the expression of bcl-2 (alpha and beta) but increased bax and Ice expression. It is hypothesized that the balance of proapoptotic (Bad, Bax) and antiapoptotic (Bcl-2, Bcl-Xl) proteins determines apoptosis. The data suggest that the ratio of Bcl-2/Bad in astrocytes following ActD and CHX treatment does not decrease as much in untreated cells during ischemia. Our data indicate that it is the ratio of Bcl-2 family members that plays a critical role in determining ischemia-induced apoptosis. It is also important to note that ischemia-induced apoptosis involves the regulation of RNA and protein synthesis.
Peripheral nerve injury induces changes in the level of gene expression for sodium channels Nav1.3, Nav1.8, and Nav1.9 within dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, which may contribute to the development of hyperexcitability, ectopic neuronal discharge, and neuropathic pain. The mechanism of this change in sodium channel expression is unclear. Decreased availability of neurotrophic factors following axotomy contributes to these changes in gene transcription, but the question of whether changes in intrinsic neuronal activity levels alone can trigger changes in the expression of these sodium channels has not been addressed. We examined the effect of electrical stimulation on the expression of Nav1.3, Nav1.8, and Nav1.9 by using cultured embryonic mouse sensory neurons under conditions in which nerve growth factor (NGF) was not limiting. Expression of Nav1.3 was not significantly changed following stimulation. In contrast, we observed activity-dependent down-regulation of Nav1.8 and Nav1.9 mRNA and protein levels after stimulation, as demonstrated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction and immunocytochemistry. These results show that a change in neuronal activity can alter the expression of sodium channel genes in a subtype-specific manner, via a mechanism independent of NGF withdrawal.
The brain contains a significant amount of glycogen that is an order of magnitude smaller than that in muscle, but several-fold higher than the cerebral glucose content. Although the precise role of brain glycogen to date is unknown, it seems affected by focal activation, neurotransmitters, and overall electrical activity and hormones. Based on its relatively low concentration, the role of brain glycogen as a significant energy store has been discounted. This work reviews recent experimental evidence that brain glycogen is an important reserve of glucose equivalents: (1) glial glycogen can provide the majority of the glucose supply deficit during hypoglycemia for more than 100 min, consistent with the proposal that glial lactate is a fuel for neurons; (2) glycogen concentrations may be as high as 10 micromol/g, substantially higher than was thought previously; (3) glucose cycling in and out of glycogen amounts to approximately 1% of the cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRglc) in human and rat brain, amounting to an effective stability of glycogen in the resting awake brain during euglycemia and hyperglycemia, (4) brain glycogen metabolism/concentrations are insulin/glucose sensitive; and (5) after a single episode of hypoglycemia, brain glycogen levels rebound to levels that exceed the pre-hypoglycemic concentrations (supercompensation). This experimental evidence supports the proposal that brain glycogen may be involved in the development of diabetes complications, specifically impaired glucose sensing (hypoglycemia unawareness) observed clinically in some diabetes patients under insulin treatment. It is proposed further that brain glycogen becomes important in any metabolic state where supply transiently cannot meet demand, such conditions that could occur during prolonged focal activation, sleep deprivation, seizures, and mild hypoxia.
The relationship between the electrophysiological properties of motoneurones and their muscle units has been established in animal models. A functionally significant relationship exists whereby motoneurones with long post-spike afterhyperpolarizations (AHPs) innervate slow contracting muscle units. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the time course of the AHP as measured by its time constant is associated with the contractile properties of its muscle unit in humans. Using an intramuscular fine wire electrode, 46 motor units were recorded in eight subjects as they held a low force contraction of the first dorsal interosseus muscle for approximately 10 min. By applying a recently validated transform to the interspike interval histogram, the mean voltage versus time trajectory of the motoneurone AHP was determined. Spike-triggered averaging was used to extract the muscle unit twitch from the whole muscle force with strict control over force variability and motor unit discharge rate (interspike intervals between 120 and 200 ms). The AHP time constant was positively correlated to the time to half-force decay (rho = 0.36, P &lt; 0.05) and twitch duration (rho = 0.57, P &lt; 0.001); however, time to peak force failed to reach significance (rho = 0.27, P &lt; 0.07). These results suggest that a similar functional relationship exists in humans between the motoneurone AHP and the muscle unit contractile properties.
Voltage-gated K+ channels localised on presynaptic nerve terminals control information coding by modulating presynaptic firing and synaptic efficacy in target neurones. We found that at CA3-CA3 connections in hippocampal slice cultures, a fast-activating, slowly inactivating K+ conductance similar to the so-called delay current (ID) is responsible for the delayed appearance of the first spike upon membrane depolarisation, for action potential repolarisation and for modulation of transmitter release. The ID-like current was downregulated by intracellular Ca2+, as indicated by the increased delay in the appearance of the first action potential following either the block of Ca2+ flux through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels with Cd2+ or replacement of the bathing solution with one devoid of Ca2+. In both cases, this effect was reversed by blocking this conductance with a low concentration of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, 10-50 muM). Application of 4-AP shortened the delay to the first spike generation, prevented the effect of Cd2+ and increased the spike duration. The earlier appearance of the first action potential was also observed in the presence of dendrotoxin-1 (100 nM). In voltage-clamp experiments larger currents were recorded in the absence of extracellular Ca2+, thus confirming the downregulation of the ID-like current by Ca2+ due to the positive shift of its inactivation. Spike broadening was associated with an enhancement of synaptic efficacy in target neurones, as assessed by the increase in EPSC amplitude and in the percentage of successes. Moreover, in the presence of 4-AP, EPSCs appeared with a longer latency and were more scattered. This conductance is therefore crucial for setting the timing and strength of synaptic transmission at CA3-CA3 connections. It is conceivable that switching off ID by increasing intracellular Ca2+ following activity-dependent processes may facilitate network synchronisation and crosstalk between CA3 pyramidal cells, leading to seizure activity.
Walter's Machina speculatrix inspired the name Rana computatrix for a family of models of visuomotor coordination in the frog, which contributed to the development of computational neuroethology. We offer here an 'evolutionary' perspective on models in the same tradition for rat, monkey and human. For rat, we show how the frog-like taxon affordance model provides a basis for the spatial navigation mechanisms that involve the hippocampus and other brain regions. For monkey, we recall two models of neural mechanisms for visuomotor coordination. The first, for saccades, shows how interactions between the parietal and frontal cortex augment superior colliculus seen as the homologue of frog tectum. The second, for grasping, continues the theme of parieto-frontal interactions, linking parietal affordances to motor schemas in premotor cortex. It further emphasizes the mirror system for grasping, in which neurons are active both when the monkey executes a specific grasp and when it observes a similar grasp executed by others. The model of human-brain mechanisms is based on the mirror-system hypothesis of the evolution of the language-ready brain, which sees the human Broca's area as an evolved extension of the mirror system for grasping.
We report on recent work in which we employed artificial evolution to design neural network controllers for small, homogeneous teams of mobile autonomous robots. The robots were evolved to perform a formation-movement task from random starting positions, equipped only with infrared sensors. The dual constraints of homogeneity and minimal sensors make this a non-trivial task. We describe the behaviour of a successful system in which robots adopt and maintain functionally distinct roles in order to achieve the task. We believe this to be the first example of the use of artificial evolution to design coordinated, cooperative behaviour for real robots.
W. Grey Walter built robotic systems to improve understanding of biological systems. In that tradition, this paper reports ongoing work on a robot model of cricket sound localization. The main advances are the inclusion of a much larger range of neuroethological detail, and the investigation of multimodal influences on the behaviour. The former allows exploration of the functionality of identified neurons in the insect, including the possible roles of multiple sensory fibres, mutually inhibitory connections, and brain neurons with pattern-filtering properties. The latter focuses on the inclusion of an optomotor stabilization response, and how this might improve tracking, particularly under conditions of random disturbance.
Experimentation is crucial to human progress at all scales, from society as a whole to a young infant in its cradle. It allows us to elicit learning episodes suited to our own needs and limitations. This paper develops active strategies for a robot to acquire visual experience through simple experimental manipulation. The experiments are oriented towards determining what parts of the environment are physically coherent--that is, which parts will move together, and which are more or less independent. We argue that following causal chains of events out from the robot's body into the environment allows for a very natural developmental progression of visual competence, and relate this idea to results in neuroscience.
Emotive faces elicit neural responses even when they are not consciously perceived. We used faces hybridized from spatial frequency-filtered individual stimuli to study processing of facial emotion. Employing event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we show enhanced fusiform cortex responses to hybrid faces containing fearful expressions when such emotional cues are present in the low-spatial frequency (LSF) range. Critically, this effect is independent of whether subjects use LSF or high-spatial frequency (HSF) information to make gender judgments on the hybridized faces. The magnitude of this fusiform enhancement predicts behavioral slowing in response times when participants report HSF information of the hybrid stimulus in the presence of fear in the unreported LSF components. Thus, emotional modulation of a face-responsive region of fusiform is driven by the low-frequency components of the stimulus, an effect independent of subjects' reported perception but evident in an incidental measure of behavioral performance.
Mutations in DJ-1 are a cause of autosomal recessive parkinsonism. Polymorphism of genes implicated in hereditary forms of parkinsonism may be a predisposing factor in sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD). The authors analyzed whether a polymorphism (g.168_185del) within exon 1 of DJ-1 contributes to the risk of sporadic PD in a Finnish case-control series. This gene does not play a major role in the genetic predisposition to PD in this population.
The authors report an Italian family with autosomal-dominant Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) in which there were giant axons in the sural nerve biopsy. Linkage to the known CMT2 loci (CMT2A, CMT2B, CMT2D, CMT2F) and mutations in the known CMT2 genes (Cx32, MPZ, NEFL), GAN, NEFM, and CMT1A duplication/HNPP deletion were excluded. This family with CMT and giant axons has a pathologic and genetic entity distinct from classic CMT.
Amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides, consisting mainly of 40 and 42 aa (Abeta40 and Abeta42, respectively), are metabolites of the amyloid precursor protein and are believed to be major pathological determinants of Alzheimer's disease. The proteolytic cleavages that form the Abeta N and C termini are catalyzed by beta-secretase and gamma-secretase, respectively. Here we demonstrate that gamma-secretase generation of Abeta in an N2a cell-free system is ATP dependent. In addition, the Abl kinase inhibitor imatinib mesylate (Gleevec, or STI571), which targets the ATP-binding site of Abl and several other tyrosine kinases, potently reduces Abeta production in the N2a cell-free system and in intact N2a cells. Both STI571 and a related compound, inhibitor 2, also reduce Abeta production in rat primary neuronal cultures and in vivo in guinea pig brain. STI571 does not inhibit the gamma-secretase-catalyzed S3 cleavage of Notch-1. Furthermore, production of Abeta and its inhibition by STI571 were demonstrated to occur to similar extents in both Abl-/- and WT mouse fibroblasts, indicating that the effect of STI571 on Abeta production does not involve Abl kinase. The efficacy of STI571 in reducing Abeta without affecting Notch-1 cleavage may prove useful as a basis for developing novel therapies for Alzheimer's disease.
Protein kinase C (PKC) modulates the function of the capsaicin receptor transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1). This modulation manifests as increased current when the channel is activated by capsaicin. In addition, studies have suggested that phosphorylation by PKC might directly gate the channel, because PKC-activating phorbol esters induce TRPV1 currents in the absence of applied ligands. To test whether PKC both modulates and gates the TRPV1 function by direct phosphorylation, we used direct sequencing to determine the major sites of PKC phosphorylation on TRPV1 intracellular domains. We then tested the ability of the PKC-activating phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) to potentiate capsaicin-induced currents and to directly gate TRPV1. We found that mutation of S800 to alanine significantly reduced the PMA-induced enhancement of capsaicin-evoked currents and the direct activation of TRPV1 by PMA. Mutation of S502 to alanine reduced PMA enhancement of capsaicin-evoked currents, but had no effect on direct activation of TRPV1 by PMA. Conversely, mutation of T704 to alanine had no effect on PMA enhancement of capsaicin-evoked currents but dramatically reduced direct activation of TRPV1 by PMA. These results, combined with pharmacological studies showing that inactive phorbol esters also weakly activate TRPV1, suggest that PKC-mediated phosphorylation modulates TRPV1 but does not directly gate the channel. Rather, currents induced by phorbol esters result from the combination of a weak direct ligand-like activation of TRPV1 and the phosphorylation-induced enhancement of the TRPV1 function. Furthermore, modulation of the TRPV1 function by PKC appears to involve distinct phosphorylation sites depending on the mechanism of channel activation.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is the most prominent model for the molecular and cellular mechanisms of learning and memory. Two main forms of LTP have been distinguished. The N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor-dependent forms of LTP have been studied most extensively, whereas much less is known about N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor-independent forms of LTP. This latter type of LTP was first described at the mossy fiber synapses in the hippocampus and subsequently at parallel fiber synapses in the cerebellum as well as at corticothalamic synapses. These presynaptic forms of LTP require a rise in the intraterminal calcium concentration, but the channel through which calcium passes has not been identified. By using pharmacological tools as well as genetic deletion, we demonstrate here that alpha1E-containing voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) shift the threshold for mossy fiber LTP. The channel is not involved in the expression mechanism, but it contributes to the calcium influx during the induction phase. Indeed, optical recordings directly show the presence and the function of alpha1E-containing VDCCs at mossy fiber terminals. Hence, a previously undescribed role for alpha1E-containing VDCCs is suggested by these results.
Strabismus has been known to have a significant genetic component, but the mode of inheritance and the identity of the relevant genes have been enigmatic. This paper reports linkage analysis of nonsyndromic strabismus. The principal results of this study are: (i) the demonstrated feasibility of identifying and recruiting large families in which multiple members have (or had) strabismus; (ii) the linkage in one large family of a presumptive strabismus susceptibility locus to 7p22.1 with a multipoint logarithm of odds score of 4.51 under a model of recessive inheritance; and (iii) the failure to observe significant linkage to 7p in six other multiplex families, consistent with genetic heterogeneity among families. These findings suggest that it will be possible to localize and ultimately identify strabismus susceptibility genes by linkage analysis and mutation screening of candidate genes.
To understand the functional significance of orofacial injury-induced neuronal activation, this study examined the rostral projection of caudal brainstem neurons that were activated by masseteric inflammation. Rats were injected with a retrograde tracer, Fluorogold, into the nucleus submedius of the thalamus (Sm), parabrachial nucleus (PB), lateral hypothalamus (LH), or medial ventroposterior thalamic nucleus (VPM) 7 days before injection of an inflammatory agent, complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA), into the masseter muscle. Rats were perfused at 2 hours after inflammation, and brainstem tissues were processed for Fos-Fluorogold double immunocytochemistry. Although there was no difference in Fos expression among the four groups (n=4 per site), the rostral projection of Fos-positive neurons showed dramatic differences. In the ventral portion of the trigeminal subnuclei interpolaris/caudalis (Vi/Vc) transition zone, the percentage of Fos-positive neurons projecting to the Sm (39.7%) was significantly higher than that projecting to the LH (5.4%) or VPM (5.6%; P&lt;.001). The anesthesia alone also induced Fos expression in ventral Vi/Vc neurons, but these neurons did not project to Sm. In the caudal laminated Vc and dorsal Vi/Vc, the PB was the major site of rostral projection of Fos-positive neurons. In the caudal ventrolateral medulla and nucleus tractus solitarius, Fos-positive neurons projected to the Sm, PB, and LH. Most VPM-projecting neurons examined did not show Fos-like immunoreactivity after masseter inflammation. These findings emphasize the importance of the trigeminal Vi/Vc transition zone in response to orofacial deep tissue injury. Furthermore, the results differentiate the ventral and dorsal portions of the Vi/Vc transition zone, in that the Sm received projection mainly from activated neurons in the ventral Vi/Vc. The activation of Vi/Vc neurons and associated ascending pathways may facilitate somatoautonomic and somatovisceral integration and descending pain modulation after orofacial deep tissue injury.

Stroke is a major public-health burden worldwide. Prevention programmes are essential to reduce the incidence of stroke and to prevent the all but inevitable stroke epidemic, which will hit less developed countries particularly hard as their populations age and adopt lifestyles of the more developed countries. Efficient, effective, and rapid diagnosis of stroke and transient ischaemic attack is crucial. The diagnosis of the exact type and cause of stroke, which requires brain imaging as well as traditional clinical skills, is also important when it will influence management. The treatment of acute stroke, the prevention and management of the many complications of stroke, and the prevention of recurrent stroke and other serious vascular events are all improving rapidly. However, stroke management will only be most effective when delivered in the context of an organised, expert, educated, and enthusiastic stroke service that can react quickly to the needs of patients at all stages from onset to recovery.
Deposition of amyloid in the brain is important in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but it remains to be determined if deposition is due to increased production or decreased clearance of fibrillogenic forms of beta-amyloid (Abeta). Except for rare genetic forms of AD, there is little evidence for increased production of Abeta, but decreases in enzymes involved in the clearance of Abeta are increasingly being investigated. Neprilysin (NEP) is a major enzyme for degradation of Abeta and changes in amount or activity of NEP may play a role in Abeta deposition in AD. Since oxidative damage to proteins, including formation of adducts such as 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), has been reported in AD, it was of interest to determine if NEP might be susceptible to oxidative modification. To address this question, monoclonal antibody immunoprecipitates of NEP were probed with polyclonal antibodies to NEP and HNE. The results showed decreased NEP in AD compared to normal controls. NEP in both AD and controls had HNE-modification and the ratio of oxidized to total NEP was greater in AD than in controls. These findings suggest that decreased NEP may contribute to Abeta deposition in AD and that age-related oxidative damage to NEP may play a role in age-related cerebral amyloidosis that is exacerbated in AD.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are a subtype of glutamate receptor that serve important functions at glutamatergic synapses in the brain. NMDA receptors are inhibited by concentrations of ethanol that are associated with intoxication and chronic exposure of neurons to ethanol enhances NMDA receptor function. The factors that underlie the acute inhibition of NMDA receptors by ethanol are not completely known, but ethanol sensitivity is influenced by receptor subunit composition. In this study, the effect of the regulatory subunit, NR3, on ethanol inhibition of NMDA receptors was examined. Recombinant NMDA receptors comprised of NR1 and NR2 (A-D) subunits were transiently transfected into HEK293 cells in the absence or presence of the NR3 subunit. In the absence of NR3, all NMDA receptor subunit combinations were inhibited by 100 mM ethanol. Co-expression of NR3 or an NR3-GFP fusion protein with NR1/NR2 (A-D) subunits did not alter the inhibitory effects of ethanol. In addition, the inhibition of NR1/NR2B receptors by the NR2B subunit-selective antagonist, ifenprodil, was not altered by co-expression of the NR3 subunit. Overall, these results suggest that the NR3A subunit is not a determinant of ethanol sensitivity in recombinant NMDA receptors.
Adenosine is a neuromodulator in the CNS that mainly acts through pre- and postsynaptic A(1) receptors to inhibit the release of excitatory neurotransmitters and NMDA receptor function. This might result from a highly localized distribution of A(1) receptors in the active zone and postsynaptic density of CNS synapses that we now investigated in the rat hippocampus. The binding density of the selective A(1) receptor antagonist, [3H]1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine ([3H]DPCPX), was enriched in membranes from Percoll-purified nerve terminals (B(max)=1839+/-52 fM/mg protein) compared to total membranes from the hippocampus (B(max)=984+/-31 fM/mg protein), the same occurring with A(1) receptor immunoreactivity. [3H]DPCPX binding occurred mainly to the plasma membrane rather than to intracellular sites, since the binding of the membrane permeable A(1) receptor ligand [3H]DPCPX to intact hippocampal nerve terminals (B(max)=1901+/-192 fM/mg protein) was markedly reduced (B(max)=321+/-30 fM/mg protein) by the membrane impermeable adenosine receptor antagonist, 8-sulfophenyltheophilline (25 microM). Further subcellular fractionation of hippocampal nerve terminals revealed that A(1) receptor immunoreactivity was strategically located in the active zone of presynaptic nerve terminals, as expected to understand the efficiency of A(1) receptors to depress neurotransmitter release. A(1) Receptors were also present in nerve terminals outside the active zone in accordance with the existence of a presynaptic A(1) receptor reserve. Finally, A(1) receptor immunoreactivity was evident in the postsynaptic density together with NMDA receptor subunits 1, 2A and 2B and with N-and P/Q-type calcium channel immunoreactivity, emphasizing the importance of A(1) receptors in the control of dendritic integration.
Stimulation of spinal serotonin (5-HT)(2A/2C) receptors has previously been reported to lead to either a pro-nociceptive or an anti-nociceptive response. Behavioral data have indicated that the pro-nociceptive effect is related to the release of substance P (SP). The aim of this in vivo microdialysis study was to investigate if stimulation of spinal 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors by the selective agonist (+/-)-2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI) induces spontaneous or capsaicin-evoked increase in the release of SP-like immunoreactivity (SP-LI) in the rat dorsal horn. A dose of capsaicin (25 microM in the perfusion medium administered for 30 min), which did not lead to a significant release of SP-LI on its own, induced a significant increase of greater than 4-fold of the SP-LI level following spinal application of 50 nmol DOI. Higher (500 nmol) or lower (5 nmol) doses of DOI failed to induce a similar effect. In rats with a peripheral inflammation, induced by carrageenan, capsaicin (25 microM) induced a non-significant increase of SP-LI. A significant 8-fold increase of the SP-LI level was detected following administration of 50 nmol DOI in combination with capsaicin. The effect of DOI, which was completely prevented by co-administration of the 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist ketanserin in control animals without peripheral inflammation, was only partly blocked in animals with carrageenan induced peripheral inflammation. In conclusion, stimulation of 5-HT(2A/2C) receptors facilitates the capsaicin-evoked release of SP-LI in the dorsal horn in both animals with and without carrageenan-induced unilateral inflammation. The observation that the highest dose of DOI failed to induce SP-LI release may be due to an inhibitory postsynaptic action at this dose.
Dan (Differential screening-selected gene aberrative in neuroblastoma, also known as N03) is a member of a class of glycoproteins shown to be secreted inhibitors of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) and bone morphogenic protein pathways. We examined Dan expression during murine forebrain development from embryonic day 10.5 to postnatal day 14 and found that Dan was expressed in highly specific spatiotemporal patterns. In early telencephalic development, Dan is highly expressed in the fibroblasts covering the cortex. From E12.5-E14.5, Dan is also weakly expressed in a region of neuroepithelium at the medial margin of the telencephalon called the cortical hem. From E17.5 on, Dan is expressed strongly in CA3 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus as well as in the developing thalamus and amygdala. To determine if Dan expression is correlated with the expression of any of its known ligand targets, we examined the expression of GDF-5, -6 and -7 in the forebrain and found that GDF-5 is expressed in Cajal-Retzius cells in Layer I of cortex, immediately adjacent to the expression of Dan in the meninges.
Molecular misreading of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene generates mRNA with dinucleotide deletions in GAGAG motifs. The resulting truncated and partly frameshifted APP protein (APP+1) accumulates in the dystrophic neurites and the neurofibrillary tangles in the cortex and hippocampus of Alzheimer patients. In contrast, we show here that neuronal cells transfected with APP+1 proficiently secreted APP+1. Because various secretory APP isoforms are present in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), this study aimed to determine whether APP+1 is also a secretory protein that can be detected in CSF. Post-mortem CSF was obtained at autopsy from 50 non-demented controls and 122 Alzheimer patients; all subjects were staged for neuropathology (Braak score). Unexpectedly, we found that the APP+1 level in the CSF of non-demented controls was much higher (1.75 ng/ml) than in the CSF of Alzheimer patients (0.51 ng/ml) (p &lt; 0.001), and the level of APP+1 in CSF was inversely correlated with the severity of the neuropathology. Moreover the earliest neuropathological changes are already reflected in a significant decrease of the APP+1 level in CSF. These data show that APP+1 is normally secreted by neurons, preventing intra-neuronal accumulation of APP+1 in brains of non-demented controls without neurofibrillary pathology.

Poets have long waxed lyrical about the pain of a broken heart. Now, as Panksepp explains in his Perspective, this metaphor may reflect real events in the mammalian brain. A new brain neuroimaging study (Eisenberger et al.) reveals that the brain areas that are activated during the distress caused by social exclusion are also those activated during physical pain. Thus, we now have an explanation for the feeling of physical pain that accompanies emotional loss-whether that be the loss of a loved one, rejection by one's social group, or the distress of separation experienced by young animals.
Myosin regulatory light chain interacting protein (MIR) belongs to the ezrin, radixin, moesin (ERM) family of proteins involved in membrane cytoskeleton interactions and cell dynamics. MIR contains, beside the ERM domain, a RING zinc finger region. Immunocytochemistry showed that full-length MIR and the subdomains localize differently in cells. Cell fractionation revealed a similar distribution of full-length MIR and the RING domain protein in the Triton X-100-insoluble fraction. The neurite outgrowth inhibitory activity of MIR was attributed to the RING domain. MIR levels were controlled in the cells depending on the intact RING domain and proteasome activity. The dynamic regulation of MIR contributes to its effects on neurite outgrowth and cell motility.
Individual neural progenitors generate different cell types in a reproducible order in the retina, cerebral cortex and probably in the spinal cord. It is unknown how neural progenitors change over time to generate different cell types. It has been proposed that progenitors undergo progressive restriction or transit through distinct competence states; however, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Here we investigate neural progenitor competence and temporal identity using an in vivo genetic system--Drosophila neuroblasts--where the Hunchback transcription factor is necessary and sufficient to specify early-born cell types. We show that neuroblasts gradually lose competence to generate early-born fates in response to Hunchback, similar to progressive restriction models, and that competence to acquire early-born fates is present in mitotic precursors but is lost in post-mitotic neurons. These results match those observed in vertebrate systems, and establish Drosophila neuroblasts as a model system for the molecular genetic analysis of neural progenitor competence and plasticity.

Dendrite development is an important and unsolved problem in neuroscience. The nervous system is composed of a vast number of neurons with strikingly different morphology. Neurons are highly polarized cells with distinct subcellular compartments, including one or multiple dendritic processes arising from the cell body, and a single, extended axon. Communications between neurons involve synapses formed between axons of the presynaptic neurons and dendrites of the postsynaptic neurons. Extensive studies over the past decade have identified many molecules underlying axonal outgrowth and pathfinding. In contrast, the control of dendrite development is still much less well understood. However, recent progress has begun to shed light on the molecular mechanisms that orchestrate dendrite growth, arborization, and guidance.

Effective treatments to improve survivability following exposure to the nerve agent soman have been established and are currently available. Unfortunately, electrographic brain seizures, neuroinflammation and brain cell death are still a potential problem even with treatment. In the present study we have characterized the time course of the central neuro-inflammatory gene response using quantitative real time-PCR (TaqMan). Male Sprague-Dawley rats were pre-treated with HI-6 (1-2-hydroxy-iminomethyl-1-pyridino-3-(4-carbamoyl-1-pyridino-2-oxapropane dichloride); 125 mg/kg, i.p.) and exposed 30 min later to 1.6 x LD(50) of soman (pinacolyl methyl-phosphonofluoridate, 180 microg/kg, s.c.) followed at 1 min by atropine methyl nitrate (4 mg/kg, i.m.). Initially, a significant and dramatic upregulation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 mRNA levels was measured 2 h post-exposure followed at 6 h by upregulation of interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, E-selectin, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 with eventual resolution by 24-48 h. In conclusion, an acute and transient upregulation of the inflammatory gene response is activated following soman exposure that may be involved in the soman-induced brain injury process.
In most natural listening environments, noise occludes objects of interest, and it would be beneficial for an organism to correctly identify those objects. When a sound of interest (&quot;foreground&quot; sound) is interrupted by a loud noise, subjects perceive the entire sound, even if the noise was intense enough to completely mask a part of it. This phenomenon can be exploited to create an illusion: when a silent gap is introduced into the foreground and high-intensity noise is superimposed into the gap, subjects report the foreground as continuing through the noise although that portion of the foreground was deleted. This phenomenon, referred to as auditory induction or amodal completion, is conceptually similar to visual induction, fill-in, illusory motion, and illusory contours. Two rhesus macaque monkeys performed a task designed to assess auditory induction. They were trained to discriminate complete stimuli from those containing a silent gap in the presence of two types of noise. Interrupting noise temporally coincided only with the gap, and in humans this causes induction. Surrounding noise temporally encompassed the entire foreground, and in humans this causes masking without auditory induction. Consistent with previous human psychophysical results, macaques showed better performance with surrounding masking noise than interrupting noise designed to elicit induction. These and other control experiments provide evidence that primates may share a general mechanism to perceptually complete missing sounds.
Rats, using their whiskers, have excellent capabilities in texture discrimination. What is the representation of texture in rat somatosensory cortex? We hypothesize that as rats &quot;whisk&quot; over a surface, the spatial frequency of a grooved or pebbled texture is converted to a temporal frequency of whisker vibration. Surface features such as groove depth or grain size modulate the amplitude of this vibration. Validation of the hypothesis depends on showing that vibration parameters have distinct neuronal representations in cortex. To test this, we delivered sinusoidal vibrations to the whisker shaft and analyzed cortical neuronal activity. Seven amplitudes and seven frequencies were combined to construct 49 stimuli while recording activity through a 10 x 10 microelectrode array inserted into the middle layers of barrel cortex. We find that cortical neurons do not explicitly encode vibration frequency (f) or amplitude (A) by any coding measure (average spike counts over different time windows, spike timing patterns in the peristimulus time histograms or in autocorrelograms). Instead, neurons explicitly encode the product of frequency and amplitude, which is proportional to the mean speed of the vibration. The quantity Af is an invariant because neuronal response encodes this feature independently of the values of the individual terms A and f. This was true across a wide time scale of firing rate measurements, from 5 to 500 msec. We conclude that vibration kinetics are rapidly and reliably encoded in the firing rate of cortical ensembles. Therefore, the cortical representation of vibration speed could underlie texture discrimination.
We prepared concatamers of alpha4 and beta2 subunits for human nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs), in which the C terminus of alpha4 was linked to the N terminus of beta2, or vice versa, via a tripeptide sequence repeated 6 or 12 times, and expressed them in Xenopus oocytes. Linkage did not substantially alter channel amplitude or channel open-duration. Linkage at the C terminus of alpha4 prevented AChR potentiation by 17-beta-estradiol by disruption of its binding site. Assembly of AChRs from concatamers was less efficient, but function was much more efficient than that of unlinked subunits. With both linked and free subunits, greater ACh-induced currents per surface AChR were observed with the (alpha4)3(beta2)2 stoichiometry than with the (alpha4)2(beta2)3 stoichiometry. The (alpha4)3(beta2)2 stoichiometry exhibited much lower ACh sensitivity. When concatamers were expressed alone, dipentameric AChRs were formed in which the (alpha4)2(beta2)3 pentamer was linked to the (alpha4)3(beta2)2 pentamer. Dipentamers were selectively expressed on the cell surface, whereas most monopentamers with dangling subunits were retained intracellularly. Coexpression of concatamers with monomeric beta2, beta4, or alpha4 subunits resulted in monopentamers, the stoichiometry of which was determined by the free subunit added. Linkage between the C terminus of beta2 and the N terminus of alpha4 favored formation of ACh-binding sites within the concatamer, whereas linkage between the C terminus of alpha4 and the N terminus of beta2 favored formation of ACh-binding sites between concatamers. These protein-engineering studies provide insight into the structure and function of alpha4beta2 AChRs, emphasizing the functional differences between alpha4beta2 AChRs of different stoichiometries.
Schwann cell is a cell type that forms myelin sheath and provides trophic supports for neuronal cells by producing neurotrophic factors in both normal and traumatic situations. It was recently reported that after lesion of sciatic nerve, mRNA for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is induced in nonneuronal cells in the nerve. However, the mechanism regulating GDNF-mRNA has remained largely unknown. In the present study, we searched for factors regulating the GDNF-mRNA expression in Schwann cells. First, we found that after transfer into explant culture as an in vitro lesion model, sciatic nerve segments began to express mRNA for bone morphogenetic protein-2 (BMP2) concomitantly with the induction of GDNF-mRNA. Treatment of the Schwann cells isolated from the sciatic nerve with combination of BMP2 and retinoic acid (RA) dramatically induced GDNF-mRNA, while BMP2 or RA alone had no effect. Furthermore, ionomycin, a calcium ionophore, which had even stronger activity on the induction of GDNF-mRNA also induced also BMP2-mRNA in cultured Schwann cells. Effects of inhibitors of intracellular signaling pathways such as protein kinase C inhibitor and MAPKK inhibitor suggested that the molecular mechanism of the induction of GDNF-mRNA is distinct from that of BMP2-mRNA. These results suggest that the Schwann cell-produced BMP2 plays an important role in the induction of GDNF after nerve injury in an autocrine fashion.
ATPase II (a Mg2+-ATPase) is also believed to harbor aminophospholipid translocase (APTL) activity, which is responsible for the translocation of phosphatidylserine (PS) from the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane to the inner. To test this hypothesis we overexpressed the mouse ATPase II cDNA in the neuronal HN2 cells. In addition to a dramatic increase in APTL activity, we also made the unexpected observation that expression of the mouse ATPase II cDNA from the vector pCMV6 resulted in the appearance of calcium current. Although the hybrid cell line HN2 or a line (HN2V32) obtained by expressing a heterologous gene from the same expression vector showed no calcium current, both ATPase II-overexpressing clones (HN2A12 and HN2A22) showed significant barium conductance. This current was due to calcium channels because it was blocked almost completely by 100 microM CdCl2 and it had a significant N-type component since it was blocked by 38.5% in the presence of 5 microM omega-conotoxin (omega-CTX). Western blot analysis using an antibody against the N-type calcium-channel alpha1B subunit revealed a dramatic increase in expression of this protein in the HN2A12 and HN2A22 cell lines. Our results suggest that ATPase II also harbors APTL activity. In view of the prior knowledge that APTL activity is inhibited by an increase in calcium, our results also suggest that APTL expression exerts a negative feedback regulation on itself by inducing expression of channels that cause an influx of calcium ions. The mechanism of this regulation could reveal important information on a possible cross-regulation between these two families of proteins in neuronal cells.

Lack of growth factors and hypoxia are two recent hypotheses about mechanisms underlying motor neuron death in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. With this background, serum from 15 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and 15 controls, and CSF from 15 patients and 10 controls were analysed for fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) using an immunoassay. Serum FGF-2 levels were higher in the patient group than in the control group. FGF-2 was detected in CSF in 11/15 patients, but in none of the 10 control subjects. There were no correlations between age, duration of disease or clinical rating and FGF-2 levels. The findings indicate that FGF-2 is involved in the pathophysiological chain of events in this disorder.
The aperture problem is defined as one of integrating motion information from inside and outside of the aperture, and determination of the true direction of motion of a line. Much is known about it and many models have been proposed for its neural mechanisms. However, it is still a matter of debate whether the brain solves the problem by using only feed-forward neural connections, also known as the one-shot algorithm, or by using the iterative algorithm while utilizing feedback as well as horizontal neural connections. Here we show unequivocal evidence for the latter model. The model was tested using critically designed psychophysical experiments and the results were perfectly in line with the psychophysical performance of the observers.
A simple and reproducible high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) method was developed for determination of cyclosporine (CyA, also known as cyclosporin A) in human whole blood. The method entailed direct injection of the blood samples after deproteination using acetonitrile. Chromatography was carried out using an ODS column under isocratic elution with acetonitrile-5mM disodium hydrogen phosphate (75:25, v/v), pH 5.1 at 70 degrees C and a detector set at 210 nm. The mean absolute recovery of cyclosporine from blood was 97%, and the linearity was assessed in the range of 100-3000 ng/ml blood, with a correlation coefficient of greater than 0.999. The limit of quantification and detection of the present method were 100 and 50 ng/ml, respectively. This method has been used to analyze several hundred human blood samples for bioavailability studies.
The regulators of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins modulate heterotrimeric G protein signaling. RGS8 belongs to B/R4 subfamily of RGS proteins and is specifically expressed in Purkinje cells of adult cerebellum. Here, to examine the expression of RGS8 mRNA in developing cerebellum, we performed in situ hybridization. Apparent signals for expression of RGS8 mRNA were first detected on day 9 after birth, then RGS8 mRNA expression in Purkinje cells increased up to day 21, and its levels decreased to some extent in adult Purkinje cells. We also studied the expression of RGS7, which is expressed in Golgi cells in the granule cell layer of adult cerebellum. The expression of RGS7 mRNA was recognized in 7 day neonatal cerebellum. When examined with anti-RGS8 antibody, the RGS8 protein was already excluded from nucleus on day 9, and was distributed in cell body and dendrites in differentiating Purkinje cells of 14 day neonates.
Supratherapeutical doses of anabolic androgenic steroids (AASs) have dramatic effects on metabolism in humans, and also inhibit feeding and reduce the rate of body weight gain in rats. In order to test the hypothesis that the AAS metabolic syndrome is accompanied by alterations in the central melanocortin system, we evaluated body weight, food intake and hypothalamic agouti-related protein (AgRP) and proopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA levels following administration of different doses of the anabolic androgenic steroid nandrolone decanoate. In order to distinguish changes induced by the steroid treatment per se from those resulting from the reduced food intake and growth rate, we also compared the effect of nandrolone decanoate on AgRP and POMC mRNA expression with both normally fed, and food restricted control groups. We here report that administration of nandrolone specifically reduces arcuate nucleus POMC mRNA levels while not affecting the expression level of AgRP. The effect on POMC expression was not observed in the food restricted controls, excluding the possibility that the observed effect was a mere response to the reduced food intake and body weight. These results raise the possibility that some of the metabolic and behavioural consequences of AAS abuse may be the result of alterations in the melanocortin system.
Responses of neurons in the gracile nucleus (NG) of female rats to tactile and visceral stimulation change across the estrous cycle [J. Neurosci. 20 (2000) 7722]. To investigate estrogen's role in these changes, responses of NG neurons to tactile and visceral stimuli were examined in three groups: ovariectomized (OVX), OVX with estrogen replacement (OVX+E2), or sham OVX (tested in diestrus; shamOVX-D). The stimuli were: gentle brushing of hindquarter skin, pressure on the cervix, and distention of the uterus, vagina, or colon. After OVX, the magnitude of multi-unit responses to brushing the perineum, hip and tail, but not the foot and leg, were significantly reduced relative to shamOVX-D. OVX+E2 restored this magnitude to the same level as shamOVX-D, but not, as expected, to levels as large as previously observed in proestrus. After OVX, responses of single neurons to stimulation of the uterus, cervix, and colon were more likely to be excitatory (versus inhibitory) than they had been in cycling rats in proestrus (uterus, cervix) or diestrus (colon); OVX+E2 did not restore the inhibitory responses. In contrast, whereas all responses to vaginal distention after OVX were also excitatory, OVX+E2 in this case significantly restored the inhibitory responses. These findings provide further support for the conclusion that response characteristics of NG neurons are influenced by the rat's hormonal milieu, but also indicate that the influences are not a simple reflection of estrogen levels. The findings further suggest that NG is a component of neural systems that contribute to both reproductive behaviors and vaginal nociception.
Striatal cholinergic interneurons located in the dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens are amenable to influences of the dopaminergic mesolimbic pathway, which is a pathway involved in reward and reinforcement and targeted by several drugs of abuse. Dopamine and acetylcholine neurotransmission and their interactions are essential to striatal function, and disruptions to these systems lead to a variety of clinical disorders. Dopamine regulates acetylcholine release through dopamine receptors that are localized directly on striatal cholinergic interneurons. The dopamine D2 receptor, which attenuates acetylcholine release, has been implicated in drug relapse and is targeted by therapeutic drugs that are used to treat a variety of neurological disorders including Tourette Syndrome, Parkinson's disease and schizophrenia. The present study provides the first direct evidence for the localization of dopamine D2 receptors on striatal cholinergic interneurons of the rat brain using dual labeling immunocytochemistry procedures. Using light microscopy, dopamine D2 receptors were localized on the cell somata and dendritic and axonal processes of striatal cholinergic interneurons in the dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens of the rat brain. These findings provide a foundation for understanding the specific roles that cholinergic neuronal network systems and interacting dopaminergic signaling pathways play in striatal function and in a variety of clinical disorders including drug abuse and addiction.
Presynaptic activation of protein kinase A (PKA) induces LTP in cerebellar parallel fiber synapses. Presynaptic LTP is known to require the active zone protein RIM1alpha, but the underlying induction mechanism remains unclear. We now show that PKA directly phosphorylates RIM1alpha at two sites. Using paired recordings from cultured cerebellar granule and Purkinje neurons, we demonstrate that LTP is absent in neurons from RIM1alpha KO mice but is rescued by presynaptic expression of RIM1alpha. Mutant RIM1alpha lacking the N-terminal phosphorylation site is unable to rescue LTP in RIM1alpha knockout neurons but selectively suppresses LTP in wild-type neurons. Our findings suggest that PKA-mediated phosphorylation of the active zone protein RIM1alpha at a single N-terminal site induces presynaptic LTP.
To better understand the functional role of the mitochondrial network in shaping the Ca2+ signals in living cells, we took advantage both of the newest genetically engineered green fluorescent protein-based Ca2+ sensors (&quot;Cameleons,&quot; &quot;Camgaroos,&quot; and &quot;Pericams&quot;) and of the classical Ca(2+)-sensitive photoprotein aequorin, all targeted to the mitochondrial matrix. The properties of the green fluorescent protein-based probes in terms of subcellular localization, photosensitivity, and Ca2+ affinity have been analyzed in detail. It is concluded that the ratiometric pericam is, at present, the most reliable mitochondrial Ca2+ probe for single cell studies, although this probe too is not devoid of problems. The results obtained with ratiometric pericam in single cells, combined with those obtained at the population level with aequorin, provide strong evidence demonstrating that the close vicinity of mitochondria to the Ca2+ release channels (and thus responsible for the fast uptake of Ca2+ by mitochondria upon receptor activation) are highly stable in time, suggesting the existence of specific interactions between mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is required for the development of sympathetic neurons and subsets of sensory neurons. Our current knowledge on the molecular mechanisms underlying the biological functions of NGF is in part based on the studies with PC12 rat pheochromocytoma cells, which differentiate into sympathetic neuron-like cells upon NGF treatment. Here we report that the expression of leukemia inhibitory factor receptor (LIFR), one of the signaling molecules shared by several neuropoietic cytokines of the interleukin-6 family, is specifically up-regulated in PC12 cells following treatment with NGF. Attenuation of LIFR signaling through stable transfection of antisense- or dominant negative-LIFR constructs enhances NGF-induced neurite extension in PC12 cells. On the contrary, overexpression of LIFR retards the growth of neurites. More importantly, whereas NGF-induced Rac1 activity is enhanced in antisense-LIFR and dominant negative-LIFR expressing PC12 cells, it is reduced in LIFR expressing PC12 cells. Following combined treatment with NGF and ciliary neurotrophic factor, sympathetic neurons exhibit attenuated neurite growth and branching. On the other hand, in sympathetic neurons lacking LIFR, neurite growth and branching is enhanced when compared with wild type controls. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that LIFR expression can be specifically induced by NGF and, besides its known function in cell survival and phenotype development, activated LIFR signaling can exert negative regulatory effects on neurite extension and branching of sympathetic neurons.
The acetylcholinesterase (AChE) active site consists of a narrow gorge with two separate ligand binding sites: an acylation site (or A-site) at the bottom of the gorge where substrate hydrolysis occurs and a peripheral site (or P-site) at the gorge mouth. AChE is inactivated by organophosphates as they pass through the P-site and phosphorylate the catalytic serine in the A-site. One strategy to protect against organophosphate inactivation is to design cyclic ligands that will bind specifically to the P-site and block the passage of organophosphates but not acetylcholine. To accelerate the process of identifying cyclic compounds with high affinity for the AChE P-site, we introduced a cysteine residue near the rim of the P-site by site-specific mutagenesis to generate recombinant human H287C AChE. Compounds were synthesized with a highly reactive methanethiosulfonyl substituent and linked to this cysteine through a disulfide bond. The advantages of this tethering were demonstrated with H287C AChE modified with six compounds, consisting of cationic trialkylammonium, acridinium, and tacrine ligands with tethers of varying length. Modification by ligands with short tethers had little effect on catalytic properties, but longer tethering resulted in shifts in substrate hydrolysis profiles and reduced affinity for acridinium affinity resin. Molecular modeling calculations indicated that cationic ligands with tethers of intermediate length bound to the P-site, whereas those with long tethers reached the A-site. These binding locations were confirmed experimentally by measuring competitive inhibition constants KI2 for propidium and tacrine, inhibitors specific for the P- and A-sites, respectively. Values of KI2 for propidium increased 30- to 100-fold when ligands had either intermediate or long tethers. In contrast, the value of KI2 for tacrine increased substantially only when ligands had long tethers. These relative changes in propidium and tacrine affinities thus provided a sensitive molecular ruler for assigning the binding locations of the tethered cations.
Consensus is emerging that the medial frontal lobe of the brain is involved in monitoring performance, but precisely what is monitored remains unclear. A saccade-countermanding task affords an experimental dissociation of neural signals of error, reinforcement, and conflict. Single-unit activity was monitored in the anterior cingulate cortex of monkeys performing this task. Neurons that signaled errors were found, half of which responded to the omission of earned reinforcement. A further diversity of neurons signaled earned or unexpected reinforcement. No neurons signaled the form of conflict engendered by interruption of saccade preparation produced in this task. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that the anterior cingulate cortex monitors the consequences of actions.
Endocannabinoids have paradoxical effects on the mammalian nervous system: Sometimes they block neuronal excitability and other times they augment it. In their Perspective, Mechoulam and Lichtman discuss new work (Marsicano et al.) showing that activation of the cannabinoid receptor CB1 by the endocannabinoid anandamide protects against excitotoxic damage in a mouse model of kainic acid-induced epilepsy.

Retinal rods and cones share a phototransduction pathway involving cyclic GMP. Cones are typically 100 times less photosensitive than rods and their response kinetics are several times faster, but the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Almost all proteins involved in phototransduction have distinct rod and cone variants. Differences in properties between rod and cone pigments have been described, such as a 10-fold shorter lifetime of the meta-II state (active conformation) of cone pigment and its higher rate of spontaneous isomerization, but their contributions to the functional differences between rods and cones remain speculative. We have addressed this question by expressing human or salamander red cone pigment in Xenopus rods, and human rod pigment in Xenopus cones. Here we show that rod and cone pigments when present in the same cell produce light responses with identical amplification and kinetics, thereby ruling out any difference in their signalling properties. However, red cone pigment isomerizes spontaneously 10,000 times more frequently than rod pigment. This high spontaneous activity adapts the native cones even in darkness, making them less sensitive and kinetically faster than rods. Nevertheless, additional factors are probably involved in these differences.

Midlife period has not been investigated so far regarding associations between brain responses and spared abilities for face processing. This study examines the effects of midlife aging on behavioural performance and event-related potentials (ERPs) during the perception of personally known faces. Ten middle-aged adults (aged 45-60) and 12 young adults (aged 20-30) performed a visual discrimination task based on the detection of modified eye colours. We found that this task was performed as accurately by middle-aged as by young adults. However, midlife aging is associated with specific ERP latency delays and important changes in scalp ERP distribution. These results -interpreted according to a compensation hypothesis- provide enlightening indications showing that, compared to young adults, the changes in brain activities observed in middle-aged adults may contribute to their maintained behavioural performance.

In January 2001 the Residency Review Committee (RRC) mandated that all psychiatric training programs must demonstrate competency in five forms of psychotherapy. Assessing competency in psychotherapy is a complex and difficult task, with many conceptual and practical issues needing consideration before programs are implemented. Existing competency-based programs can offer some assistance to institutions struggling with this issue. This paper discusses competency assessment in the McMaster Psychotherapy Program, paying special attention to instruments used in the evaluation process. Preliminary results with respect to resident satisfaction with the Program and resident competency in certain therapies are also discussed.
In light of reports that schistosomiasis is associated with alterations in nutritional status, and considering that the assessment of body composition and water spaces is important for nutritional and hydration management, we conducted a study to evaluate the reproducibility of estimates of total body water, extracellular water, and intracellular water for Egyptians with Schistosoma mansoni infection using various bioelectric impedance analysis (BIA) formulae in comparison with reference values obtained using dilution techniques. The estimates obtained using the various formulae varied from the reference values, representing either overestimates or underestimates. These differences were attributed to possible limitations inherent to the mathematical formulae, including the fact that they are population specific. These results stress the need to develop universal formulae for estimating body water compartments which would include race and pathology as independent parameters, in addition to BIA and anthropometric variables.
The aim of this study was to compare two methods of measuring body composition in children aged 6-10 years: with a traditional bioelectrical impedance analyser and a foot-to-foot impedance device. In 117 subjects (55 girls, 62 boys), bioelectrical impedance was measured using a Xitron 4000 device and a foot-to-foot impedance instrument (Rowenta); body fat mass and fat-free mass were then calculated and comparisons between means were performed using appropriate statistical tests.
Osteopenia is a frequent complication affecting adolescent girls with anorexia nervosa (AN). Moreover, female athletes suffering from eating disorders can be affected by premature osteoporotic fractures. The aim of this study was to examine bone mineral content (BMC) and bone mineral density (BMD) in three groups of adolescent females. Anthropometric and body composition measurements were performed on 22 adolescent females (age+/-SD=15.6+/-1.4 years) divided into groups: athletes ( n=8), patients with AN ( n=8) and age-height matched control subjects ( n=6). Body weight and body mass index were significantly lower ( p&lt;0.01) in athletes and AN patients compared with healthy controls. BMC and BMD were lower ( p&lt;0.01) for AN patients and athletes compared with healthy controls; AN patients had the lowest BMC value. Athletes had higher lean body mass values compared with AN patients and healthy controls. These results suggest that the effects of eating disorders, specifically BMC loss, could be attenuated by physical activity.
The assessment of body composition and energy requirements is important for the nutrition of healthy and pathological states such as gastrointestinal disorders, which are known to be associated with abnormalities in body composition among persons with malnutrition and malabsorption. Careful monitoring of body composition is thus recommended for assessing body water compartments, predicting caloric needs and physical performance, and evaluating the development of muscle mass in persons with malabsorption. In the present review we briefly describe the basic body composition models and various techniques used for their assessment and discuss the utility of measuring caloric requirements in persons with gastrointestinal disorders. Assessing body composition may improve the prognosis of malnutrition caused by gastrointestinal disorders and may be useful in monitoring diet treatment.
The aim of the study was to examine the anthropometric features and body composition of athletes practising karate at a high and medium competitive level. Our study was carried out on a sample of 35 subjects practising karate and aged from 16.0 to 32.5 years. This sample was divided into two groups: group 1 ( n=14 elite athletes) and group 2 ( n=21 amateur athletes). Various anthropometric measurements were taken (weight, height both standing and sitting, diameters, circumferences and skinfold thickness) from which different anthropometric indices were calculated (body mass index, Scelic and Grant indices, arm muscle circumference and area), and the somatotype was then determined. The body composition of each subject was assessed using the skinfold technique and the Jackson-Pollock (J-P) and Sloan-Weir (S-W) equations. The two groups of athletes showed very similar measurements regarding anthropometric characteristics. Only the Scelix index presented a significantly different value in the two groups (49.6+/-1.3 for group 1 vs. 51.1+/-1.3 for group 2; p&lt;0.01). Group 1 showed a mesomorphic-ectomorphic somatotype, while the amateur athletes presented a balanced mesomorphic type. Moreover, a lower percentage of fat mass was more frequent in the first group (J-P=8.1+/-2.4%; S-W=8.9+/-3.3%) than in the second one (J-P=9.8+/-1.6%; S-W=11.2+/-3.7%), although the differences between the two groups were not significant. We conclude that group 1 is characterized by a slightly prominent vertical development of the skeletal frame. This could be an anthropometric characteristic that is best suited to meet the specific functional requirements of this sport. Moreover, both groups of athletes are characterized by a low percentage of fat mass, particularly the elite group.
We monitored body composition variations in nine elite karateists during a 3-year period (T(1), T(2), T(3)). Arm circumference (AC) and six skinfolds were measured. Arm muscle circumference (AMC) and area (AMA) were then calculated. Fat mass (FM) was calculated using the Durnin-Womersley, Sloan-Weir (S-W), Katch-McArdle and Lohman equations. The only significant increase regarded the AC, AMC and AMA measurements between T(1) and T(2). The time course of the predicted FM amount using the different equations was the same. In particular, the S-W equation did not seem to reflect the modifications in the amount of FM as evidenced by the total sum of the six skinfolds. Our subjects were characterized by a substantial uniformity in body composition parameters measured in this 3-year follow-up study.
Interventions that focus on changing lifestyles through the combined use of dietary management, weight reduction, and increased physical activity are essential for managing type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The objective of the present study was to examine mildly obese T2DM patients [ n=10; mean age (+/-SD), 51.29+/-6.80 years; body mass index (BMI), 30.26+/-6.19 kg/m(2); and glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA(1c)), 8.16+/-1.16%)] and to compare them with normoglycaemic persons ( n=10; age, 53.00+/-9.48 years; BMI, 27.63+/-3.33 kg/m(2), and HbA(1c), 5.85+/-0.56%) in terms of energy expenditure while performing physical activities of various intensities (i. e. light, moderate, and heavy). The resting metabolic rate for T2DM patients was significantly higher than that for healthy controls (2200+/-354 kcal/day vs. 1628+/-176 kcal/day, respectively; p&lt;0.0001). The values of energy expenditure at all three levels of physical activity were comparable between the two groups. Physical activity seems to have various beneficial effects on mildly obese T2DM patients because it increases the plasma glucose consumption, resulting in similar energy expenditure in comparison with normoglycaemic individuals.
Although the effects of sex, ageing, height, race, and current and past health on pulmonary function tests have been described, only non-significant associations have been observed between body weight and lung function among healthy persons after having accounted for the effects of age and height. However, few studies have considered the influence of body compartments (e. g. lean and fat masses and their distribution) on lung function and respiratory gas exchange. The present work consists of a review of the literature on the effects of body weight components and body composition measurements on lung function. One of the important findings of this review was that the central (or upper body) pattern of fat distribution is negatively associated with airway function and that increases in body muscular mass result in linear increases for all spirometric variables in healthy persons. Nonetheless, the role that body composition plays in lung function still needs to be clarified.
The objective of the present report was to develop mathematical prediction formulae for the lumbar spine, pelvis and total bone mineral density (BMD) based on the osteoporosis risk factors age and BMI in healthy and cirrhotic postmenopausal women. The study population comprised 20 postmenopausal cirrhotic women (late PM cirrhotic women), 20 postmenopausal healthy women matched for age and BMI (late PM healthy women), and 19 younger postmenopausal healthy women matched for BMI (early PM healthy women). Segmental and total bone mineral content and BMD, total bone-free lean body mass and total fat mass were measured for all women using dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA). The prediction formulae for late PM cirrhotic women had higher cumulative correlation coefficients ( r=0.71, p=0.05 for spine BMD, r=0.84, p=0.013 for pelvis BMD, and r=0.89, p=0.004 for total BMD) than those for early PM healthy women ( r=0.64, p=0.015 for spine BMD, r=0.69, p=0.002 for pelvis BMD, and r=0.62, p=0.022 for total BMD) and late PM healthy women ( r=0.29, p=NS for spine BMD, r=0.39, p=NS for pelvis BMD, and r=0.54, p=NS for total BMD). The mathematical formulae based on the variables age and BMI were capable of predicting lumbar spine BMD, pelvis BMD, and total BMD by DXA for the three groups of postmenopausal women.
Dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), which is the most commonly used method for the diagnosis and followup of human bone health, is known to produce accurate estimates of bone mineral density (BMD). However, high costs and problems with availability may prevent its use for mass screening. The objective of the present study was to estimate BMD values for healthy persons and those with conditions known to be associated with BMD, using artificial neural networks (ANN). An ANN was used to quantitatively estimate site-specific BMD values in comparison with reference values obtained by DXA (i. e. BMD(spine), BMD(pelvis), and BMD(total)). Anthropometric measurements (i. e. sex, age, weight, height, body mass index, waist-to-hip ratio, and the sum of four skinfold thicknesses) were fed to the ANN as independent input variables. The estimates based on four input variables were generated as output and were generally identical to the reference values for all studied groups. We believe the ANN is a promising approach for estimating and predicting site-specific BMD values using simple anthropometric measurements.
Artificial neural networks (ANN) are used for a wide variety of data-processing applications such as predicting medical outcomes and classifying clinical data and patients. We investigated the applicability of an ANN for estimating the intracellular water compartment for a population of 104 healthy Italians ranging in age from 19 to 68 years. Anthropometric variables, bioelectric impedance analysis (BIA) variables, and reference values for intracellular water, measured using whole-body (40)K counting (ICW(K40)), were measured for all study participants. The anthropometric variables and the impedance index (height(2)/resistance) were fed to the ANN input layer, which produced as output the estimated values for intracellular water (ICW(ANN)). We also estimated intracellular water using a BIA formula for the same population (ICW(DeLorenzo)) and another for Caucasians (ICW(Gudivaka)). Errors in the estimations generated by ANN and the BIA equations were calculated as the root mean square error (RMSE). The mean (+/-SD) reference value (ICWK40) was 25.01+/-4.50 l, whereas the mean estimated value was 15.20+/-1.79 l (RMSE=11.06 l) when calculated using ICW(DeLorenzo), 18.07+/-1.14 l (RMSE=8.72 l) when using ICW(Gudivaka), and 25.01+/-2.74 l (RMSE=3.22 l) when using ICW(ANN). Based on these results, we deduce that the ANN algorithm is a more accurate predictor for reference ICW(K40) than BIA equations.
Mathematical models are a means of formalizing the knowledge on living systems obtained in clinical physiology and theoretical biophysics. They allow the actual processes in living systems to be described and the mechanisms of these systems to be evaluated. The study of body composition strives to quantitatively evaluate intrinsic body compartments and to obtain important information on the nutritional and energy requirements of healthy persons and those with various pathologies. Although there has been great progress in the development of sophisticated instruments for body composition research, it is not always possible to directly measure certain body compartments (e. g. intracellular water and fat mass) because of either technical difficulties or for ethical reasons. Therefore, mathematical models, which can potentially estimate these compartments indirectly, may be a viable alternative. In this paper, we describe the various advances in the use of mathematical models for body composition research.
Administration of phenylhydrazine to rabbits resulted in the denaturation of hemoglobins in erythrocytes, causing the formation of intracellular precipitates known as Heinz bodies, severe hemolytic anemia, and reticulocytosis. To elucidate the molecular mechanism of the destabilization, we allowed human oxyhemoglobins to react aerobically with phenylhydrazine. After treatment with acetic acid/HCl and H2SO4/methanol, the chloroform extract contained blue-green pigments of major products accompanied by different minor products. Each product was isolated by column chromatography. By fast-atom-bombardment mass spectrometry (FAB-MS) and proton nuclear magnetic resonance (1H-NMR) spectrometry, dimethyl esters of N-phenylprotoporphyrin IX and meso, N-diphenylprotoporphyrin IX were determined. Other major products also were determined to be dimethyl esters of triphenyl-and tetraphenyl-substituted protoporphyrins by FAB-MS. The formation of meso, N-diphenylprotoporphyrin indicated that the addition of a phenyl radical to the meso-carbon atom of the protoporphyrin ring occurred. Triphenyl and tetraphenyl adducts also indicated the formation of phenyl radicals in the aerobic reaction of phenylhydrazine with oxyhemoglobins. From these results, we suggest that the formation of phenyl radicals and the replacement of heme with phenyl-substituted protoporphyrins cause the destabilization of hemoglobins to induce Heinz bodies and hemolytic anemia with phenylhydrazine.



Anomalies in the vascular structures of the neck, cranial base, temporal bone, and intracranial circulation may give rise to pulsatile tinnitus. If the anomalous sound is perceived also by others, then it is defined as objective tinnitus. Herein, the case is reported of right pulsatile tinnitus of one year's duration, which appeared after cranial trauma. Magnetic resonance angiography showed that the jugular bulb was dominant on the same side as the tinnitus. The tinnitus was recorded with a high-sensitivity microphone, while otoacoustic emissions were measured by distortion products during follow-up.
One hundred and twenty-five years of the dialogue between psychology and physiology reveal a vibrant discussion about the mind-body effect--the ability of waking consciousness to influence its own normally unconscious physiology through conscious intention, and conversely, the reciprocal effect of physiology on consciousness. In the early phase, the data remained largely anecdotal. Scientific study of the emotions then opened the door to dynamic theories of the subconscious. Such formulations, however, were repeatedly overshadowed by concurrent advances in brain neurophysiology, which rejected not only any exploration of the unconscious that relied on the method of symbolism, but also the reality of the unconscious itself. Nevertheless, scientific advances at the interface between psychology and physiology persisted. Since the 1950s, however, there has been an explosion of new work in the neurosciences at the interface between molecular genetics, endocrinology, neurology, immunology, and psychiatry. This has fueled both new research and renewed discussion about the mind-body effect, a dialogue that is now, in part, also a response to a counter-culture revolution occurring at the interface between the delivery of clinical services throughout the healthcare professions and an increasingly sophisticated consumer demand for alternative and complementary therapies.
Perturbations of neuronal physiological homeostasis are likely to underscore neuronal demise/impairments that are reportedly associated with aging of the central nervous system and age-related neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). A number of age- and/or disease-associated neurotoxic events has been described. These include abnormally modified proteins such as beta amyloid and hyper-phosphorylated Tau, cytokines such as tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), high levels of free radicals conducive to oxidative stress, and impaired/decreased neuronal trophic support by neurotrophic factors. Overall, it could be argued that toxic events in the aged brain are either active, such as those due to a direct action of cytokines, or passive, such as those due to lack of growth factor support. It is therefore conceivable that cellular responses to such diverse toxic stimuli are different, suggesting that interventions should be targeted accordingly. In order to begin answering this question, we determined in PC12 cells the time course of activity, in response to TNFalpha (active) or growth factor withdrawal (passive), of protein kinase c-zeta (PKCzeta), nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB), caspases 3 and 8, and poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), key signal transduction elements associated with modulation of cell death/survival in PC12 cells. We found that the overall activity of PKCzeta, NFkappaB and caspase 8 was significantly different depending on the apoptotic initiator. The pattern of caspase 3 and PARP activity, however, was not statistically different between serum-free- and TNFalpha-induced cell death conditions. This suggests that two distinct cell responses are elicited that converge at caspase 3, which then induces downstream events involved in the execution of a common apoptotic programme. These results contribute to the aim of differentially targeting neuronal death in the aged brain (characterized by neurotrophic factor impairments) or in the diseased brain (e.g. AD, characterized by elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines).



To demonstrate the elimination of pectus excavatum and promotion of more normal lung growth and chest wall development by the use of high-span positive inspiratory pressure plus positive end-expiratory pressure (PIP+PEEP), patients with spinal muscular atrophy type 1 with paradoxical breathing were placed on high-span PIP+PEEP when sleeping from the point of diagnosis of spinal muscular atrophy. Although the appearance of pectus excavatum is ubiquitous in untreated infants with spinal muscular atrophy type 1, after institution of high-span PIP+PEEP, pectus resolves and lungs and chest walls grow more normally. High-span PIP+PEEP is indicated for all infants diagnosed with spinal muscular atrophy who demonstrate paradoxical breathing for the purpose of promoting more normal lung and chest development.
The search for evidence-based treatments has resulted in an exciting new era for neurorehabilitation intervention strategies for stroke. Although stroke rehabilitation research poses many methodologic challenges, evaluation of stroke rehabilitation interventions is clearly moving beyond descriptive and observational studies toward well designed randomized clinical trials. The goals of this article are to summarize issues of trial design for stroke rehabilitation, to discuss promising stroke rehabilitation treatments currently undergoing rigorous evaluation, and to present treatments that may be candidates for randomized clinical trials in the future on the basis of promising preliminary data. Several examples of new developments in neuroscience research that are leading to possible rehabilitation interventions will be discussed. New modalities to evaluate the response of neural networks to rehabilitation interventions are also reviewed.
Histotechnological breakthroughs in the late 1960s paved the way for anatomical discoveries that led to the concepts of the ventral striatal-pallidal system and the extended amygdala. These two macro-anatomical systems, together with the basal nucleus of Meynert, represent the main components of the new anatomy of the basal forebrain. The concept of the ventral striatal-pallidal system provided the first indication of the existence of parallel cortical-striatal-pallidal-thalamic-cortical circuits, which in turn led to the theory of segregated cortical-subcortical reentrant circuits as a conceptual framework for the study of neuropsychiatric disorders. The multifarious symptoms of neuropsychiatric disorders, however, cannot be understood unless the extended amygdala, the basal nucleus of Meynert, and the septal-diagonal band system are also included in such deliberations. All of these systems serve as output channels for activities in the greater limbic lobe, which usually is critically involved in neuropsychiatric disorders. Within the context of the new anatomy of the basal forebrain, structures such as the accumbens, the olfactory tubercle, and the amygdala have lost legitimacy as independent functional-anatomical units at the same time as the major components of the last uncharted territory of the human brain, the substantia innominata, have been identified.
Human placental choriocarcinoma (JAR) cells endogenously expressing glycine transporter type 1a (GlyT1a) have been cultured in 96-well scintillating microplates to develop a homogenous screening assay for the detection of GlyT1 antagonists. In these microplates uptake of [14C]glycine was time dependent and saturable with a Michaelis-Menten constant (Km) of 27+/-3 microM. The GlyT1 transport inhibitors sarcosine, ALX-5407, and Org-24598 were tested and shown to block [14C]glycine uptake with expected IC50 values of 37.5+/-4.6 microM, 2.8+/-0.6 nM, and 6.9+/-0.9 nM, respectively. The [14C]glycine uptake process was sensitive to membrane Na+ gradient as blockade of membrane Na+/K+-ATPase by ouabain or Na+ exchanger by benzamil-disrupted glycine accumulation in JAR cells. Glycine influx was not affected by concentration of dimethyl sulfoxide up to 2%. The versatility of this technological approach was further confirmed by the characterization of a saturable [14C]taurine uptake in JAR cells. Taurine transport was of high affinity with a Km of 10.2+/-1.7 microM and fully inhibited by ALX-5407 (IC50=522 +/-83 nM). The developed assay is homogenous, rapid, versatile and amenable to automation for the discovery of new neurotransmitter transporter inhibitors.
Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker disease (GSS) is an adult onset, rare, genetically determined autosomal dominant prion disease. Clinically, it is characterized predominantly by slowly progressive spino-cerebellar dysfunction with ataxia, absent reflexes in the legs and cognitive impairment. Onset is usually in the fifth decade and in the early phase, ataxia is predominant. Mutations in the prion protein gene (PRNP) had been identified and the most important of these is at codon 129. A genotype-phenotype relationship with genetic polymorphism at residue 129 between methionine and valine has been supposed. We describe a patient with GSS and P102L-V129 mutation in which the onset with prominent psychiatric features characterized by apathy and depression and not with cerebellar sign and the clinical course with seizures, nor observed in P102L-V129 cases, allow us to confirm observations that the GSS caused by the 102 mutation is influenced by the codon 129 polymorphism with a specific genotype-phenotype influence, but probably other additional factors might be considered as background for phenotypic variability.
We propose that motion sickness is mediated through the orientation properties of velocity storage in the vestibular system that tend to align eye velocity produced by the angular vestibulo-ocular reflex (aVOR) with gravito-inertial acceleration (GIA). (GIA is the sum of the linear accelerations acting on the head. In the absence of translational accelerations, gravity is the GIA.) We further postulate that motion sickness produced by cross-coupled vestibular stimulation can be characterized by a metric composed of the disparity between the axis of eye rotation and the GIA, the strength of the response to angular motion, and the response duration, as determined by the central vestibular time constant, that is, by the time constant of velocity storage. The nodulus and uvula of the vestibulocerebellum are likely to be the central sites where the disparity is sensed, where the vestibular time constants are habituated, and where links are made to the autonomic system to produce the symptoms and signs.
Rotational disturbances of the head about an off-vertical yaw axis induce a complex vestibuloocular reflex pattern that reflects the brain's estimate of head angular velocity as well as its estimate of instantaneous head orientation (at a reduced scale) in space coordinates. We show that semicircular canal and otolith inputs modulate torsional and, to a certain extent, also vertical ocular orientation of visually guided saccades and smooth-pursuit eye movements in a similar manner as during off-vertical axis rotations in complete darkness. It is suggested that this graviceptive control of eye orientation facilitates rapid visual spatial orientation during motion.
