Major depressive disorder (MDD) is associated with alterations in brain function that might be useful for therapy evaluation. The current study aimed to identify predictors for therapy improvement and to track functional brain changes during therapy. Twenty-one drug-free patients with MDD underwent functional MRI twice during performance of an emotional perception task: once before and once after 4 weeks of antidepressant treatment (mirtazapine or venlafaxine). Twelve healthy controls were investigated once with the same methods. A significant difference between groups was a relative greater activation of the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) in the patients vs. controls. Before treatment, patients responding better to pharmacological treatment showed greater activation in the dorsomedial PFC (dmPFC), posterior cingulate cortex (pCC) and superior frontal gyrus (SFG) when viewing of negative emotional pictures was compared with the resting condition. Activations in the caudate nucleus and insula contrasted for emotional compared to neutral stimuli were also associated with successful treatment. Responders had also significantly higher levels of activation, compared to non-responders, in a range of other brain regions. Brain activation related to treatment success might be related to altered self-referential processes and a differential response to external emotional stimuli, suggesting differences in the processing of emotionally salient stimuli between those who are likely to respond to pharmacological treatment and those who will not. The present investigation suggests the pCC, dmPFC, SFG, caudate nucleus and insula may have a key role as a biological marker for treatment response and predictor for therapeutic success.
Methamphetamine (meth) is a major drug of abuse in California and several other states, particularly among criminal offender populations. Over the past decade, substance abuse treatment systems have had to adapt to and accommodate the increasing needs of meth users and, in California, deal with the impact of Proposition 36, which has resulted in a greater number of criminal offenders entering the treatment system. This study examines selected treatment performance and outcome indicators for California Proposition 36 offenders entering substance abuse treatment for meth use and compares their performance and outcomes to other subgroups of California treatment clients differentiated by whether or not they were admitted to treatment through Proposition 36 and whether or not their primary substance was meth. Significant improvements in all outcome domains were seen across the populations, and treatment performance and outcomes were not substantively inferior for the offender or meth-using groups.
Participation in aftercare may reduce risk of recidivism among women offenders with substance use problems following their release to the community. This study examines motivation to participate in aftercare among women offenders and whether their participation in both in-custody and aftercare treatment reduces their risk of recidivism. Surveys were conducted with women (N = 1,158) in prison-based substance abuse treatment programs. Return-to-prison was examined among participants in community-based aftercare (N = 1,182) over 12 months following treatment discharge. Higher treatment motivation was associated with child welfare involvement, prior treatment, and use of &quot;harder&quot; drugs; ethnic minority women had lower treatment motivation compared with White women. Participants who completed the aftercare program, or who had longer treatment duration, and those who had participated in an in-prison program prior to parole had reduced risk of recidivism. Study findings suggest the value of community aftercare for women offenders, particularly when combined with prior in-prison treatment.
Criminologists generally agree that offender recidivism can be reduced by addressing the criminogenic needs of this population. Two prominent assessments of offender risks and needs are the Level of Service Inventory-Revised (LSI-R) and the Correctional Offender Management Profiling for Alternative Sanctions (COMPAS). Both predict recidivism, but they are largely based on data from records. In contrast, the determination of inmates' service needs is based on lengthy (and costly) offender interviews. In light of evidence that many correctional systems have not adopted standardized assessments of service needs-and that time burden and costs are typically cited as barriers, the present study examined whether interviews involving complex scales improve the accuracy of offender needs assessment relative to a few single-item measures. To test this, 75 California prison inmates were administered the LSI-R, COMPAS, and a set of four yes/no items asking if they needed help with substance abuse, vocational training, housing, and education. Approximately 70% to 90% of inmates identified as needing these services according to the LSI-R or COMPAS could have been identified using these four supplemental items, though specificity rates were low for the financial and housing domains. The results suggest that simpler, less costly approaches to offender needs assessment might be achievable.
Within prison settings, the reliance on punishment for controlling inappropriate or noncompliant behavior is self-evident. What is not so evident is the similarity between this reliance on punishment and the use of positive reinforcements to increase desired behaviors. However, seldom do inmates receive positive reinforcement for engaging in prosocial behaviors or, for inmates receiving drug treatment, behaviors that are consistent with or support their recovery. This study provides an overview of the development and implementation of a positive behavioral reinforcement intervention in male and female prison-based drug treatment programs. The active involvement of institutional staff, treatment staff, and inmates enrolled in the treatment programs in the development of the intervention along with the successful branding of the intervention were effective at promoting support and participation. However, these factors may also have ultimately impacted the ability of the randomized design to reliably demonstrate the effectiveness of the intervention.
Evidence-based practice (EBP) applies the principles and techniques of evidence-based decision making to interventions intended to improve, or ameliorate, the social or clinical problems of affected individuals, including offenders with drug abuse problems. This article provides a general overview of EBP, particularly as it applies to treatment and other interventions for offenders with problems involving drugs (including alcohol). The discussion includes a definition of EBP, notes the implications of using EBPs to make policy and clinical decisions, lists the various efforts by government and academic organizations to identify practices that can be considered evidence-based, describes the criteria used by such organizations to evaluate programs as being evidence-based, raises some cautions about the use of EBPs, and ends with some challenges in disseminating and implementing EBPs.
Antipsychotic drugs are the mainstay of treatment for schizophrenia but they have little effect on core negative symptoms or cognitive impairment. To meet the deficiencies of current treatments, novel potential compounds are emerging from preclinical research but translation to clinical success has been poor. This article evaluates the possibility that cognitive and physiological abnormalities in schizophrenia can be used as central nervous system biomarkers to predict, in healthy volunteers, the likely efficacy of entirely new pharmacological approaches to treatment. Early detection of efficacy would focus resource on rapidly developing, effective drugs. We review the relevance of selected cognitive and physiological abnormalities as biomarkers in schizophrenia and three of its surrogate populations: (i) healthy volunteers with high trait schizotypy; (ii) unaffected relatives of patients; and (iii) healthy volunteers in a state of cortical glutamate disinhibition induced by low-dose ketamine. Several biomarkers are abnormal in these groups and in some instances there has been exploratory work to determine their sensitivity to drug action. They are generally insensitive to current antipsychotics and therefore their predictive validity cannot be established until novel, therapeutically useful drugs are discovered. Until then such biomarker studies can provide evidence of drugs engaging with the mechanism of interest and encouragement of the concept.
Several theoretical frameworks have been developed to understand putative processes and mechanisms involved in addiction. Whilst these 'theories of addiction' disagree about importance and/or nature of a number of key psychological processes (e.g. the necessity of craving and/or the involvement of drug-value representations), a number of commonalities exist. For instance, it is widely accepted that Pavlovian associations between cues and environmental contexts and the drug effects acquired over the course of addiction play a critical role, especially in relapse vulnerability in detoxified addicts. Additionally, all theories of addiction (explicitly or implicitly) propose that chronic drug exposure produces persistent neuroplastic changes in neurobiological circuitries underlying critical emotional, cognitive and motivational processes, although disagreement exists as to the precise nature of these neurobiological changes and/or their psychological consequences. The present review, rather than limiting itself to any particular theoretical stance, considers various candidate psychological, neurobiological and/or behavioral processes in addiction and outlines conceptual and procedural approaches for the experimental medicine laboratory. The review discusses (1) extinction, renewal and (re)consolidation of learned associations between cues and drugs, (2) the drug reward value, (3) motivational states contributing to drug seeking and (4) reflective (top-down) and sensory (bottom-up) driven decision-making. In evaluating these psychological and/or behavioral processes and their relationship to addiction we make reference to putative underlying brain structures identified by basic animal studies and/or imaging studies with humans.
A major issue in proof of concept studies and early clinical trials of novel therapeutic agents is that the active drugs can often have a relatively small additional effect compared with placebo. This is especially the case in psychiatry when we usually have no direct method of measuring the pathology underlying the disorder being studied but, rather, have to rely on the subjective assessment of psychiatric symptoms. The use of the electroencephalogram (EEG) offers two potential major means of addressing this problem. First it is able to provide direct data relating to neural activity that may be abnormal in certain disorders. As such there are opportunities for utilizing the EEG in a variety of ways as an objective outcome measure. Second there is growing evidence that in certain circumstances the EEG can be used to predict which patients are likely to respond to treatment, thus potentially increasing the power of studies by decreasing non-response rates and increasing mean changes in outcome measure. Both of these uses of the EEG are illustrated in reference to the study of mood disorders and in particular depression and its treatment with antidepressants.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most common inflammatory demyelinating disease, affecting approximately one million adults worldwide. This paper describes a young female patient who presented to the acute medical team with generalised tonic-clonic seizures and right hemiplegia on a background of MS. Radiological imaging revealed a large ring enhancing lesion exerting mass effect. We describe an unusual form of MS and discuss diagnostic pitfalls of tumefactive demyelinating lesions which can be mistaken for brain tumours and abscesses.
In this study, the spinal nerves that constitute the lumbosacral plexus (plexus lumbosacrales) (LSP) and its distribution in Chinchilla lanigera were investigated. Ten chinchillas (6 males and 4 females) were used in this research. The spinal nerves that constitute the LSP were dissected and the distribution of pelvic limb nerves originating from the plexus was examined. The iliohypogastric nerve arose from L1 and L2, giving rise to the cranial and caudal nerves, and the ilioinguinal nerve arose from L3. The other branch of L3 gave rise to the genitofemoral nerve and 1 branch from L4 gave rise to the lateral cutaneous femoral nerve. The trunk formed by the union of L4-5 divided into medial (femoral nerve) and lateral branches (obturator nerve). It was found that the LSP was formed by all the ventral branches of L4 at L6 and S1 at S3. At the caudal part of the plexus, a thick branch, the ischiadic plexus, was formed by contributions from L5-6 and S1. This root gave rise to the nerve branches which were disseminated to the posterior limb (cranial and caudal gluteal nerves, caudal cutaneous femoral nerve and ischiadic nerve). The ischiadic nerve divided into the caudal cutaneous surae, lateral cutaneous surae, common fibular and tibial nerve. The pudendal nerve arose from S1-2 and the other branch of S2 and S3 formed the rectal caudal nerve. The results showed that the origins and distribution of spinal nerves that constitute the LSP of chinchillas were similar to those of a few rodents and other mammals.
We investigated the association between rapid eye movement (REM) density (REMd) and electroencephalogram (EEG) activity during non-rapid eye movement (NREM) and REM sleep, within the re-assessment, in a large sample of normal subjects, of the reduction of oculomotor activity in REM sleep after total sleep deprivation (SD). Coherently with the hypothesis of a role of homeostatic sleep pressure in influencing REMd, a negative correlation between changes in REMd and slow-wave activity (SWA) was expected. A further aim of the study was to evaluate if the decreased REMd after SD affects ultradian changes across sleep periods. Fifty normal subjects (29 male and 21 female; mean age=24.32.2 years) were studied for four consecutive days and nights. Sleep recordings were scheduled in the first (adaptation), second (baseline) and fourth night (recovery). After awakening from baseline sleep, a protocol of 40 h SD started at 10:00 hours. Polysomnographic measures, REMd and quantitative EEG activity during NREM and REM sleep of baseline and recovery nights were compared. We found a clear reduction of REMd in the recovery after SD, due to the lack of REMd changes across cycles. Oculomotor changes positively correlated with a decreased power in a specific range of fast sigma activity (14.75-15.25 Hz) in NREM, but not with SWA. REMd changes were also related to EEG power in the 12.75-13.00 Hz range in REM sleep. The present results confirm the oculomotor depression after SD, clarifying that it is explained by the lack of changes in REMd across sleep cycles. The depression of REMd can not simply be related to homeostatic mechanisms, as REMd changes were associated with EEG power changes in a specific range of spindle frequency activity, but not with SWA.

Motion perception is important for visually segregating and identifying objects from their surroundings, but in some cases extracting motion cues can be taxing to the human attention system. We measured the strength of feature salience required for individuals to correctly judge three types of moving events: biological motion, coherent motion, and multiple object tracking. The motion animations were embedded within a larger Gabor grid and constructed such that motion was conveyed by a salient single-feature dimension (second order) or by alternating across equisalient feature dimensions (third order). In the single-feature displays, we found biological motion to require less difference in the Gabor features (relative to background) to yield equivalent task performance as the coherent motion or multiple object tracking. This main effect of feature magnitude may reflect the inherent salience of biological motion as a visual stimulus. In the alternating-feature displays, both the biological motion and coherent motion discriminations needed additional salience, as compared to the single-feature displays, to achieve threshold discrimination levels. Accuracy in the multiple object tracking task did not vary as a function of salience. Together, these findings demonstrate the effectiveness with which attention-based motion mechanisms operate in complex dynamic sequences and argue for a critical role of feature-based attention in promoting biological motion perception.





The Hem/Kette/Nap1 protein is involved in many biological processes. We have recently reported that Hem is required for the normal migration of neurons in the Drosophila embryo. In this paper, we report that Hem regulates the asymmetric division of neural precursor cells. We find that a well-studied Hem/Kette mutant allele produces at least two main, but possibly more, phenotypic classes of mutant embryos, and these phenotypes correlate with variable levels of maternal wild type Hem protein in the developing embryo. While the weaker class exhibits weak axon guidance defect and the mis-migration of neurons, the stronger class causes severe axon guidance defects, mis-migration of neurons and symmetric division of ganglion mother cells (GMC) of the RP2/sib lineage. We also show that the basis for the loss of asymmetric division is due to non-localization of Inscuteable and Numb in GMC-1. A non-asymmetric Numb segregates to both daughter cells of GMC-1, which then prevents Notch signaling from specifying a sib fate. This causes both cells to adopt an RP2 fate. Furthermore, loss of function for Abelson tyrosine kinase also causes loss of asymmetric localization of Inscuteable and Numb and symmetric division of GMC-1, the loss of function for WAVE has a very weakly penetrant loss of asymmetry defect. These results define another role for Hem/Kette/Nap1 in a neural precursor cell during neurogenesis.
STAT1 mediates response to interferons and regulates immunity, cell proliferation, apoptosis, and sensitivity of Fanconi Anemia cells to apoptosis after interferon signaling; the roles of STAT1 in embryos, however, are not understood. To explore embryonic functions of STAT1, we investigated stat1b, an unstudied zebrafish co-ortholog of human STAT1. Zebrafish stat1a encodes all five domains of the human STAT1-alpha splice form but, like the human STAT1-beta splice variant, stat1b lacks a complete transactivation domain; thus, two unlinked zebrafish paralogs encode protein forms translated from two splice variants of a single human gene, as expected by sub-functionalization after genome duplication. Phylogenetic and conserved synteny studies showed that stat1b and stat1a arose as duplicates in the teleost genome duplication (TGD) and clarified the evolutionary origin of STAT1, STAT2, STAT3, STAT4, STAT5A, STAT5B and STAT6 by tandem and genome duplication. RT-PCR revealed maternal expression of stat1a and stat1b. In situ hybridization detected stat1b but not stat1a expression in embryonic hematopoietic tissues. Morpholino knockdown of stat1b, but not stat1a, decreased expression of the myeloid and granulocyte markers spi and mpo and increased expression of the hematopoietic progenitor marker scl, the erythrocyte marker gata1, and hemoglobin. These results suggest that zebrafish Stat1b promotes myeloid development at the expense of erythroid development.
The world-wide increase in obesity has markedly stimulated research on the possibility that its cause can be found the brain. However, this research has produced little that can be used to treat obesity. The reason for the limited success of this approach may be that it relies on the hypothesis that the brain controls behavior. We suggest that this hypothesis is an artefact of the powerful tools used in behavioral neuroscience and that the brain has a permissive rather than causal role in eating behavior. Drugs affecting brain function are largely ineffective in treating obesity and may remain ineffective. Instead, we hypothesize that humans need external support to control body weight because they have evolved to pay a high physical price for food and are able to eat large amounts of food without constraints when that price is minimal. Two randomized controlled trials verify the hypothesis that support on how to eat normally and how to feel a normal level of fullness by use of on-line, real time feedback on a computer screen enables under- as well as overweight patients to adjust their eating behavior and improve their health.

The last decade has produced an explosion in neuroscience research examining young children's early processing of language that has implications for education. Noninvasive, safe functional brain measurements have now been proven feasible for use with children starting at birth. In the arena of language, the neural signatures of learning can be documented at a remarkably early point in development, and these early measures predict performance in children's language and pre-reading abilities in the second, third, and fifth year of life, a finding with theoretical and educational import. There is evidence that children's early mastery of language requires learning in a social context, and this finding also has important implications for education. Evidence relating socio-economic status (SES) to brain function for language suggests that SES should be considered a proxy for the opportunity to learn and that the complexity of language input is a significant factor in developing brain areas related to language. The data indicate that the opportunity to learn from complex stimuli and events are vital early in life, and that success in school begins in infancy.
CREST syndrome is part of the heterogeneous scleroderma group of autoimmune diseases that cause thickening, hardening and tightening of the connective tissue in different parts of the body, and it may lead to complex disorders. CREST syndrome is characterized by the coexistence of calcinosis, Raynaud's phenomenon, esophageal hypomotility, sclerodactily and telangectasia. A 72-year-old caucasian woman is referred to the S. Gerardo Hospital of Monza, with a chief complaint of oral pain and difficulties in deglutition and eating, associated with denture instability and difficulties to fit it. She had been previously diagnosed with Raynaud's phenomenon, and afterwards with CREST syndrome. Extra-oral examination underlined taut, thickened and rigid skin, pallid-red irregular maculae all over the face, telangiectasias and acrocyanosis. Intra-oral examination showed no alteration of the mucosa, but we can observe tongue rigidity and some speckled red alternating with white spots on the hard palate and in the vestibule. We undermitted the patient the dental treatment of Sjogren's syndrome. The management of the Sjogren's syndrome is symptomatic and empirical, and involves the use of saliva secretion stimulators, salivary substitutes and coadjuvants. Dental treatment and prophylaxis are important to prevent the consequences of xerostomia, such as rampant caries, based on the administration of topical fluoride in toothpastes and rinses, and supplemented by fluoride gels and varnishes. Instruction and reinforcement of oral hygiene, along with frequent dental assessment and management by the dentist are essential measures to preserve the oral health of those affected with CREST syndrome in progression to SS, complicated with Sjogren's syndrome.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is a serine/threonine kinase that plays an essential role in antigen-regulated responses of T lymphocytes. Upon antigen stimulation, PKC is rapidly recruited to the immunological synapse (IS), the region of contact between the T cell and antigen-presenting cell. This behavior is unique among T cell PKC isoforms. To define domains of PKC required for retention at the IS, we generated deletion and point mutants of PKC. We used quantitative imaging analysis to assess IS retention of PKC mutants in antigen-stimulated T cell clones. Deletion of the kinase domain or site-directed mutation of a subset of known PKC phosphorylation sites abrogated or significantly reduced IS retention, respectively. IS retention did not correlate with phosphorylation of specific PKC residues but rather with kinase function. Thus PKC catalytic competence is essential for stable IS retention.
Several families of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) show no significant sequence similarities to each other, and it has been debated which of them share a common origin. We developed and performed integrated and independent HHsearch, Needleman--Wunsch-based and motif analyses on more than 6,600 unique GPCRs from 12 species. Moreover, we mined the evolutionary important Trichoplax adhaerens, Nematostella vectensis, Thalassiosira pseudonana, and Strongylocentrotus purpuratus genomes, revealing remarkably rich vertebrate-like GPCR repertoires already in the early Metazoan species. We found strong evidence that the Adhesion and Frizzled families are children to the cyclic AMP (cAMP) family with HHsearch homology probabilities of 99.8% and 99.4%, respectively, also supported by the Needleman--Wunsch analysis and several motifs. We also found that the large Rhodopsin family is likely a child of the cAMP family with an HHsearch homology probability of 99.4% and conserved motifs. Therefore, we suggest that the Adhesion and Frizzled families originated from the cAMP family in an event close to that which gave rise to the Rhodopsin family. We also found convincing evidence that the Rhodopsin family is parent to the important sensory families; Taste 2 and Vomeronasal type 1 as well as the Nematode chemoreceptor families. The insect odorant, gustatory, and Trehalose receptors, frequently referred to as GPCRs, form a separate cluster without relationship to the other families, and we propose, based on these and others' results, that these families are ligand-gated ion channels rather than GPCRs. Overall, we suggest common descent of at least 97% of the GPCRs sequences found in humans.
Galectins are a 15 member family of carbohydrate-binding proteins that have been implicated in cancer, immunity, inflammation and development. While galectins are expressed in the central nervous system, little is known about their function in the adult brain. Previously we have shown that galectin-1 (gal-1) is expressed in the adult hippocampus, and, in particular, in putative neural stem cells in the subgranular zone. To evaluate how gal-1 might contribute to hippocampal memory function here we studied galectin-1 null mutant (gal-1-/-) mice. Compared to their wildtype littermate controls, gal-1-/- mice exhibited impaired spatial learning in the water maze and contextual fear learning. Interestingly, tone fear conditioning was normal in gal-1-/- mice suggesting that loss of gal-1 might especially impact hippocampal learning and memory. Furthermore, gal-1-/- mice exhibited normal motor function, emotion and sensory processing in a battery of other behavioral tests, suggesting that non-mnemonic performance deficits are unlikely to account for the spatial and contextual learning deficits. Together, these data reveal a role for galectin-carbohydrate signalling in hippocampal memory function.
MICALs (molecules interacting with CasL) are atypical multidomain flavoenzymes with diverse cellular functions. The molecular pathways employed by MICAL proteins to exert their cellular effects remain largely uncharacterized. Via an unbiased proteomics approach, we identify MICAL-1 as a binding partner of NDR (nuclear Dbf2-related) kinases. NDR1/2 kinases are known to mediate apoptosis downstream of the mammalian Ste-20-like kinase MST1, and ablation of NDR1 in mice predisposes the mice to cancer as a result of compromised apoptosis. MST1 phosphorylates NDR1/2 kinases at their hydrophobic motif, thereby facilitating full NDR kinase activity and function. However, if and how this key phosphorylation event is regulated are unknown. Here we show that MICAL-1 interacts with the hydrophobic motif of NDR1/2 and that overexpression or knockdown of MICAL-1 reduces or augments NDR kinase activation or activity, respectively. Surprisingly, MICAL-1 is a phosphoprotein but not an NDR or MST1 substrate. Rather, MICAL-1 competes with MST1 for NDR binding and thereby antagonizes MST1-induced NDR activation. In line with this inhibitory effect, overexpression or knockdown of MICAL-1 inhibits or enhances, respectively, NDR-dependent proapoptotic signaling induced by extrinsic stimuli. Our findings unveil a previously unknown biological role for MICAL-1 in apoptosis and define a novel negative regulatory mechanism of MST-NDR signaling.
The molecular mechanisms inherent to cell death associated with Parkinson's disease are not clearly understood. Diverse pathways, sequence of events and models have been explored in several studies. Recently, we have proposed an integrative mechanism, encompassing the interaction of nitric oxide (NO) and a major dopamine metabolite, dihydroxyphenylacetic (DOPAC), leading to a synergistic mitochondrial dysfunction and cell death that may be operative in PD. In this study, we have studied the sequence of events underlying the mechanisms of cell death in PC12 cells exposed to NO and DOPAC in terms of: a) free radical production; b) modulation by glutathione (GSH); c) energetic status and d) outer membrane mitochondria permeability. Using Electron Paramagnetic Resonance (EPR) it is shown the early production of oxygen free radicals followed by a depletion of GSH reflected by an increase of GSSG/GSH ratio in the cells treated with the mixture of NO/DOPAC, as compared with the cells individually exposed to each of the stimulus. Glutathione ethyl ester (GSH-EE) and N-acetylcysteine (NAC) may rescue cells from death, increasing GSH content and preventing ATP loss in cells treated with the mixture DOPAC/NO but failed to exert similar effects in the cells challenged only with NO. The depletion of GSH is accompanied by a decreased activity of mitochondrial complex I. At a later stage, the concerted action of DOPAC and NO include a rise in the ratio Bax/Bcl-2, an observation not evident when cells were exposed only to NO. The results support a free radical-induced pathway leading to cell death involving the concerted action of DOPAC and NO and the critical role of GSH in maintaining a functional mitochondria.
Killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptors (KIRs) are regulators of cytolytic activity of natural killer and certain T cells through interactions with human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I ligands. KIRs have been shown to contribute to the pathogenesis of several autoimmune diseases, but their role in multiple sclerosis (MS) is still unclear. Here we determined the influence of KIR genes and their HLA class I ligands on susceptibility to MS and on the response to interferon-beta treatment in a Spanish population. KIR and HLA genotyping were performed in 200 MS patients and 200 controls. Significantly higher frequencies were found for KIR2DL5 and KIR3DS1 genes in MS patients and the carriage of the KIR2DL1 gene was associated with a higher progression index. Moreover, the frequency of the HLA-Bw4 motif was significantly reduced in MS patients. The KIR2DL1 and HLA-C2 matches were more frequent in MS patients, whereas the KIR3DL1 and HLA-Bw4 matches were more frequent in healthy controls. Nevertheless, non significant associations were found between all the KIR genes and therapeutic response to interferon-beta. Our results confirm that the carriage of HLA-Bw4 is a protective factor in MS and suggest that KIR2DL5 and KIR3DS1 may have a predisposing role in the disease.
Batrachotoxin (BTX), a steroidal alkaloid, and pyrethroid insecticides bind to distinct but allosterically coupled receptor sites on voltage-gated sodium channels and cause persistent channel activation. BTX presumably binds in the inner pore, whereas pyrethroids are predicted to bind at the lipid-exposed cavity formed by the short intracellular linker-helix IIS4-S5 and transmembrane helices IIS5 and IIIS6. The alkylamide insecticide (2E,4E)-N-(1,2-dimethylpropyl)-6-(5-bromo-2-naphthalenyl)-2,4-hexadienamide (BTG 502) reduces sodium currents and antagonizes the action of BTX on cockroach sodium channels, suggesting that it also binds inside the pore. However, a pyrethroid-sensing residue, Phe(3i17) in IIIS6, which does not face the pore, is essential for the activity of BTG 502 but not for BTX. In this study, we found that three additional deltamethrin-sensing residues in IIIS6, Ile(3i12), Gly(3i14), and Phe(3i16) (the latter two are also BTX-sensing), and three BTX-sensing residues, Ser(3i15) and Leu(3i19) in IIIS6 and Phe(4i15) in IVS6, are all critical for BTG 502 action on cockroach sodium channels. Using these data as constraints, we constructed a BTG 502 binding model in which BTG 502 wraps around IIIS6, probably making direct contacts with all of the above residues on the opposite faces of the IIIS6 helix, except for the putative gating hinge Gly(3i14). BTG 502 and its inactive analog DAP 1855 antagonize the action of deltamethrin. The antagonism was eliminated by mutations of Ser(3i15), Phe(3i17), Leu(3i19), and Phe(4i15) but not by mutations of Ile(3i12), Gly(3i14), and Phe(3i16). Our analysis revealed a unique mode of action of BTG 502, its receptor site overlapping with those of both BTX and deltamethrin.
The ability of dopamine receptors to interact with other receptor subtypes may provide mechanisms for modulating dopamine-related functions and behaviors. In particular, there is evidence suggesting that the trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1) affects the dopaminergic system by regulating the firing rate of dopaminergic neurons or by altering dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) responsiveness to ligands. TAAR1 is a G(s) protein-coupled receptor that is activated by biogenic amines, &quot;trace amines,&quot; such as -phenylethylamine (-PEA) and tyramine that are normally found at low concentrations in the mammalian brain. In the present study, we investigated the biochemical mechanism of interaction between TAAR1 and D2R and the role this interaction plays in D2R-related signaling and behaviors. Using a bioluminescence resonance energy transfer biosensor for cAMP, we demonstrated that the D2R antagonists haloperidol, raclopride, and amisulpride were able to enhance selectively a TAAR1-mediated -PEA increase of cAMP. Moreover, TAAR1 and D2R were able to form heterodimers when coexpressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells, and this direct interaction was disrupted in the presence of haloperidol. In addition, in mice lacking TAAR1, haloperidol-induced striatal c-Fos expression and catalepsy were significantly reduced. Taken together, these data suggest that TAAR1 and D2R have functional and physical interactions that could be critical for the modulation of the dopaminergic system by TAAR1 in vivo.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a devastating and incurable neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive cognitive, psychiatric and motor impairments. Although the disease has been seen as a disorder purely of the brain, there is now emerging evidence that abnormalities outside the central nervous system are commonly seen in HD. Indeed, the mutant huntingtin (mHtt) coded for by the abnormal gene in HD is found in every cell type where its presence has been sought. In particular, there are a number of recent observations in HD patients that mHtt interacts with the immune system with accumulating evidence that changes in the immune system may critically contribute to the pathology of HD. However, the nature of this contribution remains unclear, to the extent that it is not even known whether the immune system has a beneficial or detrimental role in HD patients. In this review, we attempt to bring a novel understanding to the interaction of the immune system to HD pathology, thereby shedding light on its potential pathogenic role. As part of this discussion, we revisit the clinical data on the anti-inflammatory drug trials in HD and propose new experimental approaches to interrogate the role of immunity in this currently incurable disorder.

Mutations in over 80 identified genes can induce apoptosis in photoreceptors, resulting in blindness with a prevalence of 1 in 3,000 individuals. This broad genetic heterogeneity of disease impacting a wide range of photoreceptor functions renders the design of gene-specific therapies for photoreceptor degeneration impractical and necessitates the development of mutation-independent treatments to slow photoreceptor cell death. One promising strategy for photoreceptor neuroprotection is neurotrophin secretion from Mller cells, the primary retinal glia. Mller glia are excellent targets for secreting neurotrophins as they span the entire tissue, ensheath all neuronal populations, are numerous, and persist through retinal degeneration. We previously engineered an adeno-associated virus (AAV) variant (ShH10) capable of efficient and selective glial cell transduction through intravitreal injection. ShH10-mediated glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) secretion from glia, generates high GDNF levels in treated retinas, leading to sustained functional rescue for over 5 months. This GDNF secretion from glia following intravitreal vector administration is a safe and effective means to slow the progression of retinal degeneration in a rat model of retinitis pigmentosa (RP) and shows significant promise as a gene therapy to treat human retinal degenerations. These findings also demonstrate for the first time that glia-mediated secretion of neurotrophins is a promising treatment that may be applicable to other neurodegenerative conditions.

The prevalence of pathological gambling is 3.4% to 6% in treated Parkinson's disease, which is higher than the background population rate. In this review we discuss current evidence to indicate that dopamine agonists are much more likely to trigger this behavior than either L-dopa or selective monoamine oxidase B inhibitor monotherapy. New insights from recent behavioral and functional imaging studies and possible treatment approaches are also covered. A PubMed literature search using the terms &quot;gambling&quot; and &quot;Parkinson's disease,&quot; &quot;impulse control disorder,&quot; &quot;impulsive compulsive behaviour,&quot; &quot;dopamine agonist,&quot; of individual dopamine agonists, and of ongoing drug trials, using http://www.clinicaltrials.gov, was carried out for the period up to January 2011.
Graft-induced dyskinesias are a serious complication after neural transplantation in Parkinson's disease. One patient with Parkinson's disease, treated with fetal grafts 14 years ago and deep brain stimulation 6 years ago, showed marked improvement of motor symptoms but continued to suffer from OFF-medication graft-induced dyskinesias. The patient received a series of clinical and imaging assessments. Positron emission tomography and single-photon emission computed tomography 14 years posttransplantation revealed an elevated serotonin/dopamine transporter ratio in the grafted striatum compatible with serotonergic hyperinnervation. Inhibition of serotonin neuron activity by systemic administration of a 5-HT(1A) agonist suppressed graft-induced dyskinesias. Our data provide further evidence that serotonergic neurons mediate graft-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease. Achieving a normal striatal serotonin/dopamine transporter ratio following transplantation of fetal tissue or stem cells should be necessary to avoid the development of graft-induced dyskinesias.


Neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease (HD) or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are all characterised histologically by the presence of deposits of misfolded proteins, tau and amyloid-, -synuclein, huntingtin or superoxide dismutase, respectively. Currently, these illnesses do not have any disease modifying treatment options. A novel therapeutic strategy that is being pursued is immunomodulation, which is using the body's immune system to target the self-proteins that are deposited. Most of these promising approaches are still in preclinical development while some have progressed to Phase III clinical trials. As new insights are gained, it is hoped that these immunotherapies will be effective tools at slowing the progression of these debilitating diseases.

The stimulus-response relationship of many sensory neurons is nonlinear, but fully quantifying this relationship by a complex nonlinear model may require too much data to be experimentally tractable. Here we present a theoretical study of a general two-stage computational method that may help to significantly reduce the number of stimuli needed to obtain an accurate mathematical description of nonlinear neural responses. Our method of active data collection first adaptively generates stimuli that are optimal for estimating the parameters of competing nonlinear models and then uses these estimates to generate stimuli online that are optimal for discriminating these models. We applied our method to simple hierarchical circuit models, including nonlinear networks built on the spatiotemporal or spectral-temporal receptive fields, and confirmed that collecting data using our two-stage adaptive algorithm was far more effective for estimating and comparing competing nonlinear sensory processing models than standard nonadaptive methods using random stimuli.
The coherence between neural spike trains and local-field potential recordings, called spike-field coherence, is of key importance in many neuroscience studies. In this work, aside from questions of estimator performance, we demonstrate that theoretical spike-field coherence for a broad class of spiking models depends on the expected rate of spiking. This rate dependence confounds the phase locking of spike events to field-potential oscillations with overall neuron activity and is demonstrated analytically, for a large class of stochastic models, and in simulation. Finally, the relationship between the spike-field coherence and the intensity field coherence is detailed analytically. This latter quantity is independent of neuron firing rate and, under commonly found conditions, is proportional to the probability that a neuron spikes at a specific phase of field oscillation. Hence, intensity field coherence is a rate-independent measure and a candidate on which to base the appropriate statistical inference of spike field synchrony.
The separation of mixed auditory signals into their sources is an eminent neuroscience and engineering challenge. We reveal the principles underlying a deterministic, neural network-like solution to this problem. This approach is orthogonal to ICA/PCA that views the signal constituents as independent realizations of random processes. We demonstrate exemplarily that in the absence of salient frequency modulations, the decomposition of speech signals into local cosine packets allows for a sparse, noise-robust speaker separation. As the main result, we present analytical limitations inherent in the approach, where we propose strategies of how to deal with this situation. Our results offer new perspectives toward efficient noise cleaning and auditory signal separation and provide a new perspective of how the brain might achieve these tasks.
Several recent studies have documented age-related changes in brain activity--less amygdala activity and higher prefrontal activity in response to emotional stimuli. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we examined whether aging also affects the maintenance of activity to emotional stimuli and whether maintenance differs by the valence (negative, neutral and positive) of the pictures. Younger participants had a larger volume of activity in the amygdala but less in the prefrontal cortex than the old. The old showed more habituation to highly arousing negative but not positive or neutral stimuli in prefrontal cortex as compared to younger participants. Thus prefrontal cortex activity indexes emotion in the elderly, but not the young. Amplified prefrontal activity suggests elderly increase cognitive control for negative, highly arousing emotional stimuli, but it is not maintained. Taken together, age-related increases in prefrontal activity and reduced amygdala activity may underlie observed affective changes in aging.
Atrophy in the medial temporal lobe is generally considered to be highly associated with age-related memory decline. Volume loss in the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex has extensively been investigated, but the posterior parts of the parahippocampal gyrus have received little attention. The present MRI study investigated whether volume differences in medial temporal lobe areas are differentially related to age-related memory decline. Thirty-nine subjects from a longitudinal study on cognitive aging (the Maastricht Aging Study) have been examined: 20 participants (mean age=67 years, range 52-80) with memory decline over a period of 12 years were matched to 19 participants without memory decline. Manual tracing was performed on 3T MR images to measure the volumes of the anterior, middle and posterior parts of the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus. A robust group difference and a significant association with memory decline were observed only in the posterior part of the parahippocampal gyrus. Our results may suggest that the posterior parahippocampal gyrus plays a key role in age-related memory decline.
Age-related hearing loss - presbycusis - is the most common communication problem and third most prevalent chronic medical disorder of the aged. The CBA and C57BL/6 mouse strains are useful for studying features of presbycusis. The CBA loses its hearing slowly, like most humans. Because the C57 develops a rapid, high frequency hearing loss by middle age, it has an &quot;old&quot; ear but a relatively young brain, a model that helps separate peripheral (cochlear) from central (brain) etiologies. This field of sensory neuroscience lacks a good mouse model for the 5-10% of aged humans with normal cochlear sensitivity, but who have trouble perceiving speech in background noise. We hypothesized that F1 (CBAC57) hybrids would have better hearing than either parental strain. Measurements of peripheral auditory sensitivity supported this hypothesis, however, a rapid decline in the auditory efferent feedback system, did not. Therefore, F1s might be an optimal model for studying cases where the peripheral hearing is quite good in old age; thereby allowing isolation of central auditory changes due to brain neurodegeneration.
Alterations in the processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) lead to familial Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD patients exhibit increased seizure susceptibility and alterations in their EEGs, which suggests that APP and its metabolites may modulate neuronal networks. Here we demonstrate that transgenic mice overexpressing APP intracellular domain (AICD) and its binding partner Fe65 exhibit abnormal spiking events and a susceptibility to induced seizures. These abnormalities are not observed in PDAPP(D664A) mice, which express high A levels but harbor a mutation in the APP intracellular domain. These data suggest that alterations in the levels of AICD contribute to network dysfunction in AD.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is caused by the absence of dystrophin, a protein that fulfills important functions in both muscle and brain. The mdx mouse model of DMD, which also lacks dystrophin, shows a marked reduction in -aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A))-receptor clustering in central inhibitory synapses and enhanced long-term potentiation (LTP) at CA3-CA1 synapses of the hippocampus. We have recently shown that U7 small nuclear RNAs modified to encode antisense sequences and expressed from recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vectors are able to induce skipping of the mutated exon 23 and to rescue expression of a functional dystrophin-like product both in the muscle and nervous tissue in vivo. In the brain, this rescue was accompanied by restoration of both the size and number of hippocampal GABA(A)-receptor clustering. Here, we report that 25.28% of re-expression two months after intrahippocampal injection of rAAV reverses the abnormally enhanced LTP phenotype at CA3-CA1 synapses of mdx mice. These results suggests that dystrophin expression indirectly influences synaptic plasticity through modulation of GABA(A)-receptor clustering and that re-expression of the otherwise deficient protein in the adult can significantly alleviate alteration of neural functions in DMD.
More than 50% of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) are expected to show abnormalities with their weight in a process that starts several years before the diagnosis. The serotonergic (5-HT) system has been proposed to regulate appetite and the 5-HT transporter (SERT) is a key modulator of 5-HT metabolism. Here, we hypothesized that a dysfunctional 5-HT system could be responsible for alterations of weight in PD and we sought to investigate this in vivo. Thirty four PD patients had Body Mass Index (BMI) changes monitored over a 12-month period and one positron emission tomography (PET) brain scan with (11)C-DASB, a selective marker of SERT availability, during their second clinical assessment. Results were compared with those of a group of 10 normal controls. Half (17) of the PD patients showed abnormal BMI changes over the 12-month period; 12 lost while 5 gained weight. PD patients with abnormal BMI changes showed significantly raised (11)C-DASB binding in rostral raphe nuclei, hypothalamus, caudate nucleus and ventral striatum compared to cases with no significant BMI changes. (11)C-DASB binding in other regions was similarly decreased in the PD BMI subgroups compared to normal controls. BMI gainers showed significantly raised (11)C-DASB binding in anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) compared to BMI losers. Our findings suggest that abnormal BMI changes over a 12-month period are linked with relatively raised SERT availability in PD on an overall background of decreased 5-HT function. The regions implicated are the rostral raphe nuclei and its connections to limbic and cognitive areas. It is conceivable that 5-HT agents could help alleviate abnormal changes in BMI in PD.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 (SCA6) is an inherited neurodegenerative disease caused by a polyglutamine (polyQ) expansion in the Ca(V)2.1 voltage-gated calcium channel subunit (CACNA1A). There is currently no treatment for this debilitating disorder and thus a pressing need to develop preventative therapies. RNA interference (RNAi) has proven effective at halting disease progression in several models of spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA), including SCA types 1 and 3. However, in SCA6 and other dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disorders, RNAi-based strategies that selectively suppress expression of mutant alleles may be required. Using a Ca(V)2.1 mini-gene reporter system, we found that pathogenic CAG expansions in Ca(V)2.1 enhance splicing activity at the 3'end of the transcript, leading to a CAG repeat length-dependent increase in the levels of a polyQ-encoding Ca(V)2.1 mRNA splice isoform and the resultant disease protein. Taking advantage of this molecular phenomenon, we developed a novel splice isoform-specific (SIS)-RNAi strategy that selectively targets the polyQ-encoding Ca(V)2.1 splice variant. Selective suppression of transiently expressed and endogenous polyQ-encoding Ca(V)2.1 splice variants was achieved in a variety of cell-based models including a human neuronal cell line, using a new artificial miRNA-like delivery system. Moreover, the efficacy of gene silencing correlated with effective intracellular recognition and processing of SIS-RNAi miRNA mimics. These results lend support to the preclinical development of SIS-RNAi as a potential therapy for SCA6 and other dominantly inherited diseases.
The septo-hippocampal system in birds resembles that of mammals, motivating research into the function of the avian hippocampus while surprisingly little attention has been given to the septum. To investigate a possible role of the avian septum in memory, the effects of septal area lesions on a spatial working memory (SpWM) task was tested in homing pigeons. After preoperative training on an analogue eight-arm (feeders) radial maze, now sham-operated control and septal lesioned pigeons were then trained again on the same task of locating the four feeders on the test phase of a trial that were not baited during the sample phase of a trial. During the test phase of a working memory trial, septal lesioned pigeons, compared to both their own preoperative performance and the performance of the controls, required significantly more choices to locate the four baited feeders not baited during the sample phase of a trial, and they made significantly fewer correct responses to the now baited feeders on their first four choices. The results demonstrate that, like its mammalian counterpart, the avian septum plays an important role in SpWM, suggesting that at least some functional properties of the septum are evolutionarily conserved in birds and mammals.
Extinction of instrumental responses is an essential skill for adaptive behavior such as foraging. So far, only few studies have focused on extinction following appetitive conditioning in mice. We studied extinction of appetitive operant lever-press behavior in six standard inbred mouse strains (A/J, C3H/HeJ, C57BL/6J, DBA/2J, BALB/cByJ and NOD/Ltj) and eight recombinant inbred mouse lines. From the response rates at the end of operant and extinction training we computed an extinction index, with higher values indicating better capability to omit behavioral responding in absence of reward. This index varied highly across the mouse lines tested, and the variability was partially due to a significant heritable component of 12.6%. To further characterize the relationship between operant learning and extinction, we calculated the slope of the time course of extinction across sessions. While many strains showed a considerable capacity to omit responding when lever pressing was no longer rewarded, we found a few lines showing an abnormally high perseveration in lever press behavior, showing no decay in response scores over extinction sessions. No correlation was found between operant and extinction response scores, suggesting that appetitive operant learning and extinction learning are dissociable, a finding in line with previous studies indicating that these forms of learning are dependent on different brain areas. These data shed light on the heritable basis of extinction learning and may help develop animal models of addictive habits and other perseverative disorders, such as compulsive food seeking and eating.
The zebrafish is gaining popularity in behavioral neuroscience perhaps because of a promise of efficient large scale mutagenesis and drug screens that could identify a substantial number of yet undiscovered molecular players involved in complex traits. Learning and memory are complex functions of the brain and the analysis of their mechanisms may benefit from such large scale zebrafish screens. One bottleneck in this research is the paucity of appropriate behavioral screening paradigms, which may be due to the relatively uncharacterized nature of the behavior of this species. Here we show that zebrafish exhibit good learning performance in a task adapted from the mammalian literature, a plus maze in which zebrafish are required to associate a neutral visual stimulus with the presence of conspecifics, the rewarding unconditioned stimulus. Furthermore, we show that MK-801, a non-competitive NMDA-R antagonist, impairs memory performance in this maze when administered right after training or just before recall but not when given before training at a dose that does not impair motor function, perception or motivation. These results suggest that the plus maze associative learning paradigm has face and construct validity and that zebrafish may become an appropriate and translationally relevant study species for the analysis of the mechanisms of vertebrate, including mammalian, learning and memory.
Predator odors induce unconditioned fear in the young animal and provide the opportunity to study the mechanisms underlying unlearned and learned fear. In the current study, cat odor produced unlearned, innate fear in infant (postnatal age 14; PN14) and juvenile (PN26) rats, but contextual fear learning occurred only in juveniles. It was hypothesized that contextual fear learning in juveniles is mediated by norepinephrine. Consistent with this hypothesis, pre-training injection of the -adrenergic antagonist propranolol reduced the unlearned fear response while post-training injection inhibited contextual fear learning in juvenile rats exposed to cat odor. We suggest that NE mediates the formation of contextual fear memories by activation of the transcription factor CREB in the hippocampus in juveniles but not in infants. Levels of phosphorylated CREB (pCREB) were increased in the dorsal and ventral hippocampi of juvenile rats exposed to cat odor. These levels were not increased in infants or juveniles exposed to a control odor. Further, propranolol blocked these increases in pCREB. In conclusion, although innate fear occurs within the neonatal period, contextual fear learning is a relatively late-occurring event, is hippocampal dependent, and mediated by norepinephrine.
When administered near the time of training, protein synthesis inhibitors such as anisomycin impair later memory. A common interpretation of these findings is that memory consolidation requires new protein synthesis initiated by training. However, recent findings support an alternative interpretation that abnormally large increases in neurotransmitter release after injections of anisomycin may be responsible for producing amnesia. In the present study, a local anesthetic was administered prior to anisomycin injections in an attempt to mitigate neurotransmitter actions and thereby attenuate the resulting amnesia. Rats received lidocaine and anisomycin injections into the amygdala 130 and 120 min, respectively, prior to inhibitory avoidance training. Memory tests 48 h later revealed that lidocaine attenuated anisomycin-induced amnesia. In other rats, in vivo microdialysis was performed at the site of amygdala infusion of lidocaine and anisomycin. As seen previously, anisomycin injections produced large increases in release of norepinephrine in the amygdala. Lidocaine attenuated the anisomycin-induced increase in release of norepinephrine but did not reverse anisomycin inhibition of protein synthesis, as assessed by c-Fos immunohistochemistry. These findings are consistent with past evidence suggesting that anisomycin causes amnesia by initiating abnormal release of neurotransmitters in response to the inhibition of protein synthesis.
Although tissue type plasminogen activator (tPA) and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) have been extensively described to influence brain outcomes in a number of disorders, their roles during physiological aging are poorly investigated. In the present study, we investigated whether maintenance of mice in different environmental conditions could influence age-associated changes in hippocampal tPA expression and BDNF maturation in relation with modifications of their cognitive performances. Our data indicate that maintenance in enriched housing led to a reversal of age-associated decrease in expression of hippocampal tPA. A subsequent increase in the level of mature BDNF and an improvement in emotional and spatial memories were observed. Taken together, these data suggest that the tPA-BDNF axis could play a critical role in the control of cognitive functions influenced both by the age and housing conditions.

Expression of group III metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) was established by RT-PCR and immunocytochemistry on a cultured clonal human neural stem/progenitor cell (hNSPC) line derived from fetal ventral mesencephalon (VM). Selective activation of these receptors by the group III mGluR agonist L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4) prevented increases in cAMP levels following forskolin stimulation, suggesting these receptors are coupled to their canonical G-protein coupled signal transduction pathway. Tonic exposure of undifferentiated cultures to L-AP4 resulted in a decrease in cellular metabolism and proliferation in the absence of toxicity, as measured by MTT and LDH assays, in a dose-dependent manner. This was confirmed by a reduction in BrdU incorporation into nuclear DNA, suggestive of an anti-proliferative effect of L-AP4. This effect was rescued by co-addition of the broad-spectrum group III mGluR competitive antagonist (RS)-a-cyclopropyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine (CPPG), demonstrating a receptor-mediated mechanism, but not mimicked by application of the cell permeable cAMP analogue dibutyrl cAMP (db-cAMP). The potency of these effects of L-AP4 indicates that this is an mGlu7 subtype-mediated effect. Tonic exposure of undifferentiated cultures to the mGlu7 selective allosteric agonist N,N'-bis(diphenylmethyl)-1,2-ethanediamine dihydrochloride (AMN082), but not the mGlu4 selective allosteric agonist ()-cis-2-(3,5-dicholorphenylcarbamoyl)cyclohexanecarboxylic acid (VU0155041), or the mGlu8 selective agonist (S)-3,4-dicarboxyphenylglycine ((S)-3,4-DCPG) resulted in an identical anti-proliferative effect to L-AP4, confirming the involvement of the mGlu7 subtype. In differentiating cultures, tonic exposure to L-AP4 or AMN082 resulted in a significant shift towards an astrocyte cell fate. The mGlu7 receptor therefore provides a new opportunity to influence the proliferation and differentiation of ventral mesencephalon-derived hNSPC.
Stroke is a common and disabling condition that represents a potentially attractive target for regenerative therapy. Stem cells from a wide range of origins have been investigated in studies using animal models of stroke, with evidence that neural or mesenchymal cells migrate to the site of ischemic injury after intravascular or intraparenchymal delivery, and that a proportion of cells survive and differentiate into cells with characteristics of neurons or glia. In some studies there is evidence of electrical function of transplanted cells. Some studies report improvements in neurological function with cell implantation even when undertaken up to 30 days after the stroke is induced. Few clinical trials have been undertaken to date, with two studies of a teratocarcinoma-derived cell line delivered by direct brain injection, and two of bone-marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells delivered intravascularly. Ongoing trials of other cell lines are exploring safety. There are considerable difficulties in designing future efficacy trials, some being generic to the field of regenerative treatment in stroke, and some that are specific to stem cells or their mode of delivery.
Adult neural precursor cells (NPCs) are predominantly located in the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricles or in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus. These NPCs produce neuroblasts that normally migrate and integrate into the olfactory bulb and hippocampus, respectively. Following CNS damage due to disease or injury, NPCs can also migrate to the site of damage. Enhancement of NPC migration to sites of neural damage may increase their potential for repair but requires an understanding of processes that regulate basal and injury-induced migration so we can harness this potential. This review highlights the extrinsic factors and major intrinsic signalling pathways that regulate endogenous basal NPC migration to the olfactory bulb and the role of inflammatory mediators and chemokines in disease and injury-induced NPC migration.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most prevalent late-onset neurodegenerative disorder that affects nearly 1% of the global population aged 65 and older. Whereas palliative treatments are in use, the goal of blocking progression of motor and cognitive disability remains unfulfilled. A better understanding of the basic pathophysiological mechanisms underlying PD would help to advance that goal. The present study provides evidence that brain ganglioside abnormality, in particular GM1, may be involved. This is based on use of the genetically altered mice with disrupted gene Galgt1 for GM2/GD2 synthase which depletes GM2/GD2 and all the gangliotetraose gangliosides that constitute the major molecular species of brain. These knockout mice show overt motor disability on aging and clear indications of motor impairment with appropriate testing at an earlier age. This disability was rectified by L-dopa administration. These mice show other characteristic symptoms of PD, including depletion of striatal dopamine (DA), loss of DA neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta, and aggregation of alpha synuclein. These manifestations of parkinsonism were largely attenuated by administration of LIGA-20, a membrane permeable analog of GM1 that penetrates the blood brain barrier and enters living neurons. These results suggest that perturbation of intracellular mechanisms mediated by intracellular GM1 may be a contributing factor to PD.
Inflammation is an important pathogenic mechanism in many neurodegenerative disorders. Activated microglia play a pivotal role in releasing pro-inflammatory factors including interleukin-1 (IL-1), tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) for inducing inflammation. While microglia mediated inflammation is essential in maintaining CNS homeostasis, chronic inflammation results in activation of proteases for cell death. Here, we examined the effect of PPT (estrogen receptor  agonist), DPN (estrogen receptor  agonist), and estrogen on rat primary microglia following exposure to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Exposure of microglia to LPS (200 ng/ml) for 24 h induced cell death. After LPS toxicity for 15 min, microglia were treated with 25 nM PPT, 25 nM DPN, or 100 nM estrogen that prevented cell death by attenuating the release of IL-1, IL-1, TNF-, and COX-2. Treatment of cells with 100 nM fulvestrant (estrogen receptor antagonist) prior to addition of PPT, DPN, or estrogen significantly decreased their ability to prevent cell death, indicating involvement of estrogen receptor (ER) in providing PPT, DPN, or estrogen mediated cytoprotection. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses showed alterations in mRNA expression of Bax, Bcl-2, calpain, and calpastatin during apoptosis. We also examined mRNA expression of ER and ER following exposure of microglia to LPS and subsequent treatment with PPT, DPN, or estrogen. We found that estrogen or estrogen receptor agonists upregulated expression of ERs. Overall, results indicate that estrogen receptor agonist or estrogen uses a receptor mediated pathway to protect microglia from LPS toxicity.

This series reports 40 cases of meningiomas of the lateral ventricle treated in France between 1995 and 2010. The mean age was 52 years. The revelation was incidental in 23% of cases. 36 patients underwent surgery with uneventful postoperative course in 75% of them. Visual field deficits were the most frequent sequelae. In six cases, recurrences occurred during the follow-up period. The relevant series of the literature were discussed in order to precise the therapeutic strategies and the outcome.
The lateral ventricles are the C-shaped cavities of the telencephalon. Embryology of theses cavities is recalled as well as the immediate relationship of the frontal horn, the body, the atrium and the temporal and occipital horns.
Ischemia is a common cause of secondary neuronal injury after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. An electronic literature search was conducted to identify clinical signs and laboratory data that could serve as predictors for delayed cerebral ischemia and define triggers for additional diagnostic testing or more aggressive intervention. Fifteen articles describing original research that included some discussion of triggers were identified and reviewed. Quality of evidence was considered very low to moderate for included studies. Using data from these studies and expert opinion, a variety of clinical signs and monitoring data were identified as potentially useful triggers for additional tests or aggressive treatments. These data were used to develop a sequence that might be employed in the clinical management of subarachnoid hemorrhage to determine which patients need additional attention, testing, or interventions to reduce/prevent ischemia caused by vasospasm.
Adolescent offspring of schizophrenia patients (HR-S) are an important group in whom to study impaired brain function and structure, particularly of the frontal cortices. Studies of working memory have suggested behavioral deficits and fMRI-measured hypoactivity in fronto-parietal regions in these subjects. Independent structural MRI (sMRI) studies have suggested exaggerated frontal gray matter decline. Therefore the emergent view is that fronto-parietal deficits in function and structure characterize HR-S. However, it is unknown if fronto-parietal sub-regions in which fMRI-measured hypo-activity might be observed are precisely those regions of the cortex in which gray matter deficits are also observed. To investigate this question we conducted conjoint analyses of fronto-parietal function and structure in HR-S (n=19) and controls (n=24) with no family history of psychoses using fMRI data during a continuous working memory task (2 back), and sMRI collected in the same session. HR-S demonstrated significantly reduced BOLD activation in left dorso-lateral prefrontal cortex (BA 9/46) and bilateral parietal cortex (BA 7/40). Sub-regions of interest were created from the significant fronto-parietal functional clusters. Analyses of gray matter volume from volume-modulated gray matter segments in these clusters did not reveal significant gray matter differences between groups. The results suggest that functional impairments in adolescent HR-S can be independent of impairments in structure, suggesting that the relationship between impaired function and structure is complex. Further studies will be needed to more closely assess whether impairments in function and structure provide independent or interacting pathways of vulnerability in this population.
Although antimuscarinic agents are widely used to treat overactive bladder (OAB), they have been shown to induce side effects including dry mouth and cognitive impairment. The present study was aimed to investigate the effects of antimuscarinic agents, oxybutynin and imidafenacin, on temporal changes in cognitive function and central mAChR occupancy in conscious monkeys (Macaca mulatta). Three conscious monkeys underwent positron emission tomography (PET) scans with a mAChR radioligand N-[(11)C]methyl-3-piperidyl benzilate ([(11)C](+)3-MPB). The scan sequence was pre, and 1, 4, and 24h post oral administration of oxybutynin (0.1-1.0mg/kg) or imidafenacin (0.01-0.1mg/kg). Maximum cognitive impairment was observed 1h post-oxybutynin at oral doses of 0.3 and 1.0mg/kg, in a dose-dependent manner, and oxybutynin produced significant positive correlations between mAChR occupancy and cognitive impairment in the cortices, thalamus, brainstem, and striatum. The most significant correlation was observed in the brainstem, and then cortices. In contrast, imidafenacin did not induce discernible cognitive impairment, despite having obtained some lesser occupancy in cortices and brainstem. We propose that the thresholds of mAChR occupancy to produce cognitive impairment by antimuscarinic agents are ca. 30-40% in cortices and ca. 20-30% in brainstem, and a desirable drug for OAB treatment should not occupy central mAChR above these thresholds.
The neural basis of the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) remains largely unknown after decades of research. To investigate this issue, the unique property of the temporal frequency tuning that could separate neural input and output in the primary visual cortex was used as a model. During moving grating stimuli of 1, 2, 10 and 20Hz temporal frequencies, we measured 9.4-T BOLD fMRI responses simultaneously in the primary visual cortex of area 17 (A17) and area 18 (A18), and the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of isoflurane-anesthetized cat. Our results showed that preferred temporal frequencies of the BOLD responses for A17, A18 and LGN were 3.1Hz, 4.5Hz and 6.0Hz, respectively, which were comparable to the previously reported electrophysiological data. Additionally, the difference of BOLD response onset time between LGN and A17 was 0.5s, which is 18 times larger than the difference of neural activity onset time between these areas. We then compared the frequency-dependent BOLD fMRI response of A17 with tissue partial pressure of oxygen (pO(2)) and electrophysiological data of the same animal model reported by Viswanathan and Freeman (Nature Neuroscience, 2007). The BOLD tuning curve resembled the low frequency band (&lt;12Hz) of local field potential (LFP) tuning curve rather than spiking activity, gamma band (25-90Hz) of LFP, and tissue pO(2) tuning curves, suggesting that the BOLD fMRI signal relates closer to low frequency LFP.
Automating the process of neural circuit reconstruction on a large-scale is one of the foremost challenges in the field of neuroscience. In this study we examine the methodology for circuit reconstruction from three-dimensional light microscopy (LM) stacks of images. We show how the minimal error-rate of an ideal reconstruction procedure depends on the density of labeled neurites, giving rise to the fundamental limitation of an LM based approach for neural circuit research. Circuit reconstruction procedures typically involve steps related to neuron labeling and imaging, and subsequent image pre-processing and tracing of neurites. In this study, we focus on the last step--detection of traces of neurites from already pre-processed stacks of images. Our automated tracing algorithm, implemented as part of the Neural Circuit Tracer software package, consists of the following main steps. First, image stack is filtered to enhance labeled neurites. Second, centerline of the neurites is detected and optimized. Finally, individual branches of the optimal trace are merged into trees based on a cost minimization approach. The cost function accounts for branch orientations, distances between their end-points, curvature of the merged structure, and its intensity. The algorithm is capable of connecting branches which appear broken due to imperfect labeling and can resolve situations where branches appear to be fused due the limited resolution of light microscopy. The Neural Circuit Tracer software is designed to automatically incorporate ImageJ plug-ins and functions written in MatLab and provides roughly a 10-fold increases in speed in comparison to manual tracing.
Digital reconstruction of neurons from microscope images is an important and challenging problem in neuroscience. In this paper, we propose a model-based method to tackle this problem. We first formulate a model structure, then develop an algorithm for computing it by carefully taking into account morphological characteristics of neurons, as well as the image properties under typical imaging protocols. The method has been tested on the data sets used in the DIADEM competition and produced promising results for four out of the five data sets.
Digital reconstructions of neuronal morphology are used to study neuron function, development, and responses to various conditions. Although many measures exist to analyze differences between neurons, none is particularly suitable to compare the same arborizing structure over time (morphological change) or reconstructed by different people and/or software (morphological error). The metric introduced for the DIADEM (DIgital reconstruction of Axonal and DEndritic Morphology) Challenge quantifies the similarity between two reconstructions of the same neuron by matching the locations of bifurcations and terminations as well as their topology between the two reconstructed arbors. The DIADEM metric was specifically designed to capture the most critical aspects in automating neuronal reconstructions, and can function in feedback loops during algorithm development. During the Challenge, the metric scored the automated reconstructions of best-performing algorithms against manually traced gold standards over a representative data set collection. The metric was compared with direct quality assessments by neuronal reconstruction experts and with clocked human tracing time saved by automation. The results indicate that relevant morphological features were properly quantified in spite of subjectivity in the underlying image data and varying research goals. The DIADEM metric is freely released open source ( http://diademchallenge.org ) as a flexible instrument to measure morphological error or change in high-throughput reconstruction projects.

In 1873 Camillo Golgi discovered his eponymous stain, which he called la reazione nera. By adding to it the concepts of the Neuron Doctrine and the Law of Dynamic Polarisation, Santiago Ramon y Cajal was able to link the individual Golgi-stained neurons he saw down his microscope into circuits. This was revolutionary and we have all followed Cajal's winning strategy for over a century. We are now on the verge of a new revolution, which offers the prize of a far more comprehensive description of neural circuits and their operation. The hope is that we will exploit the power of computer vision algorithms and modern molecular biological techniques to acquire rapidly reconstructions of single neurons and synaptic circuits, and to control the function of selected types of neurons. Only one item is now conspicuous by its absence: the 21st century equivalent of the concepts of the Neuron Doctrine and the Law of Dynamic Polarisation. Without their equivalent we will inevitably struggle to make sense of our 21st century observations within the 19th and 20th century conceptual framework we have inherited.





Preclinical evaluation of drugs for neurological disorders is usually performed on overfed rodents, without consideration of how metabolic state might affect drug efficacy. Using a widely employed mouse model of focal ischemic stroke, we found that that the NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) reduces brain damage and improves functional outcome in mice on the usual ad libitum diet, but exhibits little or no therapeutic efficacy in mice maintained on an energy-restricted diet. Thus, NMDA receptor activation plays a central role in the mechanism by which a high dietary energy intake exacerbates ischemic brain injury. These findings suggest that inclusion of subjects with a wide range of energy intakes in clinical trials for stroke may mask a drug benefit in the overfed/obese subpopulation of subjects.
The purine adenosine plays an important role in a number of physiological and pathological processes and is neuroprotective during hypoxia and ischemia. The major effect of adenosine is to suppress network activity via the activation of A(1) receptors. Here we report that in immature cerebellar slices, the activation of A(1) receptors has variable effects on parallel fibre synaptic transmission, ranging from zero depression to an almost complete abolition of transmission. Concentration-response curves suggest that the heterogeneity of inhibition stems from differences in A(1) receptor properties which could include coupling to downstream effectors. There is less variation in the effects of adenosine at parallel fibre synapses in slices from older rats and thus adenosine signalling appears developmentally regulated. In the cerebellum, hypoxia increases the concentration of extracellular adenosine leading to the activation of A(1) receptors (at adenosine-sensitive parallel fibre synapses) and the suppression of glutamate release. It would be predicted that the synapses that were insensitive to adenosine would be less depressed by hypoxia and thus maintain function during metabolic stress. However those synapses which were insensitive to adenosine were rapidly inhibited by hypoxia via a mechanism which was not reversed by blocking A(1) receptors. Thus another mechanism must be responsible for the hypoxia-mediated depression at these synapses. These different mechanisms of depression may be important for cell survival and for maintenance of cerebellar function following oxygen starvation.
The hippocampus plays an important role in the formation of contextual memory between the environment and the rewarding effect of abused drugs. The dopaminergic neural transmission in the hippocampus seems to be critical for such memory. Using conditioned place preference in rats, we found that the protein level of the dopamine D(1) receptor and its prerequisite mRNA in the hippocampus increased in animals that showed a clear preference for the environment paired with cocaine. The increase was not a simple reflection of the repeated administration of cocaine. Instead, it is attributable to conditioning, because systematic contingency between drug administration and exposure to a particular environment was necessary for the increase. Furthermore, we found that the mRNA of the dopamine D(1) receptors increased in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus. These results suggest that the alteration of dopamine D(1) receptor in the hippocampus, especially in the dentate gyrus, is related to the induction of drug-induced contextual memory. The finding implicates the relevance of the dopaminergic signal transduction in the hippocampus to drug dependence.
While serotonin 5-HT1A receptor (5-HT1AR) agonists reduce L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias (LID) by normalizing activity in the basal ganglia neurocircuitry, recent evidence suggests putative 5-HT1AR within the primary motor cortex (M1) may also contribute. To better characterize this possible mechanism, c-fos immunohistochemistry was first used to determine the effects of systemic administration of the full 5-HT1AR agonist 8-OH-DPAT on L-Dopa-induced immediate early gene expression within M1 and the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of rats with unilateral medial forebrain bundle (MFB) dopamine (DA) lesions. Next, in order to determine if direct stimulation of 5-HT1AR within M1 attenuates the onset of LID, rats with MFB lesions were tested for L-Dopa-induced abnormal involuntary movements (AIMs) and rotations following M1 microinfusions of 8-OH-DPAT with or without coadministration of the 5-HT1AR antagonist WAY100635. Finally, 8-OH-DPAT was infused into M1 at peak dyskinesia to determine if 5-HT1AR stimulation attenuates established L-Dopa-induced AIMs and rotations. While no treatment effects were seen within the PFC, systemic 8-OH-DPAT suppressed L-Dopa-induced c-fos within M1. Intra-M1 5-HT1AR stimulation diminished the onset of AIMs and this effect was reversed by WAY100635 indicating receptor specific effects. Finally, continuous infusion of 8-OH-DPAT into M1 at peak dyskinesia alleviated L-Dopa-induced AIMs. Collectively, these findings support an integral role for M1 in LID and its modulation by local 5-HT1AR.
In the present study we aimed to verify if the enhancement of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) production in mouse striatum following treatment with LY379268 may also induce in the nigrostriatal system a time-related activation of RET receptor and its specific intracellular signaling. For this purpose, we have investigated the effects of LY379268 treatment on RET phosphorylation at the Tyr1062 and on downstream signaling Erk1/2, Akt and PLC1 pathway activation. The results showed that treatment with LY379268 (3 mg/kg) induces a significant increase of GDNF levels and time-related RET and Erk1/2 phosphorylation in the striatum. These increases were detected at 24 h and 48 h following LY379268 treatment. No changes were observed in the Akt and PLC1 phosphorylation levels. Similar results for p-Erk1/2 were observed in the substantia nigra. A complete block of LY379268 effect on striatal RET and p-Erk1/2 phosphorylation was observed in mice intrastriatal injected with anti-GDNF antibodies, suggesting a correlation between GDNF upregulation and RET activation. Overall, with present data we have shown that activation of mGluR2/3 receptors by LY379268 may be particularly promising for nigrostriatal dopaminergic system protection by enhancing striatal levels of GDNF/RET trophic system activity.
Inhibition of phosphodiesterase 9 (PDE9) has been reported to enhance rodent cognitive function and may represent a potential novel approach to improving cognitive dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease. PF-04447943, (6-[(3S,4S)-4-methyl-1-(pyrimidin-2-ylmethyl)pyrrolidin-3-yl]-1-(tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)-1,5-dihydro-4H-pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidin-4-one), a recently described PDE9 inhibitor, was found to have high affinity (Ki of 2.8, 4.5 and 18 nM) for human, rhesus and rat recombinant PDE9 respectively and high selectivity for PDE9 versus PDEs1-8 and 10-11. PF-04447943 significantly increased neurite outgrowth and synapse formation (as indicated by increased synapsin 1 expression) in cultured hippocampal neurons at low (30-100 nM) but not high (300-1000 nM) concentrations. PF-04447943 significantly facilitated hippocampal slice LTP evoked by a weak tetanic stimulus at a concentration of 100 nM but failed to affect response to the weak tetanus at either 30 or 300 nM, or the LTP produced by a theta burst stimulus. Systemic administration of PF-04447943 (1-30 mg/kg p.o.) dose-dependently increased cGMP in the cerebrospinal fluid 30 min after administration indicating target engagement in the CNS of rats. PF-04447943 (1-3 mg/kg p.o.) significantly improved cognitive performance in three rodent cognition assays (mouse Y maze spatial recognition memory model of natural forgetting, mouse social recognition memory model of natural forgetting and rat novel object recognition with a scopolamine deficit). When administered at a dose of 3 mg/kg p.o., which improved performance in novel object recognition, PF-04447943 significantly increased phosphorylated but not total GluR1 expression in rat hippocampal membranes. Collectively these data indicate that PF-04447943 is a potent, selective brain penetrant PDE9 inhibitor that increased indicators of hippocampal synaptic plasticity and improved cognitive function in a variety of cognition models in both rats and mice. Results with PF-04447943 are consistent with previously published findings using a structurally diverse PDE9 inhibitor, BAY73-6199, and further support the suggestion that PDE9 inhibition may represent a novel approach to the palliative remediation of cognitive dysfunction.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of the rat has become a key focus of studies designed to elucidate the basis of behavior involving attention and decision-making, i.e. executive functions. The adolescent mPFC is of particular interest given the role of the mPFC in impulsivity and attention, and disorders such as attentional deficit disorder. In the present study we have examined the basal extracellular concentrations of the neurotransmitters 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE) in the ventral portion of the mPFC (vmPFC) in both adolescent (post-natal day 45-50) and adult, and male and female rats using in vivo microdialysis. We have also examined both the left and right vmPFCs given reports of laterality in function between the hemispheres. Basal extracellular concentrations of 5-HT differed significantly between male and female rats. Extracellular DA also differed significantly between male and female rats and between the left and the right vmPFC in adult males. No differences were seen in basal extracellular NE. There was a significant age difference between groups in the laterality of extracellular NE levels between right and left vmPFC. Infusion of 100 M methamphetamine through the dialysis probe increased the extracellular concentration of all the monoamines although there were no differences between groups in methamphetamine stimulated release. The findings from this study demonstrate that there are differences in monoaminergic input to the mPFC of the rat based on age, gender and hemisphere. This work sets the neurochemical baseline for further investigations of the prefrontal cortex during development.
Abnormalities in both the hippocampal region and in serotonergic transmission are evident in patients with schizophrenia. We previously found that rats with serotonergic lesions targeting the dorsal hippocampus show altered psychotropic drug-induced hyperlocomotion and prepulse inhibition (PPI), behavioural paradigms relevant to aspects of schizophrenia. The present study explored the effect of serotonin depletion (&gt;70%) along the dorsoventral axis of the hippocampus, or of partial serotonin depletion (50%) in the ventral hippocampus, on PPI modulation by acute antipsychotic drug treatment. We also used receptor binding autoradiography to investigate the neurochemical basis of behavioural effects. Following micro-injection of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine, neither hippocampal serotonin depletion or partial serotonin depletion in the ventral hippocampus altered baseline PPI, startle magnitude or startle habituation. Acute treatment with clozapine or haloperidol had minimal effects on PPI in these lesioned rats or sham-operated controls. In contrast, risperidone treatment increased PPI to a significantly greater extent in rats with hippocampal serotonin depletion, an effect which was most prominent at low prepulse intensities. Partial serotonin depletion in the ventral hippocampus did not alter PPI modulation by risperidone. Neither type of serotonergic lesion altered the densities of 5-HT(1A) or 5-HT(2A) receptors in the hippocampus; serotonin transporters or 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors on raphe cell bodies; or dopamine transporters, D(1) or D(2) receptors in forebrain regions efferent to the hippocampus and implicated in schizophrenia, such as the nucleus accumbens. However, levels of [(3)H]mesulergine binding to 5-HT(2C) receptors were increased by approximately 70% in the dorsal hippocampus of rats with serotonin depletion in this region, while those in the ventral hippocampus were unaffected. Therefore, despite intact baseline PPI, abnormal PPI regulation in rats with &gt;70% serotonin depletion in the hippocampus was unmasked by acute risperidone treatment. Selective upregulation of 5-HT(2C) receptors in the dorsal, but not ventral, hippocampus of these lesioned rats suggests that hippocampal 5-HT(2C) receptors vary in their adaptability to changes in serotonergic tone along the dorsoventral axis. These findings suggest that 5-HT(2C) receptors in the dorsal hippocampus may contribute to risperidone-induced enhancement of PPI.
5-Hydroxytryptamine(2A) (5-HT(2A)) serotonin receptors are important pharmacological targets for a large number of central nervous system and peripheral serotonergic medications. In this review article I summarize work mainly from my lab regarding serotonin receptor anatomy, pharmacology, signaling and regulation. I highlight the role of serotonin receptor interacting proteins and the emerging paradigm of G-protein coupled receptor functional selectivity.
Depression is the most common neuropsychiatric co-morbidity in Parkinson's disease (PD). The underlying mechanism of depression in PD is complex and likely involves biological, psychosocial and therapeutic factors. The biological mechanism may involve changes in monoamine systems, in particular the serotonergic (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) system. It is well established that the 5-HT system is markedly affected in the Parkinsonian brain, with evidence including pathological loss of markers of 5-HT axons as well as cell bodies in the dorsal and median raphe nuclei of the midbrain. However, it remains unresolved whether alterations to the 5-HT system alone are sufficient to confer vulnerability to depression. Here we propose low 5-HT combined with altered network activity within the basal ganglia as critically involved in depression in PD. The latter hypothesis is derived from a number of recent findings that highlight the close interaction between the basal ganglia and the 5-HT system, not only in motor but also limbic functions. These findings include evidence that clinical depression is a side effect of deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN), a treatment option in advanced PD. Further, it has recently been demonstrated that STN DBS in animal models inhibits 5-HT neurotransmission, and that this change may underpin depressive-like side effects. This review provides an overview of 5-HT alterations in PD and a discussion of how these changes might combine with altered basal ganglia network activity to increase depression vulnerability.
This review considers the role of drug therapy in the treatment of post-stroke aphasia, the evidence for efficacy of different agents, and the theory-based explanations of drug-related benefits for aphasia rehabilitation. Pharmacological interventions modulating stroke-induced disruption of diverse neurotransmitters may improve language and communication deficits in aphasic patients through facilitation of brain plasticity and long-term potentiation. However, benefits are not evident for all compounds and refinement in clinical trial designs is required. Some pharmacological trials have failed because drug treatment was not combined with speech-language therapy, while other trials combining drugs with intensive model-driven therapies also failed probably because of short-trial duration, inadequate sample selection, or lack of drug action. Preliminary data reveals that combining neuroscience-based intensive aphasia techniques (constraint-induced aphasia therapy) and drugs acting on cholinergic and glutamatergic neurotransmitter systems are associated with better outcomes than other strategies and long-term maintenance of benefits. Although further studies are needed, current state of the evidence suggests that drug therapy may play a key role in the treatment of post-stroke aphasia.
There are few iconic publications in the annals of clinical neuroscience that have had the impact of Paul Broca's 1861 paper that appeared in the Bulletin de la Socit Anatomique Broca (Bulletin Society Anatomique, 6:330-357, 1861). It was, however, by no means his last word on the matter of language localization, specifically, or on the overarching principle of regional specialization of brain function. Thus we comment on English translations of two of his works: the original paper and another from 1865. Although the 1861 paper has received the most credit, his manuscript 4years later and based on a much larger case series was the first to state based on empirical observation that the left frontal region was responsible for articulated speech. Moreover, his observations of aphasia recovery reported in this later work led to his own hypotheses on the importance of cerebral reorganization after injury and to the differences in reacquisition of adult language vis--vis the nature of initial language development that were verified a century later. He also proposed a method of language remediation whose efficacy was not established for another 100years. Thus Broca's contributions to the contemporary study of aphasia reach far beyond his initial case presentation.
Reading compound words was studied in neglect dyslexia in order to assess the influence of 'headedness'. The 'head' of a compound is the component that determines the grammatical category, the syntactic (e.g., the gender) and the semantic properties of the compound as a whole. For example, in the word 'blackberry'berry is the compound's head. The question was addressed of whether or not the privileged status of the head constituent influences processing and determines behavioural patterns in the breakdown of spatial attention in neglect. Italian right-headed (e.g. capobanda, band leader) and left-headed compounds (e.g. astronave, spaceship) were administered to 18 participants affected by neglect dyslexia. Left-headed compounds were read better than right-headed compounds. This result was not due to factors such as frequency, familiarity, age of acquisition or imageability, since these effects were controlled. It is suggested that attention is captured by the head component after implicit reading of the whole word. The head would require a relatively lighter processing load than the modifier and benefit from top-down facilitation.
The magnitude dimensions of number, time and space have been suggested to share some common magnitude processing, which may imply symmetric interaction among dimensions. Here we challenge these suggestions by presenting a double dissociation between two neuropsychological patients with left (JT) and right (CB) parietal lesions and selective impairment of number and time processing respectively. Both patients showed an influence of task-irrelevant number stimuli on time but not space processing. In JT otherwise preserved time processing was severely impaired in the mere presence of task-irrelevant numbers, which themselves could not be processed accurately. In CB, impaired temporal estimation was influenced by preserved number processing: small numbers made (already grossly underestimated) time intervals appear even shorter relative to large numbers. However, numerical estimation was not influenced by time in healthy controls and in both patients. This new double dissociation between number and time processing and the asymmetric interaction of number on time: (1) provides further support to the hypothesis of a partly shared magnitude system among dimensions, instead of the proposal of a single, fully shared system or of independent magnitude systems which would not explain dissociations or interactions among dimensions; (2) may be explained in terms of a stable hierarchy of dimensions, with numbers being the strongest.
People are generally better at recognizing faces from their own race than from a different race, as has been shown in numerous behavioral studies. Here we use event-related potentials (ERPs) to investigate how differences between own-race and other-race faces influence the neural correlates of memory encoding and recognition. ERPs of Asian and Caucasian participants were recorded during the study and test phases of a Remember-Know paradigm with Chinese and Caucasian faces. A behavioral other-race effect was apparent in both groups, neither of which recognized other-race faces as well as own-race faces; however, Caucasian subjects showed stronger behavioral other-race effects. In the study phase, memory encoding was assessed with the ERP difference due to memory (Dm). Other-race effects in memory encoding were only found for Caucasian subjects. For subsequently &quot;recollected&quot; items, Caucasian subjects showed less positive mean amplitudes for own-race than other-race faces indicating that less neural activation was required for successful memory encoding of own-race faces. For the comparison of subsequently &quot;recollected&quot; and &quot;familiar&quot; items, Caucasian subjects showed similar brain activation only for own-race faces suggesting that subsequent familiarity and recollection of own-race faces arose from similar memory encoding processes. Experience with a race also influenced old/new effects, which are ERP correlates of recollection measured during recognition testing. Own-race faces elicited a typical parietal old/new effect, whereas old/new effects for other-race faces were prolonged and dominated by activity in frontal brain regions, suggesting a stronger involvement of post-retrieval monitoring processes. These results indicate that the other-race effect is a memory encoding- and recognition-based phenomenon.
Whether mental visual images play a functional role in cognition or that propositional knowledge is sufficient for supporting performance in imagery tasks is a long-standing debate. It cannot be resolved using behavioural data alone, nor by brain imaging data alone; for example, across fMRI studies mental rotation has been shown to involve virtually all areas of the brain. Alternatively participants might adopt different cognitive strategies. We report behavioural and fMRI data for mental rotation from individuals reporting vivid or poor mental imagery. Groups differed in errors but not response times, and differed in brain activation patterns, suggesting that the groups performed the same task in different ways.
Functional imaging studies of spatial attention regularly report activation of the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) and dorsal premotor cortex including the frontal eye fields (FEF) in tasks requiring overt or covert shifting of attention. In contrast, lesion-overlap studies of patients with spatial neglect - a syndrome characterized by severe impairments of spatial attention - show that the critical damage concerns more ventral regions, comprising the inferior parietal lobule, the temporal-parietal junction (TPJ), and the superior temporal gyrus. We performed voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping of 29 right-hemisphere stroke patients, using several performance indices derived from a cueing task as measures of spatial attention. In contrast to previous studies, we focused our analyses on eight regions of interest defined according to results of previous functional imaging studies. A direct comparison of neglect with control patients revealed that neglect was associated with damage to the TPJ, the middle frontal gyrus, and the posterior IPS. The latter region was also a significant predictor of the degree of contralesional slowing of target detection and the extent to which ipsilesional distracters captured attention of neglect patients. Finally, damage to the FEF and posterior IPS was negatively correlated with the tendency of neglect patients to orient attention toward behaviourally relevant distracters. These findings support the results of functional imaging studies of spatial attention and provide evidence for a network account of neglect, according to which attentional selection of relevant environmental stimuli and the reorienting of attention result from dynamic interactions between the IPS, the dorsal premotor cortex, and the TPJ.

In addition to its direct action on central neurons, nicotine (NIC) activates multiple nicotinic acetylcholine receptors localized on afferent terminals of sensory nerves at the sites of its administration. Although the activation of these receptors is important in mediating the primary sensory and cardiovascular effects of NIC, their role in triggering and maintaining the neural effects of NIC remains unclear. Using high-speed electroencephalography (EEG) and electromyography (EMG) recordings in freely moving rats, we showed that NIC at low intravenous (i.v.) doses (10-30 g/kg) induced rapid, strong, and prolonged EEG desynchronization both in the cortex and ventral tegmental area (with decreases in  and robust increases in  and  frequencies) and neck EMG activation that began during the injection (5 s). EEG and EMG effects of NIC were drastically reduced by pre-treatment with hexamethonium, a peripherally acting NIC antagonist, and the immediate EEG effects of NIC were strongly inhibited during urethane anesthesia. Although NIC pyrrolidine methiodide, a quaternary NIC analog that cannot enter the brain, also induced rapid EEG desynchronization, its effects were much shorter and weaker than those of NIC. Therefore, NIC by acting on peripheral nicotinic receptors provides a major contribution to its rapid, excitatory effects following i.v. administration. Since this action creates a sensory signal that rapidly reaches the brain via neural pathways and precedes the slower and more prolonged direct actions of NIC on brain cells, it could have a major role in associative learning and changes in the behavioral and physiological effects of NIC following its repeated use.
Recent research suggests that histamine H3 receptor (H3R) antagonism may diminish motivational aspects of alcohol dependence. We studied the role of H3Rs in alcohol-related behaviors using H3R knockout (KO) mice and ligands. H3R KO mice consumed less alcohol than wild-type (WT) mice in a two-bottle free-choice test and in a 'drinking in the dark' model. H3R antagonist ciproxifan suppressed and H3R agonist immepip increased alcohol drinking in C57BL/6J mice. Impairment in reward mechanisms in H3R KO mice was confirmed by the lack of alcohol-evoked conditioned place preference. Plasma alcohol concentrations of H3R KO and WT mice were similar. There were no marked differences in brain biogenic amine levels in H3R KO mice compared with the control animals after alcohol drinking. In conclusion, the findings of this study provide evidence for the role of H3R receptor in alcohol-related behaviors, especially in alcohol drinking and alcohol reward. Thus, targeting H3Rs with a specific antagonist might be a potential means to treat alcoholism in the future.
Basolateral amygdala (BLA) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) interactions have been implicated in cue-elicited craving and drug seeking. However, the neurochemical mechanisms underlying drug/environment associations are ill-defined. We used in vivo microdialysis and pharmacological inactivation techniques to identify alterations in mPFC glutamate (GLU) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transmission in response to cues previously associated with experimenter-administered cocaine (COC) and the BLA contribution to these effects. Rats received alternate day injections of COC and saline (SAL) paired with a distinct environment for 6 days. Behavioral, neurochemical and immunohistochemical studies were conducted, in drug-free animals, 24h after the last conditioning session. Animals exposed to a COC-paired environment demonstrated an augmented locomotor activity (LMA) relative to those exposed to the SAL-paired environment. mPFC GABA neurotransmission in the COC-paired environment was significantly increased, whereas GLU overflow was unaltered. Dual labeling of cFos and glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 immunoreactivity in mPFC neurons revealed significantly greater colocalization of these proteins following exposure to the COC-associated environment (CAE) relative to pseudo-conditioned rats or rats exposed to the SAL-associated environment indicating that the conditioned neurochemical response to the COC-paired environment is associated with activation of intrinsic mPFC GABA neurons. BLA inactivation prevented the increase in LMA and the augmentation of mPFC GABA transmission produced by cue exposure. Intra-mPFC application of the AMPA/KA receptor antagonist, NBQX, produced similar effects. These findings indicate that exposure to a CAE increases mPFC GABA transmission by enhancing excitatory drive from the BLA and activation of AMPA/KA receptors on mPFC GABA neurons.

Previous studies have reported that intrahemispheric connections between area 17 (V1, striate cortex) and other cortical visual areas are not point-to-point, but instead have some degree of convergence and divergence. Many pathological conditions can interfere with the normal development of patterns of cortico-cortical connections, but there is little information regarding whether or not early pathological insults can also induce permanent changes in the convergence and divergence of cortical connections. Obtaining this information is important because loss of precision in neural projections can contribute to functional deficits and behavioral impairment. In the present study we investigated whether retinal input is required for the development of normal values of convergence and divergence in the visual callosal pathway. We found that enucleation performed at birth induced significant increases in convergence and divergence compared to control animals. In contrast, values of convergence and divergence in rats enucleated at postnatal day 7 (P7) were similar to those in controls. Previous studies have shown that retinal input during the first postnatal week is required for the specification of the overall distribution and internal topography of visual callosal pathways. Our present results therefore extend these previous finding by showing that retinal input during the first postnatal week also specifies the precision of cortico-cortical projections. These findings raise the possibility that the precision of neural connections may be reduced in other pathological conditions that affect early development of neural connections.
Disrupted-in-Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) is a susceptibility gene for major mental illnesses, including bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. Although the roles of DISC1 in nervous system development and functions are increasingly recognized, pathophysiological mechanisms underlying a range of neuropsychiatric symptoms caused by DISC1 mutations remain unclear. Here we show that DISC1 enhances synaptic vesicle transport along microtubules. Knocking down DISC1 expression results in attenuated vesicle transport in primary cortical neurons. Likewise, expressing the dominant-negative, breakpoint mutant version of DISC1 causes defective vesicle transport, by disrupting the assembly between the kinesin-1 adaptor FEZ1 and the cargo protein Synaptotagmin-1 (Syt-1). In addition, lithium, a mood-stabilizing agent used for the treatment of bipolar disorder, can restore the assembly of FEZ1 and Syt-1, and normalizes the defective transport caused by the dominant-negative DISC1. Thus, this study addresses a new role of DISC1 in organelle transport in neurons, and suggests that this cellular pathway could be therapeutically targeted for the treatment against neuropsychiatric diseases.
Neogenin is a receptor for netrins and proteins of the repulsive guidance molecule (RGM) family. It regulates several key developmental processes within the nervous system. The binding of RGMa to neogenin induces the inhibition of neurite outgrowth and the collapse of the growth cone of neurons. Here, we report that a disintegrin and metalloprotease (ADAM) transmembrane protein regulates the sensitivity of neurons to RGMa, by inducing the shedding of the ectodomain of neogenin. The extracellular domain of neogenin is directly associated with and cleaved off by the tumor necrosis factor- converting enzyme (TACE), also called ADAM17. TACE is endogenously expressed in embryonic cortical neurons and regulates the cleavage of neogenin, and the inhibition of TACE in turn enhances RGMa-induced inhibition of neurite outgrowth and collapse of the growth cone. Conversely, exogenous expression of TACE abolishes the effect of RGMa. Therefore, TACE may play a role in modulating the RGM-induced repulsive behavior of neurons by regulating the expression of neogenin on the cell surface.


Changes within the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) cellular signaling pathway were evaluated in adolescent mice exposed to 50 ppb arsenic during gestation. Previously, we reported increased basal plasma corticosterone levels, decreased hippocampal GR levels and deficits in learning and memory performance in perinatal arsenic-exposed mice. The biosynthesis of members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, known to be involved in learning and memory, is modulated by the binding of GR to glucocorticoid response elements (GREs) in the gene promoters. Two genes of the MAPK pathway, Ras and Raf, contain GREs which are activated upon binding of GRs. We evaluated the activity of GRs at Ras and Raf promoters using chromatin immunoprecipitation and real-time PCR and report decreased binding of the GR at these promoters. An ELISA-based GR binding assay was used to explore whether this decreased binding was restricted to in vivo promoters and revealed no differences in binding of native GR to synthetic GREs. The decreased in vivo GR binding coincides with significantly decreased mRNA levels and slight reductions of protein of both H-Ras and Raf-1 in perinatally arsenic-exposed mice. Nuclear activated extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK), a downstream target of Ras and Raf, whose transcriptional targets also play an important role in learning and memory, was decreased in the hippocampus of arsenic-exposed animals when compared to controls. GR-mediated transcriptional deficits in the MAPK/ERK pathway could be an underlying cause of previously reported learning deficits and provide the link to arsenic-induced deficiencies in cognitive development.

Recent technological advances have made it possible to determine the genome-wide binding sites of transcription factors (TFs). Comparisons across species have suggested a relatively low degree of evolutionary conservation of experimentally defined TF binding events (TFBEs). Using binding data for six different TFs in hepatocytes and embryonic stem cells from human and mouse, we demonstrate that evolutionary conservation of TFBEs within orthologous proximal promoters is closely linked to function, defined as expression of the target genes. We show that (i) there is a significantly higher degree of conservation of TFBEs when the target gene is expressed in both species; (ii) there is increased conservation of binding events for groups of TFs compared to individual TFs; and (iii) conserved TFBEs have a greater impact on the expression of their target genes than non-conserved ones. These results link conservation of structural elements (TFBEs) to conservation of function (gene expression) and suggest a higher degree of functional conservation than implied by previous studies.

This study investigated the effects of perinatal dietary omega-3 (n-3) fatty acid depletion and subsequent repletion on the expression of genes that regulate long-chain (LC) polyunsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis in rat liver and brain. It was hypothesized that chronic n-3 fatty acid deficiency would increase liver Fads1 and Fads2 messenger RNA (mRNA) expression/activity and that n-3 fatty acid repletion would normalize this response. Adult rats fed the n-3-free diet during perinatal development exhibited significantly lower erythrocyte, liver, and frontal cortex LCn-3 fatty acid composition and reciprocal elevations in LC omega-6 (n-6) fatty acid composition compared with controls (CONs) and repleted rats. Liver Fads2, but not Fads1, Elovl2, or Elovl5, mRNA expression was significantly greater in n-3-deficient (DEF) rats compared with CONs and was partially normalized in repleted rats. The liver 18:3n-6/18:2n-6 ratio, an index of delta6-desturase activity, was significantly greater in DEF rats compared with CON and repleted rats and was positively correlated with Fads2 mRNA expression among all rats. The liver 18:3n-6/18:2n-6 ratio, but not Fads2 mRNA expression, was also positively correlated with erythrocyte and frontal cortex LCn-6 fatty acid compositions. Neither Fads1 or Fads2 mRNA expression was altered in brain cortex of DEF rats. These results confirm previous findings that liver, but not brain, delta6-desaturase expression and activity indices are negatively regulated by dietary n-3 fatty acids.
Parkinson's disease (PD) patients may be at higher risk of malnutrition because of the symptoms associated with the disease and the side effects of the medication used to manage it. A decline in nutritional status is associated with many adverse outcomes related to health and quality of life. It is not clear, however, to what extent this population is currently affected by malnutrition. The objective of this review was to systematically assess the methodology and outcomes of studies reporting the prevalence of malnutrition in PD patients. Studies that attempted to classify participants with PD into nutritional risk and/or malnutrition categories using body mass index, weight change, anthropometric measures, and nutritional screening and assessment scores were included. The prevalence of malnutrition ranged from 0% to 24% in PD patients, while 3-60% of PD patients were reported to be at risk of malnutrition. There was a large degree of variation among studies in the methods chosen, the definition of malnutrition using those methods, and the detail in which the methodological protocols were reported. The true extent of malnutrition in the PD population has yet to be accurately quantified. It is important, however, to screen for malnutrition at the time of PD diagnosis.
The acquisition of high-resolution images in three dimensions is of utmost importance for the morphological and functional investigation of biological tissues. Here, we present a laser scanning two-photon microscope with remote and motionless control of the focus position. The movement of the excitation spot along the propagation direction is achieved by shaping the laser wavefront with a spatial light modulator. Depending on the optical properties of the objective in use, this approach allows z movements in a range of tens to hundreds of micrometers with small changes of the point spread function. We applied this technique for the three-dimensional (3D) imaging of fluorescent cells in the mouse neocortex in vivo. The presented system bypasses the limitations of microscopes based on moving objectives, enabling high-resolution inertia-free 3D imaging.
Although cholinergic drugs are known to modulate nociception, the role of endogenous acetylcholine in nociceptive processing remains unclear. In the current study, we evaluated the role of cholinergic transmission through spinal (2)-subunit-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the control of nociceptive thresholds. We show that mechanical and thermal nociceptive thresholds are significantly lowered in (2)()-knockout (KO) mice. Using nicotinic antagonists in these mice, we demonstrate that (2)()-nAChRs are responsible for tonic inhibitory control of mechanical thresholds at the spinal level. We further hypothesized that tonic (2)()-nAChR control of mechanical nociceptive thresholds might implicate GABAergic transmission since spinal nAChR stimulation can enhance inhibitory transmission. Indeed, the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline decreased the mechanical threshold in wild-type but not (2)()-KO mice, and the agonist muscimol restored basal mechanical threshold in (2)()-KO mice. Thus, (2)()-nAChRs appeared to be necessary for GABAergic control of nociceptive information. As a consequence of this defective inhibitory control, (2)()-KO mice were also hyperresponsive to capsaicin-induced C-fiber stimulation. Our results indicate that (2)()-nAChRs are implicated in the recruitment of inhibitory control of nociception, as shown by delayed recovery from capsaicin-induced allodynia, potentiated nociceptive response to inflammation and neuropathy, and by the loss of high-frequency transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS)-induced analgesia in (2)()-KO mice. As high-frequency TENS induces analgesia through A-fiber recruitment, these data suggest that (2)()-nAChRs may be critical for the gate control of nociceptive information by non-nociceptive sensory inputs. In conclusion, acetylcholine signaling through (2)()-nAChRs seems to be essential for setting nociceptive thresholds by controlling GABAergic inhibition in the spinal cord.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a vasodilatory peptide that has been detected at high levels in the skin, blood, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) under a variety of inflammatory and chronic pain conditions, presumably derived from peptidergic C and A innervation. Herein, CGRP immunolabeling (IL) was detected in epidermal keratinocytes at levels that were especially high and widespread in the skin of humans from locations afflicted with postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) and complex region pain syndrome type 1 (CRPS), of monkeys infected with simian immunodeficiency virus, and of rats subjected to L5/L6 spinal nerve ligation, sciatic nerve chronic constriction, and subcutaneous injection of complete Freund's adjuvant. Increased CGRP-IL was also detected in epidermal keratinocytes of transgenic mice with keratin-14 promoter driven overexpression of noggin, an antagonist to BMP-4 signaling. Transcriptome microarray, quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (qPCR), and Western blot analyses using laser-captured mouse epidermis from transgenics, monolayer cultures of human and mouse keratinocytes, and multilayer human keratinocyte organotypic cultures, revealed that keratinocytes express predominantly the beta isoform of CGRP. Cutaneous peptidergic innervation has been shown to express predominantly the alpha isoform of CGRP. Keratinocytes also express the cognate CGRP receptor components, Calcitonin receptor-like receptor (CRLR), Receptor activity-modifying protein 1 (RAMP1), CGRP-receptor component protein (RCP) consistent with known observations that CGRP promotes several functional changes in keratinocytes, including proliferation and cytokine production. Our results indicate that keratinocyte-derived CGRP may modulate epidermal homeostasis through autocrine/paracrine signaling and may contribute to chronic pain under pathological conditions.
Drug self-administration methods were used to test the hypothesis that rats would self-medicate with a cannabinoid CB(2) agonist to attenuate a neuropathic pain state. Self-medication of the CB(2) agonist (R,S)-AM1241, but not vehicle, attenuated mechanical hypersensitivity produced by spared nerve injury. Switching rats from (R,S)-AM1241 to vehicle self-administration also decreased lever responding in an extinction paradigm. (R,S)-AM1241 self-administration did not alter paw withdrawal thresholds in sham-operated or naive animals. The percentage of active lever responding was similar in naive groups self-administering vehicle or (R,S)-AM1241. The CB(2) antagonist SR144528 blocked both antiallodynic effects of (R,S)-AM1241 self-medication and the percentage of active lever responding in neuropathic (but not naive) rats. Neuropathic and sham groups exhibited similar percentages of active lever responding for (R,S)-AM1241 on a fixed ratio 1 (FR1) schedule. However, neuropathic animals worked harder than shams to obtain (R,S)-AM1241 when the schedule of reinforcement was increased (to FR6). (R,S)-AM1241 self-medication on FR1, FR3, or FR6 schedules attenuated nerve injury-induced mechanical allodynia. (R,S)-AM1241 (900g intravenously) failed to produce motor ataxia observed after administration of the mixed CB(1)/CB(2) agonist WIN55,212-2 (0.5mg/kg intravenously). Our results suggest that cannabinoid CB(2) agonists may be exploited to treat neuropathic pain with limited drug abuse liability and central nervous system side effects. These studies validate the use of drug self-administration methods for identifying nonpsychotropic analgesics possessing limited abuse potential. These methods offer potential to elucidate novel analgesics that suppress spontaneous neuropathic pain that is not measured by traditional assessments of evoked pain.
Patients with chronic pain conditions demonstrate altered central processing of experimental noxious stimuli, dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, and reduced quality of life. Dysmenorrhoea is not considered a chronic pain condition, but is associated with enhanced behavioural responses to experimental noxious stimuli. We used behavioural measures, functional magnetic resonance imaging, and serum steroid hormone levels to investigate the response to experimental thermal stimuli in otherwise healthy women, with and without dysmenorrhoea. Women with dysmenorrhoea reported increased pain to noxious stimulation of the arm and abdomen throughout the menstrual cycle; no menstrual cycle effect was observed in either group. During menstruation, deactivation of brain regions in response to noxious stimulation was observed in control women but not in women with dysmenorrhoea. Without background pain (ie, in nonmenstrual phases), activity in the entorhinal cortex appeared to mediate the increased responses in women with dysmenorrhoea. Mean cortisol was significantly lower in women with dysmenorrhoea and was negatively correlated with the duration of the symptom. Additionally, women with dysmenorrhoea reported significantly lower physical but not mental quality of life. Thus, many features of chronic pain conditions are also seen in women with dysmenorrhoea: specifically a reduction in quality of life, suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, and alterations in the central processing of experimental noxious stimuli. These alterations persist when there is no background pain and occur in response to stimuli at a site distant from that of the clinical pain. These findings indicate the potential importance of early and adequate treatment of dysmenorrhoea.

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an established treatment for essential tremor (ET). The nucleus ventralis intermedius thalami (Vim) is the target of choice, but promising results have been presented regarding DBS in the posterior subthalamic area (PSA). The aim of this study was to evaluate the possible influence of gender, age and severity of disease on the outcome of these procedures. Sixty eight patients (34 Vim, 34 PSA) with ET were included in this non-randomised study. Evaluation using the Essential Tremor Rating Scale (ETRS) was performed before, and one year after surgery concerning PSA DBS, and at a mean of 2824 months concerning Vim DBS. Items 5/6 and 11-14 (hand tremor and hand function) were selected for analysis of tremor outcome. The efficacy of DBS on essential tremor was not related to age or gender. Nor was it associated with the severity of tremor when the percentual reduction of tremor on stimulation was taken into account. However, patients with a more severe tremor at baseline had a higher degree of residual tremor on stimulation. Tremor in the treated hand and hand function were improved with 70% in the Vim group and 89% in the PSA group.
In contrast to our vast knowledge of the dopamine (DA) system, much less is known about the involvement of serotonin (5-HT) in neurodegenerative diseases affecting the basal ganglia. Therefore, we designed a study that aimed at characterizing the status of the striatal DA and 5-HT systems in patients who suffered from either Parkinson's (PD) or Huntington's disease (HD), compared to age-matched controls. Antibodies against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and 5-HT transporter (SERT) were used as markers of DA and 5-HT axonal profiles, respectively. The density and pattern of TH+ and SERT+innervation were determined by optical density measurements as well as by direct stereological estimates of labeled axon varicosities. The results reveal a significant decrease in TH immunoreactivity and TH+axon terminals throughout the striatum in both PD and HD, whereas the intensity of SERT immunostaining and the density of SERT+axon varicosities were found to be slightly increased in the striatum of PD and HD patients compared to controls. These findings reveal that the nigrostriatal DA system is significantly impaired in both PD and HD compared to the striatal 5-HT innervation, which is slightly increased in these two conditions. The striatal 5-HT augmentation observed in PD might be the result of a neural mechanism designed to compensate for DA denervation, whereas the marked atrophy of the striatum might explain the increase in the 5-HT innervation noted in HD. These findings underline the importance of the complex interplay between DA and 5-HT striatal afferents in the elaboration of appropriate motor behaviour.
The present study delineates the effect of tamoxifen on neuronal density and expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) in hippocampal nerve cells during prenatal and postnatal periods in rats. Pregnant rats were administered with tamoxifen one day prior to labor (E21) and on the childbirth day (E22). Hippocampi of embryos at E22 and newborns at postnatal days of 1, 7, and 21 (P1, P7, and P21) were investigated. Density of the neurons in areas of the developing hippocampus including cornu ammonis (CA1, CA3), dentate gyrus, and subiculum were studied. Our findings show that the number of pyramidal neurons was significantly decreased in CA1 and subiculum of tamoxifen-treated rats in E22, P1, and P7. We found that cellular density was lower in early stages of development, however, cellular density and thickness gradually increased during the development particularly in the third week. We found that nNOS expression was decreased in E22, P1, and P7 in animals treated with tamoxifen. The present study shows that tamoxifen affects development and differentiation of postnatal rat hippocampus, CA1 neurons, and nNOS expression.

Stress is a well-known risk factor in relapse to drug abuse. Several forms of stress in animals have been used with varied degrees of success to elicit reinstatement of drug-seeking after chronic drug self-administration. Here, we tested the ability of the benzodiazepine (BZ) inverse agonist, FG 7142, to elicit anxiety-like behavior and potentiate stress responses in rats as measured by standard behavioral and hormonal indices and for its ability to affect reinstatement of cocaine-seeking in rats with a prior history of cocaine self-administration. FG 7142 elicited anxiety-like behavior on the elevated plus maze (EPM) in cocaine-nave rats, and cocaine-nave rats injected with FG 7142 exhibited increased plasma corticosterone levels following EPM exposure. However, in animals with a history of cocaine self-administration, FG 7142 failed to affect elevated plus maze performance and did not affect plasma corticosterone response to the EPM. Furthermore, FG 7142 failed to reinstate cocaine-seeking, nor did it alter conditioned cue-induced reinstatement. These data indicate that the anxiety-related and stress potentiating qualities of BZ inverse agonism are attenuated in cocaine-experienced animals and do not lead to reinstatement of cocaine-seeking.
High energy diets can have a detrimental effect on brain plasticity. For example, a high fructose diet impairs spatial memory in male rats. The aim of the present study was to determine whether a high fructose diet impairs another form of learning and memory: drug reinforcement learning. Female Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a high fructose diet (60%) from weaning at postnatal day (PND) 21, then allowed to acquire lever-pressing maintained by intravenous (i.v.) amphetamine at PND 68, 109, or 165. Acquisition was tested on a fixed ratio one (FR1) schedule of reinforcement (0.025 mg/kg/infusion, 1h daily sessions, 10 sessions over 14 days), followed by testing for reinforcing efficacy on a progressive ratio (PR) schedule (0.025, 0.01, and 0.1mg/kg/infusion), 14 days of abstinence, and within-session extinction and reinstatement tests. Subsequently, water maze acquisition and retention were tested in these subjects as well as a separate cohort tested in the water maze only. The diet had no effect on acquisition, reinforcing efficacy, extinction, or reinstatement of amphetamine seeking. Nor did the diet alter any measures of spatial memory. The high fructose diet did decrease body mass and increase relative liver and spleen mass, but did not affect plasma triglyceride concentrations consistently. Together with prior research on males, these results suggest that the metabolism of fructose and the effects of a high fructose diet on learning and memory may be sex-dependent.
In general, faster infusions of cocaine are more likely to support behavior related to abuse than are slower infusions. However, some studies of cocaine self-administration in rats have failed to support this finding, possibly because the effect was masked by other factors. One such factor may be the pairing of a stimulus with the infusion, a procedure that is known to facilitate acquisition of drug self-administration. We compared fast and slow infusions by allowing groups of rats to acquire cocaine self-administration at a dose of 1mg/kg/infusion, delivered over different durations (1.8 or 100 s). Two groups were trained with either short or long infusions paired with a visual stimulus change (lights off), and two other groups were trained with short or long durations but with no stimulus change. Both groups trained with a paired stimulus acquired cocaine self-administration. With no stimulus change, the rats trained with the 1.8-s infusion acquired cocaine self-administration at a rate comparable to the two groups that were trained with a paired stimulus. However, most rats in the group trained with the 100-s infusion that was not accompanied by a stimulus change failed to acquire cocaine self-administration. The stimulus itself did not support responding. These results indicate that infusing a given dose of cocaine over a longer duration reduces its ability to support self-administration, but drug-paired stimuli can partially mask this effect by enhancing the effectiveness of slow infusions.
A number of clinical reports have noted that women are more vulnerable to tobacco abuse than men, and adolescent females are especially vulnerable to nicotine addiction. Conditioned place preference (CPP) is a widely used technique for determining the rewarding effects of drugs with abuse potential in animal models. Several studies have reported that nicotine was ineffective in eliciting CPP in rats; while others have observed conditioned place aversion (CPA) rather than preference for nicotine. One recent investigation established CPP in adolescent female rats, however at a reasonably high dose; while a second reported dose dependence of nicotine-induced CPP in male but not female rats. The present study was designed to determine the lowest dose necessary to induce CPP to nicotine in adolescent female rats. Nicotine-induced CPP was obtained at a subcutaneous dose of 0.03 mg/kg (salt content) using a biased conditioning paradigm. Higher doses produced aversion and lower doses provided no rewarding or aversive effects. CPP persisted for at least 3 weeks following conditioning in the absence of further nicotine treatment. In contrast with results from adolescent human females and males, age-matched male rats also evidenced CPP at this very low dose of nicotine. These results indicate that even a low dose of nicotine is reinforcing and addicting in both adolescent male and female rats and brings into question the suggestion that nicotine induces greater addicting capacity in adolescent girls than boys.
Dysregulation in signaling of the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) is implicated in hyperresponsiveness to stress. We hypothesized that blockade of monoacylglycerol lipase (MGL), the primary enzyme responsible for 2-AG deactivation in vivo, would produce context-dependent anxiolytic effects in rats. Environmental aversiveness was manipulated by varying illumination of an elevated plus maze. Percentage open arm time and numbers of open and closed arm entries were measured in rats receiving a single intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of either vehicle, the MGL inhibitor JZL184 (1-8mg/kg), the benzodiazepine diazepam (1mg/kg), the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist rimonabant (1mg/kg), or JZL184 (8mg/kg) coadministered with rimonabant (1mg/kg). JZL184 (8mg/kg) produced anxiolytic-like effects (i.e., increased percentage open arm time and number of open arm entries) under high, but not low, levels of environmental aversiveness. Diazepam produced anxiolytic effects in either context. Rimonabant blocked the anxiolytic-like effects of JZL184, consistent with mediation by CB(1). Anxiolytic effects of JZL184 were preserved following chronic (8mg/kg per day6 days) administration. Chronic and acute JZL184 treatment similarly enhanced behavioral sensitivity to an exogenous cannabinoid (WIN55,212-2; 2.5mg/kg i.p.) 24 or 72h following the terminal injection, suggesting a pervasive effect of MGL inhibition on the endocannabinoid system. We attribute our results to alterations in emotion rather than locomotor activity as JZL184 did not alter the number of closed arm entries in the plus maze or produce motor ataxia in the bar test. Our results demonstrate that JZL184 has beneficial, context-dependent effects on anxiety in rats, presumably via inhibition of MGL-mediated hydrolysis of 2-AG. These data warrant further testing of MGL inhibitors to elucidate the functional role of 2-AG in controlling anxiety and stress responsiveness. Our data further implicate a role for 2-AG in the regulation of emotion and validate MGL as a therapeutic target.
Three different NO donors, S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and 3-morpholino-sydnonimine hydrochloride (SIN-1) were used in order to investigate mechanisms of platelet inhibition through cGMP-dependent and -independent pathways both in human and rat. To this purpose, we also evaluated to what extent cGMP-independent pathways were related with the entity of NO release from each drug. SNP, GSNO and SIN-1 (100 M) effects on platelet aggregation, in the presence or absence of a soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor (ODQ), on fibrinogen receptor ((IIb)(3)) binding to specific antibody (PAC-1), and on the entity of NO release from NO donors in human and rat platelet rich plasma (PRP) were measured. Inhibition of platelet aggregation (induced by ADP) resulted to be greater in human than in rat. GSNO was the most powerful inhibitor (IC(50) values, M): (a) in human, GSNO=0.520.09, SNP=2.83  0.53, SIN-1=2.98  1.06; (b) in rat, GSNO = 28.4  6.9, SNP = 265  73, SIN-1=108  85. GSNO action in both species was mediated by cGMP-independent mechanisms and characterized by the highest NO release in PRP. SIN-1 and SNP displayed mixed mechanisms of inhibition of platelet aggregation (cGMP-dependent and independent), except for SIN-1 in rat (cGMP-dependent), and respectively lower or nearly absent NO delivery. Conversely, all NO-donors prevalently inhibited PAC-1 binding to (IIb)(3) through cGMP-dependent pathways. A modest relationship between NO release from NO donors and cGMP-independent responses was found. Interestingly, the species difference in NO release from GSNO and inhibition by cGMP-independent mechanism was respectively attributed to S-nitrosylation of non-essential and essential protein SH groups.
Vastly stimulated by the discovery of opioid receptors in the early 1970s, preclinical and clinical research was directed at the study of stereoselective neuronal actions of opioids, especially those played in their crucial analgesic role. However, during the past decade, a new appreciation of the non-neuronal actions of opioids has emerged from preclinical research, with specific appreciation for the nonclassic and nonstereoselective sites of action. Opioid activity at Toll-like receptors, newly recognized innate immune pattern recognition receptors, adds substantially to this unfolding story. It is now apparent from molecular and rodent data that these newly identified signaling events significantly modify the pharmacodynamics of opioids by eliciting proinflammatory reactivity from glia, the immunocompetent cells of the central nervous system. These central immune signaling events, including the release of cytokines and chemokines and the associated disruption of glutamate homeostasis, cause elevated neuronal excitability, which subsequently decreases opioid analgesic efficacy and leads to heightened pain states. This review will examine the current preclinical literature of opioid-induced central immune signaling mediated by classic and nonclassic opioid receptors. A unification of the preclinical pharmacology, neuroscience, and immunology of opioids now provides new insights into common mechanisms of chronic pain, naive tolerance, analgesic tolerance, opioid-induced hyperalgesia, and allodynia. Novel pharmacological targets for future drug development are discussed in the hope that disease-modifying chronic pain treatments arising from the appreciation of opioid-induced central immune signaling may become practical.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a morphologically and functionally diverse organelle capable of integrating multiple extracellular and internal signals and generating adaptive cellular responses. It plays fundamental roles in protein synthesis and folding and in cellular responses to metabolic and proteotoxic stress. In addition, the ER stores and releases Ca(2+) in sophisticated scenarios that regulate a range of processes in excitable cells throughout the body, including muscle contraction and relaxation, endocrine regulation of metabolism, learning and memory, and cell death. One or more Ca(2+) ATPases and two types of ER membrane Ca(2+) channels (inositol trisphosphate and ryanodine receptors) are the major proteins involved in ER Ca(2+) uptake and release, respectively. There are also direct and indirect interactions of ER Ca(2+) stores with plasma membrane and mitochondrial Ca(2+)-regulating systems. Pharmacological agents that selectively modify ER Ca(2+) release or uptake have enabled studies that revealed many different physiological roles for ER Ca(2+) signaling. Several inherited diseases are caused by mutations in ER Ca(2+)-regulating proteins, and perturbed ER Ca(2+) homeostasis is implicated in a range of acquired disorders. Preclinical investigations suggest a therapeutic potential for use of agents that target ER Ca(2+) handling systems of excitable cells in disorders ranging from cardiac arrhythmias and skeletal muscle myopathies to Alzheimer disease.
Because G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) continue to represent excellent targets for the discovery and development of small-molecule therapeutics, it is posited that additional protein components of the signal transduction pathways emanating from activated GPCRs themselves are attractive as drug discovery targets. This review considers the drug discovery potential of two such components: members of the &quot;regulators of G-protein signaling&quot; (RGS protein) superfamily, as well as their substrates, the heterotrimeric G-protein  subunits. Highlighted are recent advances, stemming from mouse knockout studies and the use of &quot;RGS-insensitivity&quot; and fast-hydrolysis mutations to G, in our understanding of how RGS proteins selectively act in (patho)physiologic conditions controlled by GPCR signaling and how they act on the nucleotide cycling of heterotrimeric G-proteins in shaping the kinetics and sensitivity of GPCR signaling. Progress is documented regarding recent activities along the path to devising screening assays and chemical probes for the RGS protein target, not only in pursuits of inhibitors of RGS domain-mediated acceleration of G GTP hydrolysis but also to embrace the potential of finding allosteric activators of this RGS protein action. The review concludes in considering the G subunit itself as a drug target, as brought to focus by recent reports of activating mutations to GNAQ and GNA11 in ocular (uveal) melanoma. We consider the likelihood of several strategies for antagonizing the function of these oncogene alleles and their gene products, including the use of RGS proteins with G(q) selectivity.
Mammalian ATP-gated nonselective cation channels (P2XRs) can be composed of seven possible subunits, denoted P2X1 to P2X7. Each subunit contains a large ectodomain, two transmembrane domains, and intracellular N and C termini. Functional P2XRs are organized as homomeric and heteromeric trimers. This review focuses on the binding sites involved in the activation (orthosteric) and regulation (allosteric) of P2XRs. The ectodomains contain three ATP binding sites, presumably located between neighboring subunits and formed by highly conserved residues. The detection and coordination of three ATP phosphate residues by positively charged amino acids are likely to play a dominant role in determining agonist potency, whereas an AsnPheArg motif may contribute to binding by coordinating the adenine ring. Nonconserved ectodomain histidines provide the binding sites for trace metals, divalent cations, and protons. The transmembrane domains account not only for the formation of the channel pore but also for the binding of ivermectin (a specific P2X4R allosteric regulator) and alcohols. The N- and C- domains provide the structures that determine the kinetics of receptor desensitization and/or pore dilation and are critical for the regulation of receptor functions by intracellular messengers, kinases, reactive oxygen species and mercury. The recent publication of the crystal structure of the zebrafish P2X4.1R in a closed state provides a major advance in the understanding of this family of receptor channels. We will discuss data obtained from numerous site-directed mutagenesis experiments accumulated during the last 15 years with reference to the crystal structure, allowing a structural interpretation of the molecular basis of orthosteric and allosteric ligand actions.
Introduced by Shannon as a &quot;rate of actual transmission,&quot; mutual information rate (MIR) is an extension of mutual information to a pair of dynamical processes. We show a delay-independence theorem, according to which MIR is not sensitive to a time shift between the two processes. Numerical studies of several benchmark situations confirm that this theoretical asymptotic property remains valid for realistic finite sequences. Estimations based on block entropies and a causal state machine algorithm perform better than an estimation based on a Lempel-Ziv compression algorithm provided that block length and maximum history length, respectively, can be chosen larger than the delay. MIR is thus a relevant index for measuring nonlinear correlations between two experimental or simulated sequences when the transmission delay (in input-output devices) or dephasing (in coupled systems) is variable or unknown.
Background and Purpose.Today, it is known that adults suffering from obesity benefit from physical activity. There is however lack of research with regard to how patients with severe obesity experience physical activity. It is important to explore this topic in order to be able to improve communication with and to tailor information and exercise programmes for patients suffering with obesity. The aim of the present qualitative study was to describe how adults with severe obesity, awaiting gastric bypass surgery experience physical activity.Methods.A qualitative method inspired by a phenomenographic approach was used to analyze the data. Data collection was performed by in-depth semi-structured interviews with 18 patients. All patients were aged between 18 and 65 years, suffered from severe obesity and were scheduled for laparoscopic Roux-en Y gastric bypass surgery at Sahlgrenska University Hospital in Sweden.Results.The analysis resulted in nine qualitatively different categories that were then divided into four aspects: 'the obese body', 'the mind', 'knowledge' and 'the environment'. Many patients experienced well-being after physical activity, but most patients were uncomfortable with appearing in public wearing exercise clothing. The excess weight itself was considered an obstacle, and weight loss was assumed to facilitate physical activity. Exercising together with someone at the same level of fitness increased motivation. A white lie about training was sometimes used to satisfy the need to be seen as capable.Conclusion.Physical activity is experienced positively among adults with severe obesity, but many obstacles exist that influence their capacity and their will. Support is necessary in different ways, not only to initiate physical activity, but also to maintain it. Copyright  2010 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.
Speech production involves the movement of the mouth and other regions of the face resulting in visual motion cues. These visual cues enhance intelligibility and detection of auditory speech. As such, face-to-face speech is fundamentally a multisensory phenomenon. If speech is fundamentally multisensory, it should be reflected in the evolution of vocal communication: similar behavioral effects should be observed in other primates. Old World monkeys share with humans vocal production biomechanics and communicate face-to-face with vocalizations. It is unknown, however, if they, too, combine faces and voices to enhance their perception of vocalizations. We show that they do: monkeys combine faces and voices in noisy environments to enhance their detection of vocalizations. Their behavior parallels that of humans performing an identical task. We explored what common computational mechanism(s) could explain the pattern of results we observed across species. Standard explanations or models such as the principle of inverse effectiveness and a &quot;race&quot; model failed to account for their behavior patterns. Conversely, a &quot;superposition model&quot;, positing the linear summation of activity patterns in response to visual and auditory components of vocalizations, served as a straightforward but powerful explanatory mechanism for the observed behaviors in both species. As such, it represents a putative homologous mechanism for integrating faces and voices across primates.
Traditional approaches to cognitive modelling generally portray cognitive events in terms of 'discrete' states (point attractor dynamics) rather than in terms of processes, thereby neglecting the time structure of cognition. In contrast, more recent approaches explicitly address this temporal dimension, but typically provide no entry points into cognitive categorization of events and experiences. With the aim to incorporate both these aspects, we propose a framework for functional architectures. Our approach is grounded in the notion that arbitrary complex (human) behaviour is decomposable into functional modes (elementary units), which we conceptualize as low-dimensional dynamical objects (structured flows on manifolds). The ensemble of modes at an agent's disposal constitutes his/her functional repertoire. The modes may be subjected to additional dynamics (termed operational signals), in particular, instantaneous inputs, and a mechanism that sequentially selects a mode so that it temporarily dominates the functional dynamics. The inputs and selection mechanisms act on faster and slower time scales then that inherent to the modes, respectively. The dynamics across the three time scales are coupled via feedback, rendering the entire architecture autonomous. We illustrate the functional architecture in the context of serial behaviour, namely cursive handwriting. Subsequently, we investigate the possibility of recovering the contributions of functional modes and operational signals from the output, which appears to be possible only when examining the output phase flow (i.e., not from trajectories in phase space or time).
We present a model for flicker phosphenes, the spontaneous appearance of geometric patterns in the visual field when a subject is exposed to diffuse flickering light. We suggest that the phenomenon results from interaction of cortical lateral inhibition with resonant periodic stimuli. We find that the best temporal frequency for eliciting phosphenes is a multiple of intrinsic (damped) oscillatory rhythms in the cortex. We show how both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the patterns change with frequency of stimulation and provide an explanation for these differences. We use Floquet theory combined with the theory of pattern formation to derive the parameter regimes where the phosphenes occur. We use symmetric bifurcation theory to show why low frequency flicker should produce hexagonal patterns while high frequency produces pinwheels, targets, and spirals.
Chloride homeostasis is a critical determinant of the strength and robustness of inhibition mediated by GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs). The impact of changes in steady state Cl(-) gradient is relatively straightforward to understand, but how dynamic interplay between Cl(-) influx, diffusion, extrusion and interaction with other ion species affects synaptic signaling remains uncertain. Here we used electrodiffusion modeling to investigate the nonlinear interactions between these processes. Results demonstrate that diffusion is crucial for redistributing intracellular Cl(-) load on a fast time scale, whereas Cl(-)extrusion controls steady state levels. Interaction between diffusion and extrusion can result in a somato-dendritic Cl(-) gradient even when KCC2 is distributed uniformly across the cell. Reducing KCC2 activity led to decreased efficacy of GABA(A)R-mediated inhibition, but increasing GABA(A)R input failed to fully compensate for this form of disinhibition because of activity-dependent accumulation of Cl(-). Furthermore, if spiking persisted despite the presence of GABA(A)R input, Cl(-) accumulation became accelerated because of the large Cl(-) driving force that occurs during spikes. The resulting positive feedback loop caused catastrophic failure of inhibition. Simulations also revealed other feedback loops, such as competition between Cl(-) and pH regulation. Several model predictions were tested and confirmed by [Cl(-)](i) imaging experiments. Our study has thus uncovered how Cl(-) regulation depends on a multiplicity of dynamically interacting mechanisms. Furthermore, the model revealed that enhancing KCC2 activity beyond normal levels did not negatively impact firing frequency or cause overt extracellular K(-) accumulation, demonstrating that enhancing KCC2 activity is a valid strategy for therapeutic intervention.
Neuritogenesis is a critical early step in the development and maturation of neurons and neuronal circuits. While extracellular directional cues are known to specify the site and orientation of nascent neurite formation in vivo, little is known about the genetic pathways that block inappropriate neurite emergence in order to maintain proper neuronal polarity. Here we report that the Caenorhabditis elegans orthologues of Van Gogh (vang-1), Prickle (prkl-1), and Dishevelled (dsh-1), core components of planar cell polarity (PCP) signaling, are required in a subset of peripheral motor neurons to restrict neurite emergence to a specific organ axis. In loss-of-function mutants, neurons display supernumerary neurites that extend inappropriately along the orthogonal anteroposterior (A/P) body axis. We show that autonomous and non-autonomous gene activities are required early and persistently to inhibit the formation or consolidation of growth cone protrusions directed away from organ precursor cells. Furthermore, prkl-1 overexpression is sufficient to suppress neurite formation and reorient neuronal polarity in a vang-1- and dsh-1-dependent manner. Our findings suggest a novel role for a PCP-like pathway in maintaining polarized neuronal morphology by inhibiting neuronal responses to extrinsic or intrinsic cues that would otherwise promote extraneous neurite formation.
OBJECTIVES Over the past 10 years there has been increasing concern about the possible behavioural effects of mobile phone use. This systematic review and meta-analysis focuses on studies published since 1999 on the human cognitive and performance effects of mobile phone-related electromagnetic fields (EMF). METHODS PubMed, Biomed, Medline, Biological Sciences, PsychInfo, PsycARTICLES, Environmental Sciences and Pollution Management, Neurosciences Abstracts and Web of Science professional databases were searched and 24 studies selected for meta-analysis. Each study had to have at least one psychomotor measurement result as a main outcome. Data were analysed using standardised mean difference (SMD) as the effect size measure. RESULTS Only three tasks (2-back, 3-back and simple reaction time (SRT)) displayed significant heterogeneity, but after studies with extreme SMD were excluded using sensitivity analysis, the statistical significance disappeared ((2)(7)=1.63, p=0.20; (2)(6)=1.00, p=0.32; (2)(10)=14.04, p=0.17, respectively). Following sensitivity analysis, the effect of sponsorship and publication bias were assessed. Meta-regression indicated a significant effect (b1/40.12, p&lt;0.05) only for the 2-back task with mixed funding (industry and public/charity). Funnel plot inspection revealed a significant publication bias only for two cognitive tasks: SRT (Begg's rank correlation r=0.443; Egger's test b=-0.652) and the subtraction task (Egger's test b=-0.687). CONCLUSIONS Mobile phone-like EMF do not seem to induce cognitive and psychomotor effects. Nonetheless, the existence of sponsorship and publication biases should encourage WHO intervention to develop official research standards and guidelines. In addition, future research should address critical and neglected issues such as investigation of repeated, intensive and chronic exposures, especially in highly sensitive populations such as children.
Motor neurone disease (MND) is a rapidly progressive neurodegenerative condition. It affects people of all ages, but is more common with increasing age (especially over 50 years) and men are affected twice as often as women. The causes remain unknown, although around 5% of cases have a genetic basis. Survival is usually only three to five years from diagnosis. MND affects both upper and lower motor neurones, with variable contributions. The nerve involvement in MND usually has a focal onset, is asymmetrical, but tends to spread to adjacent regions of the body. If the affected region is in the legs, a common presenting feature is tripping, falls or foot drop. If it is in the arms there may be difficulty with fine tasks such as fastening buttons, or raising an arm, and if the cranial nerves are affected there may be slurring of speech, or difficulty swallowing. Key to the diagnosis is evidence of progression, and this may lead to some delay in considering and also confirming the diagnosis. When examining the patient, evidence of more widespread neuromuscular involvement should be looked for. In a patient with foot drop, and fasciculation of the tongue, MND would be a likely diagnosis. Upper motor neurone involvement may be readily determined by examining the reflexes. Brisk reflexes, in the arms, legs or jaw, in the context of features of lower motor neurone denervation are highly suggestive of MND. Suspicion of MND should lead to referral for a neurology opinion. The most useful investigation is likely to be EMG with nerve conduction studies, and probably MRI scan of relevant areas. Blood tests are arranged to screen for any other causative condition. Riluzole is a disease modifying drug licensed to extend the life of patients with MND. There is no treatment that will reverse, or halt, progression of the disease.
Most spiking neurons are divided into functional compartments: a dendritic input region, a soma, a site of action potential initiation, an axon trunk and its collaterals for propagation of action potentials, and distal arborizations and terminals carrying the output synapses. The axon trunk and lower order branches are probably the most neglected and are often assumed to do nothing more than faithfully conducting action potentials. Nevertheless, there are numerous reports of complex membrane properties in non-synaptic axonal regions, owing to the presence of a multitude of different ion channels. Many different types of sodium and potassium channels have been described in axons, as well as calcium transients and hyperpolarization-activated inward currents. The complex time- and voltage-dependence resulting from the properties of ion channels can lead to activity-dependent changes in spike shape and resting potential, affecting the temporal fidelity of spike conduction. Neural coding can be altered by activity-dependent changes in conduction velocity, spike failures, and ectopic spike initiation. This is true under normal physiological conditions, and relevant for a number of neuropathies that lead to abnormal excitability. In addition, a growing number of studies show that the axon trunk can express receptors to glutamate, GABA, acetylcholine or biogenic amines, changing the relative contribution of some channels to axonal excitability and therefore rendering the contribution of this compartment to neural coding conditional on the presence of neuromodulators. Long-term regulatory processes, both during development and in the context of activity-dependent plasticity may also affect axonal properties to an underappreciated extent.
Beginning with a prominent article by Crick and Koch in 1995 (Nature 375, 121-123), cognitive neuroscience has witnessed an intensive debate about whether or not neural activity in primary visual cortex correlates with conscious visual experience. While some studies--especially those employing functional magnetic resonance imaging--imply that this is the case, others--particularly those recording from single neurons--suggest that it is not. In the light of this ongoing controversy, it is surprising that the analogous question in other sensory modalities has received far less attention. The first part of the present article reviews studies relevant to the role of primary auditory and primary somatosensory cortices in conscious auditory and tactile experience. As will become evident, the results of these studies, at least at first sight, appear no less contradictory than those obtained in the visual modality--in fact, they evidence discrepancies that resemble those found in the visual system to an impressive degree. The second part of the article attempts to reconcile the seemingly contradictory data by suggesting that only activity induced in the primary sensory cortices through cortico-cortical top-down signals can become consciously accessible, whereas activity induced by bottom-up signals from the thalamus cannot. This conclusion is in line with the earlier proposals of several prominent neuroscientists that portrayed conscious perception as the result of an active interpretative process by the brain, rather than a passive reflection of the environment.
Studying fear extinction is a major topic in neuroscience. No information on systematic studies on the linkage of contextual fear conditioning (cFC) with hippocampal protein levels is available and we were therefore interested in protein differences between animals with poor and good extinction. cFC was carried out in C57BL/6J mice, hippocampi were taken and proteins were run on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis with subsequent quantification of protein spots. In-gel digestion with trypsin and identification by ion trap MS/MS (high-capacity ion trap) was used for the identification of significantly different hippocampal proteins between mice with good and poor performance of extinction. Signaling protein ras-related protein rab-7A and septin 8 levels were significantly higher in hippocampus of poor extinguishers, whereas ubiquitin carboxyterminal hydrolase isozyme L1 showed higher levels in animals with good extinction performance. A series of additional proteins showed significantly different levels between groups but the abovementioned were confirmed by immunoblotting. The abovementioned proteins have never been reported to be linked to extinction, memory, or learning and herein evidence for the involvement of several proteins in extinction mechanism as well as probably representing pharmaceutical targets is provided. Moreover, it is intriguing to demonstrate the differences between good and poor extinction performance at the protein level.

Treatment for Bipolar Affective Disorder is at present largely empirical, in the lack of a definitive understanding of the biological basis of the condition. Many theories have been proposed regarding the underlying neurobiology. These have included aetiologies relating to altered neurotrophic factor expression, mitochondrial endoplasmic reticulum dysfunction with related calcium changes, and loss of inhibitory interneurons. Here an attempt is made to integrate such current understanding, in part by considering the changes observed in migraine - a condition which has a number of similarities with bipolar disorder.
It has been estimated that the heritable component of bipolar disorder ranges between 80 and 90%. However, even genome-wide association studies explain only a fraction of phenotypic variability not resolving the problem of &quot;lost heritability&quot;. Although direct evidence for epigenetic dysfunction in bipolar disorder is still limited, methodological technologies in epigenomic profiling have advanced, offering even single cell analysing and resolving the problem of cell heterogeneity in epigenetics research. Gene overlapping with other mental disorders represents another problem in identifying potential susceptibility genes in bipolar disorder. Better understanding of the interplay between multiple environmental and genetic factors involved in the patogenesis of bipolar disorder could provide relevant information for treatment of patients with this complex disorder. Future studies on the role of these factors in psychopathological conditions, subphenotypes and endophenotypes may greatly benefit by using more precise clinical data and a combined approach with multiple research tools incorporated into a single study.
The management of depression has recently been the focus of several articles, in particular regarding the efficacy of pharmacological and other treatments. In order for these to be effective as possible, correct diagnosis, consideration of the underlying neurobiology and an appropriate provision of healthcare services must be ensured.

This study evaluated the internal structure and convergent and discriminant evidence for the Colorado Learning Difficulties Questionnaire (CLDQ), a 20-item parent-report rating scale that was developed to provide a brief screening measure for learning difficulties. CLDQ ratings were obtained from parents of children in 2 large community samples and 2 samples from clinics that specialize in the assessment of learning disabilities and related disorders (total N = 8,004). Exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses revealed 5 correlated but separable dimensions that were labeled reading, math, social cognition, social anxiety, and spatial difficulties. Results revealed strong convergent and discriminant evidence for the CLDQ Reading scale, suggesting that this scale may provide a useful method to screen for reading difficulties in both research studies and clinical settings. Results are also promising for the other 4 CLDQ scales, but additional research is needed to refine each of these measures.
The commentaries on my article contain a number of points with which I disagree but also several with which I agree. For example, I continue to believe that the existence of many cases in which between-person variability does not increase with age indicates that greater variance with increased age is not inevitable among healthy individuals up to about 80 years of age. I also do not believe that problems of causal inferences from correlational information are more severe in the cognitive neuroscience of aging than in other research areas; I contend instead that neglect of these problems has led to confusion about neurobiological underpinnings of cognitive aging. I agree that researchers need to be cautious in extrapolating from cross-sectional to longitudinal relations, but I also note that even longitudinal data are limited with respect to their ability to support causal inferences.
Salthouse (2011) argued that (a) variance between individuals on cognitive test scores remains constant between 20 and 90 years of age and (b) widely recognized problems of deducing functional relationships from patterns of correlations between measurements become especially severe for neuropsychological indices, especially for gross indices of age-related brain changes (e.g., losses of brain volume or increases in white matter lesions). I argue that between-individual variability on cognitive tests does increase with age and provides useful information on causes of age-related cognitive decline. I suggest that problems of inference from correlations are just as difficult for behavioral as for neurophysiological indices and that inclusion, in analyses, of even gross measures of brain status such as loss of volume and white matter lesions can correct misinterpretations that occur when only behavioral data are examined.
We find much of interest, and little to disagree with, in the commentaries on our article. We take issue only with the suggestion that our article was provocative and submit that the attempt to understand the use of stimulants as smart pills does not imply an endorsement of the practice.
Use of prescription stimulants by normal healthy individuals to enhance cognition is said to be on the rise. Who is using these medications for cognitive enhancement, and how prevalent is this practice? Do prescription stimulants in fact enhance cognition for normal healthy people? We review the epidemiological and cognitive neuroscience literatures in search of answers to these questions. Epidemiological issues addressed include the prevalence of nonmedical stimulant use, user demographics, methods by which users obtain prescription stimulants, and motivations for use. Cognitive neuroscience issues addressed include the effects of prescription stimulants on learning and executive function, as well as the task and individual variables associated with these effects. Little is known about the prevalence of prescription stimulant use for cognitive enhancement outside of student populations. Among college students, estimates of use vary widely but, taken together, suggest that the practice is commonplace. The cognitive effects of stimulants on normal healthy people cannot yet be characterized definitively, despite the volume of research that has been carried out on these issues. Published evidence suggests that declarative memory can be improved by stimulants, with some evidence consistent with enhanced consolidation of memories. Effects on the executive functions of working memory and cognitive control are less reliable but have been found for at least some individuals on some tasks. In closing, we enumerate the many outstanding questions that remain to be addressed by future research and also identify obstacles facing this research.

Visual pop-out occurs when a unique visual target (e.g., a feature singleton) is present in a set of homogeneous distractors. However, the role of visual awareness in this process remains unclear. In the experiments reported here, we showed that even though subjects were not aware of a suppressed pop-out display, their subsequent performance on an orientation-discrimination task was significantly better at the pop-out location than at a control location. These results indicate that conscious visual awareness of a feature singleton is not necessary for it to attract attention. Furthermore, the subliminal pop-out effect disappeared when subjects diverted their attention toward a rapid sequential visual presentation task while presented with the same subliminal pop-out display. These results suggest that top-down attention is necessary for the subliminal pop-out effect and that the cognitive processes underlying attention and awareness are somewhat independent.



In seasonal breeders, reproduction is synchronised by day length via the pineal hormone melatonin. In short winter days (short day, SD), the Syrian hamster displays a complete gonadal atrophy together with a marked reduction in expression of kisspeptins (Kp), a family of potent hypothalamic stimulators of GNRH neurons. Both central and peripheral acute injections of Kp have been reported to activate the gonadotropic axis in mammals. The aim of this study was to determine if and how peripheral administration of Kp54 could restore gonadal function in photo-inhibited hamsters. Testicular activity of hamsters kept in SD was reactivated by two daily i.p. injections of Kp54 but not by chronic subcutaneous delivery of the same peptide via mini-pumps. Acute i.p. injection of Kp54-induced FOS (c-Fos) expression in a large number of GNRH neurons and pituitary gonadotrophs together with a strong increase in circulating testosterone. The activation of pituitary cells by Kp was inhibited by preadministration of the GNRH receptor antagonist acyline. Altogether, our results demonstrate that peripheral Kp54 activates the gonadotropic axis by stimulating GNRH release and indicate that an appropriate protocol of long-term systemic Kp administration can recrudesce a photo-inhibited reproductive axis.
Fatty acids released from white adipose tissue (WAT) provide important energy substrates during fasting. However, uncontrolled fatty acid release from WAT during non-fasting states causes lipotoxicity and promotes inflammation and insulin resistance, which can lead to and worsen type 2 diabetes (DM2). WAT is also a source for insulin sensitizing fatty acids such as palmitoleate produced during de novo lipogenesis. Insulin and leptin are two major hormonal adiposity signals that control energy homeostasis through signaling in the central nervous system. Both hormones have been implicated to regulate both WAT lipolysis and de novo lipogenesis through the mediobasal hypothalamus (MBH) in an opposing fashion independent of their respective peripheral receptors. Here, we review the current literature on brain leptin and insulin action in regulating WAT metabolism and discuss potential mechanisms and neuro-anatomical substrates that could explain the opposing effects of central leptin and insulin. Finally, we discuss the role of impaired hypothalamic control of WAT metabolism in the pathogenesis of insulin resistance, metabolic inflexibility and type 2 diabetes.
Here we review the emerging neurobiological understanding of the role of the brain's reward system in the regulation of body weight in health and in disease. Common obesity is characterized by the over-consumption of palatable/rewarding foods, reflecting an imbalance in the relative importance of hedonic versus homeostatic signals. The popular 'incentive salience theory' of food reward recognises not only a hedonic/pleasure component ('liking') but also an incentive motivation component ('wanting' or 'reward-seeking'). Central to the neurobiology of the reward mechanism is the mesoaccumbal dopamine system that confers incentive motivation not only for natural rewards such as food but also by artificial rewards (eg. addictive drugs). Indeed, this mesoaccumbal dopamine system receives and integrates information about the incentive (rewarding) value of foods with information about metabolic status. Problematic over-eating likely reflects a changing balance in the control exerted by hypothalamic versus reward circuits and/or it could reflect an allostatic shift in the hedonic set point for food reward. Certainly, for obesity to prevail, metabolic satiety signals such as leptin and insulin fail to regain control of appetitive brain networks, including those involved in food reward. On the other hand, metabolic control could reflect increased signalling by the stomach-derived orexigenic hormone, ghrelin. We have shown that ghrelin activates the mesoaccumbal dopamine system and that central ghrelin signalling is required for reward from both chemical drugs (eg alcohol) and also from palatable food. Future therapies for problematic over-eating and obesity may include drugs that interfere with incentive motivation, such as ghrelin antagonists.

Muscle pathology plays a central role in the diagnosis of muscle diseases. Proper handling, fixation and transportation of muscle biopsy specimens are necessary to avoid artifacts. Hematoxylin and eosin provides information on basic morphological abnormalities, including general structural changes, fiber size variation, necrosis and regeneration, endomysial fibrosis and lymphocyte infiltration. Modified Gomori trichrome is useful to detect abnormal structures including protein aggregates. NADH-tetrazolium reductase highlights intermyofibrillar network, thus serving to detect myofibrillar disorganization. Myosin ATPase is used for evaluating fiber types. Selective type 1 fiber atrophy reflects myopathic process while fiber type grouping reinnervating process. The final interpretation whether the biopsy demonstrates myopathic or neuropathic changes is based upon all these findings.



Tumour-loaded dendritic cells (DCs) from patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) matured using an -type 1-polarized DC cocktail (IL-1/TNF-/IFN-/IFN-/poly-I:C;DC1) were recently shown to induce more functional CD8(+) T cells against autologous tumour cells in vitro than DCs matured with the 'standard' cocktail (IL-1/TNF-/IL-6/PGE(2) ;PGE(2) DCs). However, the ability of vaccine DCs to induce a type 1-polarized immune response in vivo probably relies on additional features, including their ability to induce a CXCR3-dependent recruitment of NK cells into vaccine-draining lymph nodes. Moreover, their guiding of rare tumour-specific CD8(+) T cells to sites of DC-CD4(+) T cell interactions by secretion of CCL3 and CCL4 is needed. We therefore analysed the chemokine profile and the lymphocyte-attracting ability in vitro of monocyte-derived PGE(2) DCs and DC1s from patients with CLL. DC1s produced much higher levels of CXCR3 ligands (CXCL9/CXCL10/CXCL11) than PGE(2) DCs. Functional studies further demonstrated that DC1s were superior recruiters of both NK and NKT cells. Moreover, DC1s produced higher levels of CCL3/CCL4 upon CD40 ligation. These findings suggest that functional DC1s, derived from patients with CLL, produce a desirable NK-, NKT- and CD8(+) T cell-attracting chemokine profile which may favour a guided and Th1-deviated priming of CD8(+) T cells, supporting the idea that DC1-based vaccines have a higher immunotherapeutic potential than PGE(2) DCs.
While the role of neurocognitive impairment in predicting functional outcome in chronic schizophrenia is now widely accepted, the results that have examined this relationship in the early phase of psychosis are surprisingly rather mixed. The predictive role of cognitive impairment early in the illness is of particular interest because interventions during this initial period may help to prevent the development of chronic disability. In a University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) longitudinal study, we assessed schizophrenia patients with a recent first episode of psychosis using a neurocognitive battery at an initial clinically stabilized outpatient point and then followed them during continuous treatment over the next 9 months. Three orthogonal cognitive factors were derived through principal components analysis: working memory, attention and early perceptual processing, and verbal memory and processing speed. All patients were provided a combination of maintenance antipsychotic medication, case management, group skills training, and family education in a UCLA research clinic. A modified version of the Social Adjustment Scale was used to assess work outcome. Multiple regression analyses indicate that the combination of the 3 neurocognitive factors predicts 52% of the variance in return to work or school by 9 months after outpatient clinical stabilization. These data strongly support the critical role of neurocognitive factors in recovery of work functioning after an onset of schizophrenia. Cognitive remediation and other interventions targeting these early cognitive deficits are of major importance to attempts to prevent chronic disability.
Research on emotional processing in schizophrenia suggests relatively intact subjective responses to affective stimuli &quot;in the moment.&quot; However, neuroimaging evidence suggests diminished activation in brain regions associated with emotional processing in schizophrenia. We asked whether given a more vulnerable cognitive system in schizophrenia, individuals with this disorder would show increased or decreased modulation of working memory (WM) as a function of the emotional content of stimuli compared with healthy control subjects. In addition, we examined whether higher anhedonia levels were associated with a diminished impact of emotion on behavioral and brain activation responses. In the present study, 38 individuals with schizophrenia and 32 healthy individuals completed blocks of a 2-back WM task in a functional magnetic resonance imaging scanning session. Blocks contained faces displaying either only neutral stimuli or neutral and emotional stimuli (happy or fearful faces), randomly intermixed and occurring both as targets and non-targets. Both groups showed higher accuracy but slower reaction time for negative compared to neutral stimuli. Individuals with schizophrenia showed intact amygdala activity in response to emotionally evocative stimuli, but demonstrated altered dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and hippocampal activity while performing an emotionally loaded WM-task. Higher levels of social anhedonia were associated with diminished amygdala responses to emotional stimuli and increased DLPFC activity in individuals with schizophrenia. Emotional arousal may challenge dorsal-frontal control systems, which may have both beneficial and detrimental influences. Our findings suggest that disturbances in emotional processing in schizophrenia relate to alterations in emotion-cognition interactions rather than to the perception and subjective experience of emotion per se.

Impairment in recognizing facial emotions is a prominent feature of schizophrenia patients, but the underlying mechanism of this impairment remains unclear. This study investigated the specific aspects of visual information that are critical for schizophrenia patients to recognize emotional expression. Using the Bubbles technique, we probed the use of visual information during a facial emotion discrimination task (fear vs. happy) in 21 schizophrenia patients and 17 healthy controls. Visual information was sampled through randomly located Gaussian apertures (or &quot;bubbles&quot;) at 5 spatial frequency scales. Online calibration of the amount of face exposed through bubbles was used to ensure 75% overall accuracy for each subject. Least-square multiple linear regression analyses between sampled information and accuracy were performed to identify critical visual information that was used to identify emotional expression. To accurately identify emotional expression, schizophrenia patients required more exposure of facial areas (i.e., more bubbles) compared with healthy controls. To identify fearful faces, schizophrenia patients relied less on bilateral eye regions at high-spatial frequency compared with healthy controls. For identification of happy faces, schizophrenia patients relied on the mouth and eye regions; healthy controls did not utilize eyes and used the mouth much less than patients did. Schizophrenia patients needed more facial information to recognize emotional expression of faces. In addition, patients differed from controls in their use of high-spatial frequency information from eye regions to identify fearful faces. This study provides direct evidence that schizophrenia patients employ an atypical strategy of using visual information to recognize emotional faces.
The implications of increased understanding of the genetic contribution to schizophrenia for patients and their families remain unclear. We carried out a study of Chinese patients'(n=118) and relatives' (n=78) views of illness severity, attribution of cause, concern about developing illness, and effect of schizophrenia on family planning. A comparison sample of English-survey respondents was also obtained, using the same series of questions (n=42 patients, n=127 relatives). Fewer Chinese patients and family members rated schizophrenia as very severe (33%) than did the predominantly North American respondents (67%, p&lt;0.0001). The pattern of attribution of cause differed between samples (p&lt;0.0001), favoring environmental alone in the Chinese sample (52%), with a low frequency of genetics alone (9%). Although comparatively fewer Chinese respondents were very concerned about developing schizophrenia themselves or about the risk of illness in their families (21%), this high level of concern was more common in family members (28%). Finally, Chinese respondents were somewhat less likely to indicate that schizophrenia impacted on family planning decisions (31%) than were English-survey respondents (45%, p=0.02). The descriptive findings contribute to understanding schizophrenia in China. The comparative findings must be regarded as preliminary, since differences in demographics could influence results. The present findings suggest that understanding patients' and families' attributions of cause of schizophrenia may be important for developing a shared model of illness in order to decrease stigmatization, and improve therapeutic alliances.
This prospective analysis aimed to study the influence of psychopathological dimensions on the global functioning of persons suffering from psychotic disorders, taking into account the role of a broad range of potential confounders. A large international cohort (n=1888) with ICD-10 non-affective psychosis was evaluated both at baseline during a hospital admission and three months after discharge. Trained interviewers administered a global functioning scale (GAF) and a psychopathological scale (BPRS) at baseline and follow-up). Baseline BPRS psychopathological dimensions were extracted using Principal Component Analysis. Results of multiple linear regression analyses demonstrated that affective symptoms (depressive or manic) prospectively predict a better global functioning, whilst agitation/cognitive symptoms determined poorer global functioning. Other predictors showing an independent effect on better global functioning were medication compliance, country of residence, female gender, married or coupled status, younger age and having a diagnosis of schizoaffective disorder rather than schizophrenia or other ICD-10 psychosis. A predicting model for global functioning in patients with psychosis is provided, showing that assessment of affective and agitation/cognitive symptoms should be emphasised during admission as they can be more informative than positive/negative symptoms in prospectively planning follow-up care that is geared towards a better functional recovery.





A deterministic model is a modeling paradigm that determines the relationships between a movement outcome measure and the biomechanical factors that produce such a measure. This review provides an overview of the use of deterministic models in biomechanics research, a historical summary of this research, and an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of using deterministic models. The deterministic model approach has been utilized in technique analysis over the last three decades, especially in swimming, athletics field events, and gymnastics. In addition to their applications in sports and exercise biomechanics, deterministic models have been applied successfully in research on selected motor skills. The advantage of the deterministic model approach is that it helps to avoid selecting performance or injury variables arbitrarily and to provide the necessary theoretical basis for examining the relative importance of various factors that influence the outcome of a movement task. Several disadvantages of deterministic models, such as the use of subjective measures for the performance outcome, were discussed. It is recommended that exercise and sports biomechanics scholars should consider using deterministic models to help identify meaningful dependent variables in their studies.
Sciatic nerve injury is common and may cause neurological deficits. Previous studies showed that administration of neurotrophic factors (NTFs), naturally occurring proteins that support the development and survival of neurons, preserved and protected damaged motor neuron in the injured sciatic nerve. We have been successful in converting bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells into astrocyte-like cells that produce and secrete NTFs (NTF(+) cells). These cells demonstrate typical astrocyte morphology, express characteristic astrocyte markers and secrete high levels of NTFs. We have already shown that these cells and their conditioned media can protect neurons in culture and in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases. In the current study we examined whether NTF(+) cells are capable of rescuing motor neurons in a rat sciatic nerve injury model, where the right hind limb sciatic nerve was crushed. Rats were transplanted with NTF(+) cells, MSCs or PBS into the lesion site. In rats injected with the NTF(+) cells motor function was markedly preserved. Moreover, NTF(+) cells significantly inhibited the degeneration of the neuromuscular junctions and preserved the myelinated motor axons. Our findings suggest that autologous therapeutic approach can alleviate signs of sciatic nerve injury and probably other neurological disorders.
Niche homeostasis in the postnatal subependymal zone of the lateral ventricle (lSEZ) requires coordinated proliferation and differentiation of neural progenitor cells. The mechanisms regulating this balance are scarcely known. Recent observations indicate that the orphan nuclear receptor Tlx is an intrinsic factor essential in maintaining this balance. However, the effect of Tlx on gene expression depends on age and cell-type cues. Therefore, it is essential to establish its expression pattern at different developmental ages. Here, we show for the first time that in the neonatal lSEZ activated neural stem cells (NSCs) and especially transit-amplifying progenitors (TAPs) express Tlx and that its expression may be regulated at the posttranscriptional level. We also provide evidence that in both cell types Tlx affects gene expression in a positive and negative manner. In activated NSCs, but not in TAPs, absence of Tlx leads to overexpression of negative cell cycle regulators and impairment of proliferation. Moreover, in both cell types, the homeobox transcription factor Dlx2 is downregulated in the absence of Tlx. This is paralleled by increased expression of Olig2 in activated NSCs and glial fibrillary acidic protein in TAPs, indicating that in both populations Tlx decreases gliogenesis. Consistent with this, we found a higher proportion of cells expressing glial makers in the neonatal lSEZ of mutant mice than in the wild type counterpart. Thus, Tlx playing a dual role affects the expression of distinct genes in these two lSEZ cell types.
Amblyopia is a common visual disorder that results in a spatial acuity deficit in the affected eye. Orthodox treatment is to occlude the unaffected eye for lengthy periods, largely determined by the severity of the visual deficit at diagnosis. Although this treatment is not without its problems (poor compliance, potential to reduce binocular function, etc) it is effective in many children with moderate to severe amblyopia. Diagnosis and initiation of treatment early in life are thought to be critical to the success of this form of therapy. Occlusion is rarely undertaken in older children (more than 10 years old) as the visual benefits are considered to be marginal. Therefore, in subjects where occlusion is not effective or those missed by mass screening programs, there is no alternative therapy available later in life. More recently, burgeoning evidence has begun to reveal previously unrecognized levels of residual neural plasticity in the adult brain and scientists have developed new genetic, pharmacological, and behavioral interventions to activate these latent mechanisms in order to harness their potential for visual recovery. Prominent amongst these is the concept of perceptual learning--the fact that repeatedly practicing a challenging visual task leads to substantial and enduring improvements in visual performance over time. In the normal visual system the improvements are highly specific to the attributes of the trained stimulus. However, in the amblyopic visual system, learned improvements have been shown to generalize to novel tasks. In this paper we ask whether amblyopic deficits can be reduced in adulthood and explore the pattern of transfer of learned improvements. We also show that developing training protocols that target the deficit in stereo acuity allows the recovery of normal stereo function even in adulthood. This information will help guide further development of learning-based interventions in this clinical group.

The 2010 Neurobiology of Stress Workshop brought together scientists from all over the world to share and discuss their results from studies examining the consequences of acute, repeated, and chronic stressor exposure on health and disease. Session IV entitled &quot;The neurobiology of the stress-resistant brain&quot; explored how we can intervene to promote stress resistance and stress resilience. Four scientists, who explore this topic from unique and convergent perspectives, presented their experimental results derived from studies in rat (Fleshner and Maier), non-human primates (Lyons), and human (Raskind). Summaries of each presentation, supporting publications, and overall take-home messages from the session are presented.
This review summarizes the major discussion points of a symposium on stress modulation of cognitive and affective processes, which was held during the 2010 workshop on the neurobiology of stress (Boulder, CO, USA). The four discussants addressed a number of specific cognitive and affective factors that are modulated by exposure to acute or repeated stress. Dr David Morilak discussed the effects of various repeated stress situations on cognitive flexibility, as assessed with a rodent model of attentional set-shifting task, and how performance on slightly different aspects of this test is modulated by different prefrontal regions through monoaminergic neurotransmission. Dr Serge Campeau summarized the findings of several studies exploring a number of factors and brain regions that regulate habituation of various autonomic and neuroendocrine responses to repeated audiogenic stress exposures. Dr Kerry Ressler discussed a body of work exploring the modulation and extinction of fear memories in rodents and humans, especially focusing on the role of key neurotransmitter systems including excitatory amino acids and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Dr Israel Liberzon presented recent results on human decision-making processes in response to exogenous glucocorticoid hormone administration. Overall, these discussions are casting a wider framework on the cognitive/affective processes that are distinctly regulated by the experience of stress and some of the brain regions and neurotransmitter systems associated with these effects.




In the normal brain, age is associated with changes in gene expression. Age is also a prominent risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), where clinical features are similar to age-related decreases in cognitive performance. We hypothesized that some age-related changes in gene expression are accelerated in AD patients. To study this, we selected 10 candidate genes earlier shown by microarray analysis to be differentially expressed in AD (Emilsson et al., [2006] Neurobiol Dis 21:618-625). Using real-time PCR analysis and a control based statistical model, we investigated age-related changes in mRNA levels in a large collection of human brain postmortem tissues from AD patients and controls. Our results demonstrate that the age-related changes in gene expression are manifested earlier in AD. Furthermore, five of the genes (ITPKB, RGS4, RAB3A, STMN1, SYNGR3) have in common an involvement in neuronal calcium dependent signaling, a cellular process previously related to both AD and aging. These observations suggest that coordinated transcriptional changes associated with ageing and calcium homeostasis in the human brain are accelerated in patients with AD. Our results point to the possibility that the activity of these genes can be used in the future as a palette of biomarkers for predicting disease risk in young individuals.
Nimesulide (NIM), a widely used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), is known to interfere with mitochondrial physiology and to cause idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity. In this study, we characterized the effects of NIM on the physical properties of membrane models containing the main phospholipid classes of the inner mitochondrial membrane: phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) and cardiolipin (CL). NIM binding/incorporation was observed with the mitochondrial membrane mimicking model composed of dioleoyl PC (DOPC), dioleoyl PE (DOPE) and tetraoleoyl CL (TOCL) at a 1:1:1M ratio, as well as an increase of membrane permeability, monitored by calcein release, and an increase of lipid disorder, evaluated by fluorescence anisotropy of DPH-PA. Consistently, DSC thermograms of dipalmitoyl PC (DPPC) and a mixture of dipalmitoyl PE (DPPE) and TOCL (7:3 M ratio) showed a NIM-induced decrease of the cooperativity of the phase transition and a shift of the DPPC endotherm to lower temperatures. On the other hand, (31)P NMR studies with the ternary lipid model indicated a stabilizing effect of NIM on the lipid bilayer structure. Quenching of the fluorescent probes DPH and DPH-PA revealed a peripheral insertion of NIM in the hydrophobic portion of the bilayer. Our data indicate that NIM may influence mitochondria physiological processes by interfering with membrane structure and dynamics. The relevance of these findings will be discussed in terms of the reported NIM effects on mitochondria transmembrane potential, protonophoresis, and induction of the permeability transition pore.
In neurons, many receptors must be localized correctly to axons or dendrites for proper function. During development, receptors for nerve growth and guidance are targeted to axons and localized to growth cones where receptor activation by ligands results in promotion or inhibition of axon growth. Signaling outcomes downstream of ligand binding are determined by the location, levels and residence times of receptors on the neuronal plasma membrane. Therefore, the mechanisms controlling the trafficking of these receptors are crucial to the proper wiring of circuits. Membrane proteins accumulate on the axonal surface by multiple routes, including polarized sorting in the trans Golgi network, sorting in endosomes and removal by endocytosis. Endosomes also play important roles in the signaling pathways for both growth-promoting and -inhibiting molecules: signaling endosomes derived from endocytosis are important for signaling from growth cones to cell bodies. Growth-promoting neurotrophins and growth-inhibiting Nogo-A can use EHD4/Pincher-dependent endocytosis at the growth cone for their respective retrograde signaling. In addition to retrograde transport of endosomes, anterograde transport to axons in endosomes also occurs for several receptors, including the axon outgrowth-promoting cell adhesion molecule L1/NgCAM and TrkA. L1/NgCAM also depends on EHD4/Pincher-dependent endocytosis for its axonal polarization. In this review, we will focus on receptors whose trafficking has been reported to be modulated by the EHD4/Pincher family of endosomal regulators, namely L1/NgCAM, Trk and Nogo-A. We will first summarize the pathways underlying the axonal transport of these proteins and then discuss the potential roles of EHD4/Pincher in mediating their endocytosis.

Cerebral cavernous malformation is a clinically well-defined microvascular disorder predisposing to stroke; however, the major phenotype observed in zebrafish is the cardiac defect, specifically an enlarged heart. Less effort has been made to explore this phenotypic discrepancy between human and zebrafish. Given the fact that the gene products from Ccm1/Ccm2 are nearly identical between the two species, the common sense has dictated that the zebrafish animal model would provide a great opportunity to dissect the detailed molecular function of Ccm1/Ccm2 during angiogenesis. We recently reported on the cellular role of the Ccm1 gene in biochemical processes that permit proper angiogenic microvascular development in the zebrafish model. In the course of this experimentation, we encountered a vast amount of recent research on the relationship between dysfunctional angiogenesis and cardiovascular defects in zebrafish. Here we compile the findings of our research with the most recent contributions in this field and glean conclusions about the effect of defective angiogenesis on the developing cardiovascular system. Our conclusion also serves as a bridge for the phenotypic discrepancy between humans and animal models, which might provide some insights into future translational research on human stroke.
The method of delivery of stem cells is a major factor to consider in the design of clinical trials of cell therapy. Different methods of delivery will be associated with different risks to the patient, and may also be associated with different potential for benefit. Current approaches are partly informed by the routes selected for study in animal models of focal ischaemia and CNS transplantation, but there has been little work comparing the efficacy of different routes of administration. Direct intraparenchymal delivery of cells has been employed in several preliminary clinical trials, and data on the safety of this approach are reviewed.
Malaria is an important global health issue, killing nearly one million people worldwide each year. There is a disproportionate disease burden, since 89% of cases are of African origin, and 85% of deaths worldwide occur in children under 5 years of age of age.(1) Cerebral malaria (CM) is the most serious complication of infection. Despite prompt anti-malarial treatment, fatalities remain high - mortality rates while undergoing treatment with Artemisinin or quinine-based therapy reach 15% and 22% respectively.(2) There is, therefore, a need to develop an adjunct therapy to preserve neurological function during the treatment period. Recent experimental research has indicated hyperbaric oxygenation (HBO) to be a rational and effective adjunct therapy.(3) This article examines the current understanding of CM, and the possible benefits provided by HBO therapy.
Episodic memory is a polygenic behavioral trait with substantial heritability estimates. Despite its complexity, recent empirical evidence supports the notion that behavioral genetic studies of episodic memory might successfully identify trait-associated molecules and pathways. The development of high-throughput genotyping methods, of elaborated statistical analyses and of phenotypic assessment methods at the neural systems level will facilitate the reliable identification of novel memory-related genes. Importantly, a necessary crosstalk between behavioral genetic studies and investigation of causality by molecular genetic studies will ultimately pave the way towards the identification of biologically important, and hopefully druggable, genes and molecular pathways related to human episodic memory.
Some believe that genetics threatens privacy and autonomy and will eviscerate the concept of human nature. Despite the astonishing research advances, however, none of these dire predictions and no radical transformation of the law have occurred. Advocates have tried to use genetic evidence to affect judgments of criminal responsibility. At present, however genetic research can provide little aid to assessments of criminal responsibility and it does not suggest a radical critique of responsibility.
Sensory dendrites fall into many different morphological and functional classes. Polymodal nociceptors are one subclass of sensory neurons, which are of particular note owing to their elaborate dendritic arbors. Complex developmental programs are required to form these arbors and there is striking conservation of morphology, function and molecular determinants between vertebrate and invertebrate polymodal nociceptors. Based on these studies, we argue that arbor morphology plays an important role in the function of polymodal nociceptors. Similar associations between form and function might explain the plethora of dendrite morphologies seen among all sensory neurons.
Understanding the neural basis of visual perception is a long-standing fundamental goal of neuroscience. Historically, most vision studies were carried out on humans, macaques and cats. Over the past 5 years, however, a growing number of researchers have begun using mice to parse the mechanisms underlying visual processing; the rationale is that, despite having relatively poor acuity, mice are unmatched in terms of the variety and sophistication of tools available to label, monitor and manipulate specific cell types and circuits. In this review, we discuss recent advances in understanding the mouse visual system at the anatomical, receptive field and perceptual level, focusing on the opportunities and constraints those features provide toward the goal of understanding how vision works.
Regulated neurotransmitter secretion depends on Ca(2+) sensors, C2 domain proteins that associate with phospholipids and soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complexes to trigger release upon Ca(2+) binding. Ca(2+) sensors are thought to prevent spontaneous fusion at rest (clamping) and to promote fusion upon Ca(2+) activation. At least eight, often coexpressed, Ca(2+) sensors have been identified in mammals. Accumulating evidence suggests that multiple Ca(2+) sensors interact, rather than work autonomously, to produce the complex secretory response observed in neurons and secretory cells. In this review, we present several working models to describe how different sensors might be arranged to mediate synchronous, asynchronous and spontaneous neurotransmitter release. We discuss the scenario that different Ca(2+) sensors typically act on one shared vesicle pool and compete for binding the multiple SNARE complexes that are likely to assemble at single vesicles, to exert both clamping and fusion-promoting functions.
Prenatal cannabis exposure can complicate in utero development of the nervous system. Cannabis impacts the formation and functions of neuronal circuitries by targeting cannabinoid receptors. Endocannabinoid signaling emerges as a signaling cassette that orchestrates neuronal differentiation programs through the precisely timed interaction of endocannabinoid ligands with their cognate cannabinoid receptors. By indiscriminately prolonging the 'switched-on' period of cannabinoid receptors, cannabis can hijack endocannabinoid signals to evoke molecular rearrangements, leading to the erroneous wiring of neuronal networks. Here, we formulate a hierarchical network design necessary and sufficient to describe the molecular underpinnings of cannabis-induced neural growth defects. We integrate signalosome components, deduced from genome- and proteome-wide arrays and candidate analyses, to propose a mechanistic hypothesis of how cannabis-induced ectopic cannabinoid receptor activity overrides physiological neurodevelopmental endocannabinoid signals, affecting the timely formation of synapses.
Substantial evidence suggests that psychosis in schizophrenia is associated with dysregulation of subcortical dopamine system function. Here we examine evidence that this dysregulation is secondary to hyperactivity within hippocampal subfields. Enhanced hippocampal activity has been reported in preclinical models and in schizophrenia patients. Moreover, this hippocampal hyperactivity is correlated with enhanced dopamine neuron activity and positive symptoms, respectively. Thus, restoration of hippocampal function could provide a more effective therapeutic approach than current therapeutics based on blockade of dopamine D2 receptors. Indeed, initial studies demonstrate that allosteric modulation of the 5GABA(A) receptor can decrease aberrant dopamine signaling and associated behaviors in a verified rodent model of psychosis.
Object recognition is an important visual process. We are not only required to recognize objects across a variety of lighting conditions and variations in size, but also across changes in viewpoint. It has been shown that reaction times in object matching increase as a function of increasing angular disparity between two views of the same object, and it is thought that this is related to the time it takes to mentally rotate an object. Recent studies have shown that object rotations for familiar objects affect older subjects differently than younger subjects. To investigate the general normalization effects for recognizing objects across different viewpoints regardless of visual experience with an object, in the current study we used novel 3D stimuli. Older and younger subjects matched objects across a variety of viewpoints along both in-depth and picture-plane rotations. Response times (RTs) for in-depth rotations were generally slower than for picture plane rotations and older subjects, overall, responded slower than younger subjects. However, a male RT advantage was only found for objects that differed by large, in-depth rotations. Compared to younger subjects, older subjects were not only slower but also less accurate at matching objects across both rotation axes. The age effect was primarily due to older male subjects performing worse than younger male subjects, whereas there was no significant age difference for female subjects. In addition, older males performed even worse than older females, which argues against a general male advantage in mental rotations tasks.

This article draws attention to a generalizable phenomenon called &quot;transforming poison into medicine,&quot; illustrating both literal and figurative applications. The purpose of such illustrations is to support a strong philosophical claim, namely the currently incomplete reduction (if not the ultimate irreducibility) of intentional mind-states - e.g., beliefs, desires, volitions - to electro-chemical brain-states. Such incomplete reduction (or irreducibility) holds profound implications for the ineluctable role of dualism in neuroscience and psychiatry alike.

Describing new brain structures may open research avenues and improve our knowledge of brain functions and of brain disorders. It may also provide new neuroanatomical targets for treatments. A detailed understanding of neuroanatomy is a prerequisite of understanding the pathomechanisms underlying psychiatric disorders on a molecular and cellular level. The tail of the ventral tegmental area (tVTA), also known as rostromedial tegmental nucleus (RMTg), is a recently described region which may be a major inhibitory control centre for the dopaminergic systems. These systems participates to behavioural functions and are implicated in the aetiology, symptoms or treatment of neurological or psychiatric diseases, such as Parkinson's, schizophrenia, mood disorders, attention-deficit hyperactivity-disorder (ADHD) and drug abuse. Belonging to the reticular formation, the tVTA may constitute a major inhibitory GABAergic input to these dopaminergic systems. Moreover, it is sensitive to drugs of abuse, to stimulant or arousing drugs, to aversive stimuli and it could also be the main relay between lateral habenula and VTA. First described in rats, and proposed as a component of the emotional motor system implicated in basic survival behaviours, tVTA appears as a relevant structure for molecular psychiatry, which should foster research to define and study this brain region in the human brain.
There is no indication that gene therapy can be applied in psychiatric patients any time soon. However, there are several promising developments on the level of experimental neuroscience indicating that gene therapy approaches have an effect in animal models of several psychiatric disorders including drug addiction, affective disorders, psychoses and dementia, modifying behavioural parameters via interventions on the molecular and cellular level. However, before gene therapy in psychiatric disorders can be considered on the human level, not only neurobiological and technical problems need to be overcome, but also important ethical questions answered.




[11C]Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission tomography has now been extensively used to evaluate the amyloid load in different types of dementia and has become a powerful research tool in the field of neurodegenerative diseases. In the present short review we discuss the properties of amyloid imaging agent [11C]Pittsburgh Compound B, the different modalities of molecular imaging, image processing and data analysis, and newer amyloid imaging agents.


Neurons from layer II of the medial entorhinal cortex show subthreshold membrane potential oscillations (SMPOs) which could contribute to theta-rhythm generation in the entorhinal cortex and to generation of grid cell firing patterns. However, it is unclear whether single neurons have a fixed unique oscillation frequency or whether their frequency varies depending on the mean membrane potential in a cell. We therefore examined the frequency of SMPOs at different membrane potentials in layer II stellate-like cells of the rat medial entorhinal cortex in vitro. Using whole-cell patch recordings, we found that the fluctuations in membrane potential show a broad band of low power frequencies near resting potential that transition to more narrowband oscillation frequencies with depolarization. The transition from broadband to narrowband frequencies depends on the location of the neuron along the dorsoventral axis in the entorhinal cortex, with dorsal neurons transitioning to higher-frequency oscillations relative to ventral neurons transitioning to lower-frequency oscillations. Once SMPOs showed a narrowband frequency, systematic frequency changes were not observed with further depolarization. Using a Hodgkin-Huxley-style model of membrane currents, we show that differences in the influence of depolarization on the frequency of SMPOs at different dorsal to ventral positions could arise from differences in the properties of the h current. The properties of frequency changes in this data are important for evaluating models of the generation of grid cell firing fields with different spacings along the dorsal-to-ventral axis of medial entorhinal cortex.
Oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) express NMDA receptors (NMDARs) and form synapses with glutamatergic neurons throughout the CNS. Although glutamate influences the proliferation and maturation of these progenitors in vitro, the role of NMDAR signaling in oligodendrogenesis and myelination in vivo is not known. Here, we investigated the consequences of genetically deleting the obligatory NMDAR subunit NR1 from OPCs and their oligodendrocyte progeny in the CNS of developing and mature mice. NMDAR-deficient OPCs proliferated normally, achieved appropriate densities in gray and white matter, and differentiated to form major white matter tracts without delay. OPCs also retained their characteristic physiological and morphological properties in the absence of NMDAR signaling and were able to form synapses with glutamatergic axons. However, expression of calcium-permeable AMPA receptors (AMPARs) was enhanced in NMDAR-deficient OPCs. These results suggest that NMDAR signaling is not used to control OPC development but to regulate AMPAR-dependent signaling with surrounding axons, pointing to additional functions for these ubiquitous glial cells.
Most neurons in primary visual cortex (V1) are selective for stimulus size, a property with important implications for salient feature detection. Size selectivity involves dynamic interactions between neuronal circuits that establish the classical (center) and extraclassical (surround) of a neuron's receptive field. Although much is known about the tuning properties and stimulus selectivity of the center and surround subunits, relatively little is known about how these subunits interact to achieve size selectivity. To address this question, we examined the temporal dynamics of size selectivity in two classes of pyramidal neurons at similar hierarchical processing stages in V1 of alert monkeys. These two classes were comprised of neurons in cortical layer 6 with identified projections to the lateral geniculate nucleus. While both neuronal groups displayed comparable levels of size selectivity, the temporal dynamics of their tuning differed significantly. We compared the size tuning profiles of each cell type with a series of sum-of-Gaussian models and discovered that the receptive fields of neurons with fast-conducting axons contained an excitatory center and a suppressive surround with similar onset timing. In contrast, neurons with slow-conducting axons used two center components-an early wide-field component and a delayed narrow-field component that increased activity-in addition to the surround component. The early, wide-field component represents a novel mechanism for cortical neurons to integrate contextual information. These results demonstrate that size tuning in cortical neurons is established via multiple unique mechanisms, dictated by the rich circuit architecture in which neurons are embedded.
Hearing loss is one of the most common complaints in adults over the age of 60 and a major contributor to difficulties in speech comprehension. To examine the effects of hearing ability on the neural processes supporting spoken language processing in humans, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to monitor brain activity while older adults with age-normal hearing listened to sentences that varied in their linguistic demands. Individual differences in hearing ability predicted the degree of language-driven neural recruitment during auditory sentence comprehension in bilateral superior temporal gyri (including primary auditory cortex), thalamus, and brainstem. In a second experiment, we examined the relationship of hearing ability to cortical structural integrity using voxel-based morphometry, demonstrating a significant linear relationship between hearing ability and gray matter volume in primary auditory cortex. Together, these results suggest that even moderate declines in peripheral auditory acuity lead to a systematic downregulation of neural activity during the processing of higher-level aspects of speech, and may also contribute to loss of gray matter volume in primary auditory cortex. More generally, these findings support a resource-allocation framework in which individual differences in sensory ability help define the degree to which brain regions are recruited in service of a particular task.
It is well established that the formation of memories for life's experiences-episodic memory-is influenced by how we attend to those experiences, yet the neural mechanisms by which attention shapes episodic encoding are still unclear. We investigated how top-down and bottom-up attention contribute to memory encoding of visual objects in humans by manipulating both types of attention during fMRI of episodic memory formation. We show that dorsal parietal cortex-specifically, intraparietal sulcus (IPS)-was engaged during top-down attention and was also recruited during the successful formation of episodic memories. By contrast, bottom-up attention engaged ventral parietal cortex-specifically, temporoparietal junction (TPJ)-and was also more active during encoding failure. Functional connectivity analyses revealed further dissociations in how top-down and bottom-up attention influenced encoding: while both IPS and TPJ influenced activity in perceptual cortices thought to represent the information being encoded (fusiform/lateral occipital cortex), they each exerted opposite effects on memory encoding. Specifically, during a preparatory period preceding stimulus presentation, a stronger drive from IPS was associated with a higher likelihood that the subsequently attended stimulus would be encoded. By contrast, during stimulus processing, stronger connectivity with TPJ was associated with a lower likelihood the stimulus would be successfully encoded. These findings suggest that during encoding of visual objects into episodic memory, top-down and bottom-up attention can have opposite influences on perceptual areas that subserve visual object representation, suggesting that one manner in which attention modulates memory is by altering the perceptual processing of to-be-encoded stimuli.
Humans and macaque monkeys adjust their response time adaptively in stop-signal (countermanding) tasks, responding slower after stop-signal trials than after control trials with no stop signal. We investigated the neural mechanism underlying this adaptive response time adjustment in macaque monkeys performing a saccade countermanding task. Earlier research showed that movements are initiated when the random accumulation of presaccadic movement-related activity reaches a fixed threshold. We found that a systematic delay in response time after stop-signal trials was accomplished not through a change of threshold, baseline, or accumulation rate, but instead through a change in the time when activity first began to accumulate. The neurons underlying movement initiation have been identified with stochastic accumulator models of response time performance. Therefore, this new result provides surprising new insights into the neural instantiation of stochastic accumulator models and the mechanisms through which executive control can be exerted.
The mesostriatal dopamine (DA) system contributes to several aspects of responses to rewarding substances and is implicated in conditions such as drug addiction and eating disorders. A subset of DA neurons has been shown to express the type 2 Vesicular glutamate transporter (Vglut2) and may therefore corelease glutamate. In the present study, we analyzed mice with a conditional deletion of Vglut2 in DA neurons (Vglut2(f/f;DAT-Cre)) to address the functional significance of the glutamate-DA cophenotype for responses to cocaine and food reinforcement. Biochemical parameters of striatal DA function were also examined by using DA receptor autoradiography, immediate-early gene quantitative in situ hybridization after cocaine challenge, and DA-selective in vivo chronoamperometry. Mice in which Vglut2 expression had been abrogated in DA neurons displayed enhanced operant self-administration of both high-sucrose food and intravenous cocaine. Furthermore, cocaine seeking maintained by drug-paired cues was increased by 76%, showing that reward-dependent plasticity is perturbed in these mice. In addition, several lines of evidence suggest that adaptive changes occurred in both the ventral and dorsal striatum in the absence of VGLUT2: DA receptor binding was increased, and basal mRNA levels of the DA-induced early genes Nur77 and c-fos were elevated as after cocaine induction. Furthermore, in vivo challenge of the DA system by potassium-evoked depolarization revealed less DA release in both striatal areas. This study demonstrates that absence of VGLUT2 in DA neurons leads to perturbations of reward consumption as well as reward-associated memory, features of particular relevance for addictive-like behavior.
The superior paraolivary nucleus (SPON) is a prominent structure in the auditory brainstem. In contrast to the principal superior olivary nuclei with identified roles in processing binaural sound localization cues, the role of the SPON in hearing is not well understood. A combined in vitro and in vivo approach was used to investigate the cellular properties of SPON neurons in the mouse. Patch-clamp recordings in brain slices revealed that brief and well timed postinhibitory rebound spiking, generated by the interaction of two subthreshold-activated ion currents, is a hallmark of SPON neurons. The I(h) current determines the timing of the rebound, whereas the T-type Ca(2+) current boosts the rebound to spike threshold. This precisely timed rebound spiking provides a physiological explanation for the sensitivity of SPON neurons to sinusoidally amplitude-modulated (SAM) tones in vivo, where peaks in the sound envelope drive inhibitory inputs and SPON neurons fire action potentials during the waveform troughs. Consistent with this notion, SPON neurons display intrinsic tuning to frequency-modulated sinusoidal currents (1-15Hz) in vitro and discharge with strong synchrony to SAMs with modulation frequencies between 1 and 20 Hz in vivo. The results of this study suggest that the SPON is particularly well suited to encode rhythmic sound patterns. Such temporal periodicity information is likely important for detection of communication cues, such as the acoustic envelopes of animal vocalizations and speech signals.
The ability of dendritic spines to change size and shape rapidly is critical in modulating synaptic strength; these morphological changes are dependent upon rearrangements of the actin cytoskeleton. Kalirin-7 (Kal7), a Rho guanine nucleotide exchange factor localized to the postsynaptic density (PSD), modulates dendritic spine morphology in vitro and in vivo. Kal7 activates Rac and interacts with several PSD proteins, including PSD-95, DISC-1, AF-6, and Arf6. Mice genetically lacking Kal7 (Kal7(KO)) exhibit deficient hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) as well as behavioral abnormalities in models of addiction and learning. Purified PSDs from Kal7(KO) mice contain diminished levels of NR2B, an NMDA receptor subunit that plays a critical role in LTP induction. Here we demonstrate that Kal7(KO) animals have decreased levels of NR2B-dependent NMDA receptor currents in cortical pyramidal neurons as well as a specific deficit in cell surface expression of NR2B. Additionally, we demonstrate that the genotypic differences in conditioned place preference and passive avoidance learning seen in Kal7(KO) mice are abrogated when animals are treated with an NR2B-specific antagonist during conditioning. Finally, we identify a stable interaction between the pleckstrin homology domain of Kal7 and the juxtamembrane region of NR2B preceding its cytosolic C-terminal domain. Binding of NR2B to a protein that modulates the actin cytoskeleton is important, as NMDA receptors require actin integrity for synaptic localization and function. These studies demonstrate a novel and functionally important interaction between the NR2B subunit of the NMDA receptor and Kalirin, proteins known to be essential for normal synaptic plasticity.
Age-related cognitive decline and neurodegenerative diseases are a growing challenge for our societies with their aging populations. Accumulation of DNA damage has been proposed to contribute to these impairments, but direct proof that DNA damage results in impaired neuronal plasticity and memory is lacking. Here we take advantage of Ercc1(/-) mutant mice, which are impaired in DNA nucleotide excision repair, interstrand crosslink repair, and double-strand break repair. We show that these mice exhibit an age-dependent decrease in neuronal plasticity and progressive neuronal pathology, suggestive of neurodegenerative processes. A similar phenotype is observed in mice where the mutation is restricted to excitatory forebrain neurons. Moreover, these neuron-specific mutants develop a learning impairment. Together, these results suggest a causal relationship between unrepaired, accumulating DNA damage, and age-dependent cognitive decline and neurodegeneration. Hence, accumulated DNA damage could therefore be an important factor in the onset and progression of age-related cognitive decline and neurodegenerative diseases.
New neurons are continuously generated in the adult mammalian olfactory bulb. The role of these newborn neurons in olfactory learning has been debated. Blocking the addition of neurons has been reported either to result in memory alteration or to have no effect at all (Imayoshi et al., 2008; Breton-Provencher et al., 2009; Lazarini et al., 2009; Sultan et al., 2010). These discrepancies may have arisen from differences in the behavioral paradigms used: operant procedures indicated that neurogenesis blockade had substantial effects on long-term memory (Lazarini et al., 2009; Sultan et al., 2010) whereas other methods had little effect (Imayoshi et al., 2008; Breton-Provencher et al., 2009). Surprisingly, while operant learning is known to modulate the survival of new neurons, the effect of non-operant learning on newborn cells is unknown. Here we use mice to show that compared with operant learning, non-operant learning does not affect cell survival, perhaps explaining the current controversy. In addition, we provide evidence that distinct neural substrates at least partly underlie these two forms of learning. We conclude that the involvement of newborn neurons in learning is subtly dependent on the nature of the behavioral task.
Neuroinflammation associated with HIV-1 infection is exacerbated in cocaine-abusing, HIV+ individuals. The underlying mechanisms are, in part, attributable to disruption of the blood-brain barrier modulated by cocaine via platelet-derived growth factor B chain (PDGF-B). Since Notch signaling plays a critical role in CNS homeostasis, we hypothesized that it may have a role in cocaine-mediated induction of PDGF-B. The goal of this study was to link Notch signaling with PDGF-B. Using Western blot analysis, we demonstrate the role of Notch1 signaling in cocaine-mediated induction of PDGF-B in human brain microvascular endothelial cells. Exposure of cells to the -secretase inhibitor-DAPT or silencing of Notch1 resulted in abrogation of cocaine-mediated induction of PDGF-B. Reciprocally, activation of the Notch1 receptor by exposing cells to the Notch ligand Jagged-1 resulted in upregulation of PDGF-B expression. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that cocaine-mediated activation of Notch1 signaling leading to targeted expression of PDGF-B involved activation of the downstream effector CSL. Functional implication of Notch1 signaling in regulating expression of the vascular permeant PDGF-B was confirmed in vitro using cell permeability assays. In vivo relevance was further corroborated in cocaine-treated mice that demonstrated increased permeability of the endothelial barrier as evidenced by Evans blue and sodium fluorescein extravasation. Specificity of Notch1 signaling in vivo was validated in mice exposed to DAPT, which failed to demonstrate barrier disruption following cocaine exposure. This is the first evidence of involvement of Notch1 activation in cocaine-mediated regulation of PDGF-B expression.
Tourette syndrome (TS) is a common, chronic neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by the presence of fluctuating motor and phonic tics. The typical age of onset is 5-7 years, and the majority of children improve by their late teens or early adulthood. Affected individuals are at increased risk for the development of various comorbid conditions, such as obsessive-compulsive disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, school problems, depression, and anxiety. There is no cure for tics, and symptomatic therapy includes behavioral and pharmacological approaches. Evidence supports TS being an inherited disorder; however, the precise genetic abnormality remains unknown. Pathologic involvement of cortico-striatal-thalamo-cortical (CSTC) pathways is supported by neurophysiological, brain imaging, and postmortem studies, but results are often confounded by small numbers, age differences, severity of symptoms, comorbidity, use of pharmacotherapy, and other factors. The primary site of abnormality remains controversial. Although numerous neurotransmitters participate in the transmission of messages through CSTC circuits, a dopaminergic dysfunction is considered a leading candidate. Several animal models have been used to study behaviors similar to tics as well as to pursue potential pathophysiological deficits. TS is a complex disorder with features overlapping a variety of scientific fields. Despite description of this syndrome in the late 19th century, there remain numerous unanswered neurobiological questions.

We describe the imaging findings of a man who developed neurologic symptoms due to ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament with narrowing of the spinal canal and compression of the spinal cord. CT study allowed a detailed evaluation of the stenosis and the extension of the ossification while MRI gave an excellent visualization of the spinal lesions caused by spinal cord compression by the mass. The neurological status of patients with ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament depends on many factors such as the degree of spinal canal stenosis, life style, accidental mechanical stress and trauma.

In this review, we first provide a brief historical perspective, discussing how peripheral nerve injury (PNI) may have caused World War I. We then consider the initiation, progression, and resolution of the cellular inflammatory response after PNI, before comparing the PNI inflammatory response with that induced by spinal cord injury (SCI).In contrast with central nervous system (CNS) axons, those in the periphery have the remarkable ability to regenerate after injury. Nevertheless, peripheral nervous system (PNS) axon regrowth is hampered by nerve gaps created by injury. In addition, the growth-supportive milieu of PNS axons is not sustained over time, precluding long-distance regeneration. Therefore, studying PNI could be instructive for both improving PNS regeneration and recovery after CNS injury. In addition to requiring a robust regenerative response from the injured neuron itself, successful axon regeneration is dependent on the coordinated efforts of non-neuronal cells which release extracellular matrix molecules, cytokines, and growth factors that support axon regrowth. The inflammatory response is initiated by axonal disintegration in the distal nerve stump: this causes blood-nerve barrier permeabilization and activates nearby Schwann cells and resident macrophages via receptors sensitive to tissue damage. Denervated Schwann cells respond to injury by shedding myelin, proliferating, phagocytosing debris, and releasing cytokines that recruit blood-borne monocytes/macrophages. Macrophages take over the bulk of phagocytosis within days of PNI, before exiting the nerve by the circulation once remyelination has occurred. The efficacy of the PNS inflammatory response (although transient) stands in stark contrast with that of the CNS, where the response of nearby cells is associated with inhibitory scar formation, quiescence, and degeneration/apoptosis. Rather than efficiently removing debris before resolving the inflammatory response as in other tissues, macrophages infiltrating the CNS exacerbate cell death and damage by releasing toxic pro-inflammatory mediators over an extended period of time. Future research will help determine how to manipulate PNS and CNS inflammatory responses in order to improve tissue repair and functional recovery.
KCNQ2/3 voltage-gated potassium channels conduct low-threshold, slowly activating and non-inactivating currents to repolarize the neuronal resting membrane potential. The channels negatively regulate neuronal excitability and KCNQ2/3 openers are efficacious in hyperexcited states such as epilepsy and pain. We developed and utilized thallium influx assays to profile novel KCNQ2/3 channel openers with respect to selectivity across KCNQ subtypes and on requirement for tryptophan 236 of KCNQ2, a critical residue for activity of the KCNQ opener retigabine. Using distinct chemical series of openers, a quinazolinone series showed relatively poor selectivity across multiple KCNQ channels and lacked activity at the KCNQ2(W236L) mutant channel. In contrast, several novel benzimidazole openers showed selectivity for KCNQ2/3 and KCNQ2 and retain activity at KCNQ2(W236L). Profiling of several hundred KCNQ2/3 openers across multiple diverse chemical series revealed that openers show differential degrees of selectivity across subtypes, with selectivity most difficult to achieve against KCNQ2. In addition, we report the significant finding that KCNQ openers can pharmacologically differentiate between homomeric and heteromeric channels containing subtypes in common. Moreover, most openers assayed were dependent on the W236 for activity, whereas only a small number appear to use a distinct mechanism. Collectively, we provide novel insights into the molecular pharmacology of KCNQ channels by demonstrating differential selectivity and site of action for KCNQ2/3 openers. The high-throughput thallium influx assays should prove useful for rapid characterization of KCNQ openers and in guiding efforts to identify selective compounds for advancement towards the clinic.
Although the zebrafish is increasingly used as a model organism to study epilepsy, no standard electrophysiological technique for recording electrographic seizures in adult fish exists. The purpose of this paper is to introduce a readily implementable technique for recording pentylenetetrazole seizures in the adult zebrafish. We find that we can consistently record a high quality field potential over the zebrafish cerebrum using an amplification of 5000V/V and bandpass filtering at corner frequencies of 1.6 and 16Hz. The cerebral field potential recordings show consistent features in the baseline, pre-seizure, seizure and post-seizure time periods that can be easily recognized by visual inspection as is the case with human and rodent electroencephalogram. Furthermore, numerical analysis of the field potential at the time of seizure onset reveals an increase in the total power, bandwidth and peak frequency in the power spectrum, as is also the case with human and rodent electroencephalogram. The techniques presented herein stand to advance the utility of the adult zebrafish in the study of epilepsy by affording an equivalent to the electroencephalogram used in mammalian models and human patients.
The acoustic startle response (ASR) is a reflexive contraction of skeletal muscles in response to a loud, abrupt acoustic stimulus. ASR magnitude is reduced if the startle stimulus is preceded by a weaker acoustic or non-acoustic stimulus, a phenomenon known as prepulse inhibition (PPI). PPI has been used to test various aspects of sensory discrimination in both animals and humans. Here we show that PPI of the ASR is an advantageous method of assessing frequency discrimination. We describe the apparatus and its performance testing frequency discrimination in young CD1 mice. Compared to classical conditioning paradigms, PPI of the ASR is less time consuming, produces robust results, and can be used without training even in young animals. This approach can be used to investigate the neuronal mechanisms underlying frequency discrimination, its maturation during development, and its relationship to tonotopic organization.
Dendritic spines of striatal Medium Spiny Neurons (MSNs) receive converging dopaminergic and glutamatergic inputs. These spines undergo experience-dependent structural plasticity following repeated drug administration and during disease states like Huntington's and Parkinson's. Thus, understanding the molecular mechanisms leading to structural plasticity is an important step toward establishing a clear relationship between spine structure and function, and will ultimately contribute to understanding how changes in dendritic spine structure relate to behaviors or diseases. One major difficulty faced when studying MSN development is the lack of a detailed, standardized in vitro model system that produces MSNs with in vivo-like morphologies. For example, unlike cultured pyramidal neurons, MSNs grown in mono-cultures display stunted dendritic arborization and fail to develop a full cohort of mature dendritic spines. Here we report the generation of an embryonic mouse cortical-striatal co-culture that generates high cell yields from a single embryo. Unlike MSNs in striatal mono-culture, MSNs in co-culture develop in vivo-like morphologies and high densities of dendritic spines. Morphological identification of co-cultured MSNs expressing a soluble fluorescent protein can be confirmed by immunochemical detection of DARPP-32 (Dopamine and cyclic AMP regulated phosphoprotein of 32kDa). Additionally, co-cultured MSN spines contain PSD-95 puncta and are apposed to SV2 puncta, indicating the spines express synaptic machinery. Finally, whole-cell recordings of co-cultured MSNs exhibit higher mEPSC frequency compared to mono-cultured MSNs, suggesting that the spines are functionally mature. These studies establish that this co-culture system is suitable for studying the morphological and physiological development and function of MSN dendritic spines.
Environmental enrichment (EE) increases dentate gyrus (DG) neurogenesis and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels. However, running is considered an element of EE. To dissociate effects of physical activity and enrichment on hippocampal neurogenesis and BDNF levels, young female C57Bl/6 mice were housed under control, running, enrichment, or enrichment plus running conditions, and injected with bromodeoxyuridine. Cell genesis was assessed after 12 d and differentiation was analyzed 1 mo later. In addition, locomotor activity in the open field and hippocampal mature BDNF peptide levels were measured. Open-field adaptation was improved in all groups, compared to controls, but more so with running. New cell proliferation, survival, neuron number, and neurotrophin levels were enhanced only when running was accessible. We conclude that exercise is the critical factor mediating increased BDNF levels and adult hippocampal neurogenesis.






In humans and other mammals, the hippocampus is critical for episodic memory, the autobiographical record of events, including where and when they happen. When one records from hippocampal pyramidal neurons in awake, behaving rodents, their most obvious firing correlate is the animal's position within a particular environment, earning them the name &quot;place cells.&quot; When an animal explores a novel environment, its pyramidal neurons form their spatial receptive fields over a matter of minutes and are generally stable thereafter. This experience-dependent stabilization of place fields is therefore an attractive candidate neural correlate of the formation of hippocampal memory. However, precisely how the animal's experience of a context translates into stable place fields remains largely unclear. For instance, we still do not know whether observation of a space is sufficient to generate a stable hippocampal representation of that space because the animal must physically visit a spot to demonstrate which cells fire there. We circumvented this problem by comparing the relative stability of place fields of directly experienced space from merely observed space following blockade of NMDA receptors, which preferentially destabilizes newly generated place fields. This allowed us to determine whether place cells stably represent parts of the environment the animal sees, but does not actually occupy. We found that the formation of stable place fields clearly requires direct experience with a space. This suggests that place cells are part of an autobiographical record of events and their spatial context, consistent with providing the &quot;where&quot; information in episodic memory.
Several lines of evidence suggest that the neuropathophysiology of bipolar disorder is marked by structural and functional abnormalities in the caudate. We used magnetic resonance spectroscopy imaging (MRSI) to examine potential neurochemical changes in the caudate of adult bipolar patients (BP). 2D-MRSI scans including the caudate were obtained from 25 BP and 9 healthy subjects (HS). BP patients were further divided into medicated (n=14) and unmedicated (n=11) groups; the majority of medicated patients received atypical antipsychotics (AAP). Ratios of Cr/Cho, Cho/NAA and Cr/NAA in the caudate were compared between groups, controlling for age, gender and gray/white ratio. BP and HS did not significantly differ on any ratios. The Cr/Cho ratio, however, was significantly greater in medicated BP compared to HS. Conversely, the Cho/NAA ratio was non-significantly lower in medicated BP vs. HS. Medicated BP also showed significantly greater Cr/Cho and significantly smaller Cho/NAA ratios than unmedicated BP. Although we did not observe significant overall differences between BP and HS, our findings suggest the presence of reduced choline levels in the caudate of medicated BP receiving AAP. While speculative, these results suggest that AAP do not cause oxidative injury to neuronal membranes.
The present study compares the occurrence of depressive symptoms evaluated by the Calgary Depression Scale for Schizophrenia (CDSS) in patients of Multiplex (MS) and Simplex Schizophrenia families (SS). The Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) was used to evaluate psychopathology. A total of 206 paranoid schizophrenia patients were studied according DSM-IV criteria. The Family Interview for Genetic Studies (FIGS) was used to study the families. A result in the FIGS for a positive family history of schizophrenia was referred as MS (patients); its lack as SS (patients). CDSS scores were compared among MS and SS patients and possible sex differences intra- and inter-groups were explored. In the analysis of our sample (30) 19% of the total persons with schizophrenia group was depressed. The depressive symptoms measured by the CDSS were higher in females and the MS males group. Males from MS group showed more depressive symptoms than males from SS group. No differences with females from both groups were found. Findings in this study underscore the importance of gender and family history in understanding the heterogeneity of schizophrenia. This study suggests that sex and familiar history are important to consider in studying depressive symptoms.
New neurons continue to be generated in the dentate gyrus (DG) region of the hippocampus throughout adulthood, and abnormal regulation of this process has emerged as an endophenotype common to several psychiatric disorders. Previous research shows that genetic risk factors associated with schizophrenia alter the maturation of adult-generated neurons. Here, we investigate whether early adversity, a potential environmental risk factor, similarly influences adult neurogenesis. During the first 2 weeks of postnatal life, mice were subject to repeated and unpredictable periods of separation from their mothers. When the mice reached adulthood, pharmacological and retroviral labelling techniques were used to assess the generation and maturation of new neurons. We found that adult mice that were repeatedly separated from their mothers early in life had similar rates of proliferation in the DG, but had fewer numbers of cells that survived and differentiated into neurons. Furthermore, neurons generated in adulthood had less complex dendritic arborization and fewer dendritic spines. These findings indicate that early adverse experience has a long-lasting impact on both the number and the complexity of adult-generated neurons in the hippocampus, suggesting that the abnormal regulation of adult neurogenesis associated with psychiatric disorders could arise from environmental influence alone, or from complex interactions of environmental factors with genetic predisposition.

Intracellular (IC) recording of action potentials in neurons of the vertebrate central nervous system (CNS) was first reported by John Eccles and two colleagues, Walter Brock and John Coombs, in Dunedin, NZL in 1951/1952 and by Walter Woodbury and Harry Patton in Seattle, WA, USA in 1952. Both groups studied spinal cord neurons of the adult cat. In this review, we discuss the precedents to their notable achievement and reflect and speculate on some of the scientific and personal nuances of their work and its immediate and later impact. We then briefly discuss early achievements in IC recording in the study of CNS neurobiology in other laboratories around the world, and some of the methods that led to enhancement of CNS IC-recording techniques. Our modern understanding of CNS neurophysiology directly emanates from the pioneering endeavors of the five who wrote the seminal 1951/1952 articles.
Soon after Edward Liddell [1895-1981] and Charles Sherrington [1857-1952] introduced the concept of a motor unit in 1925 and the necessary technology was developed, the recording of single motor unit activity became feasible in humans. It was quickly discovered by Edgar Adrian [1889-1977] and Detlev Bronk [1897-1975] that the force exerted by muscle during voluntary contractions was the result of the concurrent recruitment of motor units and modulation of the rate at which they discharged action potentials. Subsequent studies found that the relation between discharge frequency and motor unit force was characterized by a sigmoidal function. Based on observations on experimental animals, Elwood Henneman [1915-1996] proposed a &quot;size principle&quot; in 1957 and most studies in humans focussed on validating this concept during various types of muscle contractions. By the end of the 20th C, the experimental evidence indicated that the recruitment order of human motor units was determined primarily by motoneuron size and that the occasional changes in recruitment order were not an intended strategy of the central nervous system. Fundamental knowledge on the function of Sherrington's &quot;common final pathway&quot; was expanded with observations on motor unit rotation, minimal and maximal discharge rates, discharge variability, and self-sustained firing. Despite the great amount of work on characterizing motor unit activity during the first century of inquiry, however, many basic questions remain unanswered and these limit the extent to which findings on humans and experimental animals can be integrated and generalized to all movements.
This review addresses the history since antiquity of studies on the anatomical and functional relations between nerves and muscles, and the progressive use of newer approaches to this topic. By the Hippocratic era (almost 2500 years ago) the digestive, circulatory and nervous systems were thought to participate in the production of animal spirits. This concept had strong support for nervous conduction, even after the dawn of electrophysiology in the late 18th C. The idea that these spirits explained the nature of the motor command to muscles continued to prevail until work in the mid-to-late 19th C dispelled the concept of &quot;fluid/spirit&quot; transmission by measurements of nerve &quot;action currents&quot; and conduction velocity. In parallel with this work, the functional relations between nerves and muscles were studied with the use of curare, which continued well into the 20th C. In the late 19th C the debate was formalized about whether transmission at the motor endplate was electrical or chemical, which continued as the &quot;soup&quot; vs. &quot;sparks&quot; battle until, surprisingly, the late 1960s. The concept of the motor unit was introduced in the 1920s, this being defined as a motor neuron in the spinal cord connecting to a specific set of muscle fibers. This development accelerated work on two-way trophic relations between nerve and muscles and their essential plasticity in response to the demands of usage and disease. Thus, the relation between nerves and muscles has been on the forefront of neuroscience since antiquity.
This article addresses the emergence of the &quot;motoneuron concept,&quot; i.e., the idea that this cell had properties of particular advantage for its control of muscle activation. The motor function of the ventral roots was established early in the 19th C and the term &quot;motor cell,&quot; (or &quot;motor nerve cell&quot;) was introduced shortly thereafter by Albrecht von Klliker and some other histologists. They knew that motor cells were among the neurons with the largest soma in vertebrates and for this reason they were, and remained for many decades, the best and most studied neuronal model. The work of clinicians like Guillaume Duchenne de Boulogne and Jean-Martin Charcot on motor degenerative syndromes began before a clear description of motor cells was available, because it was initially more difficult to establish whether the deficits of paralysis and muscle weakness were due to neuronal or muscular lesions. Next, the pioneering physiologist, Charles Sherrington, who was influenced greatly by the anatomical contributions and speculations of Santiago Ramn y Cajal, used the term, &quot;motor neuron,&quot; rather than motor cell for the neuron that he considered was functionally &quot;the final common path&quot; for providing command signals to the musculature. In the early 20th C he proposed that activation of a motor neuron resulted from the sum of its various excitatory and inhibitory CNS inputs. The contraction of motor neuron to &quot;motoneuron(e)&quot; was put into common usage by John Fulton (among possibly others) in 1926. The motoneuron concept is still evolving with new discoveries on the horizon.
In the preceding series of articles, the history of vertebrate motoneuron and motor unit neurobiological studies has been discussed. In this article, we select a few examples of recent advances in neuroscience and discuss their application or potential application to the study of motoneurons and the control of movement. We conclude, like Sherrington, that in order to understand normal, traumatized, and diseased human behavior, it is critical to continue to study motoneuron biology using all available and emerging tools. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Historical Review.
Synthetic derivatives of the microtubule-targeted agent maytansine, commonly known as drug maytansinoids or DMs, are emerging as potential cancer therapeutics. DM1 is an antibody-conjugatable maytansinoid that was developed to overcome systemic toxicity associated with maytansine and to enhance tumor-specific delivery. Antibody-DM1 conjugates showed promising results in preclinical and clinical evaluations. However, the molecular mechanism of the drug component DM1 was largely unknown. Recently, researchers have examined the mechanism of DM1 at molecular and cellular levels. According to their findings, DM1 binds at the tips of microtubules and suppresses the dynamicity of microtubules. The antibody-DM1 conjugate cleaves inside cells and releases the active drug in a time-dependent manner. The suppression of microtubule dynamics by DM1 induces mitotic arrest and cell death.
Oligophrenin-1 regulates dendritic spine morphology in the brain. Mutations in the oligophrenin-1 gene (OPHN1) cause intellectual disability. We discovered a previously unknown partner of oligophrenin-1, Rev-erb, a nuclear receptor that represses the transcription of circadian oscillators. We found that oligophrenin-1 interacts with Rev-erb in the mouse brain, causing it to locate to dendrites, reducing its repressor activity and protecting it from degradation. Our results indicate the presence of a circadian oscillator in the hippocampus, involving the clock gene Bmal1 (also known as Arntl), that is modulated by Rev-erb and requires oligophrenin-1 for normal oscillation. We also found that synaptic activity induced Rev-erb localization to dendrites and spines, a process that is mediated by AMPA receptor activation and requires oligophrenin-1. Our data reveal new interactions between synaptic activity and circadian oscillators, and delineate a new means of communication between nucleus and synapse that may provide insight into normal plasticity and the etiology of intellectual disability.
The amount of neurotransmitter stored in a single synaptic vesicle can determine the size of the postsynaptic response, but the factors that regulate vesicle filling are poorly understood. A proton electrochemical gradient ((H+)) generated by the vacuolar H(+)-ATPase drives the accumulation of classical transmitters into synaptic vesicles. The chemical component of (H+) (pH) has received particular attention for its role in the vesicular transport of cationic transmitters as well as in protein sorting and degradation. Thus, considerable work has addressed the factors that promote pH. However, synaptic vesicle uptake of the principal excitatory transmitter glutamate depends on the electrical component of (H+) (). We found that rat brain synaptic vesicles express monovalent cation/H(+) exchange activity that converts pH into , and that this promotes synaptic vesicle filling with glutamate. Manipulating presynaptic K(+) at a glutamatergic synapse influenced quantal size, indicating that synaptic vesicle K(+)/H(+) exchange regulates glutamate release and synaptic transmission.
The evolutionarily conserved Highwire (Hiw)/Drosophila Fsn E3 ubiquitin ligase complex is required for normal synaptic morphology during development and axonal regeneration after injury. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms that regulate the Hiw E3 ligase complex. Using tandem affinity purification techniques, we identified Drosophila Rae1 as a previously unknown component of the Hiw/Fsn complex. Loss of Rae1 function in neurons results in morphological defects at the neuromuscular junction that are similar to those seen in hiw mutants. We found that Rae1 physically and genetically interacts with Hiw and restrains synaptic terminal growth by regulating the MAP kinase kinase kinase Wallenda. Moreover, we found that the Rae1 is both necessary and sufficient to promote Hiw protein abundance, and it does so by binding to Hiw and protecting Hiw from autophagy-mediated degradation. These results describe a previously unknown mechanism that selectively controls Hiw protein abundance during synaptic development.
Expansion of polyglutamine (pQ) chain by expanded CAG repeat causes dominantly inherited neurodegeneration such as Huntington disease, dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA), and numbers of other spinocerebellar ataxias. Expanded pQ disrupts the stability of the pQ-harboring protein and increases its susceptibility to aggregation. Aggregated pQ protein is recognized by the ubiquitin proteasome system, and the enzyme ubiquitin ligase covalently attaches ubiquitin, which serves as a degradation signal by the proteasome. However, accumulation of the aggregated proteins in the diseased brain suggests insufficient degradation machinery. Ubiquitin has several functionally related proteins that are similarly attached to target proteins through its C terminus glycine residue. They are called ubiquitin-like molecules, and some of them are similarly related to the protein degradation pathway. One of the ubiquitin-like molecules, FAT10, is known to accelerate protein degradation through a ubiquitin-independent manner, but its role in pQ aggregate degradation is completely unknown. Thus we investigated its role in a Huntington disease cellular model and found that FAT10 molecules were covalently attached to huntingtin through their C terminus glycine. FAT10 binds preferably to huntingtin with a short pQ chain and completely aggregated huntingtin was FAT10-negative. In addition, ataxin-1,3 and DRPLA proteins were both positive for FAT10, and aggregation enhancement was observed upon FAT10 knockdown. These findings were similar to those for huntingtin. Our new finding will provide a new role for FAT10 in the pathogenesis of polyglutamine diseases.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) regulates neuronal differentiation, synaptic plasticity, and morphology, and modest changes in BDNF levels results in complex behavioral phenotypes. BDNF levels and intracellular localization in neurons are regulated by multiple mechanisms, including use of distinct promoters, mRNA and protein transport, and regulated cleavage of proBDNF to mature BDNF. Sortilin is an intracellular chaperone that binds to the prodomain of BDNF to traffic it to the regulated secretory pathway. However, sortilin binds to numerous ligands and plays a major role in mannose 6-phosphate receptor-independent transport of lysosomal hydrolases utilizing motifs in the intracellular domain that mediate trafficking from the Golgi and late endosomes. Sortilin is modified by ectodomain shedding, although the biological implications of this are not known. Here we demonstrate that ADAM10 is the preferred protease to cleave sortilin in the extracellular stalk region, to release the ligand binding sortilin ectodomain from the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains. We identify sortilin shedding at the cell surface and in an intracellular compartment. Both sortilin and BDNF are trafficked to and degraded by the lysosome in neurons, and this is dependent upon the sortilin cytoplasmic tail. Indeed, expression of the sortilin ectodomain, which corresponds to the domain released after shedding, impairs lysosomal targeting and degradation of BDNF. These findings characterize the regulation of sortilin shedding and identify a novel mechanism by which sortilin ectodomain shedding acts as a regulatory switch for delivery of BDNF to the secretory pathway or to the lysosome, thus modulating the bioavailability of endogenous BDNF.
Various human neurodegenerative disorders are associated with processes that involve misfolding of polypeptide chains. These so-called protein misfolding disorders include Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases and an increasing number of inherited syndromes that affect neurons involved in motor control circuits throughout the central nervous system. The reasons behind the particular susceptibility of neurons to misfolded proteins are currently not known. The main function of a class of proteins known as molecular chaperones is to prevent protein misfolding and aggregation. Although neuronal cells contain the major known classes of molecular chaperones, central-nervous-system-specific chaperones that maintain the neuronal proteome free from misfolded proteins are not well defined. In this study, we assign a novel molecular chaperone activity to the protein sacsin responsible for autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay, a degenerative disorder of the cerebellum and spinal cord. Using purified components, we demonstrate that a region of sacsin that contains a segment with homology to the molecular chaperone Hsp90 is able to enhance the refolding efficiency of the model client protein firefly luciferase. We show that this region of sacsin is highly capable of maintaining client polypeptides in soluble folding-competent states. Furthermore, we demonstrate that sacsin can efficiently cooperate with members of the Hsp70 chaperone family to increase the yields of correctly folded client proteins. Thus, we have identified a novel chaperone directly involved in a human neurodegenerative disorder.
In theory, a comparison of two experimental effects requires a statistical test on their difference. In practice, this comparison is often based on an incorrect procedure involving two separate tests in which researchers conclude that effects differ when one effect is significant (P &lt; 0.05) but the other is not (P &gt; 0.05). We reviewed 513 behavioral, systems and cognitive neuroscience articles in five top-ranking journals (Science, Nature, Nature Neuroscience, Neuron and The Journal of Neuroscience) and found that 78 used the correct procedure and 79 used the incorrect procedure. An additional analysis suggests that incorrect analyses of interactions are even more common in cellular and molecular neuroscience. We discuss scenarios in which the erroneous procedure is particularly beguiling.
By use of parallel chemistry coupled with physicochemical property design, a series of selective  opioid antagonists have been discovered. The parallel chemistry strategy utilized key monomer building blocks to rapidly expand the desired SAR space. The potency and selectivity of the in vitro  antagonism were confirmed in the tail-flick analgesia model. This model was used to build an exposure-response relationship between the  K(i) and the free brain drug levels. This strategy identified 2-methyl-N-((2'-(pyrrolidin-1-ylsulfonyl)biphenyl-4-yl)methyl)propan-1-amine, PF-4455242, which entered phase 1 clinical testing and has demonstrated target engagement in healthy volunteers.
Morphological features such as size, shape and density of dendritic spines have been shown to reflect important synaptic functional attributes and potential for plasticity. Here we describe in detail a protocol for obtaining detailed morphometric analysis of spines using microinjection of fluorescent dyes, high-resolution confocal microscopy, deconvolution and image analysis with NeuronStudio. Recent technical advancements include better preservation of tissue, resulting in prolonged ability to microinject, and algorithmic improvements that compensate for the residual z-smear inherent in all optical imaging. Confocal imaging parameters were probed systematically to identify both optimal resolution and the highest efficiency. When combined, our methods yield size and density measurements comparable to serial section transmission electron microscopy in a fraction of the time. An experiment containing three experimental groups with eight subjects each can take as little as 1 month if optimized for speed, or approximately 4-5 months if the highest resolution and morphometric detail is sought.
In central neurons the first node of Ranvier is located at the first axonal branchpoint,  100 m from the axon initial segment where synaptic inputs are integrated and converted into action potentials (APs). Whether the first node contributes to this signal transformation is not well understood. Here it was found that in neocortical layer 5 axons, the first branchpoint is required for intrinsic high-frequency ( 100 Hz) AP bursts. Furthermore, block of nodal Na(+) channels or axotomy of the first node in intrinsically bursting neurons depolarized the somatic AP voltage threshold ( 5 mV) and eliminated APs selectively within a high-frequency cluster in response to steady currents or simulated synaptic inputs. These results indicate that nodal persistent Na(+) current exerts an anterograde influence on AP initiation in the axon initial segment, revealing a computational role of the first node of Ranvier beyond conduction of the propagating AP.
Substance abuse increases an individual's vulnerability to stress-related illnesses, which is presumably mediated by drug-induced neural adaptations that alter subsequent responses to stress. Here, we identify repressive histone methylation in nucleus accumbens (NAc), an important brain reward region, as a key mechanism linking cocaine exposure to increased stress vulnerability. Repeated cocaine administration prior to subchronic social defeat stress potentiated depressive-like behaviors in mice through decreased levels of histone H3 lysine 9 dimethylation in NAc. Cre-mediated reduction of the histone methyltransferase, G9a, in NAc promoted increased susceptibility to social stress, similar to that observed with repeated cocaine. Conversely, G9a overexpression in NAc after repeated cocaine protected mice from the consequences of subsequent stress. This resilience was mediated, in part, through repression of BDNF-TrkB-CREB signaling, which was induced after repeated cocaine or stress. Identifying such common regulatory mechanisms may aid in the development of new therapies for addiction and depression.
Neural circuits consist of highly precise connections among specific types of neurons that serve a common functional goal. How neurons distinguish among different synaptic targets to form functionally precise circuits remains largely unknown. Here, we show that during development, the adhesion molecule cadherin-6 (Cdh6) is expressed by a subset of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and also by their targets in the brain. All of the Cdh6-expressing retinorecipient nuclei mediate non-image-forming visual functions. A screen of mice expressing GFP in specific subsets of RGCs revealed that Cdh3-RGCs which also express Cdh6 selectively innervate Cdh6-expressing retinorecipient targets. Moreover, in Cdh6-deficient mice, the axons of Cdh3-RGCs fail to properly innervate their targets and instead project to other visual nuclei. These findings provide functional evidence that classical cadherins promote mammalian CNS circuit development by ensuring that axons of specific cell types connect to their appropriate synaptic targets.
Glycoprotein-deleted (G) rabies virus is a powerful tool for studies of neural circuit structure. Here, we describe the development and demonstrate the utility of new resources that allow experiments directly investigating relationships between the structure and function of neural circuits. New methods and reagents allowed efficient production of 12 novel G rabies variants from plasmid DNA. These new rabies viruses express useful neuroscience tools, including the Ca(2+) indicator GCaMP3 for monitoring activity; Channelrhodopsin-2 for photoactivation; allatostatin receptor for inactivation by ligand application; and rtTA, ER(T2)CreER(T2), or FLPo, for control of gene expression. These new tools allow neurons targeted on the basis of their connectivity to have their function assayed or their activity or gene expression manipulated. Combining these tools with in vivo imaging and optogenetic methods and/or inducible gene expression in transgenic mice will facilitate experiments investigating neural circuit development, plasticity, and function that have not been possible with existing reagents.
Grid cells are space-modulated neurons with periodic firing fields. In moving animals, the multiple firing fields of an individual grid cell form a triangular pattern tiling the entire space available to the animal. Collectively, grid cells are thought to provide a context-independent metric representation of the local environment. Since the discovery of grid cells in 2005, a number of models have been proposed to explain the formation of spatially repetitive firing patterns as well as the conversion of these signals to place signals one synapse downstream in the hippocampus. The present article reviews the most recent developments in our understanding of how grid patterns are generated, maintained, and transformed, with particular emphasis on second-generation computational models that have emerged during the past 2-3 years in response to criticism and new data.
In this issue of Neuron, MacDonald et al. describe hippocampal &quot;time cells&quot; that fire during specific delay periods as rats performed a memory task. Converging results in monkeys suggest that the hippocampus encodes episodes by signaling events in time.


The current model of fear conditioning suggests that it is mediated through modules involving the amygdala (AMY), hippocampus (HIP), and frontal lobe (FL). We now test the hypothesis that habituation and acquisition stages of a fear conditioning protocol are characterized by different event-related causal interactions (ERCs) within and between these modules. The protocol used the painful cutaneous laser as the unconditioned stimulus and ERC was estimated by analysis of local field potentials recorded through electrodes implanted for investigation of epilepsy. During the prestimulus interval of the habituation stage FL&gt;AMY ERC interactions were common. For comparison, in the poststimulus interval of the habituation stage, only a subdivision of the FL (dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, dlPFC) still exerted the FL&gt;AMY ERC interaction (dlFC&gt;AMY). For a further comparison, during the poststimulus interval of the acquisition stage, the dlPFC&gt;AMY interaction persisted and an AMY&gt;FL interaction appeared. In addition to these ERC interactions between modules, the results also show ERC interactions within modules. During the poststimulus interval, HIP&gt;HIP ERC interactions were more common during acquisition, and deep hippocampal contacts exerted causal interactions on superficial contacts, possibly explained by connectivity between the perihippocampal gyrus and the HIP. During the prestimulus interval of the habituation stage, AMY&gt;AMY ERC interactions were commonly found, while interactions between the deep and superficial AMY (indirect pathway) were independent of intervals and stages. These results suggest that the network subserving fear includes distributed or widespread modules, some of which are themselves &quot;local networks.&quot; ERC interactions between and within modules can be either static or change dynamically across intervals or stages of fear conditioning.
There is considerable evidence suggesting genetic factors play an important role in the pathophysiology of depression, possibly by increasing susceptibility to repeated environmental stressors. Recent linkage studies have associated a polymorphism of the gene coding for the P2X7 receptor (P2X7R) with both major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder. Here we assessed whether P2X7 deletion affected the behavioural and neural response to repeated stress. P2X7R knockout (P2X7-/-) mice were subjected to the forced swim test for three consecutive days and neuronal activation in response to the third exposure was assessed using c-Fos immunohistochemistry. In addition, anxiety was evaluated in another group of P2X7-/- mice using the elevated plus maze (EPM) and light dark emergence (LDE) tests. Equivalent levels of immobility were observed in P2X7-/- mice and wild-type (WT) mice on the first exposure to forced swim, but much greater immobility was seen in WT mice on second and third exposures. This suggests that P2X7-/- mice exhibit an impaired adaptive coping response to repeated stress. Reinforcing this view, c-Fos expression in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus and in the basolateral amygdala was seen in WT mice but not P2X7-/- mice following repeated forced swim. In addition, decreased locomotor activity was detected in P2X7-/- mice without any specific effects on anxiety in the LDE test. However, P2X7-/- mice showed greater anxiety-like behaviour in the EPM. These data suggest that the P2X7R may be involved in the adaptive mechanisms elicited by exposure to repeated environmental stressors that leads to the development of depression-like behaviours. This suggests that P2X7R antagonists may be useful therapeutics for the treatment of major depression, possibly by increasing resilience in the face of repeated stress.
Cysteinyl leukotrienes (CysLTs), potent inflammatory mediators, are released from ischemic brain, and may regulate ischemic injury through activating CysLT1 and CysLT2 receptors. The CysLT1 receptor is closely associated with ischemic injury and post-ischemic repair; however, the CysLT2 receptor-mediated responses remain unknown. Here, we investigated the spatiotemporal profiles and implications of CysLT2 receptor expression and localization in rat brain after focal cerebral ischemia. CysLT2 receptors were normally localized in astrocytes in the cortex and around the ventricles. After focal cerebral ischemia, CysLT2 receptor expression was up-regulated in concert with neuronal and glial responses. In the acute phase (6-24 h), up-regulated CysLT2 receptors were restricted to injured neurons in the ischemic core; while in the late phase (3-28 days), the up-regulation was restricted to hypertrophic microglia (ischemic core) and mainly localized in hypertrophic astrocytes (boundary zone). Thus, the spatiotemporal profiles of CysLT2 receptor expression suggest that it plays regulatory roles in acute neuron injury, and astrocytosis and microgliosis in the late phase.
In contrast with mammals, adult fish brains exhibit an enormous potential to produce new cells. Proliferation zones, however, have been described in only a few species, hindering comparisons among genuses and orders. Here we analyzed brain cell proliferation in annual teleostean fishes Austrolebias (Cyprinodontiform: Rivulidae). Immunocytochemistry against 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) was quantitated and mapped 24 h after injection in three species with different phylogenetic positions or habitats. All species had similar brain anatomy and total volume, but olfactory bulbs, torus longitudinalis and cerebellum were of different sizes in different species. Cell proliferation was found throughout the brain. Three-D reconstructions provided evidence for contiguity along the rostro-caudal axis and concentration in the vicinity of the ventricles. Brain regions analyzed exhibited high mitotic activity, and the torus longitudinalis had the highest volume-normalized proliferation index. A. affinis exhibited the highest normalized proliferation indexes in visual regions but the lowest in olfactory bulb. A. reicherti showed an inverse pattern, suggesting that these species have a different hierarchy of sensorial modalities that could be related to phylogeny or habitat. Double immunostaining against BrdU and cell-type specific markers was performed to determine the fate of proliferating cells. A widespread gliogenesis was evidenced. Few cells positive for both BrdU and the neuronal marker HuC/D were found in the brain of the three species, demonstrating neurogenesis in the adult Austrolebias brain. Summarizing, adult members of the three species showed similar brain anatomy and cell proliferation patterns. Among species, volume-normalized proliferation indexes varied in regions involved in different sensory modalities. To our knowledge, this is the first report showing proliferating cells with neuronal markers as earlier as 24 h after BrdU injection.
Although high doses of sodium salicylate impair cochlear function, it paradoxically enhances sound-evoked activity in the auditory cortex (AC) and augments acoustic startle reflex responses, neural and behavioral metrics associated with hyperexcitability and hyperacusis. To explore the neural mechanisms underlying salicylate (SS)-induced hyperexcitability and &quot;increased central gain,&quot; we examined the effects of GABA receptor agonists and antagonists on SS-induced hyperexcitability in the AC and startle reflex responses. Consistent with our previous findings, local or systemic application of SS significantly increased the amplitude of sound-evoked AC neural activity, but generally reduced spontaneous activity in the AC. Systemic injection of SS also significantly increased the acoustic startle reflex. S-baclofen or R-baclofen, GABA-B agonists, which suppressed sound-evoked AC neural firing rate and local field potentials, also suppressed the SS-induced enhancement of the AC field potential and the acoustic startle reflex. Local application of vigabatrin, which enhances GABA concentration in the brain, suppressed the SS-induced enhancement of AC firing rate. Systemic injection of vigabatrin also reduced the SS-induced enhancement of acoustic startle reflex. Collectively, these results suggest that the sound-evoked behavioral and neural hyperactivity induced by SS may arise from a SS-induced suppression of GABAergic inhibition in the AC.
The extracellular protein Reelin regulates radial neuronal migration in the embryonic brain, promotes dendrite outgrowth in the developing postnatal forebrain, and strengthens synaptic transmission in the adult brain. Heterozygous reeler mice expressing reduced levels of Reelin are grossly normal but exhibit behavioral and physiological abnormalities. We previously demonstrated that dendritic spine density is reduced in the developing hippocampus of these mice. In this study, we investigated the consequence of Reelin deficiency on synapse formation in adult heterozygous reeler mice using imaging and biochemical approaches. Using a reeler colony that expresses yellow fluorescent protein in selected neurons, we analyzed spine density in hippocampal area CA1 by confocal microscopy and found modest abnormalities in heterozygous reeler mice. However, biochemical analysis of synaptic composition revealed specific postsynaptic defects in scaffolding proteins, neurotransmitter receptors, and signaling proteins. Using whole brain homogenates and purified pre- and postsynaptic fractions, we found that the defects were localized to the postsynaptic compartment of heterozygous reeler synapses. Decreased levels of postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95), the N-methyl d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subunits NR2A and NR2B, and the phosphatase PTEN were found specifically in the postsynaptic density fraction obtained from these mice. Furthermore, we found that PSD-95, NR2A, and PTEN interact with each other at the synapse. Finally, we show that levels of NR2A are reduced in conditional Pten knock out mice, demonstrating that the PTEN phosphatase regulates NMDA receptor expression at the synapse in vivo. These studies may provide insights into the etiology of cognitive disorders associated with deficiencies in Reelin signaling and PTEN dysfunction.
Calcium (Ca2+) channels are sensitive to ethanol and Ca2+ signaling is a critical regulator of axonal growth and guidance. Effects of acute and chronic exposure to ethanol (22, 43, or 87 mM) on voltage-gated Ca2+ channels (VGCCs) in whole cells, and KCl-induced Ca2+ transients in axonal growth cones, were examined using dissociated hippocampal cultures. Whole-cell patch-clamp analysis in neurons with newly-formed axons (Stage 3) revealed that rapidly inactivating, low-voltage activated (LVA) and non-inactivating, high-voltage activated (HVA) currents were both inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by acute ethanol, with relatively greater inhibition of HVA currents. When assessed by Fluo-4-AM imaging, baseline fluorescence and Ca2+ response to ethanol in Stage 3 neurons was similar compared to neurons without axons, but peak Ca2+ transient amplitudes in response to bath-applied KCl were greater in Stage 3 neurons and were decreased by acute ethanol. The amplitude of Ca2+ transients elicited specifically in axonal growth cones by focal application of KCl was also inhibited by acute exposure to moderate-to-high concentrations of ethanol (43 or 87 mM), whereas a lower concentration (22 mM) had no effect. When 43 or 87 mM ethanol was present continuously in the medium, KCl-evoked Ca2+ transient amplitudes were also reduced in growth cones. In contrast, Ca2+ transients were increased by continuous exposure to 22 mM ethanol. Visualization using a fluorescent dihydropyridine analog revealed that neurons continuously exposed to ethanol expressed increased amounts of L-type Ca2+ channels, with greater increases in axonal growth cones than cell bodies. Thus, acute ethanol reduces Ca2+ current and KCl-induced Ca2+ responses in whole cells and axonal growth cones, respectively, and chronic exposure is also generally inhibitory despite apparent up-regulation of L-type channel expression. These results are consistent with a role for altered growth cone Ca2+ signaling in abnormal neuromorphogenesis associated with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.
Behavioral sensitization to the stimulating effect of ethanol (EtOH) or other drugs, which can be observed in mice as an increase in locomotor activity after repeated administration, has been associated with neuroadaptations within the dopaminergic mesolimbic pathway. In the nucleus accumbens (NAc), an afferent region of the mesolimbic pathway, dopamine (DA) release can be modulated by serotonergic 2C receptors (5-HT2CR). The aim of the present study was to evaluate the function of 5-HT2CR in the expression of EtOH-induced behavioral sensitization in Albino Swiss mice with various levels of sensitization to EtOH. In the four experiments that we performed, the mice were given saline or 2.2 g/kg EtOH daily for 21 days. Based on their locomotion on day 21, the EtOH-pretreated mice were assigned to one of two groups, highly sensitized or weakly sensitized to the stimulating effect of EtOH. In each experiment, 2 weeks after the 21-day treatment (withdrawal period), the mice were submitted to four pharmacological challenges of two drug treatments each. The mice in experiments 1 and 2 received two i.p. injections, whereas the mice in experiments 3 and 4 received an intra-NAc administration followed by an i.p. injection. The challenges were: saline+saline; saline+EtOH; SB-242084 (a 5-HT2CR antagonist; 0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 mg/kg i.p. or 1.0 or 2.0 g/side intra-NAc)+EtOH; and SB-242084 (0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 mg/kg i.p. or 1.0 or 2.0 g/side intra-NAc)+saline. At all tested doses, i.p. administration of SB-242084 did not affect the stimulating effect of EtOH in the highly sensitized mice. However, when delivered by intra-NAc administration, SB-242084 reduced (at 1.0 g/side) or completely blocked (at 2.0 g/side) the expression of EtOH-induced behavioral sensitization in the highly sensitized mice. These findings suggest that the expression of behavioral sensitization to the stimulating effect of EtOH depends on accumbal 5-HT2CR activity.
Metastasis suppressor 1 (MTSS1, BEG4, MIM) is well described for its function as a metastasis suppressor gene and is expressed in a variety of tissues. However, only little is known about its expression in the central nervous system (CNS), and functions within the CNS have not been addressed so far. Here, we show that MTSS1 was expressed in postmitotic neurons of the cerebellar cortex. Within Purkinje cells, higher amounts of MTSS1 were temporarily localized in the axonal somatic compartment than in the dendritic compartment. In L7En-2 transgenic mice, in which the segment-polarity gene and regulator of neuronal maturation Engrailed-2 is overexpressed specifically in cerebellar Purkinje cells, MTSS1 was homogenously distributed within Purkinje cell somata throughout development. In parallel to the altered distribution of MTSS1 in L7En-2 Purkinje cells, L7En-2 Purkinje cell somata were distorted and in some cells invaginations of the plasma membrane were observed. These invaginations were only found in L7En-2 neurons, and displayed multiple synapses which could not be seen at the smooth surface of wildtype Purkinje cell somata. Current knowledge about MTSS1 function in vitro and the correlation between MTSS1 localization and the occurrence of membrane alterations in L7En-2 Purkinje cells described here suggest that MTSS1 might be involved in shaping neuronal membranes in vivo.
The hypothalamus supports basic motivational behaviours such as mating and feeding. Recording directly from the posterior inferior hypothalamus in a male patient receiving a deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrode for the alleviation of cluster headache, we tested the hypothalamic response to different classes of motivational stimuli (sexually relevant: pictures of dressed and undressed women; pictures of food) and pictures of common objects as control. Averaged local field potentials (LFP) to sexually relevant stimuli were characterized by a biphasic significantly enhanced response (relative to objects; bootstrapping statistics) with a first phase starting at around 200 ms and a second phase peaking at around 600 ms. Sexually relevant stimuli also showed a greatly enhanced positivity relative to other stimulus classes in surface event-related potentials in a group of 11 male control participants. It is suggested that the hypothalamus is involved in the recruitment of attentional resources by sexually relevant stimuli reflected in this surface positivity. In a second session, the response to food stimuli relative to objects was tested in two states: after fasting for 14 h, LFPs to food and object stimuli showed significant differences in between 300 and 850 ms, which disappeared after a full high-calorie meal, thus replicating classic studies in monkeys [Rolls et al., Brain Res (1976) 111:53-66]. The current data are the first to demonstrate hypothalamic responses to the sight of motivational stimuli in man and thus shows that recording from DBS electrodes might provide important information about the cognitive functions of subcortical structures.
Penile erection is essential for successful copulation in males. Dopaminergic projections from the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and from the VTA to the nucleus accumbens (NAc) are thought to exert a facilitatory effect on penile erection. Our previous study showed that treatment with an extract of Ginkgo biloba leaves (EGb 761) enhances noncontact erection (NCE) in male rats. However, the relationship between NCE and dopaminergic activity in the PVN, VTA, and NAc remains unknown. The present study examined the relationship between NCE and central dopaminergic activity following EGb 761 treatment. We report here that, in comparison with the controls, there was a significant increase in the number of NCEs in rats after treatment with 50 mg/kg of EGb 761 for 14 days. EGb 761-treated rats also showed more NCEs than the same group before EGb 761 treatment. A significant increase in the expression of catecholaminergic neurons in the PVN and the VTA was seen by means of tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry, and tissue levels of dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the NAc were also markedly increased in the EGb 761-treated animals. However, the norepinephrine tissue levels in the PVN and the NAc in the EGb 761-treated group were not significantly different from those in the controls. Together, these results suggest that administration of EGb 761 increases dopaminergic activity in the PVN and the mesolimbic system to facilitate NCE in male rats.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the striosome-matrix systems have a tight link with motor and behavioral brain functions and their disorders. Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a versatile protein kinase that plays a role in synaptic functions and cell survival in adult brain, and its kinase activity is stimulated by phosphorylation at tyrosine 15 residue (pY15). In this study, we used an immunohistochemical method to show differential localization of Cdk5-pY15 in the striatal compartments of adult mice, with a heightened density of Cdk5-pY15 labeling in the matrix relative to the striosomes. Our findings indicate that Cdk5-pY15 can be a new marker for the striatal matrix compartment, and suggest a possible involvement of Cdk5-mediated signaling in compartment-specific neurotransmission and disease pathology in the striatum.
Defect of metallothionein-III (MT-III) has been reported to be a contributor to the progression of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We explored the expression and effects of MT-III on the motor neurons of spinal cords of ALS model mice (G93A Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD-1) mutant-transgenic (Tg) mice) using a retrograde viral delivery system. Once-weekly injection of the adenovirus encoding LacZ or MT-III gene was started at the age of 20 weeks, which was the mean age of ALS onset. Gene expression was detected in the motor neurons of the lumbar spinal cord. At 160 days of age (14 days after injection), the mean numbers of Nissl-stained  neurons were 15.425.32, 16.501.35, and 24.754.01 in 5-m sections of the lumbar hemispinal cord from the untreated group, LacZ group, and MT-III group, respectively. The mean durations of illness were 15.205.30 days, 10.334.27 days, and 25.717.67 days in the untreated group, LacZ group, and MT-III group, respectively. The mean life spans were 163.207.72 days, 159.503.27 days, and 178.1412.97 days in the untreated group, LacZ group, and MT-III group, respectively. We demonstrated that MT-III prevents the loss of motor neurons of ALS model mice and prolongs the life span, even when the administration is started at the time of onset.
Anticipatory grip force adjustments are a prime example of the predictive nature of motor control. An object held in precision grip is stabilized by fine adjustments of the grip force against changes in tangential load force arising from inertia during acceleration and deceleration. When an object is subject to sudden impact loads, prediction becomes critical as the time available for sensory feedback is very short. Here, we investigated the control of grip force when participants performed a targeted tapping task with a hand-held object. During the initial transport phase of the movement, load force varied smoothly with acceleration. In contrast, in the collision, load forces sharply increased to very large values. In the transport phase, grip force and load force were coupled in phase, as expected. However, in the collision, grip force did not parallel load force. Rather, it exhibited a stereotyped profile with maximum 65 ms after peak load at contact. By using catch trials and a virtual environment, we demonstrate that this peak of grip force is pre-programmed. This observation is validated across experimental manipulations involving different target stiffness and directions of movement. We suggest that the central nervous system optimizes stability in object manipulation-as in catching-by regulating mechanical parameters including stiffness and damping through grip force. This study provides novel insights about how the brain coordinates grip force in manipulation involving an object interacting with the environment.
Methamphetamine is a CNS stimulant with limited therapeutic indications, but is widely abused. Short-term exposure to higher doses, or long-term exposure to lower doses, of methamphetamine induces lasting damage to nigrostriatal dopamine neurons in man and animals. Strong evidence indicates that the mechanism for this detrimental effect on dopamine neurons involves oxidative stress exerted by reactive oxygen species. This study investigates the relative susceptibility of dopamine neurons in mid-gestation, young, and adult (not aged) monkeys to four treatments with methamphetamine over 2 days. Primate dopamine neurons undergo natural cell death at mid-gestation, and we hypothesized that during this event they are particularly vulnerable to oxidative stress. The results indicated that at mid-gestation and in adults, dopamine neurons were susceptible to methamphetamine-induced damage, as indicated by loss of striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity and dopamine concentration. However, dopamine neurons in young animals appeared totally resistant to the treatment, despite this group having higher brain levels of methamphetamine 3 h after administration than the adults. As a possible explanation for the protection, striatal glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) levels were elevated in young animals 1 week after treatment, but not in adults following methamphetamine treatment. Implications of these primate studies are: (1) the susceptibility of dopamine neurons at mid-gestation to methamphetamine warns against the risk of exposing pregnant women to the drug or oxidative stressors, and supports the hypothesis of Parkinson's disease being associated with oxidative stress during development, (2) elucidation of the mechanism of resistance of dopamine neurons in the young animals to methamphetamine-induced oxidative stress may provide targets for slowing or preventing age- or disease-related loss of adult nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) neurons, and (3) the increased striatal production of GDNF in young animals, but not in adults, in response to methamphetamine, suggests the possibility of an age-related change in the neurotrophic capacity of the striatal dopamine system.
The current study explored the relationship among sensory gating, inhibition control and human intelligence in two groups of children with different intellectual levels. A Go-Nogo task was adopted to investigate children's behavioral performances in inhibition control processing, and a paired-click paradigm with event-related potentials (ERP) recording was used to explore children's neural activation during sensory gating processing. The behavioral results showed that the intellectually gifted children committed significantly less commission error rate, which indicated that gifted children had better inhibition control than their average peers. The electrophysiological results showed that the gifted group had lower S2P50/S1P50 amplitude ratio than the average group and illustrated that gifted children had stronger sensory gating. The results of correlation analysis between inhibition control performances and sensory gating showed that children with stronger P50 suppression (lower S2/S1 latency ratio) in the fronto-central area and stronger N100 suppression (lower S2/S1 amplitude ratio) in the frontal and fronto-central areas had shorter reaction time in the Go-Nogo task. Moreover, the correlation patterns between sensory gating and inhibition control were different between two groups of children. The present findings further demonstrated the close relationship among sensory gating, inhibition control and human intelligence in children.
We previously found that the glutamate release was decreased in synaptosomes from rat cerebral cortex during the development of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the animal model of multiple sclerosis. Various other reports have shown a deficit in the expression of proteins associated with GABAergic neurotransmission in the neocortex of patients with multiple sclerosis and it was also demonstrated that the activation of GABAA receptors leads to an inhibition of glutamate release. Now, in order to evaluate the events that may affect the neuronal function in EAE synaptosomes, we analyzed the participation of the GABAergic system in glutamate release and in the flunitrazepam-sensitive GABAA receptor density. This revealed alterations in the GABAergic system of the frontal cortex synaptosomes from EAE animals. GABA induced a decrease in the 4-aminopyridine-evoked glutamate release in control synaptosomes which was abolished by picrotoxin, a GABAA receptor antagonist. In contrast, synaptosomes from EAE rats showed a loss in the inhibition of glutamate release mediated by GABA. Furthermore, the flunitrazepam-sensitive GABAA receptor density was decreased during the acute stage of the disease in synaptosomes from EAE rats. We also observed a loss of inhibition in the Ca2+-dependent phosphorylation of synapsin I mediated by GABA in nerve terminals from EAE animals, which could explain the loss of GABAergic regulation on evoked glutamate release. The changes observed in the GABAA receptor density as well as the loss of GABAergic inhibition of glutamate release were partially reverted in cortical synaptosomes from recovered EAE animals. These results suggest that the decrease in the flunitrazepam-sensitive GABAA receptor density may explain the observed failure of GABAergic regulation in the glutamate release of synaptosomes from EAE rats, which might contribute to the appearance of clinical symptoms and disease progression.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are potent regulators of transmitter release in chemical synapses, but the mechanism of this action remains almost unknown. Presynaptic modulation can change either the release probability or the time course of quantal release, which was recently recognized as an efficient mechanism determining synaptic efficiency. The nonuniform structure and a big size of the frog neuromuscular junction make it a useful model to study the action of ROS in compartments different in release probability and in time course of transmitter release. The time course (or kinetics) of quantal release could be estimated by measuring the dispersion of the synaptic delays for evoked uniquantal endplate currents (EPCs) under low release probability. Using two-electrode recording technique, the action of ROS on kinetics and release probabilities were studied at the proximal and distal parts within the same neuromuscular junction. The stable ROS hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) increased the dispersion of synaptic delays of EPCs (i.e. desynchronized quantal release) within the distal part but decreased delay dispersion (synchronized quantal release) within the proximal part of the same synapse. Unlike the opposite modulation of kinetics, H2O2 reduced release probability in both distal and proximal parts. Since ATP is released from motor nerve terminals together with acetylcholine and can be involved in ROS signaling, we tested the presynaptic action of ATP. In the presence of the pro-oxidant Fe2+, extracellular ATP, similarly to H2O2, induced significant desynchronization of release in the distal regions. The antioxidant N-acetyl-cysteine attenuated the inhibitory action of ATP on release probability and abolished the action of H2O2 and ATP in the presence of Fe2+, on release kinetics. Our data suggest that ROS induced during muscle activity could change the time course of transmitter release along the motor nerve terminal to provide fine tuning of synaptic efficacy.
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is an FDA approved treatment for drug-resistant epilepsy and depression. Recently, we demonstrated the capacity for repeatedly pairing sensory input with brief pulses of VNS to induce input specific reorganization in rat auditory cortex. This was subsequently used to reverse the pathological neural and perceptual correlates of hearing loss induced tinnitus. Despite its therapeutic potential, VNS mechanisms of action remain speculative. In this study, we report the acute effects of VNS on intra-cortical synchrony, excitability, and sensory processing in anesthetized rat auditory cortex. VNS significantly increased and decorrelated spontaneous multi-unit activity, and suppressed entrainment to repetitive noise burst stimulation at 6-8 Hz but not after application of the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine. Collectively, these experiments demonstrate the capacity for VNS to acutely influence cortical synchrony and excitability and strengthen the hypothesis that acetylcholine and muscarinic receptors are involved in VNS mechanisms of action. These results are discussed with respect to their possible implications for sensory processing, neural plasticity, and epilepsy.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease associated with chronic inflammation of the joints. RA has been shown to increase the morbidity of and mortality due to cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. We recently reported that cerebrovascular permeability was increased in mice with collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), an animal model of RA. S100A4, a member of the S100 family, is up-regulated in synovial fluid and plasma from RA patients. This study was aimed at evaluating a role of S100A4 in the mediation of blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction in CIA mice. CIA was induced by immunization with type II collagen in mice. Cerebrovascular permeability was assessed by measurement of sodium fluorescein (Na-F) levels in the brains of control and CIA mice. Serum S100A4 concentrations in control and CIA mice were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA). Accumulation of Na-F in the brain and serum levels of S100A4 were increased in CIA mice. Increased S100A4 levels in the serum are closely correlated with hyperpermeability of the cerebrovascular endothelium to Na-F. We investigated whether S100A4 induces BBB dysfunction using mouse brain capillary endothelial cells (MBECs). S100A4 decreased the transendothelial electrical resistance and increased Na-F permeability in the MBECs. S100A4 reduced the expression of occludin, a tight junction protein, and stimulated p53 expression in MBECs. These findings suggest that S100A4 increases paracellular permeability of MBECs by decreasing expression levels of occludin, at least in part, via p53. The present study highlights a potential role for S100A4 in BBB dysfunction underlying cerebrovascular diseases in patients with RA.
Most mammals rely on semiochemicals, such as pheromones, to mediate their social interactions. Recent studies found that semiochemicals are perceived by at least two distinct chemosensory systems: the main and accessory olfactory systems, which share many molecular, cellular, and anatomical features. Nevertheless, the division of labor between these systems remained unclear. Previously we suggested that the two olfactory systems differ in the way they process sensory information. In this study we found that mitral cells of the main and accessory olfactory bulbs, the first brain stations of both systems, display markedly different passive and active intrinsic properties which permit distinct types of information processing. Moreover, we found that accessory olfactory bulb mitral cells are divided into three neuronal sub-populations with distinct firing properties. These neuronal sub-populations can be integrated in a simulated neuronal network that neglects episodic stimuli while amplifying reaction to long-lasting signals.
Previous research has indicated that neuromelanin (NM) is involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in PD sufferers is thought to be related to enhanced tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity and NM production. However, few reports have confirmed this hypothesis. In this study, PC12 cells of all experiments were exposed to 50 mol/L levodopa (l-DOPA) to generate a model for NM synthesis. Meanwhile, PC12 cells were treated with glucose oxidase (GO) at different concentrations to generate oxidative stress. Finally, cell viability, TH activity, and NM generation in PC12 cells were measured. The results showed that GO dose-dependently stimulated oxidative stress generation in PC12 cells. Moderate increases in oxidative stress enhanced the viability of PC12 cells. However, an excessive level of oxidative stress can lead to the degeneration of PC12 cells. Notably, in the surviving PC12 cells, ROS significantly increased the TH activity, and the NM production was also upregulated. Thus, oxidative stress may upregulate the synthesis of NM, which may be a result of the increased TH activity observed in response to the elevated ROS in l-DOPA-treated PC12 cells.
The pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism is believed to be influenced by interactions between genetic and environmental factors, and appropriate animal models are needed to assess the influence of such factors on relevant neurodevelopmental phenotypes. A set of inbred mouse strains (Atchley strains) including A12 (E+L0) and A22 (E-L0) were generated by age-specific restricted index selection from a baseline random-bred ICR mouse population obtained from Harlan Sprague-Dawley [Atchley et al. (1997) Genetics 146(2):629-640; Indianapolis, IN, USA). As compared with the A22 strain, A12 mice had significantly increased early (P0-P10) body weight gain with minimal changes in late (P28-P56) body weight gain. We found that these strains also differed in brain weight, brain volume, cell proliferation, and FGF-2 levels in certain brain regions. Specifically, brain weight and volume were significantly greater in A12 mice than that in A22 mice at P10 and P28. Quantitative analysis of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling of proliferating cells showed that the number of BrdU-positive cells in the A12 strain were significantly greater in the frontal cortex and lesser in the dentate gyrus than that in the A22 strain at P28. Western blot revealed that fibroblast growth factors-2 (FGF-2), but not brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), expression was significantly increased in the frontal cortex of A12 strain at P28. Also, A12 mice exhibited decreased intra-strain social interaction and increased repetitive stereotyped behaviors at P28. Our study suggests that A12 mice may partially mimic the anatomic and behavioral traits of patients with neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism spectrum disorders, and therefore may yield insights into the developmental mechanisms involved in their pathogenesis.
Research during the past decade has led to a tremendous growth in our understanding of how fear memories are acquired and subsequently inhibited on a neural and molecular level. Such research has contributed to significant developments in the treatment of anxiety disorders, and has considerably advanced our understanding of the neurobiology of learning and memory in general. A number of recent studies have examined the role of growth factors in the formation of long-term memory for fearful events, due to their ability to cause morphological neural changes in response to environmental stimulation. In this review we first describe physiological evidence that fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) receptors are highly expressed in the neural circuitry regulating fear acquisition and extinction, and that FGF2 modulates the molecular signals known to be involved in the formation of fear memories. Then we present emerging behavioral research that demonstrates that exogenous FGF2 can enhance the formation of fear conditioning and extinction memories. Finally, we briefly discuss how research into the role of FGF2 in learning and memory may be of clinical benefit, particularly in the treatment of anxiety disorders.
Orexins, composed of orexin A and orexin B, are identified as endogenous ligands of two orphan G-protein-coupled receptors: orexin 1 and orexin 2 receptors (OX1R and OX2R). Orexins are implicated in regulating wake/sleep states, feeding behaviors, etc. Using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reactive (RT-PCR) analysis and immunofluorescence double labeling, we investigated the distributions of orexin A, orexin B, OX1R and OX2R in rat retina. RT-PCR analysis revealed the presence of mRNAs of prepro-orexin, OX1R and OX2R in rat retina. Immunostaining for orexin A and orexin B was observed in many cells in the inner nuclear layer and the ganglion cell layer. In the outer retina, horizontal cells, labeled by calbindin, and bipolar cells, labeled by homeobox protein Chx10, were orexin A- and orexin B-positive. In the inner retina, two orexins were both found in GABAergic amacrine cells (ACs), including dopaminergic and cholinergic ones, stained by tyrosine hydroxylase and choline acetyltransferase respectively. Glycinergic ACs, including AII ACs, also expressed orexins. Weak to moderate labeling for orexin A and orexin B was diffusely distributed in the inner plexiform layer. Additionally, orexins were expressed in almost all ganglion cells (GCs) retrogradely labeled by cholera toxin B subunit. Specifically, double-labeling experiments demonstrated that melanopsin-positive GCs (intrinsically photosensitive retinal GCs, ipRGCs) were labeled by two orexins. Morever, OX1R immunoreactivity was observed in most of GCs and all dopaminergic ACs, as well as in both outer and inner plexiform layers. In contrast, no obvious OX2R immunostaining was detectable in the rat retina. These results suggest that orexins may modulate the function of neurons, especially in the inner retina. We further hypothesize that the orexin signaling via ipRGCs may be involved in setting the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) circadian clock.
Agonists of the Gq/11-activated G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) combined with strong membrane depolarization (high KCl) induce a synergistic amplification of transmitter release. The molecular basis for the synergy is unknown. Here, we investigated this potentiated transmitter release (PTR) phenomenon at the single cell level by monitoring catecholamine (CA) release in chromaffin cells using amperometry. We found that the 60 mM KCl (K60)-triggered release in bovine chromaffin cells synergizes with bradykinin (BK) or histamine (Hist) to potentiate CA release. PTR was independent of Ca2+ influx through voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCC), but required Ca2+ at the extracellular medium and was abolished by inhibitors of phospholipase C (PLC). Thefour-fold PTR induced in mouse chromaffin cells by BK and K60, was not observed in chromaffin cells prepared from TRPC1 KO mice and was restored by expressing hTRPC1. The synergy between strong voltage perturbation (K60) in the presence of VGCC blockers, and the activation of the Gq/11-PLC signal-transduction cascade generates unique and fundamental amplified signaling machinery. The concerted activation of two independent cellular pathways could reinforce physiological signals that impinge on regulation of secretory events during repeated sequence of high-frequency excitation, hyperpolarization, and relief of inhibition such as long-term potentiation (LTP), that lead to neuronal synaptic plasticity.
Adult synapsin triple-knockout mice exhibit epilepsy that manifests as generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Because in vitro recordings have shown a reduction in quantal release from inhibitory neurons, an inherent excitation-inhibition imbalance has been hypothesized as the direct culprit for epilepsy in these mice. We critically assessed this hypothesis by examining neurotransmission during the emergence of epilepsy. Using long-term video and telemetric EEG monitoring we found that synapsin triple-knockout mice exhibit an abrupt transition during early adulthood from a seizure-free presymptomatic latent state to a consistent symptomatic state of sensory-induced seizures. Electrophysiological recordings showed that during the latent period larger field responses could be elicited in slices from mutant mice. However, only after the transition to a symptomatic state in the adult mice did evoked epileptiform activity become prevalent. This state was characterized by resistance to the epileptiform-promoting effects of 4-aminopyridine, by marked hypersensitivity to blockage of GABAA receptors, and by the emergence of unresponsiveness to NMDA receptor antagonism, all of which were not observed during the latent period. Importantly, enhancement in inhibitory transmission was associated with upregulation of GAD67 expression without affecting the number of inhibitory neurons in the same brain areas where epileptiform activity was recorded. We therefore suggest that while deletion of the synapsins initially increases cortical network activity, this enhanced excitability is insufficient to elicit seizures. Rather, compensatory epileptogenic mechanisms are activated during the latent period that lead to an additional almost-balanced enhancement of both the excitatory and inhibitory components of the network, finally culminating in the emergence of epilepsy.
The water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is expressed in the cochlea and is essential for normal hearing. Unlike other AQPs, multiple isoforms of AQP4 have been reported in diverse tissues, three of which, M1, M23, and Mz, function as water channels. In addition, these protein isoforms are found in higher order complexes. Morphologically these higher order complexes correspond to orthogonal arrays of particles (OAPs) that are found in cell membranes by freeze fracture analysis. Using RT-PCR, quantitative PCR and blue-native PAGE immunoblots we identified all functional AQP4 isoforms -M1, M23, and Mz- and the formation of higher-order complexes in the organ of Corti of the rat. Complementary freeze-fracture studies revealed OAPs distributed in the lateral and basal membrane domains of the cochlear duct supporting cells, specifically Hensen's cells and outer sulcus cells. The unique inter- and intracellular heterogeneity in size, density and shape of OAPs suggests exceptional physiological requirements for the maintenance of water homeostasis during auditory sensory transduction in the cochlea.
It is well known that most odorants stimulate the trigeminal system but the time course of the brain regions activated by these chemical stimulations remains poorly documented, especially regarding the trigeminal system. This functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study compares brain activations resulting from the contrast between two odorant conditions (one bimodal odor and one relatively pure olfactory stimulant) according to the duration of the stimulation (i.e. one inhalation, or three or six successive inhalations). The results show striking differences in the main brain regions activated according to these durations. The caudate nucleus and the orbitofrontal cortex are only involved in short-duration stimulations, and the posterior insular cortex and post-central gyrus (SI) are only activated by long duration stimulations. Different regions of the frontal, temporal and occipital lobe are activated depending on the duration but mainly during medium-duration stimulations. These results expand on the findings of previous studies and contribute to the description of temporal networks in trigeminal perception.
AMPA receptors are glutamate receptors that are tetramers of various combinations of GluR1-4 subunits. AMPA receptors containing GluR1, 3 and 4 are Ca2+ permeable, however, AMPA receptors containing even a single subunit of GluR2 are Ca2+ impermeable. Most AMPA receptors are Ca2+ impermeable due to the presence of GluR2. GluR2 confers special properties on AMPA receptors through the presence of arginine at the pore apex; other subunits (GluR1, 3, 4) contain glutamine at the pore apex and allow Ca2+ influx. Normally, an RNA editing step changes DNA-encoded glutamine to arginine, introduces arginine in the GluR2 pore apex. GluR2 RNA editing is carried out by an RNA-dependent adenosine deaminase (ADAR2). Loss of GluR2 editing leads to the formation of highly excitotoxic AMPA channels [Mahajan and Ziff (2007) Mol Cell Neurosci 35:470-481] and is shown to contribute to loss of motor neurons in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Relatively higher levels of Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors are found in motor neurons and this has been correlated with lower GluR2 mRNA levels. However, the reason for loss of GluR2 editing is not known. Here we show that exposure of neurons to excitotoxic levels of glutamate leads to specific cleavage of ADAR2 that leads to generation of unedited GluR2. We demonstrate that cleaved ADAR2 leads to a decrease or loss of GluR2 editing, which will further result in high Ca2+ influx and excitotoxic neuronal death.
Latrepirdine is hypothesized to exert a unique mechanism of action involving stabilization of mitochondria that may have utility in treating Alzheimer's disease. However, the ability of latrepirdine to improve cognition in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is controversial due to a discrepancy between the positive signal reported in the multi-site phase II clinical trial where latrepirdine met all primary and secondary endpoints [Doody et al. (2008) Lancet 372:207-215], and the subsequent null effect observed in a multicenter, phase III trial. While dysfunction of mitochondria and abnormal energy metabolism has been linked to AD pathology, no studies have been reported that investigate latrepirdine's effect on cerebral glucose utilization (CGU). Glucose metabolism, following acute latrepirdine administration, can be used to help dose selection in Phase I dose-ranging studies. The aim of the current study was to assess changes in CGU in young and aged mice in vivo using [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) after acute treatment with latrepirdine. Two ages of B6SJLF2 mice (5 and 20 months old) were tested. Three test-retest FDG-PET baseline scans were assessed across all subjects. As CGU was heterogeneous in aged mice, compared to young mice, aged subjects were rank ordered and then counterbalanced into two CGU homogenous groups. In Studies 1 and 2, latrepirdine (1.0 mg/kg) significantly enhanced CGU in aged mice. In contrast, Study 3 revealed that latrepirdine did not modulate CGU in young mice. Monitoring changes in CGU in response to acute drug administration may represent an imaging biomarker for dose selection in AD. Further studies that would establish the translation from mice to non-human primates to humans need to be investigated to confirm the utility of FDG-PET in dose-selection for mitochondrial modulators.
Whereas some studies suggest that alpha rhythm promotes information processing in the human cortex (processing hypothesis), other studies suggest its involvement in an active cortical idling which prevents the interfering action of irrelevant information (idling hypothesis). In this study, this apparent contradiction was analyzed using a computing procedure which distinguishes phase-locked and non-phase-locked alpha response during the execution of a complex event-related visual-motor task. The electroencephalographies (EEGs) of 12 male volunteers were digitized (128 electrodes), band-pass filtered for isolating  wave, and event-related averaged during the execution of the visual-motor tasks. This procedure showed a phase-locked  response to stimuli and suppressed the non-phase-locked response. When EEG envelope of the -wave was computed (Hilbert transformation) before the event-related average, the response of the alpha amplitude to stimuli was observed while the phase-locked  response vanished. Visual stimuli induced a short-lasting increase of phase-locked alpha activity and a long-lasting decrease of non-phase-locked alpha activity whose latency and amplitude changed with the cortical region (visual vs. parietal vs. frontal cortex), with the sensory-semantic information of visual stimuli, and with the tasks associated to them (comparing the alpha response to stimuli which were used for a visual-motor tasks with those passively observed). Alpha sub-bands around the individual alpha frequency peak showed a different phase-locked response. Finally, two early evoked potentials (C1-P1) showed a time latency similar to that computed for the phase-locked alpha response, suggesting that early evoked potentials are modified by the superposition of this alpha activity. Present data suggest that alpha activity promotes the cortical processing of information by increasing the phase-locked alpha activity and by decreasing the non-phase-locked alpha activity, and disturbs cortical processing under basal conditions when it is not phase-locked to any particular task.
The neuron-specific isoform of the TAF1 gene (N-TAF1) is thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of DYT3 dystonia, which leads to progressive neurodegeneration in the striatum. To determine the expression pattern of N-TAF1 transcripts, we developed a specific monoclonal antibody against the N-TAF1 protein. Here we show that in the rat brain, N-TAF1 protein appears as a nuclear protein within subsets of neurons in multiple brain regions. Of particular interest is that in the striatum, the nuclei possessing N-TAF1 protein are largely within medium spiny neurons, and they are distributed preferentially, though not exclusively, in the striosome compartment. The compartmental preference and cell type-selective distribution of N-TAF1 protein in the striatum are strikingly similar to the patterns of neuronal loss in the striatum of DYT3 patients. Our findings suggest that the distribution of N-TAF1 protein could represent a key molecular characteristic contributing to the pattern of striatal degeneration in DYT3 dystonia.
The subiculum is the major output area of the hippocampus. It is closely interconnected with the entorhinal cortex and other parahippocampal areas. In animal models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and in TLE patients it exerts increased network excitability and may crucially contribute to the propagation of limbic seizures. Using immunohistochemistry and in situ-hybridization we now investigated neuropathological changes affecting parvalbumin and calretinin containing neurons in the subiculum and other parahippocampal areas after kainic acid-induced status epilepticus. We observed prominent losses in parvalbumin containing interneurons in the subiculum and entorhinal cortex, and in the principal cell layers of the pre- and parasubiculum. Degeneration of parvalbumin-positive neurons was associated with significant precipitation of parvalbumin-immunoreactive debris 24 h after kainic acid injection. In the subiculum the superficial portion of the pyramidal cell layer was more severely affected than its deep part. In the entorhinal cortex, the deep layers were more severely affected than the superficial ones. The decrease in number of parvalbumin-positive neurons in the subiculum and entorhinal cortex correlated with the number of spontaneous seizures subsequently experienced by the rats. The loss of parvalbumin neurons thus may contribute to the development of spontaneous seizures. On the other hand, surviving parvalbumin neurons revealed markedly increased expression of parvalbumin mRNA notably in the pyramidal cell layer of the subiculum and in all layers of the entorhinal cortex. This indicates increased activity of these neurons aiming to compensate for the partial loss of this functionally important neuron population. Furthermore, calretinin-positive fibers terminating in the molecular layer of the subiculum, in sector CA1 of the hippocampus proper and in the entorhinal cortex degenerated together with their presumed perikarya in the thalamic nucleus reuniens. In addition, a significant loss of calretinin containing interneurons was observed in the subiculum. Notably, the loss in parvalbumin positive neurons in the subiculum equaled that in human TLE. It may result in marked impairment of feed-forward inhibition of the temporo-ammonic pathway and may significantly contribute to epileptogenesis. Similarly, the loss of calretinin-positive fiber tracts originating from the nucleus reuniens thalami significantly contributes to the rearrangement of neuronal circuitries in the subiculum and entorhinal cortex during epileptogenesis.
Studies have indicated that temporal and prefrontal brain regions process face and vocal information. Face-selective and vocalization-responsive neurons have been demonstrated in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) and some prefrontal cells preferentially respond to combinations of face and corresponding vocalizations. These studies suggest VLPFC in nonhuman primates may play a role in communication that is similar to the role of inferior frontal regions in human language processing. If VLPFC is involved in communication, information about a speaker's face including identity, face-view, gaze, and emotional expression might be encoded by prefrontal neurons. In the following study, we examined the effect of face-view in ventrolateral prefrontal neurons by testing cells with auditory, visual, and a set of human and monkey faces rotated through 0, 30, 60, 90, and -30. Prefrontal neurons responded selectively to either the identity of the face presented (human or monkey) or to the specific view of the face/head, or to both identity and face-view. Neurons which were affected by the identity of the face most often showed an increase in firing in the second part of the stimulus period. Neurons that were selective for face-view typically preferred forward face-view stimuli (0 and 30 rotation). The neurons which were selective for forward face-view were also auditory responsive compared to other neurons which responded to other views or were unselective which were not auditory responsive. Our analysis showed that the human forward face (0) was decoded better and also contained the most information relative to other face-views. Our findings confirm a role for VLPFC in the processing and integration of face and vocalization information and add to the growing body of evidence that the primate ventrolateral prefrontal cortex plays a prominent role in social communication and is an important model in understanding the cellular mechanisms of communication.
Recent evidence has demonstrated that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) is a critical site of the neural circuits underlying fear extinction memory. The ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC) is not directly involved in extinction processes within the aversive domain. However, most of the current cumulated data on extinction is based on a classical delay fear conditioning paradigm in which the interval between the onset of the conditioned stimulus (CS) and the unconditioned stimulus (US) is consistent in a given protocol. In the present study, we developed a modified delay fear conditioning paradigm in which the temporal distribution of the footshock US during the duration of the tone CS is programmed to be pseudorandom. Here, we examined the effects of electrolytic vmPFC and vlPFC lesions made before training on conditioned fear response in the modified paradigm. The behavioral procedure involved four sessions with a 24-h interval: habituation, fear conditioning, extinction training, and extinction test. Percent freezing to tone was assessed as a measure of conditioned fear response. The results show that neither vmPFC nor vlPFC lesions affect acquisition or extinction of conditioned fear response during the fear conditioning and extinction training sessions, respectively. During the extinction test session, both vmPFC- and vlPFC-lesioned rats showed deficits in the recall of the between-session extinction memory. The deficits could not be attributed to altered nonspecific responses (footshock sensitivity, locomotor activity, and nonspecific freezing response). Furthermore, vlPFC lesions made before training had no effect on conditioned fear response in the classical fear conditioning paradigm. These data suggest a preserved role of the vmPFC in fear extinction and a selective involvement of the vlPFC in extinction process in certain fear conditioning tasks.
Previous studies have shown that c-jun and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) are both induced in injured motoneurons, but their roles in motoneuron death remain unclear. We hypothesized that nNOS might be the downstream effector of c-jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/c-jun in avulsion-induced motoneuron death. Here, we found that brachial root-avulsion induced a temporary increase in JNK activity and three- and four-fold increases in phospho-c-jun and c-jun, respectively; however, brachial root-avulsion caused a decrease in nNOS protein expression from 4 h to 14 days post-injury. At 14 days post-injury, almost all nNOS-positive motoneurons were co-localized with phospho-c-jun-positive motoneurons in ipsilateral ventral horns. The JNK inhibitor SP600125, applied immediately post-injury, resulted in an upregulation of nNOS protein both in injured spinal cords and motoneurons and caused a slight alleviation of motoneuron death by inhibiting c-jun phosphorylation at 14 days post-injury. Our results demonstrated that the JNK/c-jun signal transduction pathway is involved in root-avulsion. The inhibition of c-jun phosphorylation prevents nNOS levels from dropping below baseline levels in the spinal cord and partially alleviates motoneuron death following root-avulsion. Therefore, inhibiting c-jun phosphorylation or up-regulating the nNOS protein in injured spinal cords at the early stage might be used in the future as the molecular-target strategies to prevent the motoneurons degeneration in root-avulsion.
The intranasal trigeminal system is a third chemical sense in addition to olfaction and gustation. As opposed to smell and taste, we still lack knowledge on the relationship between receptor binding and perception for the trigeminal system. We therefore investigated the sensitivity of the intranasal trigeminal system towards agonists of the trigeminal receptors TRPM8 and TRPA1 by assessing subjects' ability to identify which nostril has been stimulated in a monorhinal stimulation design. We summed the number of correct identifications resulting in a lateralization score. Stimuli were menthol (activating TRPM8 receptors), eucalyptol (TRPM8), mustard oil (TRPA1) and two mixtures thereof (menthol/eucalyptol and menthol/mustard oil). In addition, we examined the relationship between intensity and lateralization scores and investigated whether intensity evaluation and lateralization scores of the mixtures show additive effects. All stimuli were correctly lateralized significantly above chance. Across subjects the lateralization scores for single compounds activating the same receptor showed a stronger correlation than stimuli activating different receptors. Although single compounds were isointense, the mixture of menthol and eucalyptol (activating only TRPM8) was perceived as weaker and was lateralized less accurately than the mixture of menthol and mustard oil (activating both TRPM8 and TRPA1) suggesting suppression effects in the former mixture. In conclusion, sensitivity of different subpopulations of trigeminal sensory neurons seems to be related, but only to a certain degree. The large coherence in sensitivity between various intranasal trigeminal stimuli suggests that measuring sensitivity to one single trigeminal chemical stimulus may be sufficient to generally assess the trigeminal system's chemosensitivity. Further, for stimuli activating the same receptor a mixture suppression effect appears to occur similar to that observed in the other chemosensory systems.
The novel multifunctional brain permeable iron, chelator M30 [5-(N-methyl-N-propargyaminomethyl)-8-hydroxyquinoline] was shown to possess neuroprotective activities in vitro and in vivo, against several insults applicable to various neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In the present study, we demonstrate that systemic chronic administration of M30 resulted in up-regulation of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1 protein levels in various brain regions (e.g. cortex, striatum, and hippocampus) and spinal cord of adult mice. Real-time RT-PCR revealed that M30 differentially induced HIF-1-dependent target genes, including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), erythropoietin (EPO), enolase-1, transferrin receptor (TfR), heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and glucose transporter (GLUT)-1. In addition, mRNA expression levels of the growth factors, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and three antioxidant enzymes (catalase, superoxide dismutase (SOD)-1, and glutathione peroxidase (GPx)) were up-regulated by M30 treatment in a brain-region-dependent manner. Signal transduction immunoblotting studies revealed that M30 induced a differential enhanced phosphorylation of protein kinase C (PKC), mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/ERK kinase (MEK), protein kinase B (PKB/Akt), and glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3). Together, these results suggest that the multifunctional iron chelator M30 can up-regulate a number of neuroprotective-adaptive mechanisms and pro-survival signaling pathways in the brain that might function as important therapeutic targets for the drug in the context of neurodegenerative disease therapy.

Dopaminergic agents are commonly used and effective treatments for restless legs syndrome (RLS), a disabling sensorimotor disorder. Less known are some of the potentially disabling side effects of these treatments, particularly iatrogenic gambling addiction, as is described here. Here the authors present a 62-year-old man, with a 20-year history of RLS, who developed gambling addiction while on dopaminergic treatment. He was not forewarned of this side effect, nor was he ever screened for gambling behaviours prior to or during treatment. Eight months after discontinuation of dopaminergic treatment and after 10 sessions of cognitive-behavioural therapy for gambling addiction, his gambling behaviours have partially resolved. To our knowledge, this is the first ever first person account of this condition. To prevent the devastating consequences of gambling addiction or to minimise its impact by early intervention, the authors call for clinicians involved in treatment of RLS to follow these simple measures: screen patients for gambling behaviours prior to the onset and during dopaminergic treatment; forewarn patients of this potential side effect; and if patients screen positive, refer them to specialist gambling treatment services, in addition to making necessary changes to their medication regime.
In this paper, the acute changes in the compound motor action potential (CMAP) during mechanical stretch were studied in hamster sciatic nerve and compared to the changes that occur during compression.In response to stretch, the nerve physically broke when a mean force of 331 gm (3.3 N) was applied while the CMAP disappeared at an average stretch force of 73 gm (0.73 N). There were 5 primary measures of the CMAP used to describe the changes during the experiment: the normalized peak to peak amplitude, the normalized area under the curve (AUC), the normalized duration, the normalized velocity and the normalized velocity corrected for the additional path length the impulses travel when the nerve is stretched. Each of these measures was shown to contain information not available in the others.During stretch, the earliest change is a reduction in conduction velocity followed at higher stretch forces by declines in the amplitude of the CMAP. This is associated with the appearance of spontaneous EMG activity. With stretch forces &lt; 40 gm (0.40 N), there is evidence of increased excitability since the corrected velocities increase above baseline values. In addition, there is a remarkable increase in the peak to peak amplitude of the CMAP after recovery from stretch &lt; 40 gm, often to 20% above baseline.Multiple means of predicting when a change in the CMAP suggests a significant stretch are discussed and it is clear that a multifactorial approach using both velocity and amplitude parameters is important. In the case of pure compression, it is only the amplitude of the CMAP that is critical in predicting which changes in the CMAP are associated with significant compression.
Women and men differ in the way they experience emotional events. Previous work has indicated that the impact of an emotional event depends on how it is anticipated. Separately, it has been shown that anticipation affects memory formation. Here, we assessed whether anticipatory brain activity influences the encoding of emotional events into long-term memory and, in addition, how biological sex affects the use of such activity. Electrical brain activity was recorded from the scalps of healthy men and women while they performed an incidental encoding task (indoor/outdoor judgments) on pleasant, unpleasant, and neutral pictures. Pictures were preceded by a cue that indicated the valence of the upcoming item. Memory was tested after a 20 min delay with a recognition task incorporating the remember/know procedure. Brain activity before picture onset predicted later memory of an event. Crucially, the role of anticipatory activity depended entirely on the valence of a picture and the sex of an individual. Right-lateralized anticipatory activity selectively influenced the encoding of unpleasant pictures in women, but not in men. These findings indicate that anticipatory processes influence the way in which women encode negative events into memory. The selective use of such activity may indicate that anticipatory activity is one mechanism by which individuals regulate their emotions.
The macaque ventrolateral prefrontal (VLPF) area 12r is thought to be involved in higher-order nonspatial information processing. We found that this area is connectionally heterogeneous, and the intermediate part is fully integrated in a cortical network involved in selecting and controlling object-oriented hand and mouth actions. Specifically, intermediate area 12r displayed dense connections with the caudal half of area 46v and orbitofrontal areas and relatively strong extraprefrontal connections involving the following: (1) the hand- and mouth-related ventral premotor area F5 and the anterior intraparietal (AIP) area, jointly involved in visuomotor transformations for grasping; (2) the SII sector that is connected to AIP and F5; (3) a sector of the inferotemporal area TEa/m, primarily corresponding to the sector densely connected to AIP; and (4) the insular and opercular frontal sectors, which are connected to AIP and F5. This connectivity pattern differed markedly from those of the caudal and rostral parts of area 12r. Caudal area 12r displayed dense connections with the caudal part of the VLPF, including oculomotor areas 8/FEF and 45B, relatively weak orbitofrontal connections and extraprefrontal connections limited to the inferotemporal cortex. Rostral area 12r displayed connections mostly with rostral prefrontal and orbitofrontal areas and relatively weaker connections with the fundus and the upper bank of the superior temporal sulcus. The present data suggest that the intermediate part of area 12r is involved in nonspatial information processing related to object properties and identity, for selecting and controlling goal-directed hand and mouth actions.
Repeated administration of antipsychotic drugs to normal rats has been shown to induce a state of dopamine neuron inactivation known as depolarization block, which correlates with the ability of the drugs to exhibit antipsychotic efficacy and extrapyramidal side effects in schizophrenia patients. Nonetheless, in normal rats depolarization block requires weeks of antipsychotic drug administration, whereas schizophrenia patients exhibit initial effects soon after initiating antipsychotic drug treatment. We now report that, in a developmental disruption rat model of schizophrenia [methyl-azoxymethanol acetate (20 mg/kg, i.p.) injected into G17 pregnant female rats, with offspring tested as adults], the extant hyperdopaminergic state combines with the excitatory actions of a first- (haloperidol; 0.6 mg/kg, i.p.) and a second- (sertindole; 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) generation antipsychotic drug to rapidly induce depolarization block in ventral tegmental area dopamine neurons. Acute injection of either antipsychotic drug induced an immediate reduction in the number of spontaneously active dopamine neurons (cells per electrode track; termed population activity). Repeated administration of either antipsychotic drug for 1, 3, 7, 15, and 21 d continued to reduce dopamine neuron population activity. Both acute and repeated effects on population activity were reversed by acute apomorphine injections, which is consistent with the reversal of dopamine neuron depolarization block. Although this action may account for the effects of D2 antagonist drugs on alleviating psychosis and the lack of development of tolerance in humans, the drugs appear to do so by inducing an offsetting deficit rather than attacking the primary pathology present in schizophrenia.
Memory influences learning, but how neural signals support such transfer are unknown. To investigate these mechanisms, we trained rats to perform a standard spatial memory task in a plus maze and tested how training affected learning and neural coding in two new task variants. A switch task exchanged the start and goal locations in the same environment, whereas, an altered environment task contained unfamiliar local and distal cues. Learning was facilitated in both variants compared with the acquisition of the standard task. In the switch task, performance was largely maintained, and was accompanied by immediate and stable place-field remapping. Place-field maps in CA1 were anticorrelated in the standard and switch sessions, and the anticorrelation covaried with switch performance. Simultaneously, CA3 maps were uncorrelated overall in the standard and switch, though many CA3 cells had fields in shifted locations in the same maze arms. In the altered environment, performance was initially impaired, and place fields changed dynamically. CA1 fields were initially unstable, and their stabilization correlated with improving performance. Most CA3 cells, however, stopped firing on the maze in the altered environment, even as the same cells maintained prominent fields in standard sessions recorded before and after. CA1 and CA3 place fields thus revealed different coding dynamics that correlated with both learning and memory performance. Together, CA1 and CA3 ensembles represented the similarities and differences between new and familiar situations through concurrent rate and place remapping.
Exposure to specific visual stimuli causes a reduction in sensitivity to similar subsequent stimulation. This adaptation effect is observed behaviorally and for neurons in the primary visual cortex. Here, we explore the effects of adaptation on neurons that encode binocular depth discrimination in the cat's primary visual cortex. Our results show that neuronal preference for binocular depth is altered selectively with appropriate adaptation. At the preferred depth, adaptation causes substantial suppression of subsequent responses. Near the preferred depth, the same procedure causes a shift in depth preference. At the null depth, adaptation has little effect on binocular depth coding. These results demonstrate that prior exposure can change the depth selectivity of binocular neurons. The findings are relevant to the theoretical treatment of binocular depth processing. Specifically, the prevailing notion of binocular depth encoding based on the energy model requires modification.
The processing speed of the brain depends on the ability of neurons to rapidly relay input changes. Previous theoretical and experimental studies of the timescale of population firing rate responses arrived at controversial conclusions, some advocating an ultrafast response scale but others arguing for an inherent disadvantage of mean encoded signals for rapid detection of the stimulus onset. Here we assessed the timescale of population firing rate responses of neocortical neurons in experiments performed in the time domain and the frequency domain in vitro and in vivo. We show that populations of neocortical neurons can alter their firing rate within 1 ms in response to somatically delivered weak current signals presented on a fluctuating background. Signals with amplitudes of miniature postsynaptic currents can be robustly and rapidly detected in the population firing. We further show that population firing rate of neurons of rat visual cortex in vitro and cat visual cortex in vivo can reliably encode weak signals varying at frequencies up to 200-300 Hz, or 50 times faster than the firing rate of individual neurons. These results provide coherent evidence for the ultrafast, millisecond timescale of cortical population responses. Notably, fast responses to weak stimuli are limited to the mean encoding. Rapid detection of current variance changes requires extraordinarily large signal amplitudes. Our study presents conclusive evidence showing that cortical neurons are capable of rapidly relaying subtle mean current signals. This provides a vital mechanism for the propagation of rate-coded information within and across brain areas.
The three-layered primary olfactory (piriform) cortex is the largest component of the olfactory cortex. Sensory and intracortical inputs converge on principal cells in the anterior piriform cortex (aPC). We characterize organization principles of the sensory and intracortical microcircuitry of layer II and III principal cells in acute slices of rat aPC using laser-scanning photostimulation and fast two-photon population Ca(2+) imaging. Layer II and III principal cells are set up on a superficial-to-deep vertical axis. We found that the position on this axis correlates with input resistance and bursting behavior. These parameters scale with distinct patterns of incorporation into sensory and associative microcircuits, resulting in a converse gradient of sensory and intracortical inputs. In layer II, sensory circuits dominate superficial cells, whereas incorporation in intracortical circuits increases with depth. Layer III pyramidal cells receive more intracortical inputs than layer II pyramidal cells, but with an asymmetric dorsal offset. This microcircuit organization results in a diverse hybrid feedforward/recurrent network of neurons integrating varying ratios of intracortical and sensory input depending on a cell's position on the superficial-to-deep vertical axis. Since burstiness of spiking correlates with both the cell's location on this axis and its incorporation in intracortical microcircuitry, the neuronal output mode may encode a given cell's involvement in sensory versus associative processing.
Changes in neuronal structure are thought to underlie long-term behavioral modifications associated with learning and memory. In particular, considerable evidence implicates the destabilization and retraction of dendritic spines along with the loss of spine synapses as an important cellular mechanism for refining brain circuits, yet the molecular mechanisms regulating spine elimination remain ill-defined. The postsynaptic density protein, PSD-95, is highly enriched in dendritic spines and has been associated with spine stability. Because spines with low levels of PSD-95 are more dynamic, and the recruitment of PSD-95 to nascent spines has been associated with spine stabilization, we hypothesized that loss of PSD-95 enrichment would be a prerequisite for spine retraction. To test this hypothesis, we used dual-color time-lapse two-photon microscopy to monitor rat hippocampal pyramidal neurons cotransfected with PSD-95-GFP and DsRed-Express, and we analyzed the relationship between PSD-95-GFP enrichment and spine morphological changes. Consistent with our hypothesis, we found that the majority of spines that retracted were relatively unenriched for PSD-95-GFP. However, in the subset of PSD-95-GFP-enriched spines that retracted, spine shrinkage and loss of PSD-95-GFP were tightly coupled, suggesting that loss of PSD-95-GFP enrichment did not precede spine retraction. Moreover, we found that, in some instances, spine retraction resulted in a significant enrichment of PSD-95-GFP on the dendritic shaft. Our data support a model of spine retraction in which loss of PSD-95 enrichment is not required prior to the destabilization of spines.
Although the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinases are active in many neuronal populations in the peripheral and central nervous systems, little is known about the physiological functions of p38 in postmitotic neurons. We report that p38 activity determines in vitro and in vivo the switch from noradrenergic to cholinergic neurotransmission that occurs in sympathetic neurons on exposure to the neuropoietic cytokines CNTF and LIF. This transdifferentiation serves as a model for the plastic mechanisms that enable mature neurons to change some of their central functions without passing through the cell cycle. We demonstrate that in postmitotic neurons, p38 and STAT pathways are concurrently activated by neuropoietic cytokine treatment for at least 12 h overlapping with changes in neurotransmitter marker gene expression. Inhibition of p38 blocks the upregulation of the nuclear matrix protein Satb2 and of cholinergic markers by CNTF without affecting STAT3 phosphorylation. Conversely, overexpression of p38 or  in the absence of cytokines stimulates cholinergic marker expression. The neurotransmitter switch in vitro is impaired in neurons isolated from p38(-/-) mice. Consistent with these in vitro results, a substantial loss of cells expressing cholinergic properties is observed in vivo in the stellate ganglion of mature mice deficient in the p38 isoform.


Recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors are promising tools for gene therapy. In spinal cord injury where extensive damage occurs, vectors with high diffusion and transduction abilities are required. We compared the diffusion capacity and transduction efficiency of AAV2 and AAV5 vectors using a mouse spinal cord injury model. Our study demonstrates that AAV5 is more effective than AAV2 for delivering genes into the injured spinal cord tissue. AAV5 diffused 6.9 mm from the injection site, transduced with an approximately two-fold increase in total cell number and yielded an approximately three-fold increase in gene expression in comparison with AAV2.
2,3-Benzodiazepine derivatives are AMPA receptor inhibitors, and they are potential drugs for treating some neurological diseases caused by excessive activity of AMPA receptors. Using a laser-pulse photolysis and rapid solution flow techniques, we characterized the mechanism of action of a 2,3-benzodiazepine derivative, termed BDZ-f, by measuring its inhibitory effect on the channel-opening and channel-closing rate constants as well as the whole-cell current amplitude of the homomeric GluA2Q AMPA receptor channels. We also investigated whether BDZ-f competes with GYKI 52466 for binding to the same site on GluA2Q(flip). GYKI 52466 is the prototypic 2,3-benzodiazepine compound, and BDZ-f is the N-3 methylcarbamoyl derivative. We found that BDZ-f is a noncompetitive inhibitor with a slight preference for the closed-channel state of both the flip and the flop variants of GluA2Q. Similar to other 2,3-benzodiazepine compounds that we have previously characterized, BDZ-f inhibits GluA2Q(flip) by forming an initial, loose intermediate that is partially conducting; however, this intermediate rapidly isomerizes into a tighter, fully inhibitory receptor-inhibitor complex. BDZ-f binds to the same noncompetitive site as GYKI 52466 does. Together, our results show that the addition of an N-3 methylcarbamoyl group to the diazepine ring with the azomethine feature (i.e., GYKI 52466) is what makes BDZ-f more potent and more selective toward the closed-channel conformation than the original GYKI 52466. Our results have useful implications for the structure-activity relationship of the 2,3-benzodiazepine series.
Many animals visualize and track small moving targets at long distances-be they prey, approaching predators or conspecifics. Insects are an excellent model system for investigating the neural mechanisms that have evolved for this challenging task. Specialized small target motion detector (STMD) neurons in the optic lobes of the insect brain respond strongly even when the target size is below the resolution limit of the eye. Many STMDs also respond robustly to small targets against complex stationary or moving backgrounds. We hypothesized that this requires a complex mechanism to avoid breakthrough responses by background features, and yet to adequately amplify the weak signal of tiny targets. We compared responses of dragonfly STMD neurons to small targets that begin moving within the receptive field with responses to targets that approach the same location along longer trajectories. We find that responses along longer trajectories are strongly facilitated by a mechanism that builds up slowly over several hundred milliseconds. This allows the neurons to give sustained responses to continuous target motion, thus providing a possible explanation for their extraordinary sensitivity.
Activation in the left primary visual cortex (V1) representing the parafoveal field during text reading has been interpreted as attentional modulation in the process of deciding saccadic target for reading ahead. Kanji words serve the main cue to decide the goal of saccades in Japanese. We aimed to determine the exact location of this modulation in the V1 and to determine whether the area of the modulation changes according to the location where the next Kanji word appears or it is fixed on a certain region in V1. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we determined the area in V1 representing each eccentricity on the horizontal meridian of the visual field for each participant. Then we investigated brain activation while they were reading two sets of Japanese texts that scrolled leftward as the participants. In set 1, the distance between the heads of adjacent Kanji words was about 3. In set 2, the distance was about 5. From the results of these experiments, we obtained activation amplitude of the area corresponding to each eccentricity. We recorded eye movements simultaneously with the acquisition of fMRI data. The maximum peak of the activation was found in the region representing about 4.5 of eccentricity on the horizontal meridian in the left V1 for each participant. The activation pattern did not essentially differ between the two text conditions, although the location of the saccades made for reading next section of the text corresponds to the head of the next Kanji word. The activation modulation during reading Japanese texts occurs in the parafoveal V1 of the left hemisphere. The attentional modulation did not change with the distance to the next goal of saccade but was fixed on the area representing about 4.5 of eccentricity.
The human brain has remarkable capabilities for encoding and manipulating information about quantities. Understanding how the brain carries out such number and quantity processing is a problem not just for those interested in numerical cognition: it raises important questions that are relevant to understanding development, action, vision, language, executive function and cortical organisation. It is also a clear case of research into a core human psychological function having indisputable everyday relevance; hence the emphasis in early education on numeracy and later on mathematics.
Electrophysiological studies in humans and animals suggest that noninvasive neurostimulation methods such as transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) can elicit long-lasting [1], polarity-dependent [2] changes in neocortical excitability. Application of tDCS can have significant and selective behavioral consequences that are associated with the cortical location of the stimulation electrodes and the task engaged during stimulation [3-8]. However, the mechanism by which tDCS affects human behavior is unclear. Recently, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been used to determine the spatial topography of tDCS effects [9-13], but no behavioral data were collected during stimulation. The present study is unique in this regard, in that both neural and behavioral responses were recorded using a novel combination of left frontal anodal tDCS during an overt picture-naming fMRI study. We found that tDCS had significant behavioral and regionally specific neural facilitation effects. Furthermore, faster naming responses correlated with decreased blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal in Broca's area. Our data support the importance of Broca's area within the normal naming network and as such indicate that Broca's area may be a suitable candidate site for tDCS in neurorehabilitation of anomic patients, whose brain damage spares this region.
Microtubule cytoskeletal dynamics of cortical progenitors and astroglial cells have critical roles in the emergence of normal functional organization of cerebral cortex and in disease processes such as tumorigenesis. However, tools to efficiently visualize these events are lacking. Here we describe a mouse genetic model to efficiently visualize and analyse radial progenitors, their astroglial progeny, and the microtubule cytoskeleton of these cells in the developing and adult brain. Using this tool, we demonstrate altered microtubule organization and capture dynamics in adenomatous polyposis coli-deficient radial progenitors. Further, using multiphoton microscopy, we show the utility of this tool in real-time imaging of astrocytes in living mouse brain and the short-term stable nature of astrocytes in cerebral cortex. Thus, this model will help explore the dynamics of radial progenitor/astrocyte development or dysfunction and the influence of microtubule functions during these events.
The relationships of passerines (such as the well-studied zebra finch) with non-passerine birds is one of the great enigmas of avian phylogenetic research, because decades of extensive morphological and molecular studies yielded highly inconsistent results between and within data sets. Here we show the first application of the virtually homoplasy-free retroposon insertions to this controversy. Our study examined ~200,000 retroposon-containing loci from various avian genomes and retrieved 51 markers resolving early bird phylogeny. Among these, we obtained statistically significant evidence that parrots are the closest and falcons the second-closest relatives of passerines, together constituting the Psittacopasserae and the Eufalconimorphae, respectively. Our new and robust phylogenetic framework has substantial implications for the interpretation of various conclusions drawn from passerines as model organisms. This includes insights of relevance to human neuroscience, as vocal learning (that is, birdsong) probably evolved in the psittacopasseran ancestor, &gt;30 million years earlier than previously assumed.

The activity of Cdk5 and its regulatory subunit p35 is thought to be important in both normal brain function and neurodegenerative disease pathogenesis. Increased Cdk5 activity, via proteolytic cleavage of p35 to a p25 fragment by the calcium-activated protease calpain or by phosphorylation at Cdk5(Tyr15), can contribute to neurotoxicity. Nonetheless, our knowledge of regulation of Cdk5 activity in disease states is still emerging. Here we demonstrate that Cdk5 is activated by S-nitrosylation or reaction of nitric oxide (NO)-related species with the thiol groups of cysteine residues 83 and 157, to form SNO-Cdk5. We then show that S-nitrosylation of Cdk5 contributes to amyloid- (A) peptide-induced dendritic spine loss. Furthermore, we observed significant levels of SNO-Cdk5 in postmortem Alzheimer's disease (AD) but not in normal human brains. These findings suggest that S-nitrosylation of Cdk5 is an aberrant regulatory mechanism of enzyme activity that may contribute to the pathogenesis of AD.
Inositol pyrophosphates are highly energetic inositol polyphosphate molecules present in organisms from slime molds and yeast to mammals. Distinct classes of enzymes generate different forms of inositol pyrophosphates. The biosynthesis of these substances principally involves phosphorylation of inositol hexakisphosphate (IP) to generate the pyrophosphate IP. Initial insights into functions of these substances derived primarily from yeast, which contain a single isoform of IP kinase (yIPK), as well as from the slime mold Dictyostelium. Mammalian functions for inositol pyrophosphates have been investigated by using cell lines to establish roles in various processes, including insulin secretion and apoptosis. More recently, mice with targeted deletion of IPK isoforms as well as the related inositol polyphosphate multikinase (IPMK) have substantially enhanced our understanding of inositol polyphosphate physiology. Phenotypic alterations in mice lacking inositol hexakisphosphate kinase 1 (IPK1) reveal signaling roles for these molecules in insulin homeostasis, obesity, and immunological functions. Inositol pyrophosphates regulate these processes at least in part by inhibiting activation of the serine-threonine kinase Akt. Similar studies of IPK2 establish this enzyme as a cell death inducer acting by stimulating the proapoptotic protein p53. IPMK is responsible for generating the inositol phosphate IP but also has phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity--that participates in activation of Akt. Here, we discuss recent advances in understanding the physiological functions of the inositol pyrophosphates based in substantial part on studies in mice with deletion of IPK isoforms. These findings highlight the interplay of IPMK and IPK in regulating growth factor and nutrient-mediated cell signaling.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) research has attained renewed momentum due to the increasing awareness of head injuries, which result in morbidity and mortality. Based on the nature of primary injury following TBI, complex and heterogeneous secondary consequences result, which are followed by regenerative processes (1,2). Primary injury can be induced by a direct contusion to the brain from skull fracture or from shearing and stretching of tissue causing displacement of brain due to movement (3,4). The resulting hematomas and lacerations cause a vascular response (3,5), and the morphological and functional damage of the white matter leads to diffuse axonal injury (6-8). Additional secondary changes commonly seen in the brain are edema and increased intracranial pressure (9). Following TBI there are microscopic alterations in biochemical and physiological pathways involving the release of excitotoxic neurotransmitters, immune mediators and oxygen radicals (10-12), which ultimately result in long-term neurological disabilities (13,14). Thus choosing appropriate animal models of TBI that present similar cellular and molecular events in human and rodent TBI is critical for studying the mechanisms underlying injury and repair. Various experimental models of TBI have been developed to reproduce aspects of TBI observed in humans, among them three specific models are widely adapted for rodents: fluid percussion, cortical impact and weight drop/impact acceleration (1). The fluid percussion device produces an injury through a craniectomy by applying a brief fluid pressure pulse on to the intact dura. The pulse is created by a pendulum striking the piston of a reservoir of fluid. The percussion produces brief displacement and deformation of neural tissue (1,15). Conversely, cortical impact injury delivers mechanical energy to the intact dura via a rigid impactor under pneumatic pressure (16,17). The weight drop/impact model is characterized by the fall of a rod with a specific mass on the closed skull (18). Among the TBI models, LFP is the most established and commonly used model to evaluate mixed focal and diffuse brain injury (19). It is reproducible and is standardized to allow for the manipulation of injury parameters. LFP recapitulates injuries observed in humans, thus rendering it clinically relevant, and allows for exploration of novel therapeutics for clinical translation (20). We describe the detailed protocol to perform LFP procedure in mice. The injury inflicted is mild to moderate, with brain regions such as cortex, hippocampus and corpus callosum being most vulnerable. Hippocampal and motor learning tasks are explored following LFP.
Acupuncture and electro-acupuncture (EA) are now widely used to treat disorders like pain. We and others have shown previously that current frequency, intensity and treatment duration all significantly influence the anti-nociceptive effects of EA. There is evidence that stimulating sites also affect the antinociception, with EA applied ipsilaterally to the pain site being more effective under some pain states but contralateral EA under others. It was recently reported that local adenosine A1 receptors were responsible for ipsilateral acupuncture, but what mechanisms specifically mediate the anti-nociceptive effects of contralateral acupuncture or EA remains unclear. In the present study, we applied 100 Hz EA on the ipsi- or contra-lateral side of rats with inflammatory pain induced by intra-plantar injection of formalin, and reported distinct anti-nociceptive effects and mechanisms between them. Both ipsi- and contra-lateral EA reduced the paw lifting time in the second phase of the formalin test and attenuated formalin-induced conditioned place aversion. Contralateral EA had an additional effect of reducing paw licking time, suggesting a supraspinal mechanism. Lesions of rostral anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) completely abolished the anti-nociceptive effects of contra- but not ipsi-lateral EA. These findings were not lateralized effects, since injection of formalin into the left or right hind paws produced similar results. Overall, these results demonstrated distinct anti-nociceptive effects and mechanisms between different stimulating sides and implied the necessity of finding the best stimulating protocols for different pain states.
Essential polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are critical nutritional lipids that must be obtained from the diet to sustain homeostasis. Omega-3 and -6 PUFAs are key components of biomembranes and play important roles in cell integrity, development, maintenance, and function. The essential omega-3 fatty acid family member docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is avidly retained and uniquely concentrated in the nervous system, particularly in photoreceptors and synaptic membranes. DHA plays a key role in vision, neuroprotection, successful aging, memory, and other functions. In addition, DHA displays anti-inflammatory and inflammatory resolving properties in contrast to the proinflammatory actions of several members of the omega-6 PUFAs family. This review discusses DHA signalolipidomics, comprising the cellular/tissue organization of DHA uptake, its distribution among cellular compartments, the organization and function of membrane domains rich in DHA-containing phospholipids, and the cellular and molecular events revealed by the uncovering of signaling pathways regulated by DHA and docosanoids, the DHA-derived bioactive lipids, which include neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1), a novel DHA-derived stereoselective mediator. NPD1 synthesis agonists include neurotrophins and oxidative stress; NPD1 elicits potent anti-inflammatory actions and prohomeostatic bioactivity, is anti-angiogenic, promotes corneal nerve regeneration, and induces cell survival. In the context of DHA signalolipidomics, this review highlights aging and the evolving studies on the significance of DHA in Alzheimer's disease, macular degeneration, Parkinson's disease, and other brain disorders. DHA signalolipidomics in the nervous system offers emerging targets for pharmaceutical intervention and clinical translation.
The biophysical models that intend to predict the risk of decompression sickness after a change of pressure are not numerous. Few approaches focus in particular on joints as target tissues, with the aim to describe properly the mechanisms inducing pain. Nevertheless, for this type of decompression incidents, called articular bends, no model proved to fit the empirical results for a broad range of exposures and decompression procedures. We present here an original biophysical decompression model for describing the occurrence of articular bends. A target joint is broken down into two parts that exchange inert gases with the blood by perfusion and with each other by diffusion over distances of a few millimetres. This diffusion pathway allows the slow amplification of microbubbles growing during and after decompression, consistent with the possible delayed occurrence of bends. The diffusion coefficients introduced into this model are larger than those introduced into most modern decompression models. Their value remains physical (#10(-9)m(2)/s). Inert gas exchanges and the formation, amplification and resorption of microbubbles during and after decompression were simulated. We used a critical gas volume criterion for predicting the occurrence of bends. A risk database extracted from COMEX experience and other published studies were used for the correlation of model parameters not known a priori. We considered a large range of exposure, and the commonly used inert gases nitrogen and helium. This correlation phase identified the worst biophysical conformations most likely to lead to the formation, in tissues such as tendons, of a large number of microbubbles recruited from pre-existing gas nuclei during decompression. The risk of bends occurrence was found to be linked to the total separated gas volume generated during and after decompression. A clamping phenomenon occurs soon after the start of decompression, greatly slowing the gas exchanges controlled especially by the oxygen window. This model, which reproduces many empirical findings, may be considered both descriptive and predictive.
Identifying the molecular mechanisms underlying OL development is not only critical to furthering our knowledge of OL biology, but also has implications for understanding the pathogenesis of demyelinating diseases such as Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Cellular development is commonly studied with primary cell culture models. Primary cell culture facilitates the evaluation of a given cell type by providing a controlled environment, free of the extraneous variables that are present in vivo. While OL cultures derived from rats have provided a vast amount of insight into OL biology, similar efforts at establishing OL cultures from mice has been met with major obstacles. Developing methods to culture murine primary OLs is imperative in order to take advantage of the available transgenic mouse lines. Multiple methods for extraction of OPCs from rodent tissue have been described, ranging from neurosphere derivation, differential adhesion purification and immunopurification (1-3). While many methods offer success, most require extensive culture times and/or costly equipment/reagents. To circumvent this, purifying OPCs from murine tissue with an adaptation of the method originally described by McCarthy &amp; de Vellis (2) is preferred. This method involves physically separating OPCs from a mixed glial culture derived from neonatal rodent cortices. The result is a purified OPC population that can be differentiated into an OL-enriched culture. This approach is appealing due to its relatively short culture time and the unnecessary requirement for growth factors or immunopanning antibodies. While exploring the mechanisms of OL development in a purified culture is informative, it does not provide the most physiologically relevant environment for assessing myelin sheath formation. Co-culturing OLs with neurons would lend insight into the molecular underpinnings regulating OL-mediated myelination of axons. For many OL/neuron co-culture studies, dorsal root ganglion neurons (DRGNs) have proven to be the neuron type of choice. They are ideal for co-culture with OLs due to their ease of extraction, minimal amount of contaminating cells, and formation of dense neurite beds. While studies using rat/mouse myelinating xenocultures have been published (4-6), a method for the derivation of such OL/DRGN myelinating co-cultures from post-natal murine tissue has not been described. Here we present detailed methods on how to effectively produce such cultures, along with examples of expected results. These methods are useful for addressing questions relevant to OL development/myelinating function, and are useful tools in the field of neuroscience.
In a neural integrator, the variability and topographical organization of neuronal firing-rate persistence can provide information about the circuit's functional architecture. We used optical recording to measure the time constant of decay of persistent firing (persistence time) across a population of neurons comprising the larval zebrafish oculomotor velocity-to-position neural integrator. We found extensive persistence time variation (tenfold; coefficients of variation = 0.58-1.20) across cells in individual larvae. We also found that the similarity in firing between two neurons decreased as the distance between them increased and that a gradient in persistence time was mapped along the rostrocaudal and dorsoventral axes. This topography is consistent with the emergence of persistence time heterogeneity from a circuit architecture in which nearby neurons are more strongly interconnected than distant ones. Integrator circuit models characterized by multiple dimensions of slow firing-rate dynamics can account for our results.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a paralytic and usually fatal disorder caused by motor-neuron degeneration in the brain and spinal cord. Most cases of ALS are sporadic but about 5-10% are familial. Mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1), TAR DNA-binding protein (TARDBP, also known as TDP43) and fused in sarcoma (FUS, also known as translocated in liposarcoma (TLS)) account for approximately 30% of classic familial ALS. Mutations in several other genes have also been reported as rare causes of ALS or ALS-like syndromes. The causes of the remaining cases of familial ALS and of the vast majority of sporadic ALS are unknown. Despite extensive studies of previously identified ALS-causing genes, the pathogenic mechanism underlying motor-neuron degeneration in ALS remains largely obscure. Dementia, usually of the frontotemporal lobar type, may occur in some ALS cases. It is unclear whether ALS and dementia share common aetiology and pathogenesis in ALS/dementia. Here we show that mutations in UBQLN2, which encodes the ubiquitin-like protein ubiquilin2, cause dominantly inherited, chromosome-X-linked ALS and ALS/dementia. We describe novel ubiquilin2 pathology in the spinal cords of ALS cases and in the brains of ALS/dementia cases with or without UBQLN2 mutations. Ubiquilin2 is a member of the ubiquilin family, which regulates the degradation of ubiquitinated proteins. Functional analysis showed that mutations in UBQLN2 lead to an impairment of protein degradation. Therefore, our findings link abnormalities in ubiquilin2 to defects in the protein degradation pathway, abnormal protein aggregation and neurodegeneration, indicating a common pathogenic mechanism that can be exploited for therapeutic intervention.

The protein kinase AKT1 belongs to the Akt family and is a potent mediator of cell growth and survival and fully activated when phosphorylated. The AKT family has been found to be phosphorylated to a lesser extent in the dopaminergic cells of Parkinson's disease patients compared to control individuals, which might influence cell survival. Several publications support the implication of AKT1 in disorders of the dopaminergic system including bipolar disease and schizophrenia. In 2008 an association study performed in a Greek Parkinson's disease case-control material reported the identification of a protective AKT1 haplotype. Based on their work we have performed a replication study in a Swedish Parkinson's disease cohort. We genotyped the four single nucleotide polymorphims (SNPs): rs2494743, rs2498788, rs2494746 and rs1130214 in a case-control material consisting of 243 Parkinson patients and 315 controls. We did not find any associations with Parkinson's disease for either the individual SNPs or any of the haplotypes. In contrast to previously published results, our data do not support the hypothesis of genetic variants in AKT1 confering protection against Parkinson's disease.
The K(ir) inward rectifying potassium channels have a broad tissue distribution and are implicated in a variety of functional roles. At least seven classes (K(ir)1-K(ir)7) of structurally related inward rectifier potassium channels are known, and there are no selective small molecule tools to study their function. In an effort to develop selective K(ir)2.1 inhibitors, we performed a high-throughput screen (HTS) of more than 300,000 small molecules within the MLPCN for modulators of K(ir)2.1 function. Here we report one potent K(ir)2.1 inhibitor, ML133, which inhibits K(ir)2.1 with an IC(50) of 1.8 M at pH 7.4 and 290 nM at pH 8.5 but exhibits little selectivity against other members of Kir2.x family channels. However, ML133 has no effect on K(ir)1.1 (IC(50) &gt; 300 M) and displays weak activity for K(ir)4.1 (76 M) and K(ir)7.1 (33 M), making ML133 the most selective small molecule inhibitor of the K(ir) family reported to date. Because of the high homology within the K(ir)2 family-the channels share a common design of a pore region flanked by two transmembrane domains-identification of site(s) critical for isoform specificity would be an important basis for future development of more specific and potent K(ir) inhibitors. Using chimeric channels between K(ir)2.1 and K(ir)1.1 and site-directed mutagenesis, we have identified D172 and I176 within M2 segment of K(ir)2.1 as molecular determinants critical for the potency of ML133 mediated inhibition. Double mutation of the corresponding residues of K(ir)1.1 to those of K(ir)2.1 (N171D and C175I) transplants ML133 inhibition to K(ir)1.1. Together, the combination of a potent, K(ir)2 family selective inhibitor and identification of molecular determinants for the specificity provides both a tool and a model system to enable further mechanistic studies of modulation of K(ir)2 inward rectifier potassium channels.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating motor neuron disease. Human neural stem cells (hNSCs) may have the potential to replace lost motor neurons. The therapeutic efficacy of stem cell therapy depends greatly on the survival of grafted stem cell-derived motor neurons in the microenvironment of the spinal cord in ALS. After transplantation of hNSCs into the spinal cords of transgenic ALS rats, morphological analysis reveals that grafted hNSCs differentiate into motor neurons. However, hNSCs degenerate and show signs of nitroxidative damage at the disease end-stage. Using an in vitro coculture system, we systematically assess interactions between microglia and astroglia derived from both nontransgenic rats and transgenic rats expressing human mutant SOD1(G93A) before and after symptomatic disease onset, and determine the effects of such microglia-astroglia interactions on the survival of hNSC-derived motor neurons. We found that ALS microglia, specifically isolated after symptomatic disease onset, are directly toxic to hNSC-derived motor neurons. Furthermore, nontransgenic astrocytes not only lose their protective role in hNSC-derived motor neuron survival in vitro, but also exhibit toxic features when cocultured with mutant SOD1(G93A) microglia. Using inhibitors of inducible nitric oxide synthase and NADPH oxidase, we show that microglia-generated nitric oxide and superoxide partially contribute to motor neuron loss and astrocyte dysfunction in this coculture paradigm. In summary, reactive oxygen/nitrogen species released from overactivated microglia in ALS directly eliminate human neural stem cell-derived motor neurons and reduce the neuroprotective capacities of astrocytes.
GABA(A) receptors mediate synaptic and tonic inhibition in many neurons of the central nervous system. These receptors can be constructed from a range of different subunits deriving from seven identified families. Among these subunits, (5) has been shown to mediate GABAergic tonic inhibitory currents in neurons from supraspinal nuclei. Likewise, immunohistochemical and in situ hybridization studies have shown the presence of the (5) subunit in spinal cord neurons, though almost nothing is known about its function. In the present report, using slices of the adult turtle spinal cord as a model system we have recorded a tonic inhibitory current in ventral horn interneurons (VHIs) and determined the functional contribution of the (5) subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors to this current. Patch clamp studies show that the GABAergic tonic inhibitory current in VHIs is not affected by the application of antagonists of the (4/6) subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors, but is sensitive to L-655708, an antagonist of the GABA(A) receptors containing (5) subunits. Last, by using RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry we confirmed the expression of the (5) subunit in the turtle spinal cord. Together, these results suggest that GABA(A) receptors containing the (5) subunit mediate the tonic inhibitory currents observed in VHIs.

Mutant ubiquitin (UBB(+1)) accumulates in the hallmarks of tauopathies and polyglutamine diseases. We show that the deubiquitinating enzyme YUH1 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and its mouse and human ortholog UCH-L3 are able to hydrolyze the C-terminal extension of UBB(+1). This yields another dysfunctional ubiquitin molecule (UB(G76Y)) with biochemical properties similar to full length UBB(+1). UBB(+1) may be detected in post-mortem tissue due to impaired C-terminal truncation of UBB(+1). Although the level of UCH-L3 protein in several neurodegenerative diseases is unchanged, we show that in vitro oxidation of recombinant UCH-L3 impairs its deubiquitinating activity. We postulate that impaired UCH-L3 function may contribute to the accumulation of full length UBB(+1) in various pathologies.
Opioids play a critical role in hippocampally dependent behavior and plasticity. In the hippocampal formation, mu opioid receptors (MOR) are prominent in parvalbumin (PARV) containing interneurons. Previously we found that gonadal hormones modulate the trafficking of MORs in PARV interneurons. Although sex differences in response to stress are well documented, the point at which opioids, sex and stress interact to influence hippocampal function remains elusive. Thus, we used quantitative immunocytochemistry in combination with light and electron microscopy for the phosphorylated MOR at the SER375 carboxy-terminal residue (pMOR) in male and female rats to assess these interactions. In both sexes, pMOR-immunoreactivity (ir) was prominent in axons and terminals and in a few neuronal somata and dendrites, some of which contained PARV in the mossy fiber pathway region of the dentate gyrus (DG) hilus and CA3 stratum lucidum. In unstressed rats, the levels of pMOR-ir in the DG or CA3 were not affected by sex or estrous cycle stage. However, immediately following 30 minutes of acute immobilization stress (AIS), males had higher levels of pMOR-ir whereas females at proestrus and estrus (high estrogen stages) had lower levels of pMOR-ir within the DG. In contrast, the number and types of neuronal profiles with pMOR-ir were not altered by AIS in either males or proestrus females. These data demonstrate that although gonadal steroids do not affect pMOR levels at resting conditions, they are differentially activated both pre- and post-synaptic MORs following stress. These interactions may contribute to the reported sex differences in hippocampally dependent behaviors in stressed animals.
Schizophrenia is a highly heritable neuropsychiatric disorder affecting 1% of the world's population. Linkage and association studies have identified multiple candidate schizophrenia susceptibility genes whose functions converge on the glutamatergic neurotransmitter system. One such susceptibility gene encoding D-amino acid oxidase (DAO), an enzyme that metabolizes the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) co-agonist D-serine, has the potential to modulate NMDAR function in the context of schizophrenia. To further investigate its cellular regulation, we sought to identify DAO-interacting proteins that participate in its functional regulation in rat cerebellum, where DAO expression is especially high. Immunoprecipitation with DAO-specific antibodies and subsequent mass spectrometric analysis of co-precipitated proteins yielded 24 putative DAO-interacting proteins. The most robust interactions occurred with known components of the presynaptic active zone, such as bassoon (BSN) and piccolo (PCLO). The interaction of DAO with BSN was confirmed through co-immunoprecipitation assays using DAO- and BSN-specific antibodies. Moreover, DAO and BSN colocalized with one another in cultured cerebellar granule cells and in synaptic junction membrane protein fractions derived from rat cerebellum. The functional consequences of this interaction were studied through enzyme assay experiments, where DAO enzymatic activity was significantly inhibited as a result of its interaction with BSN. Taking these results together, we hypothesize that synaptic D-serine concentrations may be under tight regulation by a BSN-DAO complex. We therefore predict that this mechanism plays a role in the modulation of glutamatergic signaling through NMDARs. It also furthers our understanding of the biology underlying this potential therapeutic entry point for schizophrenia and other psychiatric disorders.
The Epstein-Barr virus-induced receptor 2 (EBI2) is a constitutively active seven-transmembrane receptor, which was recently shown to orchestrate the positioning of B cells in the follicle. To date, no ligands, endogenously or synthetic, have been identified that modulate EBI2 activity. Here we describe an inverse agonist, GSK682753A, which selectively inhibited the constitutive activity of EBI2 with high potency and efficacy. In cAMP-response element-binding protein-based reporter and guanosine 5'-3-O-(thio)triphosphate (GTPS) binding assays, the potency of this compound was 2.6-53.6 nm, and its inhibitory efficacy was 75%. In addition, we show that EBI2 constitutively activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in a pertussis toxin-insensitive manner. Intriguingly, GSK682753A inhibited ERK phosphorylation, GTPS binding, and cAMP-response element-binding protein activation with similar potency. Overexpression of EBI2 profoundly potentiated antibody-stimulated ex vivo proliferation of murine B cells compared with WT cells, whereas this was equivalently reduced for EBI2-deficient B cells. Inhibition of EBI2 constitutive activity suppressed the proliferation in all cases. Importantly, the suppression was of much higher potency (32-fold) in WT or EBI2-overexpressing B cells compared with EBI2-deficient counterparts. Finally, we screened GSK682753A against an EBI2 mutant library to determine putative molecular binding determinants in EBI2. We identified Phe(111) at position III:08/3.32 as being crucial for GSK682753A inverse agonism because Ala substitution resulted in a &gt;500-fold decrease in IC(50). In conclusion, we present the first ligand targeting EBI2. In turn, this molecule provides a useful tool for further characterization of EBI2 as well as serving as a potent lead compound.

The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has made invaluable contributions to neuroscience research and has been used widely as a model for neurodegenerative diseases because of its powerful genetics(1). The fly eye in particular has been the organ of choice for neurodegeneration research, being the most accessible and life-dispensable part of the Drosophila nervous system. However the major caveat of intact eyes is the difficulty, because of the intense autofluorescence of the pigment, in imaging intracellular events, such as autophagy dynamics(2), which are paramount to understanding of neurodegeneration. We have recently used the dissection and culture of single ommatidia(3) that has been essential for our understanding of autophagic dysfunctions in a fly model of Dentatorubro-Pallidoluysian Atrophy (DRPLA)(3, 4). We now report a comprehensive description of this technique (Fig. 1), adapted from electrophysiological studies(5), which is likely to expand dramatically the possibility of fly models for neurodegeneration. This method can be adapted to image live subcellular events and to monitor effective drug administration onto photoreceptor cells (Fig. 2). If used in combination with mosaic techniques(6-8), the responses of genetically different cells can be assayed in parallel (Fig. 2).
Liprins are highly conserved scaffold proteins that regulate cell adhesion, cell migration, and synapse development by binding to diverse target proteins. The molecular basis governing liprin/target interactions is poorly understood. The liprin-2/CASK complex structure solved here reveals that the three SAM domains of liprin- form an integrated supramodule that binds to the CASK kinase-like domain. As supported by biochemical and cellular studies, the interaction between liprin- and CASK is unique to vertebrates, implying that the liprin-/CASK interaction islikely to regulate higher-order brain functions in mammals. Consistently, we demonstrate that three recently identified X-linked mental retardation mutants of CASK are defective in binding to liprin-. We also solved the liprin-/liprin- SAM domain complex structure, which uncovers the mechanism underlying liprin heterodimerizaion. Finally, formation of the CASK/liprin-/liprin- ternary complex suggests that liprins can mediate assembly of target proteins into large protein complexes capable of regulating numerous cellular activities.
The amyloid cascade hypothesis, which posits that the deposition of the amyloid- peptide in the brain is a central event in Alzheimer's disease pathology, has dominated research for the past twenty years. Several therapeutics that were purported to reduce amyloid- production or aggregation have failed in Phase III clinical testing, and many others are in various stages of development. Therefore, it is timely to review the science underpinning the amyloid cascade hypothesis, consider what type of clinical trials will constitute a valid test of this hypothesis and explore whether amyloid--directed therapeutics will provide the medicines that are urgently needed by society for treating this devastating disease.


Cultures of neonatal and adult dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons are commonly used in in vitro models to study the ion channels and signaling events associated with peripheral sensation under various conditions. Differential responsiveness between neonatal and adult DRG neurons to physiological or pathological stimuli suggests potential differences in their gene expression profiles. We performed a microarray analysis of cultured adult and neonatal rat DRG neurons, which revealed distinct gene expression profiles especially of ion channels and signaling molecules at the genomic level. For example, Ca(2+)-stimulated adenylyl cyclase (AC) isoforms AC3 and AC8, PKC and CaMKII, the voltage-gated sodium channel 1 and 4, and potassium channels K(v)1.1, K(v)3.2, K(v)4.1, K(v)9.1, K(v)9.3, K(ir)3.4, K(ir)7.1, K(2P)1.1/TWIK-1 had significantly higher mRNA expression in adult rat DRG neurons, while Ca(2+)-inhibited AC5 and AC6, sodium channel Na(v)1.3  subunit, potassium channels K(ir)6.1, K(2P)10.1/TREK-2, calcium channel Ca(v)2.2 1 subunit, and its auxiliary subunits 1 and 3 were conversely down regulated in adult neurons. Importantly, higher adult neuron expression of ERK1/2, PI3K/P110, but not of TRPV1 and TrkA, was found and confirmed by PCR and western blot. These latter findings are consistent with the key role of ERK and PI3K signaling in sensitization of TRPV1 by NGF and may explain our previously published observation that adult, but not neonatal, rat DRG neurons are sensitized by NGF.
The chronic accumulation of amyloid beta (A) peptides is thought to underlie much of the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and transgenic mice overexpressing A show both behavioral defects and impairments in hippocampal synaptic transmission. In the present study, we examined excitatory transmission at the Schaffer collateral synapse in acute hippocampal slices from APP(Swe)/PS-1(A246E) transgenic mice to determine whether the synaptic impairment in these mice is due to a reduction in the activity-independent synaptic gain, or to a change in the activity-dependent synaptic dynamics. We observed a strong reduction in synaptic transmission in slices from APP(Swe)/PS-1(A246E) mice compared to those from their wildtype littermates. However, there was no resolvable change in the synaptic dynamics observed in response to either simple or complex stimulus trains. We conclude that the chronic accumulation of A impairs synaptic transmission through a reduction in the synaptic gain, while preserving the synaptic dynamics.
The mood stabilizer valproic acid (VPA) decreases neural progenitor proliferation and promotes neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus. However, the effects of VPA on progenitor cells in the adult subventricular zone (SVZ) are not as well characterized. Here we report VPA blocks neurosphere formation and inhibits DNA synthesis in cultured NSCs from the SVZ of adult mice. Inhibition of DNA synthesis is associated with the up-regulation of the differentiation transcription factors Egr1 and Neurod1 and down-regulation of transcription factors associated with &quot;stemness&quot;. Co-treatment of VPA with the mood stabilizer lithium antagonizes the anti-proliferative effects of VPA on adult NSCs and abolishes VPA activation of Egr1. Co-treatment of VPA with the MEK1/2 inhibitor PD980589 similarly abolishes Egr1 activation consistent with VPA activation and lithium antagonism of MEK-ERK signaling in adult NSCs. However, Western blot reveals VPA significantly suppresses ERK2 phosphorylation in adult NSCs grown in proliferating culture conditions and that lithium co-treatment does not attenuate this effect. Combined the data indicate VPA inhibition of adult NSC proliferation and activation of Egr1 by VPA, along with the antagonism of these effects by lithium, are the effects of cumulative changes in multiple signaling pathways and are not attributable to a common kinase target.
This Review describes recent trends in the development of small molecule mGlu(5) positive allosteric modulators (PAMs). A large body of pharmacological, genetic, electrophysiological, and in vivo behavioral evidence has accumulated over the past decade which continues to support the hypothesis and rationale for the activation of the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu(5)) as a viable and promising target for the development of novel antipsychotics. Until recently, functionally efficacious and potent mGlu(5) PAMs have been somewhat structurally limited in scope and slow to emerge. This Review will discuss efforts since late 2008 which have provided novel mGlu(5) PAM chemotypes, offering ligands with a diverse range of pharmacological, physicochemical, and DMPK properties that were previously unavailable. In addition, significant biological studies of importance in the past few years using the well established PAMs known as DFB, CPPHA, CDPPB, and ADX-47273 will be discussed.
Group II metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors consist of the metabotropic glutamate 2 (mGlu(2)) and metabotropic glutamate 3 (mGlu(3)) receptor subtypes which modulate glutamate transmission by second messenger activation to negatively regulate the activity of adenylyl cyclase. Excessive accumulation of glutamate in the perisynaptic extracellular region triggers mGlu(2) and mGlu(3) receptors to inhibit further release of glutamate. There is growing evidence that the modulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission by small molecule modulators of Group II mGlu receptors has significant potential for the treatment of several neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative diseases. This review provides an overview of recent progress on the synthesis and pharmacological characterization of positive and negative allosteric modulators of the Group II mGlu receptors.
STX209 (arbaclofen) is a -amino butyric acid type B (GABA(B)) receptor agonist from Seaside Therapeutics currently in clinical trials for autism spectrum disorders (ASD). The company has initiated a phase 2b study after positive results from a phase 2a trial, announced September 2010 (http://www.seasidetherapeutics.com/sites/default/files/STX209_ASD_P2b Trial_Initiation%206%2021%202011%20Final.pdf).
Negative allosteric modulators (NAMs) of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGlu(5)) have remained attractive to researchers as potential therapies for a number of central nervous system related diseases, including anxiety, pain, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), addiction, Parkinson's disease (PD), and fragile X syndrome (FXS). In addition to the many publications with supportive preclinical data with key tool molecules, recent positive reports from the clinic have bolstered the confidence in this approach. During the two year time span from 2009 through 2010, a number of new mGlu(5) NAM chemotypes have been disclosed and discussed in the primary and patent literature. A summary of several efforts representing many diverse chemotypes are presented here, along with a discussion of representative structure activity relationships (SAR) and synthetic approaches to the templates where possible.
Motor imagery training is considered as an effective training strategy for motor skill learning and motor function rehabilitation. However, compared with studies of the neural mechanism underlying motor imagery, neuroimaging examinations of motor imagery training are comparatively few. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we designed a 2-week motor imagery training experiment, including execution and imagery tasks, to investigate the effectiveness of motor imagery training on the improvement of motor performance, as well as the neural mechanism associated with motor imagery training. Here, we examined the motor behavior, brain activation, and correlation between the behavior of the motor execution task and the brain activation across task-related region of interests (ROIs) in both pre- and post-test phases. Our results demonstrated that motor imagery training could improve motor performance. More importantly, the brain functional alterations induced by training were found in the fusiform gyrus for both tasks. These findings provide new insights into motor imagery training.
Different models have been proposed to explain how identity is extracted from faces and voices and how these two sensory systems interact. The neural loci of audio-visual interactions have been studied using neuroimaging techniques; however, the time course of these interactions is not well established. Here, we use event related potentials (ERPs) to study the temporal dynamics of the interaction of face and voice processing modules. We presented to the subjects either faces alone (F), voices alone (V) or faces and voices together (FV) in a familiarity detection task. Responses obtained for FV were compared with the sum of the responses obtained for F plus responses for V, for familiar and unfamiliar stimuli. This comparison shows differences in amplitude for different latencies, indicating cross-modal interactions. For unfamiliar stimuli, this interaction began very early (around 200ms) and was restricted to the time window corresponding to the face N170 component. For familiar stimuli, the interaction was longer, began earlier and remained until after the N170 component. These results indicate that the interaction between faces and voices occurs from the initial stages of processing and continues as the person identification process goes on. This study is the first electrophysiological evidence of cross-modal interaction of faces and voices during the recognition of acquaintances' identities. It suggests that the assessment of person familiarity can result in direct information sharing between voice and face sensory modules from the early processing stages, before access to the person identity nodes.
Long-lasting forms of synaptic plasticity involve modification of presynaptic strength in many brain regions. Although a presynaptic site for expression is well established, the detailed molecular mechanisms that lead to sustained changes in neurotransmitter release remain unclear. Here, we use acute in vivo genetic manipulation of synaptic proteins to investigate the molecular basis for presynaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) at hippocampal mossy fiber synapses. Munc13 proteins are active zone proteins that are essential for synaptic vesicle priming and neurotransmitter release. Munc13 proteins also interact with RIM1, an active zone protein required for presynaptic long-term plasticity. By taking advantage of the observation that the RIM-binding domain of Munc13 is separable from the domain that is required for neurotransmitter release, we selectively tested whether Munc13-1 is an effector for RIM1 in presynaptic LTP. Our results provide the first evidence for the involvement of Munc13-1 in presynaptic long-term synaptic plasticity. We further demonstrate that the interaction between RIM1 and Munc13-1 is required for this plasticity. These results advance our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of presynaptic plasticity and suggest that modulation of vesicle priming may provide the cellular substrate for expression of LTP at mossy fiber synapses.
Mammals experience permanent impairments from hair cell (HC) losses, but birds and other non-mammals quickly recover hearing and balance senses after supporting cells (SCs) give rise to replacement HCs. Avian HC epithelia express little or no E-cadherin, and differences in the thickness of F-actin belts at SC junctions strongly correlate with different species' capacities for HC replacement, so we investigated junctional cadherins in human and murine ears. We found strong E-cadherin expression at SC-SC junctions that increases more than sixfold postnatally in mice. When we cultured utricles from young mice with -secretase inhibitors (GSIs), striolar SCs completely internalized their E-cadherin, without affecting N-cadherin. Hes and Hey expression also decreased and the SCs began to express Atoh1. After 48 h, those SCs expressed myosins VI and VIIA, and by 72 h, they developed hair bundles. However, some scattered striolar SCs retained E-cadherin and the SC phenotype. In extrastriolar regions, the vast majority of SCs also retained E-cadherin and failed to convert into HCs even after long GSI treatments. Microscopic measurements revealed that the junctions between extrastriolar SCs were more developed than those between striolar SCs. In GSI-treated utricles as old as P12, differentiated striolar SCs converted into HCs, but such responses declined with age and ceased by P16. Thus, temporal and spatial differences in postnatal SC-to-HC phenotype conversion capacity are linked to the structural attributes of E-cadherin containing SC junctions in mammals, which differ substantially from their counterparts in non-mammalian vertebrates that readily recover from hearing and balance deficits through hair cell regeneration.

The precise cellular characteristics of retinoblastoma have long been debated. In this issue of Cancer Cell, McEvoy etal. reveal that retinoblastomas are highly homogeneous at the molecular level and coexpress genes characteristic of retinal progenitors and various different mature retinal cell types, while ultrastructurally resembling amacrine cells.

Major effort and expense are devoted to faculty recruitment. Subsequent direction, support, and guidance of faculty members for retention and academic advancement are often inconsistent and ineffective. Individual mentorship is widely endorsed as an important element in advancement but often does not occur or is uneven in its pragmatic benefit. We formed a Departmental Academic Advisory Committee to provide individualized advice and guidance about career development and institutional promotion, retention, and tenure procedures. To assess the effectiveness of this process, a survey was sent to faculty members. A 100% response rate was achieved. The results of the survey demonstrated high levels of acceptance by faculty members and described benefits experienced by faculty, including better understanding of promotion and tenure policies and specific actions taken to achieve professional goals. An academic advisory committee can be a valuable adjunct to individual mentorship and to meetings with department chairs to enhance faculty satisfaction and advancement of neurology faculty members.

P2X receptors are trimeric cation channels with widespread roles in health and disease. The recent crystal structure of a P2X4 receptor provides a 3D view of their topology and architecture. A key unresolved issue is how ions gain access to the pore, because the structure reveals two different pathways within the extracellular domain. One of these is the central pathway spanning the entire length of the extracellular domain and covering a distance of 70 . The second consists of three lateral portals, adjacent to the membrane and connected to the transmembrane pore by short tunnels. Here, we demonstrate the preferential use of the lateral portals. Owing to their favorable diameters and equivalent spacing, the lateral portals split the task of ion supply threefold and minimize an ion's diffusive path before it succumbs to transmembrane electrochemical gradients.
Stressful events are known to have a long-term impact on future behavioral stress responses. Previous studies suggested that both glucocorticoid hormones and glutamate acting via glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) and N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, respectively, are of critical importance for the consolidation of these long-lasting behavioral responses at the dentate gyrus, the gateway of the hippocampal formation. We found that an acute psychologically stressful event resulted in ERK1/2 phosphorylation (pERK1/2), which within 15 min led to the activation of the nuclear kinases MSK1 and Elk-1 in granule neurons of the dentate gyrus. Next, MSK1 and Elk-1 activation evoked serine-10 phosphorylation and lysine-14 acetylation in histone H3, resulting in the induction of the neuroplasticity-associated immediate-early genes c-Fos and Egr-1 in these neurons. The pERK1/2-mediated activation of MSK1 and Elk-1 required a rapid protein-protein interaction between pERK1/2 and activated GRs. This is a unique nongenomic mechanism of glucocorticoid hormone action in dentate gyrus granule neurons on long-lasting behavioral responses to stress involving direct cross-talk of GRs with ERK1/2-MSK1-Elk-1 signaling to the nucleus.
NMDA type glutamate receptors (NMDARs) are best known for their role in synaptogenesis and synaptic plasticity. Much less is known about their developmental role before neurons form synapses. We report here that VEGF, which promotes migration of granule cells (GCs) during postnatal cerebellar development, enhances NMDAR-mediated currents and Ca(2+) influx in immature GCs before synapse formation. The VEGF receptor Flk1 forms a complex with the NMDAR subunits NR1 and NR2B. In response to VEGF, the number of Flk1/NR2B coclusters on the cell surface increases. Stimulation of Flk1 by VEGF activates Src-family kinases, which increases tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2B. Inhibition of Src-family kinases abolishes the VEGF-dependent NR2B phosphorylation and amplification of NMDAR-mediated currents and Ca(2+) influx in GCs. These findings identify VEGF as a modulator of NMDARs before synapse formation and highlight a link between an activity-independent neurovascular guidance cue (VEGF) and an activity-regulated neurotransmitter receptor (NMDAR).
This study analyses the links between the Russian and Soviet neurosciences and their Spanish counterpart, especially with regard to the experiences of the Spanish Republican physicians exiled in the USSR. The Russian neurosciences, which date back to the second half of the 19th century, followed a path that ran parallel to the discipline throughout the rest of Europe and finally displayed signs of being influenced by the German and French schools. Important figures include Alexei Kojevnikov and Vladimir Bekhterev in neurology, Sergei Korsakov in psychiatry, Ivan Pavlov and his disciple Piotr Anojin in neurophysiology, Lev Vygotsky and Alexander Luria in neuropsychology, and Nikolai Burdenko in neurosurgery. When the Bolsheviks came to power, they brought with them a progressive conception of health care, which was modified during the Stalinist era to serve political interests, above all in the case of psychiatry. During the first third of the 20th century, Spanish scientists became interested in Pavlov's reflexology and the Soviets took a similar interest in Spanish histology. Among the 4500 Spanish Republicans who emigrated to the USSR because of the Spanish Civil War, there were several dozen physicians who were privileged witnesses of the madness that shook the science and the health care of that period. Relevant names worth citing here from the field of the neurosciences include Juan Planelles and Ramon Alvarez-Buylla in neurophysiology, Federico Pascual and Florencio Villa Landa in psychiatry, Angel Escobio and Maria Perez in neurology, Julian Fuster in neurosurgery and Manuel Arce in neuroimaging.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is a nuclear imaging technique, which allows in vivo estimations of important physiological parameters such as, glucose metabolism and neuroreceptor binding enabling greater understanding of the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD). The review will evaluate the role of PET in assessing both the dopaminergic (DA) and non-DA systems in relation to the pathophysiology of PD, differential diagnosis, progression of disease and pre-clinical disease. Medication side effects, genetic forms of PD, the non-motor symptoms of PD and alternative restorative approaches will also be discussed in relation to how PET imaging can enhance our understanding of these aspects of the disease. PET neuroimaging has to date, provided an excellent tool to assess the underlying mechanisms of the disease as well as evaluating the complications and management of PD and has the potential to be of great clinical value if the current limitations of costing and availability are resolved.
The development of tools to construct and investigate probabilistic maps of the adult human brain from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has led to advances in both basic neuroscience and clinical diagnosis. These tools are increasingly being applied to brain development in adolescence and childhood, and even to neonatal and premature neonatal imaging. Even earlier in development, parallel advances in clinical fetal MRI have led to its growing use as a tool in challenging medical conditions. This has motivated new engineering developments encompassing optimal fast MRI scans and techniques derived from computer vision, the combination of which allows full 3D imaging of the moving fetal brain in utero without sedation. These promise to provide a new and unprecedented window into early human brain growth. This article reviews the developments that have led us to this point, examines the current state of the art in the fields of fast fetal imaging and motion correction, and describes the tools to analyze dynamically changing fetal brain structure. New methods to deal with developmental tissue segmentation and the construction of spatiotemporal atlases are examined, together with techniques to map fetal brain growth patterns.


The discovery of a novel series of 2-(4-pyridyl)thienopyridinone GSK-3 inhibitors is reported. X-ray crystallography reveals its binding mode and enables rationalization of the SAR. The initial optimization of the template for improved cellular activity and predicted CNS penetration is also presented.
Invasion and proliferation in neoplasia require the cooperation of tumor cell and endothelial compartments. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) is increasingly recognized as a major contributor to signaling pathways that modulate invasion and proliferation. Here we show that GSK-3 inhibitors of the indirubin family reduce invasion of glioma cells and glioma-initiating cell-enriched neurospheres both in vitro and in vivo, and we show that -catenin signaling plays an important role in mediating these effects. Indirubins improved survival in glioma-bearing mice in which a substantial decrease in blood vessel density was seen in treated animals. In addition, indirubins blocked migration of endothelial cells, suggesting that anti-invasive glioma therapy with GSK-3 inhibitors in vivo not only inhibits invasion of tumor cells, but blocks migration of endothelial cells, which is also required for tumor angiogenesis. Overall, our findings suggest that indirubin inhibition of GSK-3 offers a novel treatment paradigm to target 2 of the most important interacting cellular compartments in heterotypic models of cancer.
The roof plate resident BMPs have sequential functions in the developing spinal cord, establishing cell fate and orienting axonal trajectories. These activities are, however, restricted to the dI1-dI3 neurons in the most dorsal region of the spinal cord. What limits the extent of the action of the BMPs to these neurons? To address this question, we have examined both the distribution of the inhibitory Smads (I-Smads), Smad6 and Smad7 in the spinal cord and the consequence of ectopically expressing the I-Smads in chicken embryos. Our studies suggest that the I-Smads function in vivo to restrict the action of BMP signaling in the dorsal spinal cord. Moreover, the I-Smads have distinct roles in regulating the diverse activities of the BMPs. Thus, the ectopic expression of Smad7 suppresses the dI1 and dI3 neural fates and concomitantly increases the number of dI4-dI6 spinal neurons. In contrast, Smad6 most potently functions to block dI1 axon outgrowth. Taken together, these experiments suggest that the I-Smads have distinct roles in spatially limiting the response of cells to BMP signaling.
Endocytic trafficking plays an important role in signal transduction. Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) and mitogen-activate protein kinase (MAPK) have both been localized to endosomal structures and are dependent upon endocytosis for downstream function. While the dependence of MAPK signaling upon endosomes has been well characterized, the involvement of endosomes in regulating STAT3 signaling has not been defined. Consequently, this study evaluated the role of endosomes in the initiation, modulation, amplification and persistence of interleukin-6(IL-6)-induced STAT3 signal transduction and transcription, and utilized IL-6-induced MAPK signaling as a comparator. Using pharmacologic treatment and temperature control of endocytic trafficking, pulse-chase treatments and in vitro kinase assays, STAT3 was found to interact with endosomes in a markedly different fashion than MAPK. STAT3 was activated by direct interaction with internal structures upstream of the late endosome following IL-6 exposure and persistent STAT3 signaling depended upon recurrent activation from endocytic structures. Further, STAT3 subcellular localization was not dependent upon endocytic trafficking. Instead, STAT3 transiently interacted with endosomes and relocated to the nucleus by an endosome-independent mechanism. Finally, endocytic trafficking played a central role in regulating STAT3 serine 727 phosphorylation through crosstalk with the MAPK signaling system. Together, these data reveal endosomes as central to the genesis, course and outcome of STAT3 signal transduction and transcription.
Expanded glutamine repeats of the ataxin-2 (ATXN2) protein cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2), a rare neurodegenerative disorder. More recent studies have suggested that expanded ATXN2 repeats are a genetic risk factor for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) via an RNA-dependent interaction with TDP-43. Given the phenotypic diversity observed in SCA2 patients, we set out to determine the polymorphic nature of the ATXN2 repeat length across a spectrum of neurodegenerative disorders. In this study, we genotyped the ATXN2 repeat in 3919 neurodegenerative disease patients and 4877 healthy controls and performed logistic regression analysis to determine the association of repeat length with the risk of disease. We confirmed the presence of a significantly higher number of expanded ATXN2 repeat carriers in ALS patients compared with healthy controls (OR = 5.57; P= 0.001; repeat length &gt;30 units). Furthermore, we observed significant association of expanded ATXN2 repeats with the development of progressive supranuclear palsy (OR = 5.83; P= 0.004; repeat length &gt;30 units). Although expanded repeat carriers were also identified in frontotemporal lobar degeneration, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease patients, these were not significantly more frequent than in controls. Of note, our study identified a number of healthy control individuals who harbor expanded repeat alleles (31-33 units), which suggests caution should be taken when attributing specific disease phenotypes to these repeat lengths. In conclusion, our findings confirm the role of ATXN2 as an important risk factor for ALS and support the hypothesis that expanded ATXN2 repeats may predispose to other neurodegenerative diseases, including progressive supranuclear palsy.
GDNF (glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor) promotes the differentiation and migration of GABAergic neuronal precursors of the medial ganglionic eminence (MGE). These functions are dependent on the GPI-anchored receptor GFR1, but independent of its two known transmembrane receptor partners RET and NCAM. Here we show that soluble GFR1 is also able to promote differentiation and migration of GABAergic MGE neurons. These activities require endogenous production of GDNF. Although GDNF responsiveness is abolished in Gfra1(-/-) neurons, it can be restored upon addition of soluble GFR1, a result that is only compatible with the existence of a previously unknown transmembrane signaling partner for the GDNF-GFR1 complex in GABAergic neurons. The roles of two candidate transmembrane receptors previously implicated in GABAergic interneuron development--MET, a receptor for hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), and ErbB4, the neuregulin receptor--were examined. GDNF did not induce the activation of either receptor, nor did inhibition of MET or ErbB4 impair GDNF activity in GABAergic MGE neurons. Unexpectedly, however, inhibition of MET or HGF per se promoted neuronal differentiation and migration and enhanced the activity of GDNF on MGE neurons. These effects were dependent on endogenous GDNF and GFR1, suggesting that MET signaling negatively regulates GDNF activity in the MGE. In agreement with this, Met mutant MGE neurons showed enhanced responses to GDNF and inhibition of MET or HGF increased Gfra1 mRNA expression in MGE cells. In vivo, expression of MET and GFR1 overlapped in the MGE, and a loss-of-function mutation in Met increased Gfra1 expression in this region. Together, these observations demonstrate the existence of a novel transmembrane receptor partner for the GDNF-GFR1 complex and uncover an unexpected interplay between GDNF-GFR1 and HGF-MET signaling in the early diversification of cortical GABAergic interneuron subtypes.
New interneurons are continuously generated in small proliferation zones within neuronal somata clusters in the olfactory deutocerebrum of adult decapod crustaceans. Each proliferation zone is connected to a clump of cells containing one neural stem cell (i.e., adult neuroblast), thus forming a &quot;neurogenic complex.&quot; Here we provide a detailed analysis of the cytoarchitecture of neurogenic complexes in adult spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, based on transmission electron microscopy and labeling with cell-type-selective markers. The clump of cells is composed of unique bipolar clump-forming cells that collectively completely envelop the adult neuroblast and are themselves ensheathed by a layer of processes of multipolar cell body glia. An arteriole is attached to the clump of cells, but dye perfusion experiments show that hemolymph has no access to the interior of the clump of cells. Thus, the clump of cells fulfills morphological criteria of a protective stem cell niche, with clump-forming cells constituting the adult neuroblast's microenvironment together with the cell body glia processes separating it from other tissue components. Bromodeoxyuridine pulse-chase experiments with short survival times suggest that adult neuroblasts are not quiescent but rather cycle actively during daytime. We propose a cell lineage model in which an asymmetrically dividing adult neuroblast repopulates the pool of neuronal progenitor cells in the associated proliferation zone. In conclusion, as in mammalian brains, adult neurogenesis in crustacean brains is fueled by neural stem cells that are maintained by stem cell niches that preserve elements of the embryonic microenvironment and contain glial and vascular elements.
Owing to its ability to switch between free-living and parasitic modes of development, Parastrongyloides trichosuri represents a valuable model with which to study the evolution of parasitism among the nematodes, especially aspects pertaining to morphogenesis of infective third-stage larvae. In the free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, developmental fates of third-stage larvae are determined in part by environmental cues received by chemosensory neurons in the amphidial sensillae. As a basis for comparative study, we have described the neuroanatomy of the amphidial sensillae of P. trichosuri. By using computational methods, we incorporated serial electron micrographs into a three-dimensional reconstruction of the amphidial neurons of this parasite. Each amphid is innervated by 13 neurons, and the dendritic processes of 10 of these extend nearly to the amphidial pore. Dendritic processes of two specialized neurons leave the amphidial channel and terminate within invaginations of the sheath cell. One of these is similar to the finger cell of C. elegans, terminating in digitiform projections. The other projects a single cilium into the sheath cell. The dendritic process of a third specialized neuron terminates within the tight junction of the amphid. Each amphidial neuron was traced from the tip of its dendrite(s) to its cell body in the lateral ganglion. Positions of these cell bodies approximate those of morphologically similar amphidial neurons in Caenorhabditis elegans, so the standard nomenclature for amphidial neurons in C. elegans was adopted. A map of cell bodies within the lateral ganglion of P. trichosuri was prepared to facilitate functional study of these neurons.
The neuropeptide vasopressin (AVP) has been implicated in the regulation of numerous physiological and behavioral processes. Although mice have become an important model for studying this regulation, there is no comprehensive description of AVP distribution in the mouse brain and spinal cord. With C57BL/6 mice, we used immunohistochemistry to corroborate the location of AVP-containing cells and to define the location of AVP-containing fibers throughout the mouse central nervous system. We describe AVP-immunoreactive (-ir) fibers in midbrain, hindbrain, and spinal cord areas, which have not previously been reported in mice, including innervation of the ventral tegmental area, dorsal and median raphe, lateral and medial parabrachial, solitary, ventrolateral periaqueductal gray, and interfascicular nuclei. We also provide a detailed description of AVP-ir innervation in heterogenous regions such as the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and ventral forebrain. In general, our results suggest that, compared with other species, the mouse has a particularly robust and widespread distribution of AVP-ir fibers, which, as in other species, originates from a number of different cell groups in the telencephalon and diencephalon. Our data also highlight the robust nature of AVP innervation in specific regulatory nuclei, such as the ventral tegmental area and dorsal raphe nucleus among others, that are implicated in the regulation of many behaviors.
The lateral superior olive (LSO), a nucleus in the auditory brainstem, computes interaural intensity differences for sound localization by comparing converging excitatory and inhibitory inputs that carry tonotopically matched information from the two ears. Tonotopic refinement in the inhibitory projection pathway from the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) is known to be established during the first postnatal week in rats. During this period, immature MNTB terminals in the LSO contain vesicular transporters for both inhibitory and excitatory amino acids and release glutamate. The primary Ca(2+) sensors for vesicular release in the CNS are understood to be synaptotagmins, and in adult auditory brainstem synaptotagmin 2 is the predominant synaptotagmin. We asked here whether a different Ca(2+) sensor might be expressed in the immature auditory brainstem. We have found that synaptotagmin 1 is indeed expressed transiently in the immature auditory brainstem, most highly in those areas that receive glutamate-releasing immature inhibitory inputs from the MNTB, and that during the first postnatal week synaptotagmin 1 co-localizes with the vesicular glutamate transporter VGLUT3, a marker of glutamate-releasing immature inhibitory terminals from the MNTB. We suggest that immature MNTB terminals may contain two populations of synaptic vesicles, one expressing the vesicular inhibitory amino acid transporter together with synaptotagmin 2 and another expressing VGLUT3 together with synaptotagmin 1. Because Ca(2+) sensing is an important determinant of release properties for the presynaptic terminal, differential expression of the synaptotagmins might allow the differential release of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters in response to differing patterns of neural activity.
Endogenous morphine, morphine-6-glucuronide, and codeine, which are structurally identical to vegetal alkaloids, can be synthesized by mammalian cells from dopamine. However, the role of brain endogenous morphine and its derivative compounds is a matter of debate, and knowledge about its distribution is lacking. In this study, by using a validated antibody, we describe a precise mapping of endogenous morphine-like compounds (morphine and/or its glucuronides and/or codeine) in the mouse brain. First, a mass spectrometry approach confirmed the presence of morphine and codeine in mouse brain, but also, of morphine-6-glucuronide and morphine-3-glucuronide representing two metabolites of morphine. Second, light microscopy allowed us to observe immunopositive cell somas and cytoplasmic processes throughout the mouse brain. Morphine-like immunoreactivity was present in various structures including the hippocampus, olfactory bulb, band of Broca, basal ganglia, and cerebellum. Third, by using confocal microscopy and immunofluroscence co-localization, we characterized cell types containing endogenous opiates. Interestingly, we observed that morphine-like immunoreactivity throughout the encephalon is mainly present in -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons. Astrocytes were also labeled throughout the entire brain, in the cell body, in the cytoplasmic processes, and in astrocytic feet surrounding blood vessels. Finally, ultrastructural localization of morphine-like immunoreactivity was determined by electron microscopy and showed the presence of morphine-like label in presynaptic terminals in the cerebellum and postsynaptic terminals in the rest of the mouse brain. In conclusion, the presence of endogenous morphine-like compounds in brain regions not usually involved in pain modulation opens the exciting opportunity to extend the role and function of endogenous alkaloids far beyond their analgesic functions.
The visually guided foraging routes of some formicine ants are individually stereotyped, suggesting the importance of visual learning in maintaining these routes. We ask here whether the wood ant Formica rufa learns a sequence of visual features encountered at different stages along a route, as reported for honeybees. We trained ants in several simple mazes to follow two alternative routes. Along each two-stage route, the ants first encountered one of two priming stimuli. The identity of the priming stimulus determined which of two choice stimuli was rewarded in the second stage of the route. As stimuli we used ultraviolet and yellow/green light panels, and two black-and-white patterns. Did ants learn to pair each colour with the appropriate black-and-white pattern? Ants learnt readily to discriminate between the two coloured stimuli or between the two black-and-white patterns. They could also pair coloured and black-and-white patterns, provided that the two were presented simultaneously. The ants' behaviour with sequential stimuli varied according to whether the priming stimulus was a coloured stimulus or a black-and-white pattern. When the priming stimulus was coloured, ants seemed to learn the two sequences, but tests showed that their success was probably caused by the after-effects of colour adaptation. With a black-and-white priming stimulus and a coloured second stage stimulus, robust sequential learning could not be demonstrated, although under certain experimental conditions a tiny proportion of ants did acquire the sequence. Thus, ants perform conditional discriminations reliably when priming and choice stimuli are simultaneous, but they usually fail when the stimuli are sequential.
Recently, several non-HLA loci have been shown to be convincingly associated with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) susceptibility, assumingly indicating important pathways in the pathogenesis. A genotype influence on disease outcome measures by these genes would support a role of these pathways in ongoing tissue damage. Here, however, we report a consistent dissociation between causation and progression for five non-HLA genotypes (IL7R, IL2RA, CLEC16A, CD226 and SH2B3) in 1776 Scandinavian MS patients.
The primary angiitis of the central nervous system (PACNS) is a rare and potentially fatal form of vasculitis with unknown etiology. Headache and encephalopathy are the most frequent symptoms. Neuroimaging plays an important role in the diagnosis, but the pattern of abnormal findings is not specific. In some cases brain biopsy is mandatory. PACNS is often described as a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge for clinicians considering the lack of univocal diagnostic criteria and paucity of studies evaluating the long-term outcome. This brief work reports how we managed eight patients with PACNS from diagnosis to long-term follow up treatment. Headache and focal acute neurological deficits were the most common symptoms. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was abnormal in all patients with different patterns of infarctions or intraparenchymal/subarachnoid hemorrhages or their combination. Cerebral angiography demonstrated pathological findings compatible with vasculitis in all cases. Other causes of encephalopathy were ruled out. Patients with severe clinical and neuroradiological findings were treated with steroids and immunosuppressive therapy using cyclophosphamide/methotrexate. Patients with less aggressive PACNS, were treated with steroids only. In one case with multiple relapses infliximab was used after first-line immunosuppressive therapy failure. PACNS suspicion is based on the combination of demographic/clinical and MRI findings and the exclusion of other causes of multifocal encephalopathy. A positive angiography has a diagnostic value in an adequate clinical field. A strict collaboration of neurologists, neuroradiologists, and immunoreumatologists is essential in the management of PACNS both in the diagnostic and therapeutic phases.
Drug-induced peripheral neurotoxicity usually manifests as a length-dependent, &quot;dying back&quot; axonal, predominantly sensory polyneuropathy. Rarely, immune-mediated demyelinating neuropathies occur during initial or maintenance treatment with immunomodulatory, immunosuppressive or antineoplastic agents. Medication-induced immune perturbation presumably triggers a dysimmune attack directed at unidentified peripheral nerve myelin epitopes; true peripheral nerve toxicity (i.e., dependent on accumulative dose or serum level) plays no identified role. The mechanisms that underlie a paradoxical and unpredictable immune exacerbation are unclear, and may depend on patient age, drug dosage and schedule, time of treatment relative to disease course, and host genetic factors. Suspicion and recognition of a non-toxic, immune-mediated demyelinating process has management (targeted immunotherapy) and prognostic (mostly favorable) implications.
Accurate calibration of a head mounted display (HMD) is essential both for research on the visual system and for realistic interaction with virtual objects. Yet, existing calibration methods are time consuming and depend on human judgements, making them error prone, and are often limited to optical see-through HMDs. Building on our existing approach to HMD calibration Gilson et al. (2008), we show here how it is possible to calibrate a non-see-through HMD. A camera is placed inside a HMD displaying an image of a regular grid, which is captured by the camera. The HMD is then removed and the camera, which remains fixed in position, is used to capture images of a tracked calibration object in multiple positions. The centroids of the markers on the calibration object are recovered and their locations re-expressed in relation to the HMD grid. This allows established camera calibration techniques to be used to recover estimates of the HMD display's intrinsic parameters (width, height, focal length) and extrinsic parameters (optic centre and orientation of the principal ray). We calibrated a HMD in this manner and report the magnitude of the errors between real image features and reprojected features. Our calibration method produces low reprojection errors without the need for error-prone human judgements.
Modern drug discovery for Central Nervous System pathologies has recently focused its attention to in vitro neuronal networks as models for the study of neuronal activities. Micro Electrode Arrays (MEAs), a widely recognized tool for pharmacological investigations, enable the simultaneous study of the spiking activity of discrete regions of a neuronal culture, providing an insight into the dynamics of networks. Taking advantage of MEAs features and making the most of the cross-correlation analysis to assess internal parameters of a neuronal system, we provide an efficient method for the evaluation of comprehensive neuronal network activity. We developed an intra network burst correlation algorithm, we evaluated its sensitivity and we explored its potential use in pharmacological studies. Our results demonstrate the high sensitivity of this algorithm and the efficacy of this methodology in pharmacological dose-response studies, with the advantage of analyzing the effect of drugs on the comprehensive correlative properties of integrated neuronal networks.
The use of Granger causality (GC) for studying dependencies in neuroimaging data has recently been gaining popularity. Several frameworks exist for applying GC to neurophysiological questions but many rely heavily on specific statistical assumptions regarding autoregressive (AR) models for hypothesis testing. Since it is often difficult to satisfy these assumptions in practical settings, this study proposes an alternative statistical methodology based on the classification of individual trials of data. Instead of testing for significance using statistics based on estimated AR models or prediction errors, hypotheses were tested by determining whether or not individual magnetoencephalography (MEG) recording segments belonging to either of two experimental conditions can be successfully classified using features derived from AR and GC concepts. Using this novel approach, we show that bivariate temporal GC can be used to distinguish button presses based on whether they were experimentally forced or free. Additionally, the methodology was used to determine useful parameter settings for various steps of the analysis and this revealed surprising insight into several aspects of AR and GC analysis which, previously, could not be obtained in a comparable manner. A final mean accuracy of 79.2% was achieved for classifying forced and free button presses for 6 subjects suggesting that classification using GC features is a viable option for studying MEG signals and useful for evaluating the effectiveness of parameter variations in GC analysis.
Microinjections are a major tool in modern neuroscience. Microinjection techniques in conscious animals typically involve four steps: (1) animal adapts to experimental setup; (2) injection system is filled and the microinjector is carefully inserted; (3) a drug solution is injected; (4) 1-2 min later the microinjector is carefully removed. Steps 2 and 4 are difficult to perform in rodents without disturbing the animal. This disruption can cause stress and accompanying tachycardia and hyperthermia - unwanted artifacts in physiological research. To reduce these effects, we altered the traditional approach. Our procedure of microinjection consisted of the following steps: (1) we filled the injection setup and fixed the microinjector in its guide cannula; (2) allowed an animal to adapt to the setup; (3) performed an experiment including microinjection(s); (4) removed the microinjector after the experiment was complete. The key change we incorporated was a 1m long piece of tubing with a small internal diameter; it allowed us to inject nanoliter volumes through the injector which had been placed into the guide cannula in advance. This way we avoided the usual manipulations related to microinjection, and minimized extraneous disturbances to the rat. In this report we describe the details of this technique in conscious rats and provide examples of the effects and the reproducibility of a 100 nL drug injection on cardiovascular function.
An important problem in neuroscience is that of constructing quantitative measures of the similarity between neural spike trains. These measures can be used, for example, to assess the reliability of the response of a single neuron to repeated stimulus presentations, or to uncover relationships in the firing patterns of multiple neurons in a population. While several similarity measures have been proposed, the extent to which they take into account various biologically important spike train features such as bursts of spikes, or periods of inactivity remains poorly understood. Here we compare these measures using tests specifically designed to assess the sensitivity to bursts and silent periods. In addition, we propose two new measures. The first is designed to detect periods of shared silence between spike trains, while the second is designed to emphasize the presence of common bursts. To assist researchers in determining which measure is best suited to their particular data analysis needs, we also show how these measures can be combined and how their parameters can be determined on the basis of physiologically relevant quantities.
The anterior pituitary gland regulates physiological processes via the secretion of hormones, which are under the control of factors produced either in the hypothalamus or the pituitary gland itself. Studies investigating how the pituitary gland functions have employed both in vitro and in vivo approaches. Although in vitro analysis has the advantage that it is pituitary specific, the results may be incomplete because the tissue is isolated from other physiological inputs that could affect function under natural conditions. Without vascular input, such studies are inherently of short duration. Conversely, in vivo experiments that rely upon systemic hormone injections require high doses, are non-target specific and the precise hormone concentrations reaching the pituitary gland are difficult to control. Intracerebroventricular hormone infusions are reliant on assumptions that factors are transported to the pituitary gland from the cerebrospinal fluid and are without cerebral effects. Here we describe an innovative method to investigate anterior pituitary function in conscious sheep by direct infusion of peptides into the pituitary tissue surrounding the hypophyseal portal blood vessels. This approach is an adaptation of the hypophyseal portal cannulation technique whereby an indwelling cannula provides direct access to the rostral aspect of the adenohypophysis. Peptide infusions were achieved by insertion of a needle through the implanted cannula such that it penetrated the pituitary. Using this technique, infusion of TRH (17 ng/1 l/min for up to 6h) induced a sustained rise in systemic prolactin levels that lasted for the duration of the infusion.
Simultaneous intracellular recordings of nearby neocortical neurons have demonstrated that their membrane potentials are highly correlated. The correlation between the spiking activity of nearby neocortical neurons may be much smaller, suggesting that inputs are more similar than outputs. Much less is known about the similarity of inputs in subcortical sensory areas. Here we investigate this question by making simultaneous whole-cell recordings from neighbouring neurons in the dorsal cortex of the mouse inferior colliculus. No evidence for monosynaptic connections between neighbouring cells was observed, suggesting that integration of afferent signals plays a more important role than local processing. The correlation between frequency response areas of neighbouring cells varied but, surprisingly, neighbouring cells were on average not more similar in their responses to tones than non-neighbouring neurons. This large micro-heterogeneity suggests a sparse representation of acoustic features within the dorsal cortex.
The classification of arm tremor in cervical dystonia is a controversial issue. There have been many, at times passionate disputes in the movement disorder community about whether it should be classified as a manifestation of dystonia or essential tremor associated with dystonia. There are arguments in favor of both views. Settling the issue might be relevant to the understanding of the etiological, presumably genetic, background because phenomenological grouping is the starting point for genetic analyses. From this point of view, we outline this tremor debate and add some new clinical data.

Deep brain stimulation to the internal globus pallidus is an effective treatment for primary dystonia. The optimal clinical effect often occurs only weeks to months after starting stimulation. To better understand the underlying electrophysiological changes in this period, we assessed longitudinally 2 pathophysiological markers of dystonia in patients prior to and in the early treatment period (1, 3, 6 months) after deep brain stimulation surgery. Transcranial magnetic stimulation was used to track changes in short-latency intracortical inhibition, a measure of excitability of GABA(A) -ergic corticocortical connections and long-term potentiation-like synaptic plasticity (as a response to paired associative stimulation). Deep brain stimulation remained on for the duration of the study. Prior to surgery, inhibition was reduced and plasticity increased in patients compared with healthy controls. Following surgery and commencement of deep brain stimulation, short-latency intracortical inhibition increased toward normal levels over the following months with the same monotonic time course as the patients' clinical benefit. In contrast, synaptic plasticity changed rapidly, following a nonmonotonic time course: it was absent early (1 month) after surgery, and then over the following months increased toward levels observed in healthy individuals. We postulate that before surgery preexisting high levels of plasticity form strong memories of dystonic movement patterns. When deep brain stimulation is turned on, it disrupts abnormal basal ganglia signals, resulting in the absent response to paired associative stimulation at 1 month. Clinical benefit is delayed because engrams of abnormal movement persist and take time to normalize. Our observations suggest that plasticity may be a driver of long-term therapeutic effects of deep brain stimulation in dystonia.
Deep brain stimulation remains an experimental treatment for patients with Gilles de la Tourette syndrome. Currently, a major controversial issue is the choice of brain target that leads to optimal patient outcomes within a presumed network of basal ganglia and cortical pathways involved in tic pathogenesis. This report describes our experience with patients with severe refractory Gilles de la Tourette syndrome treated with globus pallidus internus deep brain stimulation. Five patients were selected for surgery, 2 targeting the posteroventral globus pallidus internus and 2 targeting the anteromedial region. The remaining patient was first targeted on the posterolateral region, but after 18 months the electrodes were relocated in the anteromedial area. Tics were clinically assessed in all patients pre- and postoperatively using the Modified Rush Video protocol and the Yale Global Tic Severity Scale. Obsessive-compulsive behaviors were quantified with the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale. The Gilles de la Tourette Syndrome-Quality of Life Scale was also completed. All patients experienced improvements in tic severity but to variable extents. More convincing improvements were seen in patients with electrodes sited in the anteromedial region of the globus pallidus internus than in those with posterolateral implants. Mean reduction in the Modified Rush Video Rating scale for each group was 54% and 37%, respectively. Our open-label limited experience supports the use of the anteromedial globus pallidus internus as a promising target for future planned randomized double-blind trials of deep brain stimulation for patients with Gilles de la Tourette syndrome.


The present study addresses three methodological questions that have been ignored in previous research on EEG indices of the human mirror neuron system (hMNS), particularly in regard to autistic individuals. The first question regards how to elicit the EEG indexed hMNS during movement observation: Is hMNS activation best elicited using long stimulus presentations or multiple short repetitions? The second question regards what EEG sensorimotor frequency bands reflect sensorimotor reactivity during hand movement observation? The third question regards how widespread is the EEG reactivity over the sensorimotor cortex during movement observation? The present study explored sensorimotor alpha and low beta reactivity during hand movement versus static hand or bouncing balls observation and compared two experimental protocols (long exposure vs. multiple repetitions) in the same participants. Results using the multiple repetitions protocol indicated a greater low beta desynchronisation over the sensorimotor cortex during hand movement compared to static hand and bouncing balls observation. This result was not achieved using the long exposure protocol. Therefore, the present study suggests that the multiple repetitions protocol is a more robust protocol to use when exploring the sensorimotor reactivity induced by hand action observation. In addition, sensorimotor low beta desynchronisation was differently modulated during hand movement, static hand and bouncing balls observation (non-biological motion) while it was not the case for sensorimotor alpha and that suggest that low beta may be a more sensitive index of hMNS activation during biological motion observation. In conclusion the present study indicates that sensorimotor reactivity of low beta during hand movement observation was found to be more widespread over the sensorimotor cortex than previously thought.
In modern perceptual neuroscience, the focus of interest has shifted from a restriction to individual modalities to an acknowledgement of the importance of multisensory processing. One particularly well-known example of cross-modal interaction is the McGurk illusion. It has been shown that this illusion can be modified, such that it creates an auditory perceptual bias that lasts beyond the duration of audiovisual stimulation, a process referred to as cross-modal recalibration (Bertelson et al., 2003). Recently, we have suggested that this perceptual bias is stored in auditory cortex, by demonstrating the feasibility of retrieving the subjective perceptual interpretation of recalibrated ambiguous phonemes from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) measurements in these regions (Kilian-Htten et al., 2011). However, this does not explain which brain areas integrate the information from the two senses and represent the origin of the auditory perceptual bias. Here we analyzed fMRI data from audiovisual recalibration blocks, utilizing behavioral data from perceptual classifications of ambiguous auditory phonemes that followed these blocks later in time. Adhering to this logic, we could identify a network of brain areas (bilateral inferior parietal lobe [IPL], inferior frontal sulcus [IFS], and posterior middle temporal gyrus [MTG]), whose activation during audiovisual exposure anticipated auditory perceptual tendencies later in time. We propose a model in which a higher-order network, including IPL and IFS, accommodates audiovisual integrative learning processes, which are responsible for the installation of a perceptual bias in auditory regions. This bias then determines constructive perceptual processing.
The dorsal striatum is crucial for the acquisition and consolidation of instrumental behaviour, but the underlying computations and internal dynamics remain elusive. To address this issue, we combined a model of key computations supporting decision-making during instrumental learning with human behavioural and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data. The results showed that the associative and sensorimotor dorsal striatum host complementary computations that, we suggest, may differentially support goal-directed and habitual processes. The anterior caudate nucleus integrates information about performance and cognitive control demands, whereas the putamen tracks how likely the conditioning stimuli lead to correct response. Contrary to current models, the putamen is recruited during initial acquisition. As the exploratory phase proceeds, the relative contribution of the caudate nucleus becomes dominant over the putamen. During early consolidation, caudate nucleus and putamen settle to asymptotic values and share control. We then investigated how dorsal striatal computations may affect decision-making. We found that portion of reaction times' variance parallels the combined cost associated with the dorsal striatal computations. Overall, our findings provide a deeper insight into the functional heterogeneity within the dorsal striatum and suggest that the dynamic interplay between caudate nucleus and putamen, rather than their serial recruitment, underlies the acquisition and early consolidation of instrumental behaviours.
The perception and judgement of social hierarchies forms an integral part of social cognition. Hierarchical judgements can be either self-referential or allocentric (pertaining to two or more external agents). In psychiatric conditions such as dissocial personality disorder and schizophrenia, the impact of hierarchies may be problematic. We sought to elucidate the brain regions involved in judging allocentric social hierarchies. Twenty-two healthy male subjects underwent three fMRI scans. During scanning, subjects answered questions concerning visually-presented target pairs of human individual's relative superiority within a specific social hierarchy or their perceived degree of social alliance (i.e., whether they were &quot;friends or enemies&quot;). Subjects also made judgements relating to target pairs' age, gender and fame to control for confounding factors and performed a baseline numerical task. Response times increased in line with hypothesized ascending executive load. Both social hierarchy and social alliance judgements activated left ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC), left dorsal inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and bilateral fusiform gyri. In addition, social alliance judgements activated right dorsal IFG and medial prefrontal cortex. When compared directly with social alliance, social hierarchy judgements activated left orbitofrontal cortex. Detecting the presence of social hierarchies and judging other's relative standing within them implicates the cognitive executive, in particular the VLPFC. Our finding informs accounts of 'normal' social cognition but our method also provides a means of probing the dissocial brain in personality disorder and schizophrenia where executive function may be dysfunctional.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has well-established applications in basic neuroscience and promising applications in neurological and psychiatric disorders. However the underlying mechanisms of TMS-induced alterations in brain function are not well understood. As a result, treatment design parameters are determined ad hoc and not informed by any coherent theory or model. Once the mechanisms underlying TMS's modulatory effects on brain systems are better understood and modeled, TMS's potential as a therapeutic and/or investigative tool will be more readily explored and exploited. An animal model is better suited to study different TMS variables, therefore we developed a baboon model to facilitate testing of some of the current theoretical models of TMS interactions with brain regions. We have demonstrated the feasibility of this approach by successfully imaging cerebral blood flow (CBF) changes with H(2)(15)O positron emission tomography imaging during high-frequency, suprathreshold repetitive TMS in the primary motor cortex of five healthy, adult baboons.
Neuropathological events featuring early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD) appear in the entorhinal cortex (EC), subiculum (SB) and cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) of hippocampus, which may account for associative memory deficits in non-demented people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). To test this hypothesis in vivo, we investigated whether volume changes in these regions are related to failures in associative memory in MCI as compared to cognitively normal (CN) elderly subjects. Volume changes in EC and hippocampal subfields were determined by using deformation-based morphometry techniques applied to probabilistic cytoarchitectonic maps derived from post mortem human brains. CN subjects were distinguished from MCI patients by firstly identifying local volume differences in EC and hippocampus, and then evaluating the way in which these anatomical changes correlated with performance in a non-intentional face-location association task. MCI patients not only performed worse than CN elders in building new associations, but they were further unable to benefit from semantic encoding to improve episodic binding. According to our initial hypothesis, local volume reductions in both EC and hippocampal CA accounted for group differences in associative memory whereas atrophy in CA, but not in EC, accounted for semantic encoding of associations. Two main conclusions can be drawn from the present study: i) access to semantic information during encoding does not reduce the episodic deficit in MCI; and ii) EC and hippocampal CA, two regions early affected by AD neuropathology, are responsible, at least partially, for associative memory deficits observed in MCI patients.
Thanks to its proven utility in both clinical and research applications, diffusion tensor tractography (DTT) is regularly employed as a means of delineating white-matter tracts. While successful efforts have been made to validate tractographic predictions, comparative methods which would permit the validation of such predictions at microscopic resolutions in complex biological tissues have remained elusive. In a previous study, we attempted to validate for the first time such predictions at microscopic resolutions in rat and pig spinal cords using a semi-quantitative analysis method. In the current study, we report improved quantitative analysis methods that can be used to determine the accuracy of DTT through comparative histology and apply these techniques for the first time to human tissue (spinal cord) samples. Histological images are down-sampled to resolutions equivalent to our magnetic resonance microscopy (MRM) and converted to binary maps using an automated thresholding tool. These maps (n=3) are co-registered to the MRM allowing us to quantify the agreement based on the number of pixels which contain tracts common to both imaging datasets. In our experiments, we find that-on average-89% of imaging pixels predicted by DTT to contain in-plane white-matter tract structure correspond to physical tracts identified by histology. In addition, angular analysis comparing the orientation of fiber tracts measured in histology to their corresponding in-plane primary eigenvector components is presented. Thus, as well as demonstrating feasibility in human tissue, we report a robust agreement between imaging datasets taken at microscopic resolution and confirm the primary eigenvector's role as a fundamental parameter with clear physical correlates in the microscopic regime.
Murine models are commonly used in neuroscience research to improve our knowledge of disease processes and to test drug effects. To accurately study brain glucose metabolism in these animals, ex vivo autoradiography remains the gold standard. The analysis of 3D-reconstructed autoradiographic volumes using a voxel-wise approach allows clusters of voxels representing metabolic differences between groups to be revealed. However, the spatial localization of these clusters requires careful visual identification by a neuroanatomist, a time-consuming task that is often subject to misinterpretation. Moreover, the large number of voxels to be computed in autoradiographic rodent images leads to many false positives. Here, we proposed an original automated indexation of the results of a voxel-wise approach using an MRI-based 3D digital atlas, followed by the restriction of the statistical analysis using atlas-based segmentation, thus taking advantage of the specific and complementary strengths of these two approaches. In a preliminary study of transgenic Alzheimer's mice (APP/PS1), and control littermates (PS1), we were able to achieve prompt and direct anatomical indexation of metabolic changes detected between the two groups, revealing both hypo- and hypermetabolism in the brain of APP/PS1 mice. Furthermore, statistical results were refined using atlas-based segmentation: most interesting results were obtained for the hippocampus. We thus confirmed and extended our previous results by identifying the brain structures affected in this pathological model and demonstrating modified glucose uptake in structures like the olfactory bulb. Our combined approach thus paves the way for a complete and accurate examination of functional data from cerebral structures involved in models of neurodegenerative diseases.
The present study examined the associations between genetic variation in folate metabolism on the one hand and cognitive functioning and mood on the other in healthy individuals. Two independent population-based samples were used, including 777 participants, aged 24-82 years, from the Maastricht Aging Study (MAAS); and 818 participants, aged 50-70 years, from the Folic Acid and Carotid Intima-Media Thickness (FACIT) study. Thymidylate synthase (TS) 2R3R and serine hydroxymethyltransferase (SHMT1) 1420CT polymorphisms were determined in both populations. In addition, the 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) 677CT polymorphism was determined in the MAAS population. Cognitive performance was assessed in both populations using a neuropsychological test battery. In the MAAS population only, cognitive performance was retested after 12years of follow-up (n=612), and mood was measured at baseline (n=772) and 12-year follow-up (n=565) by means of the depression subscale of the Symptom Checklist 90. We found that in both study populations, cognitive performance was not associated with TS 2R3R or SHMT1 1420CT polymorphisms at baseline, after correction for age, sex, and level of education. The MTHFR 677CT polymorphism was not associated with cognitive performance in the MAAS population. None of the polymorphisms in the MAAS population were related to mood at baseline or over 12 years. In conclusion, our findings do not support the involvement of genetic variation in folate metabolism in cognitive performance or mood in healthy individuals.
Facial emotion recognition deficits (FERD) have been consistently demonstrated in schizophrenia. However the relation between psychopathology and FERD remains inconclusive. This could possibly be due to the wide heterogeneity in the psychopathology of schizophrenia. First Rank Symptoms (FRS) of schizophrenia is associated with heightened sense of paranoia and rapid processing of threatful emotional stimuli. We studied differences in patterns of FERD between homogenous sub-groups of antipsychotic nave schizophrenia patients (n=63); namely those experiencing FRS (FRS+ group n=26) and those who did not (FRS- group n=37), in comparison to age-, sex-, education matched healthy controls (n=45). FERD was assessed using TRENDS - (Tool for Recognition of Emotions in Neuropsychiatric DisorderS), a culturally sensitive and ecologically valid (consisting of both static and dynamic emotional stimuli) tool. The total number of images of non threatful emotions (sad, happy, neutral) which were identified as any of the threatful emotions (fear, anger, disgust) and vice versa were calculated and termed TRENDS Over-identification and Under-identification score respectively. The patient group made significantly greater errors in emotion recognition as compared to healthy controls. On post hoc analysis (Tukey HSD) the patients in FRS+ group made significantly greater errors in Over-identification as compared to the FRS- group. This study supports that FERD is one of the important deficits in schizophrenia. There is a differential pattern of impairment in FERD, which supports the role of heightened threat perception in the evolution of psychopathology in schizophrenia patients.
Ca(2+)-dependent activator protein for secretion 2 (CADPS2), a secretory granule associate protein, mediates monoamine transmission and the release of neurotrophins including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) which have been implicated in psychiatric disorders. Furthermore, the expression of CADPS2deltaExon3, a defective splice variant of CADPS2, has been reported to be associated with autism. Based on these observations, we examined whether expression levels of CADPS2 and CADPS2deltaExon3 are altered in psychiatric disorders. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis was performed for postmortem frontal cortex tissues (BA6) from 15 individuals with schizophrenia, 15 with bipolar disorder, 15 with major depression, and 15 controls (Stanley neuropathology consortium). The mean CADPS2 expression levels normalized to human glyceraldehyde-3phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) or TATA-box binding protein levels was found to be significantly increased in the brains of the schizophrenia group, compared to the control group. On the other hand, the ratio of CADPS2deltaExon3 to total CADPS2 was similar in the 4 diagnostic groups. We then analyzed CADPS2 expression in blood samples from 121 patients with schizophrenia and 318 healthy controls; however, there was no significant difference between the two groups. Chronic risperidone treatment did not alter the expression of CADPS2 in frontal cortex of mice. The observed increase in the expression of CADPS2 may be related to the impaired synaptic function in schizophrenia.
Fluidity is an important neuronal membrane property and it is influenced by the concentration of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in membrane phospholipids. Phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) is a key enzyme in membrane phospholipid metabolism, generating free PUFAs. In Alzheimer disease (AD), reduced PLA(2) activity, specifically of calcium-dependent cytosolic PLA(2) (cPLA(2)) and calcium-independent intracellular PLA(2) (iPLA(2)), and phospholipid metabolism was reported in the frontal cortex and hippocampus. This study investigated the effects of in vivo infusion of the dual cPLA(2) and iPLA(2) inhibitor MAFP into rat brain on PLA(2) activity and membrane fluidity parameters in the postmortem frontal cortex and dorsal hippocampus. PLA(2) activity was measured by radioenzymatic assay and membrane fluidity was determined by fluorescence anisotropy technique using three different probes: DPH, TMA-DPH, and pyrene. MAFP significantly inhibited PLA(2) activity, reduced the flexibility of fatty acyl chains (indicated by increased DPH anisotropy), increased the fluidity in the lipid-water interface (indicated by decreased TMA-DPH anisotropy), and increased the lipid lateral diffusion in the hydrocarbon core (represented by pyrene excimer formation) of membranes in both brain areas. The findings suggest that reduced cPLA(2) and iPLA(2) activities in AD brain might contribute to the cognitive impairment, in part, through alterations in membrane fluidity parameters.
Recent brain imaging studies have shed light on understanding the pathogenesis of mood disorders. Evidence of structural, chemical, and functional brain changes, particularly in prefrontal cortex, cingulate, and amygdala, has been revealed in major depressive disorder (MDD). Furthermore, imaging techniques have been applied to monitor the effects of antidepressants (ADs) both in the brains of healthy volunteers and MDD patients. Although with some discrepancies due to the differences in study designs and patient samples, imaging findings have shown that ADs, particularly those having effects on the serotonergic system, modulate the volumes, functions and biochemistry of brain structures, i.e. dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate and amygdala, which have been demonstrated abnormal in MDD by earlier imaging studies. This paper reviews imaging studies conducted in MDD patients and healthy controls treated with different ADs.
The psychological mechanisms by which antidepressant drugs act to improve mood remain underspecified. In this paper we consider the evidence to suggest that early changes in emotional processing underlie subsequent mood improvement following antidepressant treatment. Negative biases in information processing are consistently found in depression, and we argue that primary mode of action of antidepressant drugs may be to remediate these biases providing a more positive social environment in which the patient can relearn emotional associations fostering later improvement in mood. Evidence from behavioural and functional magnetic resonance imaging studies supports this hypothesis. Experimental medicine models developed under this premise have the potential to screen for new treatments, to predict individual treatment response and to consider the effects of pharmacological vs psychological treatments.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common, chronic, recurrent mental illness that affects millions of individuals worldwide. Currently available antidepressants are known to affect the monoaminergic (e.g., serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine) systems in the brain. Accumulating evidence suggests that the glutamatergic neurotransmission via the excitatory amino acid glutamate also plays an important role in the neurobiology and treatment of this disease. Clinical studies have demonstrated that the non-competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist ketamine has rapid antidepressant effects in treatment-resistant patients with MDD, suggesting the role of glutamate in the pathophysiology of treatment-resistant MDD. Furthermore, a number of preclinical studies demonstrated that the agents which act at glutamate receptors such as NMDA receptors, -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors and metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) might have antidepressant-like activities in animal models of depression. In this article, the author reviews the role of glutamate in the neuron-glia communication induced by potential antidepressants.
Despite the high prevalence and detrimental impact of alcoholism on bipolar patients, the diagnostic and treatment factors associated with better or worse clinical outcomes in alcohol-dependent patients with bipolar disorder are not well understood. The present study investigated the prospective impact of baseline psychiatric comorbidities and treatment regimens on clinical outcomes in bipolar alcoholics. Data were drawn from an 8-week randomized controlled clinical trial of acamprosate for individuals (n=30) with co-occurring bipolar disorder and alcohol dependence. Depressive and manic symptoms, and alcohol craving and consumption were monitored longitudinally using standardized instruments. Path analysis was used to estimate the prospective associations between patient characteristics and outcomes. More than 50% of patients were diagnosed with at least one anxiety (76.7%) or drug dependence disorder (60.0%). Comorbid anxiety disorders were prospectively associated with increased depressive symptoms and alcohol use. Participants were prescribed an average of 2.6 psychotropic medications at baseline. Antipsychotics and anticonvulsants were prospectively associated with increased alcohol use; anticonvulsants and benzodiazepines were associated with increased alcohol craving. Antidepressants were associated with increased depressive symptoms. Conversely, lithium was associated with decreased alcohol craving and depressive symptoms. The findings from the present study suggest areas for future research in this population.
Brightness induction refers to a class of visual illusions in which the perceived intensity of a region of space is influenced by the luminance of surrounding regions. These illusions are significant because they provide insight into the neural organization of the visual system. A novel quadrature-phase motion cancelation technique was developed to measure the magnitude of the grating induction brightness illusion across a wide range of spatial frequencies, temporal frequencies and test field heights. Canceling contrast is greatest at low frequencies and declines with increasing frequency in both dimensions, and with increasing test field height. Canceling contrast scales as the product of inducing grating spatial frequency and test field height (the number of inducing grating cycles per test field height). When plotted using a spatial axis which indexes this product, the spatiotemporal induction surfaces for four test field heights can be described as four partially overlapping sections of a single larger surface. These properties of brightness induction are explained in the context of multiscale spatial filtering. The present study is the first to measure the magnitude of grating induction as a function of temporal frequency. Taken in conjunction with several other studies (Blakeslee &amp; McCourt, 2008; Magnussen &amp; Glad, 1975; Robinson &amp; de Sa, 2008) the results of this study illustrate that at least one form of brightness induction is very much faster than that reported by DeValois, Webster, DeValois, and Lingelbach (1986) and Rossi and Paradiso (1996), and are inconsistent with the proposition that brightness induction results from a slow &quot;filling in&quot; process.
Despite widespread neural activity related to reward values, signals related to upcoming choice have not been clearly identified in the rodent brain. Here we examined neuronal activity in the lateral (AGl) and medial (AGm) agranular cortex, corresponding to the primary and secondary motor cortex, respectively, in rats performing a dynamic foraging task. Choice signals, before behavioral manifestation of the rat's choice, arose in the AGm earlier than in any other areas of the rat brain previously studied under free-choice conditions. The AGm also conveyed neural signals for decision value and chosen value. By contrast, upcoming choice signals arose later, and value signals were weaker, in the AGl. We also found that AGm lesions made the rats' choices less dependent on dynamically updated values. These results suggest that rodent secondary motor cortex might be uniquely involved in both representing and reading out value signals for flexible action selection.

Solute carriers (SLCs), the second largest super-family of membrane proteins in the human genome, transport amino acids, sugars, fatty acids, inorganic ions, essential metals and drugs over membranes. To date no study has provided a comprehensive analysis of SLC localization along the entire GI tract. The aim of the present study was to provide a comprehensive, segment-specific description of the localization of SLC genes along the rat GI tract by employing bioinformatics and molecular biology methods. The Unigene database was screened for rat SLC entries in the intestinal tissue. Using qPCR we measured expression of the annotated genes in the GI tract divided into the following segments: the esophagus, the corpus and the antrum of the stomach, the proximal and distal parts of the duodenum, ileum, jejunum and colon, and the cecum. Our Unigene-derived gene pool was expanded with data from in-house tissue panels and a literature search. We found 44 out of 78 (56%) of gut SLC transcripts to be expressed in all GI tract segments, whereas the majority of remaining SLCs were detected in more than five segments. SLCs are predominantly expressed in gut regions with absorptive functions although expression was also found in segments unrelated to absorption. The proximal jejunum had the highest number of differentially expressed SLCs. In conclusion, SLCs are a crucial molecular component of the GI tract, with many of them expressed along the entire GI tract. This work presents the first overall road map of localization of transporter genes in the GI tract.
DNA repair protects neurons against spontaneous or disease-associated DNA damage. Dysfunctions of this mechanism underlie a growing list of neurodegenerative disorders. The Purkinje cell (PC) degeneration mutation causes the loss of nna1 expression and is associated with the postnatal degeneration of PCs. This PC degeneration dramatically affects nuclear architecture and provides an excellent model to elucidate the nuclear mechanisms involved in a whole array of neurodegenerative disorders. We used immunocytochemistry for histone variants and components of the DNA damage response, an in situ transcription assay, and in situ hybridization for telomeres to analyze changes in chromatin architecture and function. We demonstrate that the phosphorylation of H2AX, a DNA damage signal, and the trimethylation of the histone H4K20, a repressive mark, in extensive domains of genome are epigenetic hallmarks of chromatin in degenerating PCs. These histone modifications are associated with a large scale reorganization of chromatin, telomere clustering, and heterochromatin-induced gene silencing, all of them key factors in PC degeneration. Furthermore, ataxia telangiectasia mutated and 53BP1, two components of the DNA repair pathway, fail to be concentrated in the damaged chromatin compartments, even though the expression levels of their coding genes were slightly up-regulated. Although the mechanism by which Nna1 loss of function leads to PC neurodegeneration is undefined, the progressive accumulation of DNA damage in chromosome territories irreversibly compromises global gene transcription and seems to trigger PC degeneration and death.
NMDA receptors are calcium-permeable ionotropic receptors that detect coincident glutamate binding and membrane depolarization and are essential for many forms of synaptic plasticity in the mammalian brain. The obligatory GluN1 subunit of NMDA receptors is alternatively spliced at multiple sites, generating forms that vary in N-terminal N1 and C-terminal C1, C2, and C2' cassettes. Based on expression of GluN1 constructs in heterologous cells and in wild type neurons, the prevalent view is that the C-terminal cassettes regulate synaptic accumulation and its modulation by homeostatic activity blockade and by protein kinase C (PKC). Here, we tested the role of GluN1 splicing in regulated synaptic accumulation of NMDA receptors by lentiviral expression of individual GluN1 splice variants in hippocampal neurons cultured from GluN1 (-/-) mice. High efficiency transduction of GluN1 at levels similar to endogenous was achieved. Under control conditions, the C2' cassette mediated enhanced synaptic accumulation relative to the alternate C2 cassette, whereas the presence or absence of N1 or C1 had no effect. Surprisingly all GluN1 splice variants showed &gt;2-fold increased synaptic accumulation with chronic blockade of NMDA receptor activity. Furthermore, in this neuronal rescue system, all GluN1 splice variants were equally rapidly dispersed upon activation of PKC. These results indicate that the major mechanisms mediating homeostatic synaptic accumulation and PKC dispersal of NMDA receptors occur independently of GluN1 splice isoform.
More than one-third of all people are estimated to experience mild to severe cognitive impairment as they age. Acetylcholine (ACh) levels in the brain diminish with aging, and nicotinic ACh receptor (nAChR) stimulation is known to enhance cognitive performance. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is involved in a range of cognitive functions and is thought to mediate attentional focus. We found that mice carrying nAChR 2-subunit deletions have impaired attention performance. Efficient lentiviral vector-mediated reexpression of functional 2-subunit-containing nAChRs in PFC neurons of the prelimbic area (PrL) completely restored the attentional deficit but did not affect impulsive and motivational behavior. Our findings show that 2-subunit expression in the PrL PFC is sufficient for endogenous nAChR-mediated cholinergic regulation of attentional performance.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the loss of upper and lower motoneurons. Clinically, it is manifested by weakness, muscle atrophy and progressive paralysis and ends up with patients' death 2-5 years after diagnosis. Although these symptoms lead in many cases to gait deficits in patients, an exhaustive locomotor profile of animal models mimicking the disease has not been assessed yet. In this work we evaluated the locomotor performance of the SOD1(G93A) mouse model of ALS using computerized treadmill gait analysis. SOD1(G93A) mice presented early (8 weeks of age) gait abnormalities, evidenced by an increase in the time of the propulsion phase of hindlimb stance. The alterations progressed during the disease until a complete disturbance of normal gait. This finding is meaningful to the field because the identification of a significant difference in a functional endpoint as early as 8 weeks might be a step forward resolving the debate about treatment of mice prior to the symptomatic phase in efficacy studies. These results also point out that digitizing analysis of treadmill locomotion may be useful to evaluate whether new therapeutic approaches are improving functional outcome of the animals.
In the vertebrate retina, neurites from distinct neuronal cell types are constrained within the plexiform layers, allowing for establishment of retinal lamination. However, the mechanisms by which retinal neurites are segregated within the inner or outer plexiform layers are not known. We find that the transmembrane semaphorins Sema5A and Sema5B constrain neurites from multiple retinal neuron subtypes within the inner plexiform layer (IPL). In Sema5A/; Sema5B/ mice, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and amacrine and bipolar cells exhibit severe defects leading to neurite mistargeting into the outer portions of the retina. These targeting abnormalities are more prominent in the outer (OFF) layers of the IPL and result in functional defects in select RGC response properties. Sema5A and Sema5B inhibit retinal neurite outgrowth through PlexinA1 and PlexinA3 receptors both in vitro and in vivo. These findings define a set of ligands and receptors required for the establishment of inner retinal lamination and function.
Previous studies of the ferret visual cortex indicate that the development of direction selectivity requires visual experience. Here, we used two-photon calcium imaging to study the development of direction selectivity in layer 2/3 neurons of the mouse visual cortex in vivo. Surprisingly, just after eye opening nearly all orientation-selective neurons were also direction selective. During later development, the number of neurons responding to drifting gratings increased in parallel with the fraction of neurons that were orientation, but not direction, selective. Our experiments demonstrate that direction selectivity develops normally in dark-reared mice, indicating that the early development of direction selectivity is independent of visual experience. Furthermore, remarkable functional similarities exist between the development of direction selectivity in cortical neurons and the previously reported development of direction selectivity in the mouse retina. Together, these findings provide strong evidence that the development of orientation and direction selectivity in the mouse brain is distinctly different from that in ferrets.
The synaptic basis underlying food intake is poorly understood. New research shows that an animal's satiety state dictates the polarity of long-term inhibitory synaptic plasticity in the hypothalamus, which is mediated by an activity-dependent competition between endocannabinoid and nitric oxide signaling.
Induction of brain cytokines during times of stress has potent effects on altering behavior, mood, and cognitive functioning. Currently, it is unknown why exposure to some stressors such as tailshock and footshock elevate brain cytokines, while exposure to swim, predator odor, and restraint stress do not. Recent data indicate that brain noradrenergic signaling mediates brain cytokine production suggests magnitude of norepinephrine release during stress may be critical in initiating brain cytokine production. The aim of the current study was to investigate stress-induced brain cytokines between rat strains that differ in their magnitude of stress responsiveness as measured by brain norepinephrine and HPA responses. Sprague-Dawley and Fischer rats were placed in a restraint bag for 1 h or 2 h and sacrificed immediately following stressor termination. Exposure to restraint significantly elevated hypothalamic interleukin (IL)-1 and IL-1 receptor type (R) 2 mRNA after 1 h and IL-1 protein after 2 h in the high stress responsive Fischer rats, but not in Sprague-Dawley rats. IL-6, IL-1R1, Il-1 receptor antagonist (RA), and cyclooxygenase (Cox)-2 mRNA were not altered and neither there was expression of any cytokines in the hippocampus or circulating cytokines in either strain. Administration of desipramine (a norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor) to Sprague-Dawley rats was sufficient either alone or in combination with stress to increase IL-1 mRNA in the hypothalamus and desipramine combined with stress was sufficient to increase IL-1R2 mRNA in the hypothalamus. These data support our hypothesis that there is a critical threshold of brain norepinephrine necessary to stimulate brain cytokines, which may help to explain why severe stressors are more commonly reported to induce brain cytokines. These data also suggest an organisms' susceptibility to stress-induced brain cytokine production, depends on responsiveness and regulation of noradrenergic neurons.
The ventrolateral division of the periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) and the adjacent deep mesencephalic reticular nucleus have been implicated in the control of sleep. The preoptic hypothalamus, which contains populations of sleep-active neurons, is an important source of afferents to the vlPAG. The perifornical lateral hypothalamus (LH) contains populations of wake-active neurons and also projects strongly to the vlPAG. We examined nonREM and REM sleep-dependent expression of c-Fos protein in preoptic-vlPAG and LH-vlPAG projection neurons identified by retrograde labeling with Fluorogold (FG). Separate groups of rats (n=5) were subjected to 3 h total sleep deprivation (TSD) followed by 1 h recovery sleep (RS), or to 3 h of selective REM sleep deprivation (RSD) followed by RS. A third group of rats (n=5) was subjected to TSD without opportunity for RS (awake group). In the median preoptic nucleus (MnPN), the percentage of FG+ neurons that were also Fos+ was higher in TSD-RS animals compared to both RSD-RS rats and awake rats. There were significant correlations between time spent in deep nonREM sleep during the 1 h prior to sacrifice across groups and the percentage of double-labeled cells in MnPN and ventrolateral preoptic area (VLPO). There were no significant correlations between percentage of double-labeled neurons and time spent in REM sleep for any of the preoptic nuclei examined. In the LH, percentage of double-labeled neurons was highest in awake rats, intermediate in TSD-RS rats and lowest in the RSD-RS group. These results suggest that neurons projecting from MnPN and VLPO to the vlPAG are activated during nonREM sleep and support the hypothesis that preoptic neurons provide inhibitory input to vlPAG during sleep. Suppression of excitatory input to the vlPAG from the LH during sleep may have a permissive effect on REM sleep generation.
Brain aging has been associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and changes in nitric oxide levels. The aim of this study was to evaluate the susceptibility of synaptic and non-synaptic mitochondria to aging-dependent dysfunction. State 3 respiratory rate and respiratory control were 43% and 33% decreased, respectively in brain cortex synaptosomes from 14-month-old animals, as compared with synaptosomes from 3-month-old mice. Respiratory rates were not significantly affected by aging in non-synaptic mitochondrial fractions. Mitochondrial dysfunction was associated with increases of 84% and 38% in HO production rates in brain cortex synaptosomes and non-synaptic mitochondria, respectively, from 14-month-old mice, as compared with young animals. Synaptic mitochondria seem to be more susceptible to calcium insult in 14-month-old mice, as compared with non-synaptic mitochondria, as measured by response of both types of fractions to calcium-induced depolarization. With aging, nitric oxide (NO) production was 44% and 27% decreased both in synaptosomal and non-synaptic mitochondrial fractions, respectively. The results of this study suggest that with aging, mitochondrial function at the nerve terminals would be more susceptible to suffer alterations by the constant calcium changes occurring as a consequence of synaptic activity. Non-synaptic mitochondria would be more resistant to age-related dysfunction and oxidative damage.
In addition to its function as a regulator of hematopoiesis, the cytokine erythropoietin (Epo) initiates adaptive cellular responses to both moderate environmental challenges and tissue damaging insults in various non-hematopoietic mammalian tissues. Epo's neuroprotective and neuroregenerative functions mediated through janus kinases (JAK)/signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) transduction pathways and regulation of Epo and Epo receptor expression in the nervous system by hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) have been documented in a variety of in vitro and in vivo studies and homologs of the human Epo gene are present in fish, amphibians and mammals. The present study reproduces the hallmarks of Epo-mediated mammalian neuroprotection in the grasshopper nervous system. Recombinant human Epo (rhEpo) increases the survival of dissociated grasshopper brain neurons under normoxic and hypoxic conditions and promotes the regeneration of neurites in vitro. In addition, reestablishment of sound source localization after unilateral tympanic nerve crush injury was accelerated and more complete after application of rhEpo, demonstrating in vivo support of auditory receptor cell axon regeneration. Immunoblots of central nervous tissue extracts from mouse, grasshopper, crayfish and leech labeled protein bands of 38 kDa, fitting to the molecular weight of Epo reported in earlier studies. These results indicate that a ligand/receptor system that shares structural and functional similarities with mammalian Epo and Epo receptor exerts neuroprotective and neuroregenerative effects in insects. With both upstream (HIF system) and downstream (JAK/STAT pathway) elements of the mammalian Epo system being present in insects and other invertebrates, Epo-like signaling involved in tissue protection appears to be an ancient beneficial function shared by vertebrates and invertebrates.
Hydrogen sulfide (HS), a gasotransmitter, facilitates pain sensation by targeting Ca(v)3.2 T-type calcium channels. The HS/Ca(v)3.2 pathway appears to play a role in the maintenance of surgically evoked neuropathic pain. Given evidence that chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain is blocked by ethosuximide, known to block T-type calcium channels, we examined if more selective T-type calcium channel blockers and also inhibitors of cystathionine--lyase (CSE), a major HS-forming enzyme in the peripheral tissue, are capable of reversing the neuropathic pain evoked by paclitaxel, an anti-cancer drug. It was first demonstrated that T-type calcium channel blockers, NNC 55-0396, known to inhibit Ca(v)3.1, and mibefradil inhibited T-type currents in Ca(v)3.2-transfected HEK293 cells. Repeated systemic administration of paclitaxel caused delayed development of mechanical hyperalgesia, which was reversed by single intraplantar administration of NNC 55-0396 or mibefradil, and by silencing of Ca(v)3.2 by antisense oligodeoxynucleotides. Systemic administration of dl-propargylglycine and -cyanoalanine, irreversible and reversible inhibitors of CSE, respectively, also abolished the established neuropathic hyperalgesia. In the paclitaxel-treated rats, upregulation of Ca(v)3.2 and CSE at protein levels was not detected in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG), spinal cord or peripheral tissues including the hindpaws, whereas H(2)S content in hindpaw tissues was significantly elevated. Together, our study demonstrates the effectiveness of NNC 55-0396 in inhibiting Ca(v)3.2, and then suggests that paclitaxel-evoked neuropathic pain might involve the enhanced activity of T-type calcium channels and/or CSE in rats, but not upregulation of Ca(v)3.2 and CSE at protein levels, differing from the previous evidence for the neuropathic pain model induced by spinal nerve cutting in which Ca(v)3.2 was dramatically upregulated in DRG.
Untimely activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) by nicotine results in short- and long-term consequences on learning and behavior. In this study, the aim was to determine how prenatal nicotine exposure affects components of glutamatergic signaling in the hippocampus during postnatal development. We investigated regulation of both nAChRs and glutamate receptors for AMPA and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), from postnatal day 1 (P1) to P63 after a temporally restricted exposure to saline or nicotine for 14 days in utero. We analyzed postsynaptic density components associated with AMPA receptor (AMPAR) and NMDA receptor (NMDAR) signaling: calmodulin (CaM), CaM Kinase II alpha (CaMKII), and postsynaptic density-95 (PSD95), as well as presynaptically localized synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP25). At P1, there was significantly heightened expression of AMPAR subunit GluR1 but not GluR2, and of NMDAR subunits NR1, NR2a, and NR2d but not NR2b. NR2c was not detectable. CaM, CaMKII, and PSD95 were also significantly upregulated at P1, together with presynaptic SNAP25. This enhanced expression of glutamate receptors and signaling proteins was concomitant with elevated levels of [H]epibatidine (H]EB) binding in prenatal nicotine-exposed hippocampus, indicating that 42 nAChR may influence glutamatergic function in the hippocampus at P1. By P14, neither [H]EB binding nor the expression levels of subunits GluR1, GluR2, NR1, NR2a, NR2b, NR2c, or NR2d seemed changed with prenatal nicotine. However, CaMKII was significantly upregulated with nicotine treatment while CaM showed downregulation at P14. The effects of nicotine persisted in P63 young adult brains which exhibited significantly downregulated GluR2, NR1, and NR2c expression levels in hippocampal homogenates and a considerably muted overall distribution of [H]AMPA binding in areas CA1, CA2 and CA3, and the dentate gyrus. Our results suggest that prenatal nicotine exposure can regulate the glutamatergic signaling system throughout postnatal development by enhancing or inhibiting availability of AMPAR and NMDAR or their signaling components. The persistent depression, in adults, of the requisite NR1 subunit for NMDAR assembly, and of GluR2, important for assembly, trafficking, and biophysical properties of AMPAR, indicates that nicotine may alter ionotropic glutamate receptor stoichiometry and functional properties in adults after prenatally restricted nicotine exposure.
Recent evidence suggests that patients with left-sided visuospatial neglect often show deviations in their visual and haptic perception of verticality in the frontal and sagittal plane. However, little is known about the multimodality of these impairments and the relationship between deviations in the frontal and the sagittal plane. Moreover, no previous study has combined investigations of verticality judgments in both modalities and both spatial planes within the same sample of subjects using the same apparatus. Thus, the aim of the present study was to investigate both subjective visual vertical (SVV) and subjective haptic vertical (SHV) judgments in the frontal and the sagittal plane in right-brain-damaged patients with visuospatial neglect (n=16), right-brain-damaged patients without neglect (n=18) and age-matched healthy individuals (n=16) using the same testing device for all tasks. This allowed for direct comparisons of visual vs. haptic and frontal vs. sagittal verticality judgments. Neglect patients showed significant counterclockwise tilts in their SVV and SHV judgments in the frontal plane as well as marked backward (upper end of the rod towards the observer) tilts in the sagittal plane. In contrast, right-brain-damaged patients without neglect and healthy individuals showed no marked deviations in the frontal plane, but small forward (upper end of the rod away from the observer) tilts in the sagittal plane. Moreover, neglect patients showed significantly higher unsigned errors in all tasks. These results demonstrate multimodal and multispatial deficits in the judgment of verticality in patients with visuospatial neglect which are most likely due to an altered representation of verticality caused by lesions of brain areas related to multisensory integration and space representation in the right temporo-parietal cortex.
Plasticity in the spinal dorsal horn is thought to underlie the development of neuropathic pain. Calcineurin (protein phosphatase 3) plays an important role in plasticity in the brain. Here we examined whether chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve modifies calcineurin expression in the spinal dorsal horn. Male rats were assigned to control (uninjured), sham-operated or CCI groups. CCI animals exhibited both a shift in weight bearing and a reduction in paw withdrawal latencies as signs of pain behavior. At 3 days (3D) the pain behavior was associated with a significant increase in calcineurin gene expression, enzyme activity and content of its A isoform in the ipsilateral spinal dorsal horn. In contrast, while the pain behavior persisted at 7 days (7D) calcineurin gene expression returned to control levels and activity and protein content decreased. A single intrathecal injection of MK-801 15 min before the ligation attenuated both signs of pain behavior in 3D but not 7D CCI animals. The same pre-treatment also prevented the CCI-associated increases in calcineurin in these animals. These data suggested an involvement of calcineurin in CCI-elicited neuropathic pain. The time-dependent divergent changes in calcineurin expression may underlie the different phases of neuropathic pain development.

Many neurons in the monkey ventral premotor area F5 discharge selectively when the monkey grasps an object with a specific grip. Of these, the motor neurons are active only during grasping execution, whereas the visuomotor neurons also respond to object presentation. Here we assessed whether the activity of 90 task-related F5 neurons recorded from two macaque monkeys during the performance of a visually-guided grasping task can be used as input to pattern recognition algorithms aiming to decode different grips. The features exploited for the decoding were the mean firing rate and the mean interspike interval calculated over different time spans of the movement period (all neurons) or of the object presentation period (visuomotor neurons). A support vector machine (SVM) algorithm was applied to the neural activity recorded while the monkey grasped two sets of objects. The original set contained three objects that were grasped with different hand shapes, plus three others that were grasped with the same grip, whereas the six objects of the special set were grasped with six distinctive hand configurations. The algorithm predicted with accuracy greater than 95% all the distinct grips used to grasp the objects. The classification rate obtained using the first 25% of the movement period was 90%, whereas it was nearly perfect using the entire period. At least 16 neurons were needed for accurate performance, with a progressive increase in accuracy as more neurons were included. Classification errors revealed by confusion matrices were found to reflect similarities of hand grips used to grasp the objects. The use of visuomotor neurons' responses to object presentation yielded grip classification accuracy similar to that obtained from actual grasping execution. We suggest that F5 grasping-related activity might be used by neural prostheses to tailor hand shape to the specific object to be grasped even before movement onset.
The supraoptic nuclei (SON), the hypothalamic release site of vasopressin and oxytocin, receive a non-glutamatergic, excitatory input from the caudal medulla that uses noradrenaline and ATP as neurotransmitters. Here, we studied the actions of extracellular ATP on SON neurons in hypothalamic slices isolated from the brains of 16- to 24-day-old rats. Whole-cell current clamp recordings performed 1-6 h after isolation showed that exogenous ATP application increased the frequency of action potentials and induced the depolarization of resting membranes. Voltage clamp recordings showed that ATP increased the frequency of GABAergic or glutamatergic spontaneous synaptic currents without changing their amplitude and evoked inward current (12613 pA) in about 80% of SON neurons. The application of ATPS and 2MeSATP mimicked the effects of ATP, but 2MeSADP, 2MeSAMP and meATP had no effect. The P2X7 receptor agonist, BzATP, did not induce an inward current, but it increased intracellular calcium concentration in non-neuronal SON cells in slices. Suramin and pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS) inhibited ATP-induced currents, whereas pH 6.5 and ivermectin, a specific allosteric modulator of the P2X4 receptor, potentiated ATP-induced currents. The P2Y1-selective antagonist, 2'-deoxy-N-methyladenosine 3',5'-bisphosphate tetrasodium salt (MRS 2179), had no effect on ATP-induced responses. Quantitative real-time PCR showed that P2X2&gt;P2X7&gt;P2X4 purinergic receptor mRNAs were expressed in the SON tissue, but the levels of P2X1, P2X3, P2X5, P2X6, P2Y1, P2Y2 and P2Y12 mRNA were minor. These results show that SON neurons express functional presynaptic and extrasynaptic P2X2 and P2X4 receptors that modulate glutamate and GABA release and control the electrical excitability of SON neurons.
Since the membrane attack complex (MAC), an end product of the activated complement cascade, has been shown to play a role in neurodegeneration, we investigated to which extent MAC contributes to structural reorganization, neuronal cell death, and seizure development in two rat models for temporal lobe epilepsy. We used the electrically-induced status epilepticus (SE) model and the kindling model in C6-deficient rats (that are unable to form MAC) and wild-type (WT) PVG/c rats. Structural reorganization was investigated using hilar cell counts and mossy fiber sprouting. Seizure development was monitored using electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings. 4 weeks after electrically stimulated SE, hilar cell counts in C6-deficient and WT post-SE rats were significantly decreased compared to an unstimulated control group, but not different between C6-deficient and WT post-SE. Since seizure development was unexpectedly absent in most post-SE rats we assessed epileptogenesis using the kindling rate as main parameter. Kindling development was slightly delayed in C6-deficient rats compared to WT rats. The lack of effect of C6 deficiency on hilar cell death and mossy fiber sprouting after electrically-induced SE or kindling argues against a role of the terminal complement complex in neuronal cell death induced by SE or seizures. A small but significant delay of kindling epileptogenesis suggests a subtle role of MAC in seizure spread. Whether complement components upstream of MAC play a crucial role in neuronal death and/or epileptogenesis needs to be further investigated.
Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) promote axon growth during development and regeneration of the nervous system. Among the four types of FGF receptors (FGFRs), FGFR1 is expressed in adult sensory neurons of dorsal root ganglia (DRG), and overexpression of FGFR1 promotes FGF-2-induced elongative axon growth in vitro. Ligand-induced activation of FGFR1 is followed by endocytosis and lysosomal degradation, which leads to the termination of receptor signaling. We previously reported that the lysosomal inhibitor leupeptin enhances FGF-2-induced elongative axon growth of adult DRG neurons overexpressing FGFR1. To better understand the role of subcellular localization of FGFR1 in axon growth, we analyzed the effects of inhibition of endocytosis of FGFR1 on FGF-2-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 pheochromocytoma cells and adult DRG neurons. The endocytosis inhibitors methyl--cyclodextrin (MCD) and chlorpromazine enhanced surface localization of FGFR1 in PC12 cells and DRG neurons. Furthermore, MCD and chlorpromazine increased FGF-2-induced neurite outgrowth of PC12 cells and axonal branching of adult DRG neurons overexpressing FGFR1, whereas MCD inhibited FGF-2-induced axonal elongation. Analysis of the signaling pathways involved in axon morphology revealed that FGF-2-induced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and Akt was increased by inhibition of FGFR1 endocytosis. Together, our results imply that inhibition of FGFR1 endocytosis by MCD or chlorpromazine promotes FGF-2-induced axonal branching. The results of this study confirm that internalization of FGFR1 controls axon growth and morphology of adult sensory neurons via selective activation of intracellular signaling pathways.
Gliotransmitters such as glutamate and ATP play an essential role in the prevention of the osmotic swelling of retinal glial (Mller) cells. It has been shown that vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) induces a Ca-dependent release of glutamate from the cells [Wurm et al. (2008), J Neurochem 104:386-399]. In the present study, we investigated with cell swelling experiments on freshly isolated retinal glial cells of the rat whether activation of voltage-gated Na (Na(v)) and Ca channels (VGCCs) is implicated in mediating the VEGF-induced release of glutamate. We found that the inhibitory effect of VEGF on the osmotic swelling of retinal glial cells, used as an indicator of glutamate release, is prevented in the presence of selective blockers of T-type VGCCs (kurtoxin, mibefradil, Ni) and Na(v) channels (TTX, saxitoxin, phenytoin). In contrast, the swelling-inhibitory effect of glutamate, that is mediated by a downstream release of ATP, remained unaffected in the presence of the blockers. The cells displayed immunolabeling for VGLUT3, Ca(v)1.2, Ca(v)3.1, and Na(v)1.6. In addition to VEGF, various other receptor agonists including neuropeptide Y, progesterone, erythropoietin, and endothelin-1 evoked a VGCC- and Na(v) channel-dependent release of glutamate. It is concluded that activation of T-type VGCCs and Na(v) channels is implicated in mediating the ligand-induced release of glutamate from retinal glial cells of the rat. The involvement of VLGUTs might suggest that glutamate is released by vesicular exocytosis.
Parkinson's disease is associated with the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and decreased striatal dopamine levels. We now report that caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE), an active component of propolis, attenuated dopaminergic neurodegeneration and dopamine loss in the MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) mouse model of Parkinson's disease. The neuroprotective effect of CAPE was associated with marked reductions in inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and caspase 1 expression. Additionally, CAPE inhibited MPP+-induced neurotoxicity in vitro and directly inhibited MPP+-induced release of cytochrome c and apoptosis inducing factor (AIF) from mitochondria. Thus, CAPE may have beneficial effects in slowing or preventing the progression of Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders.
We previously demonstrated that vitamin D (ergocalciferol) triggers axon regeneration in a rat model of peripheral nerve transection. In order to confirm the regenerative potential of this neuroactive steroid, we performed a study in which vitamin D (cholecalciferol) was delivered at various doses to paralytic rats. After spinal cord compression at the T10 level, rats were given orally either vehicle or vitamin D at the dose of 50 IU/kg/day or 200 IU/kg/day. Three months later, M and H-waves were recorded from rat Tibialis anterior muscle in order to quantify the maximal H-reflex (H(max)) amplitude. We also monitored the ventilatory frequency during an electrically induced muscle fatigue known to elicit the muscle metaboreflex and an increase in respiratory rate. Spinal cords were then collected, fixed and immunostained with an anti-neurofilament antibody. We show here that vitamin D-treated animals display an increased number of axons within the lesion site. In addition, rats supplemented with vitamin D at the dose of 200 IU/kg/day exhibit (i) an improved breathing when hindlimb was electrically stimulated; (ii) an H-reflex depression similar to control animals and (iii) an increased number of axons within the lesion and in the distal area. Our data confirm that vitamin D is a potent molecule that can be used for improving neuromuscular adaptive mechanisms and H-reflex responses.
The objective was to determine the role of nuclear factor kappa B (NFB) in dexamethasone base (DXMb) protection of auditory hair cells from tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF)-induced loss on gene expression and cell signaling levels. Organ of Corti (OC) explants from 3-day-old rats were cultured under one of the following conditions: (1) media only--no treatment; (2) media+TNF; (3) media+TNF+DXMb; (4) media+TNF+DXMb+NFB-Inhibitor (NFB-I); or (5) media+TNF+DXMb+NFBI-Scrambled control (NFBI-C). A total of 60 organ of Corti explants (OC) were stained with FITC-Phalloidin after 96 h in culture (conditions 1-5) for hair cell counts and imaging of surface characteristics. A total of 108 OC were used for gene expression studies (i.e. B-actin, Bax, Bcl-2, Bcl-xl, and TNFR1) after 0, 24, or 48 h in vitro (conditions 1-4). A total of 86 OC were cultured (conditions 1-3) for 48 h, 36 of which were used for phosphorylated NFB (p-NFB) ELISA studies and 50 for whole mount anti-p-NFB immunostain experiments. TNF+DXMb exposed cultures demonstrated significant upregulation in anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 and Bcl-xl genes and downregulation in pro-apoptotic Bax gene expression; DXMb treatment of TNF explants also lowered the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio and inhibited TNFR1 upregulation. After inhibiting NFB activity with NFB-I, the gene expression profile following TNF+DXMb treatment now mimics that of TNF-challenged OC explants. The levels of p-NFB and the degree of nuclear translocation are significantly greater in TNF+DXMb exposed OC explants than observed in the TNF and control groups in the middle+basal turns of OC explants. These findings were supported by the results of the hair cell counts and the imaging results obtained from the whole mount OC specimens. DXMb protects against TNF-induced apoptosis of auditory hair cells in vitro via activation of NFB signaling in hair cell nuclei, and regulation of the expression levels of anti- and pro-apoptotic genes and a pro-inflammatory gene.


We studied the long-term effects of a postnatal choline supplementation (from birth till weaning) in the truncated MeCP2-308 mouse model of Rett syndrome. Adult male mutant hemizygous (hz) mice showed a reduction of locomotor activity compared to wild type (wt) littermates. Early choline treatment restored wt-like locomotor activity levels in hz mice. Reduced striatal choline acetyl transferase (ChAT) activity and decreased levels of cortical mRNA NGF were found in hz mice. Choline supplementation increased striatal ChAT activity and also enhanced NGF and BDNF expression in cortical and hippocampal regions. As a whole, postnatal choline supplementation attenuates some of the behavioural and neurobiological abnormalities of the Mecp2-308 phenotype.
This paper reviews seemingly obligatory relations between nutrient and fluid balance. A relatively novel neuronal pathway involving interplay between acetylcholine and the melanocortins, MSH and AGRP in the arcuate nucleus (Arc) of the hypothalamus projecting to the lateral hypothalamus (LH) may bridge this gap. In the fasted condition, increased expression of MCH (due to muscarinic-3 receptor stimulation and low melanocortin tone) and neuronal release of MCH (via Orexin signaling) underlies a drive towards positive energy balance, increased B cell capacity to secrete insulin, and this is associated with optimal fluid homeostasis. A hypohydrated state is hypothesized to yield downregulation of leptin signaling (potentially via inhibitory effects of osmotic stress on mTOR), but osmotic stress may prevent MCH expression via the OVLT-SFO complex. If this occurs in an obese state, impaired pancreatic B cell capacity and peripheral insulin insensitivity as a result of hypohydration may underlie cardio-metabolic diseases.
Even though &quot;procholinergic&quot; drugs are almost the sole kind of treatments currently used as cognitive enhancers in patients with Alzheimer's disease, the role of acetylcholine (ACh) in learning and memory is still poorly understood. In this short review, we focus on the septo-hippocampal cholinergic system and try to demonstrate that understanding ACh-memory relationships requires taking into account two characteristics of memory function. First, this function is polymorphic and relies on multiple neural systems. It appears that hippocampal ACh may not only modulate specific computational function of the hippocampus but also contributes to the functional coordination of multiple memory systems in a task-dependent manner. Second, memorization implies different phases which are differentially regulated by ACh. Namely, several lines of evidence suggest a &quot;biphasic&quot; involvement with hippocampal ACh facilitating memory encoding but hampering memory consolidation and retrieval, and low hippocampal ACh promoting consolidation of declarative memory. By spotting major determinants of memory modulation by hippocampal ACh, we hope that the present non exhaustive review will help to improve our understanding of the complexity of ACh-memory relationships.
Rat and mouse models are widely used for studies in cognition and pathophysiology, among others. Here, we sought to determine to what extent these two model species differ for cholinergic and cholinoceptive features. For this purpose, we focused on cholinergic innervation patterns based on choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunostaining, and the expression of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) detected immunocytochemically. In this brief review we first place cholinergic and cholinoceptive markers in a historic perspective, and then provide an overview of recent publications on cholinergic studies and techniques to provide a literature survey of current research. Next, we compare mouse (C57Bl/J6) and rat (Wistar) cholinergic and cholinoceptive systems simultaneously stained, respectively, for ChAT (analyzed qualitatively) and mAChRs (analyzed qualitatively and quantitatively). In general, the topographic cholinergic innervation patterns of both rodent species are highly comparable, with only considerable (but region specific) differences in number of detectable cholinergic interneurons, which are more numerous in rat. In contrast, immunolabeling for mAChRs, detected by the monoclonal antibody M35, differs markedly in the forebrain between the two species. In mouse brain, basal levels of activated and/or internalized mAChRs (as a consequence of cholinergic neurotransmission) are significantly higher. This suggests a higher cholinergic tone in mouse than rat, and hence the animal model of choice may have consequences for cholinergic drug testing experiments.
This review provides an overview of the interaction between the mammalian cholinergic system and circadian system, and its possible role in time memory. Several studies made clear that circadian (daily) fluctuations in acetylcholine (ACh) release, cholinergic enzyme activity and cholinergic receptor expression varies remarkably between species and even strains. Apparently, cholinergic features can be flexibly adjusted to the needs of a species or strain. Nevertheless, it can be generalized that circadian rhythmicity in the cholinergic system is characterized by high ACh release during the active phase of an individual. During the active phase, the activity of the ACh synthesizing enzyme Choline Acetyltransferase (ChAT) is enhanced, and the activity of the ACh degrading enzyme Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is reduced. The number of free, unbound and thus available muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) is highest when ACh release is lowest. The cholinergic innervation of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the hypothalamic circadian master clock, arises from the cholinergic forebrain and brain stem nuclei. The density of cholinergic fibers and terminals is modest as compared to other hypothalamic nuclei. This is the case for rat, hamster and mouse, three chronobiological model rodent species studied by us. A new finding is that the rat SCN contains some local cholinergic neurons. Hamster SCN contains less cholinergic neurons, whereas the mouse SCN is devoid of such cells. ACh has an excitatory effect on SCN cells (at least in vivo), and functions in close interaction with other neurotransmitters. Originally it was thought that ACh transferred retinal light information to the SCN. This turned out to be wrong. Thereafter, the phase shifting effects of ACh prompted researches to view ACh as an agent for nocturnal clock resetting. It is still not clear, however, what the function consequence is of SCN cholinergic neurotransmission. Here, we postulate the hypothesis that cholinergic neurotransmission in the SCN provides the brain with a mechanism to support the formation of time memory via 'time stamping'. We define time memory as the memory of a specific time of the day, for which an animal made an association with a certain event and/or location (for example in case of time-place association). We use the term 'time stamping' to refer to the process underlying the encoding of a specific time of day (the time stamp). Only relatively brief but arousing events seem to be time stamped at SCN level. This time stamping requires the engagement of mAChRs. New data suggests that the SCN uses the neuropeptide vasopressin (AVP) as an output system to transfer the specific time of day information to other brain regions such as hippocampus and neocortex where time memory is supposed to be acquired, consolidated and stored. Since time stamping is a cholinergically mediated function of the circadian system, the early disruption of the cholinergic and circadian systems as seen in Alzheimer's disease (AD) may contribute to the cognitive disruption of temporal organization of memory and behavior in these patients.
Historically, ACh has been implicated in learning and short-term memory functions. However, more recent studies have provided support for a role of cortical ACh in attentional effort, orienting and the detection of behavioral significant stimuli. The current review article summarizes studies in animals and humans which have investigated the role of ACh in attention and cognition. An attempt has been made to differentiate between brain regions involved in attentional processes versus those important for other cognitive functions. To this purpose, various experimental methods and interventions were used. Animal behavioral studies have injected the selective immunotoxin IgG-saporin to induce specific cholinergic lesions, employed electrochemical techniques such as microdialysis, or have administered cholinergic compounds into discrete parts of the brain. Human studies that give some indication on the link between central cholinergic signaling and cognition are obviously confined to less invasive, imaging methods such as fMRI. The brain areas that are deemed most important for intact attentional processing in both animals and humans appear to be the (pre)frontal, parietal and somatosensory (especially visual) regions, where ACh plays a vital role in the top-down control of attentional orienting and stimulus discrimination. In contrast, cholinergic signaling in the septohippocampal system is suggested to be involved in memory processes. Thus, it appears that the role of ACh in cognition is different per brain region and between nicotinic versus muscarinic receptor subtypes.
Memantine is a partial NMDA receptor antagonist that has been shown to improve learning and memory in several animal models, and is approved for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Chronic treatments using memantine in animal models of Alzheimer's disease show disease-modifying effects and suggest a potential neuroprotective function. The present study assessed the effects of both short- and long-term memantine treatment in a mouse model of Down syndrome (DS), the Ts65Dn mouse. The Ts65Dn mouse contains a partial trisomy of murine chromosome 16, and exhibits hippocampal-dependent memory deficits, as well as progressive degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BCFNs). Ts65Dn mice were treated with memantine for a period of 6 months, beginning at 4 months of age. At the end of treatment the mice underwent memory testing using novel object recognition and water radial arm maze tasks, and then histologically analyzed for markers of neurodegeneration. Memantine treatment improved spatial and recognition memory performance in the Ts65Dn mice, though not to the level of normosomic littermate controls. Despite these memory improvements, histological analysis found no morphological signs of neuroprotection of basal forebrain cholinergic or locus coeruleus neurons in memantine-treated Ts65Dn mice. However, memantine treatment of Ts65Dn mice gave rise to elevated brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression in the hippocampus and frontal cortex, suggesting a mechanism of behavioral modification. Thus, our findings provide further evidence for memory facilitation of memantine, but suggest pharmacological rather than neuroprotective effects of memantine both after acute and chronic treatment in this mouse model.
Acetylcholine release links the activity of presynaptic neurons with their postsynaptic targets and thus represents the intercellular correlate of cholinergic neurotransmission. Here, we review the regulation and functional significance of acetylcholine release in the mammalian cerebral cortex, with a particular emphasis on information derived from in vivo microdialysis studies over the past three decades. This information is integrated with anatomical and behavioral data to derive conclusions regarding the role of cortical cholinergic transmission in normal behavioral and how its dysregulation may contribute to cognitive correlates of several neuropsychiatric conditions. Some unresolved issues regarding the regulation and significance of cortical acetylcholine release and the promise of new methodology for advancing our knowledge in this area are also briefly discussed.
There is a fundamental link between cholinergic neurotransmitter function and overt and covert actions. Major cholinergic systems include peripheral motor neurons organizing skeletal muscle movements into overt behaviors and cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain and mesopontine regions that mediate covert actions realized as states of consciousness, arousal, selective attention, perception, and memory. Cholinergic interneurons in the striatum appear to integrate conscious and unconscious actions. Neural network models involving cholinergic neurons, as well as neurons using other neurotransmitters, emphasize connective circuitry as being responsible for both motor programs and neural correlates of higher consciousness. This, however, is only a partial description. At a more fundamental level lie intracellular mechanisms involving the cytoskeleton, which are common to both muscle contraction and neuroplastic responses in targets of central cholinergic cells attendant with higher cognition. Acetylcholine, acting through nicotinic receptors, triggers interactions between cytoskeletal proteins in skeletal muscle cells, as has been long known. There is also evidence that acetylcholine released at central sites acts through muscarinic and nicotinic receptors to initiate responses in actin and microtubule proteins. These effects and their implications for cholinergic involvement in higher cognition are explored in this review.


Large-scale neural correlates of auditory selective attention reflected in the electroencephalogram (EEG) have been identified by using the complex wavelet-phase stability measure (WPS). In this paper, we study the feasibility of using this amplitude independent measure, the WPS in extracting the correlates of attention by comparing its performance to the widely used linear interdependency measures, i.e., the wavelet coherence and the correlation coefficient. The outcome reveals that the WPS outperforms the other two measures in discriminating both the attended and unattended single sweep auditory late responses (ALRs). It is concluded that the proposed WPS provides a faster (in terms of less sweeps which are required) and robust objective quantification of selective attention.
Stressful experiences during adolescence can alter the trajectory of neural development and contribute to psychiatric disorders in adulthood. We previously demonstrated that adolescent male rats exposed to repeated social defeat stress show changes in mesocorticolimbic dopamine content both at baseline and in response to amphetamine when tested in adulthood. In the present study we examined whether markers of adult dopamine function are also compromised by adolescent experience of social defeat. Given that the dopamine transporter as well as dopamine D1 receptors act as regulators of psychostimulant action, are stress sensitive and undergo changes during adolescence, quantitative autoradiography was used to measure [(3)H]-GBR12935 binding to the dopamine transporter and [(3)H]-SCH23390 binding to dopamine D1 receptors, respectively. Our results indicate that social defeat during adolescence led to higher dopamine transporter binding in the infralimbic region of the medial prefrontal cortex and higher dopamine D1 receptor binding in the caudate putamen, while other brain regions analyzed were comparable to controls. Thus it appears that social defeat during adolescence causes specific changes to the adult dopamine system, which may contribute to behavioral alterations and increased drug seeking.
The biogenic amine histamine is an important neurotransmitter in the central nervous system that has been implicated in learning and memory processes. Experimental evidence indicates that the role of the cerebellum may be more complex than the simple regulation of motor responses, and recent studies have demonstrated significant involvement of the cerebellum in emotional memory consolidation. This study investigated the effect of histamine microinjected into the cerebellar vermis on emotional memory consolidation in mice in the elevated plus-maze (EPM). The cerebellar vermis of male mice (Swiss Albino) were implanted with guide cannulae. The mice weighed between 25 and 30 g. After three days of recovery, behavioral tests in the EPM were performed on two consecutive days; the testing periods were called, Trial 1 and Trial 2. Immediately after Trial 1, the animals received microinjections of histamine in the cerebellar vermis (0.54, 1.36, 2.72, and 4.07 nmol/0.1 l). On both days, the test sessions were recorded to enable analysis of behavioral measures. The decrease in open arm exploration (% entries and % time spent in the open arms) in Trial 2 relative to Trial 1 was used as a measure of learning and memory. The data were analyzed using One-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and Duncan's tests. The percentage of open arm entries (%OAE) and the percentage of time spent in the open arms (%OAT) were reduced in Trial 2 relative to Trial 1 for the control group; the same was true for the group that was microinjected with histamine at doses of 0.54 (%OAE and %OAT) and 1.36 nmol (%OAT). However, when the animals received histamine at doses of 2.72 and 4.07 nmol, their open arm exploration did not decrease. No significant changes were observed in the number of enclosed arm entries (EAE), an EPM index of general exploratory activity. These results suggest that there is a dose-dependent inhibitory effect of histamine microinjected into the cerebellar vermis on emotional memory consolidation.
Postpartum female rats exhibit a suppression of anxiety-related behaviors when compared to diestrous virgin females, pregnant females, and males. This blunted anxiety promotes optimal maternal care and involves elevated GABA neurotransmission, possibly including greater density of GABA(A) and benzodiazepine receptors in the postpartum brain. We here examined autoradiographic binding of [(3)H]muscimol to measure the total population of GABA(A) receptors and [(3)H]flunitrazepam to assess density of benzodiazepine sites in the medial prefrontal cortex, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, amygdala, hippocampus, and periaqueductal gray of female rats sacrificed on day 7 postpartum, day 10 of pregnancy, or as diestrous virgins. A group of sexually nave male rats was also included. We found that [(3)H]muscimol binding did not differ among groups in any site but that diestrous virgin females had greater [(3)H]flunitrazepam binding in the CA1 and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus compared to mid-pregnant females and males. Notably, postpartum and diestrous virgin females did not significantly differ in binding of either ligand in any site examined. This is the first study to evaluate the densities of GABA(A) and benzodiazepine binding sites simultaneously across three female reproductive states and sex with a focus on brain sites influencing anxiety-related behaviors. The results suggest that changes in other GABA(A) receptor characteristics such as subunit composition, or increased presynaptic GABA release during interactions with offspring, must instead play a greater role in the postpartum suppression of anxiety in laboratory rats.
The calyx of Held synapse of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body functions as a relay synapse in the auditory brainstem. In vivo recordings have shown that this synapse displays low release probability and that the average size of synaptic potentials does not depend on recent history. We used a ventral approach to make in vivo extracellular recordings from the calyx of Held synapse in rats aged postnatal day 4 (P4) to P29 to study the developmental changes that allow this synapse to function as a relay. Between P4 and P8, we observed evidence for the presence of large short-term depression, which was counteracted by short-term facilitation at short intervals. Major changes occurred in the last few days before the onset of hearing for air-borne sounds, which happened at P13. The bursting pattern changed into a primary-like pattern, the amount of depression and facilitation decreased strongly, and the decay of facilitation became much faster. Whereas short-term plasticity was the most important cause of variability in the size of the synaptic potentials in immature animals, its role became minor around hearing onset and afterward. Similar developmental changes were observed during stimulation experiments both in brain slices and in vivo following cochlear ablation. Our data suggest that the strong reduction in release probability and the speedup of the decay of synaptic facilitation that happen just before hearing onset are important events in the transformation of the calyx of Held synapse into an auditory relay synapse.
Kainate receptors (KARs) are widely expressed in the brain and are present at both presynaptic and postsynaptic sites. GluK3-containing KARs are thought to compose presynaptic autoreceptors that facilitate hippocampal mossy fiber synaptic transmission. Here we identify molecular mechanisms that underlie the polarized trafficking of KARs composed of the GluK3b splice variant. Endocytosis followed by degradation is driven by a dileucine motif on the cytoplasmic C-terminal domain of GluK3b in heterologous cells, in cultured hippocampal neurons, and in dentate granule cells from organotypic slice cultures. The internalization of GluK3b is clathrin and dynamin2 dependent. GluK3b is differentially endocytosed in dendrites as compared to the axons. These data suggest that the polarized trafficking of KARs in neurons could be controlled by the regulation of receptor endocytosis.
Noninvasively mapping the layout of cortical areas in humans is a continuing challenge for neuroscience. We present a new method of mapping cortical areas based on myelin content as revealed by T1-weighted (T1w) and T2-weighted (T2w) MRI. The method is generalizable across different 3T scanners and pulse sequences. We use the ratio of T1w/T2w image intensities to eliminate the MR-related image intensity bias and enhance the contrast to noise ratio for myelin. Data from each subject were mapped to the cortical surface and aligned across individuals using surface-based registration. The spatial gradient of the group average myelin map provides an observer-independent measure of sharp transitions in myelin content across the surface--i.e., putative cortical areal borders. We found excellent agreement between the gradients of the myelin maps and the gradients of published probabilistic cytoarchitectonically defined cortical areas that were registered to the same surface-based atlas. For other cortical regions, we used published anatomical and functional information to make putative identifications of dozens of cortical areas or candidate areas. In general, primary and early unimodal association cortices are heavily myelinated and higher, multimodal, association cortices are more lightly myelinated, but there are notable exceptions in the literature that are confirmed by our results. The overall pattern in the myelin maps also has important correlations with the developmental onset of subcortical white matter myelination, evolutionary cortical areal expansion in humans compared with macaques, postnatal cortical expansion in humans, and maps of neuronal density in non-human primates.
We have previously found that healthy aged rats are more likely to suffer profound memory impairments following a severe bacterial infection than are younger adult rats. Such a peripheral challenge is capable of producing a neuroinflammatory response, and in the aged brain this response is exaggerated and prolonged. Normal aging primes, or sensitizes, microglia, and this appears to be the source of this amplified inflammatory response. Among the outcomes of this exaggerated neuroinflammatory response are impairments in synaptic plasticity and reductions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), both of which have been associated with cognitive impairments. Since it has been shown that physical exercise increases BDNF mRNA in the hippocampus, the present study examined voluntary exercise in 24-month-old F344BN rats as a neuroprotective therapeutic in our bacterial infection model. Although aged rats ran only an average of 0.7 km per week, this small amount of exercise was sufficient to completely reverse infection-induced impairments in hippocampus-dependent long-term memory compared with sedentary animals. Strikingly, exercise prevented the infection-induced exaggerated neuroinflammatory response and the blunted BDNF mRNA induction seen in the hippocampus of sedentary rats. Moreover, voluntary exercise abrogated age-related microglial sensitization, suggesting a possible mechanism for exercise-induced neuroprotection in aging.
Synaptic transmission between light-sensory photoreceptor cells and downstream ON-bipolar neurons plays an important role for vertebrate vision. This process is mediated by the G-protein-coupled receptor pathway involving glutamate receptor mGluR6 and effector channel TRPM1. The signal transmission occurs on a rapid timescale; however, the molecular organization that ensures timely signaling in this cascade is unknown. Genetic studies in human patients and animal models reveal that ON-bipolar cell signaling depends on the synaptic protein nyctalopin. We have conducted a proteomic search for proteins associated with nyctalopin in the mouse retina and identified TRPM1 as the binding partner. We further demonstrate that nyctalopin additionally interacts with mGluR6 receptor. Disruption of mGluR6 prevented targeting of TRPM1 to the postsynaptic compartment of ON-bipolar neurons. These results reveal a unique macromolecular organization of the mGluR6 cascade, where principal signaling components are scaffolded by nyctalopin, creating an organization essential for the correct localization of the signaling ensemble and ultimately intact transmission of the signal at the first visual synapse.
Rhythmically active motor circuits can generate different activity patterns in response to different inputs. In most systems, however, it is not known whether the same neurons generate the underlying rhythm for each different pattern. Thus far, information regarding the degree of conservation of rhythm generator neurons is limited to a few pacemaker-driven circuits, in most of which the core rhythm generator is unchanged across different output patterns. We are addressing this issue in the network-driven, gastric mill (chewing) circuit in the crab stomatogastric nervous system. We first establish that distinct gastric mill motor patterns are triggered by separate stimulation of two extrinsic input pathways, the ventral cardiac neurons (VCNs) and postoesophageal commissure (POC) neurons. A prominent feature that distinguishes these gastric mill motor patterns is the LG (lateral gastric) protractor motor neuron activity pattern, which is tonic during the VCN rhythm and exhibits fast rhythmic bursting during the POC rhythm. These two motor patterns also differed in their cycle period and some motor neuron phase relationships, duty cycles, and burst durations. Despite the POC and VCN motor patterns being distinct, rhythm generation during each motor pattern required the activity of the same two, reciprocally inhibitory gastric mill neurons [LG, Int1 (interneuron 1)]. Specifically, reversibly hyperpolarizing LG or Int1, but no other gastric mill neuron, delayed the start of the next gastric mill cycle until after the imposed hyperpolarization. Thus, the same circuit neurons can comprise the core rhythm generator during different versions of a network-driven rhythmic motor pattern.

Cell division orientation during animal development can serve to correctly organize and shape tissues, create cellular diversity or both. The underlying cellular mechanism is regulated spindle orientation. Depending on the developmental context, extrinsic signals or intrinsic cues control the correct orientation of the mitotic spindle. Cell geometry has been known to be another determinant of spindle orientation and recent results have shed new lighton the link between cellular shape and cell division orientation. The importance of controlling spindle orientation is manifested in neurodevelopmental defects such asmicrocephaly, tumor initiation as well as defects in tissue architecture and cell fate misspecification. Here, we summarize the role of oriented cell division during animal development and also outline the cellular and molecular mechanisms in selected invertebrate and vertebrate systems.
A recent study has found that activity in multisensory brain areas, namely the premotor cortex, intraparietal cortex and the putamen, mirrors the vividness ofownership over a mannequin, induced by the body-swap illusion.

Tissue plasminogen activator is the only treatment option for stroke victims; however, it has to be administered within 4.5 h after symptom onset, making its use very limited. This report describes a unique target for effective treatment of stroke, even 12 h after onset, by the administration of B-crystallin (Cryab), an endogenous immunomodulatory neuroprotectant. In Cryab(-/-) mice, there was increased lesion size and diminished neurologic function after stroke compared with wild-type mice. Increased plasma Cryab was detected after experimental stroke in mice and after stroke in human patients. Administration of Cryab even 12 h after experimental stroke reduced both stroke volume and inflammatory cytokines associated with stroke pathology. Cryab is an endogenous anti-inflammatory and neuroprotectant molecule produced after stroke, whose beneficial properties can be augmented when administered therapeutically after stroke.
Chemical communication is fundamental to sexual reproduction, but how sperm search for and find an egg remains enigmatic. For red abalone (Haliotis rufescens), a large marine snail, the relationship between chemical signaling and fluid motion largely determines fertilization success. Egg-derived attractant plumes are dynamic, changing their size and shape in response to unique combinations of physical and chemical environmental features. Attractant plumes that promote sexual reproduction, however, are limited to a precise set of hydrodynamic conditions. Performance-maximizing shears are those that most closely match flows in native spawning habitats. Under conditions in which reproductive success is chronically limited by sperm availability, gametes are under selection for mechanisms that increase sperm-egg encounter. Here, chemoattraction is found to provide a cheap evolutionary alternative for enhancing egg target size without enlarging cytoplasmic and/or cell volume. Because egg signaling and sperm response may be tuned to meet specific fluid-dynamic constraints, shear could act as a critical selective pressure that drives gamete evolution and determines fitness.
Visual and proprioceptive sensory inputs are naturally coded in different reference frames, i.e., eye-centered and body-centered, respectively. To use these signals in conjunction for motor planning or perception ultimately requires converting them into a common frame of reference using estimates of the relative orientation of the eyes, head, and body. Here, we examine whether extraretinal signals-specifically head roll-alter multisensory perception through noisy reference frame transformations. To do so, we examine the accuracy of visual localization relative to proprioceptive hand position for different head roll orientations. Subjects were required to judge whether a visual target was located closer or further and left or right (4-alternative forced-choice task) from their unseen hand. This was done for three different head roll rotations (-30, 0, and 30 deg). We show that eccentric head roll increased the variability in the subjects' ability to discriminate target location relative to the fingertip. We conclude that sensory perception is sensitive to body-geometry-dependent noise affecting the coordinate matching transformations of sensory data.

The subjective sense of space may result in part from the combined activity of place cells in the hippocampus and grid cells in posterior cortical regions such as the entorhinal cortex and pre- and parasubiculum. In horizontal planar environments, place cells provide focal positional information, whereas grid cells supply odometric (distance measuring) information. How these cells operate in three dimensions is unknown, even though the real world is three-dimensional. We investigated this issue in rats exploring two different kinds of apparatus: a climbing wall (the 'pegboard') and a helix. Place and grid cell firing fields had normal horizontal characteristics but were elongated vertically, with grid fields forming stripes. It seems that grid cell odometry (and by implication path integration) is impaired or absent in the vertical domain, at least when the rat itself remains horizontal. These findings suggest that the mammalian encoding of three-dimensional space is anisotropic.
Hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons have frequently been regarded as a homogeneous cell population in biophysical, pharmacological and modeling studies. We found robust differences between pyramidal neurons residing in the deep and superficial CA1 sublayers in rats. Compared with their superficial peers, deep pyramidal cells fired at higher rates, burst more frequently, were more likely to have place fields and were more strongly modulated by slow oscillations of sleep. Both deep and superficial pyramidal cells fired preferentially at the trough of theta oscillations during maze exploration, whereas deep pyramidal cells shifted their preferred phase of firing to the peak of theta during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. Furthermore, although the majority of REM theta phase-shifting cells fired at the ascending phase of gamma oscillations during waking, nonshifting cells preferred the trough. Thus, CA1 pyramidal cells in adjacent sublayers can address their targets jointly or differentially, depending on brain states.
The neurotrophins NGF and NT3 collaborate to support development of sympathetic neurons. Although both promote axonal extension via the TrkA receptor, only NGF activates retrograde transport of TrkA endosomes to support neuronal survival. Here, we report that actin depolymerization is essential for initiation of NGF/TrkA endosome trafficking and thata Rac1-cofilin signaling module associated with TrkA early endosomes supports their maturation to retrograde transport-competent endosomes. These actin-regulatory endosomal components are absent from NT3/TrkA endosomes, explaining the failure of NT3 to support retrograde TrkA transport and survival. The inability of NT3 to activate Rac1-GTP-cofilin signaling is likely due to the labile nature of NT3/TrkA complexes within the acidic environment of TrkA early endosomes. Thus, TrkA endosomes associate with actin-modulatory proteins to promote F-actin disassembly, enabling their maturation into transport-competent signaling endosomes. Differential control of this process explains how NGF but not NT3 supports retrograde survival of sympathetic neurons.
Notch is a transmembrane receptor that controls a diverse array of cellular processes including cell proliferation, differentiation, survival, and migration. The cellular outcome of Notch signaling is dependent on extracellular and intracellular signals, but the complexities of its regulation are not well understood. Canonical Notch signaling involves ligand association that triggers sequential and regulated proteolysis of Notch at several sites. Ligand-dependent proteolysis at the S2 site removes the bulk of the extracellular domain of Notch. Subsequent -secretase-mediated intramembrane proteolysis of the remaining membrane-tethered Notch fragment at the S3 site produces a nuclear-destined Notch intracellular domain (NICD). Here we show that following -secretase cleavage, Notch is proteolyzed at a novel S5 site. We have identified this S5 site to be eight amino acids downstream of the S3 site. Biochemical fractionation and purification resulted in the identification of the S5 site protease as the mitochondrial intermediate peptidase (MIPEP). Expression of the MIPEP-cleaved NICD (NICD) results in a decrease in cell viability and mitochondria membrane potential. The sequential and regulated proteolysis by -secretase and MIPEP suggests a new means by which Notch function can be modulated.
Amyloid  (A) is generated from the copper- and heparan sulfate (HS)-binding amyloid precursor protein (APP) by proteolytic processing. APP supports S-nitrosylation of the HS proteoglycan glypican-1 (Gpc-1). In the presence of ascorbate, there is NO-catalyzed release of anhydromannose (anMan)-containing oligosaccharides from Gpc-1-nitrosothiol. We investigated whether these oligosaccharides interact with A during APP processing and plaque formation. anMan immunoreactivity was detected in amyloid plaques of Alzheimer (AD) and APP transgenic (Tg2576) mouse brains by immunofluorescence microscopy. APP/APP degradation products detected by antibodies to the C terminus of APP, but not A oligomers detected by the anti-A A11 antibody, colocalized with anMan immunoreactivity in Tg2576 fibroblasts. A 50-55-kDa anionic, sodium dodecyl sulfate-stable, anMan- and A-immunoreactive species was obtained from Tg2576 fibroblasts using immunoprecipitation with anti-APP (C terminus). anMan-containing HS oligo- and disaccharide preparations modulated or suppressed A11 immunoreactivity and oligomerization of A42 peptide in an in vitro assay. A11 immunoreactivity increased in Tg2576 fibroblasts when Gpc-1 autoprocessing was inhibited by 3-[2(diethylamino)ethoxy]androst-5-en-17-one (U18666A) and decreased when Gpc-1 autoprocessing was stimulated by ascorbate. Neither overexpression of Gpc-1 in Tg2576 fibroblasts nor addition of copper ion and NO donor to hippocampal slices from 3xTg-AD mice affected A11 immunoreactivity levels. However, A11 immunoreactivity was greatly suppressed by the subsequent addition of ascorbate. We speculate that temporary interaction between the A domain and small, anMan-containing oligosaccharides may preclude formation of toxic A oligomers. A portion of the oligosaccharides are co-secreted with the A peptides and deposited in plaques. These results support the notion that an inadequate supply of vitamin C could contribute to late onset AD in humans.
Innate immune responses are regulated by microorganisms and cell death, as well as by a third class of stress signal from the nervous and endocrine systems. The innate immune system also feeds back, through the production of cytokines, to regulate the function of the central nervous system (CNS), and this has effects on behaviour. These signals provide an extrinsic regulatory circuit that links physiological, social and environmental conditions, as perceived by the CNS, with transcriptional 'decision-making' in leukocytes. CNS-mediated regulation of innate immune responses optimizes total organism fitness and provides new opportunities for therapeutic control of chronic infectious, inflammatory and neuropsychiatric diseases.




The quiver/sleepless (qvr/sss) gene encodes a small, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein that plays a critical role in the regulation of sleep in Drosophila. Loss-of-function mutations in qvr/sss severely suppress sleep and effect multiple changes in in situ Shaker K(+) currents, including decreased magnitude, slower time-to-peak, and cumulative inactivation. Recently, we demonstrated that SLEEPLESS (SSS) protein modulates Shaker channel activity, possibly through a direct interaction at the plasma membrane. We show here that SSS accelerates the activation of heterologously expressed Shaker channels with no effect on deactivation or fast N-type inactivation. Furthermore, this SSS-induced acceleration is sensitive to the pharmacological disruption of lipid rafts and sufficiently accounts for the slower time-to-peak of in situ Shaker currents seen in qvr/sss mutants. We also find that SSS decreases the rate of C-type inactivation of heterologously expressed Shaker channels, providing a potential mechanism for the cumulative inactivation phenotype induced by qvr/sss loss-of-function mutations. Kinetic modeling based on the in vitro results suggests that the SSS-dependent regulation of channel kinetics accounts for nearly 40% of the decrease in Shaker current magnitude in flies lacking SSS. Sleep duration in qvr/sss-null mutants is restored to normal by a qvr/sss transgene that fully rescues the Shaker kinetic phenotypes but only partially rescues the decrease in current magnitude. Together, these results suggest that the role of SSS in the regulation of sleep in Drosophila correlates more strongly with the effects of SSS on Shaker kinetics than current magnitude.
In response to illness, animals subvert normal homeostasis and divert their energy utilization to fight infection. An important and unexplored feature of this response is the suppression of physical activity and foraging behavior in the setting of negative energy balance. Inflammatory signaling in the hypothalamus mediates the febrile and anorectic responses to disease, but the mechanism by which locomotor activity (LMA) is suppressed has not been described. Lateral hypothalamic orexin (Ox) neurons link energy status with LMA, and deficiencies in Ox signaling lead to hypoactivity and hypophagia. In the present work, we examine the effect of endotoxin-induced inflammation on Ox neuron biology and LMA in rats. Our results demonstrate a vital role for diminished Ox signaling in mediating inflammation-induced lethargy. This work defines a specific population of inflammation-sensitive, arousal-associated Ox neurons and identifies a proximal neural target for inflammatory signaling to Ox neurons, while eliminating several others.
Ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs), including the NMDA receptor subtype, are ligand-gated ion channels critical to fast signaling in the CNS. NMDA receptors are obligate heterotetramers composed of two GluN1 and typically two GluN2 subunits. However, the arrangement of GluN subunits in functional receptors-whether like subunits are adjacent to (N1/N1/N2/N2) or diagonal to (N1/N2/N1/N2) one another-remains unclear. Recently, a crystal structure of a homomeric AMPA receptor revealed that the four identical subunits adopt two distinct and subunit-specific conformations termed A/C and B/D with subunits of like conformations (e.g., A/C) diagonal to one another. In the structure, the two conformers were notable at the level of the linkers (S1-M1, M3-S2, and S2-M4) that join the ligand-binding domain to the transmembrane ion channel with the M3-S2 linker positioned more proximal to the central axis of the channel pore in the A/C conformation and S2-M4 more proximal in the B/D conformation. Using immunoblots and functional assays, we show that introduced cysteines in the M3/M3-S2 linker of GluN1, but not GluN2, show dimer formation and oxidation-induced changes in current amplitudes predictive of the A/C conformation. Conversely, introduced cysteines in the S2-M4 linker of GluN2, but not GluN1, showed similar functional effects, suggesting that the GluN2 subunit adopts the B/D conformation. Thus, we show that NMDA receptors, like AMPA receptors, possess distinct subunit-specific conformations with GluN1 approximating the A/C and GluN2 the B/D conformation. GluN subunits are therefore positioned in a N1/N2/N1/N2 arrangement in functional NMDA receptors.
We used high-resolution fluorescence imaging and single-pixel optical fluctuation analysis to estimate the opening probability of individual voltage-gated calcium (Ca(2+)) channels during an action potential and the number of such Ca(2+) channels within active zones of frog neuromuscular junctions. Analysis revealed 36 Ca(2+) channels within each active zone, similar to the number of docked synaptic vesicles but far less than the total number of transmembrane particles reported based on freeze-fracture analysis (200-250). The probability that each channel opened during an action potential was only 0.2. These results suggest why each active zone averages only one quantal release event during every other action potential, despite a substantial number of docked vesicles. With sparse Ca(2+) channels and low opening probability, triggering of fusion for each vesicle is primarily controlled by Ca(2+) influx through individual Ca(2+) channels. In contrast, the entire synapse is highly reliable because it contains hundreds of active zones.
Strong experimental evidence implicates the corticospinal tract in voluntary control of the contralateral forelimb. Its potential role in controlling the ipsilateral forelimb is less well understood, although anatomical projections to ipsilateral spinal circuits are identified. We investigated inputs to motoneurons innervating hand and forearm muscles from the ipsilateral corticospinal tract using multiple methods. Intracellular recordings from 62 motoneurons in three anesthetized monkeys revealed no monosynaptic and only one weak oligosynaptic EPSP after stimulation of the ipsilateral corticospinal tract. Single stimulus intracortical microstimulation of the primary motor cortex (M1) in awake animals failed to produce any responses in ipsilateral muscles. Strong stimulation (&gt;500 A, single stimulus) of the majority of corticospinal axons at the medullary pyramids revealed only weak suppressions in ipsilateral muscles at longer latencies than the robust facilitations seen contralaterally. Spike-triggered averaging of ipsilateral muscle activity from M1 neural discharge (184 cells) did not reveal any postspike effects consistent with monosynaptic corticomotoneuronal connections. We also examined the activity of 191 M1 neurons during ipsilateral or contralateral &quot;reach to precision grip&quot; movements. Many cells (67%) modulated their activity during ipsilateral limb movement trials (compared with 90% with contralateral trials), but the timing of this activity was best correlated with weak muscle activity in the contralateral nonmoving arm. We conclude that, in normal adults, any inputs to forelimb motoneurons from the ipsilateral corticospinal tract are weak and indirect and that modulation of M1 cell firing seems to be related primarily to control of the contralateral limb.




The medial prefrontal cortex is important for normal regulation of stress responses, and is implicated in stress-related affective disease states (e.g. depression). In the current study, we investigated the role of the prelimbic division of the prefrontal cortex in control of responses to psychogenic and systemic stressors (restraint and hypoxia, respectively). Acute stimulation of the prelimbic cortical region with bicuculline methiodide (BMI) caused significant reduction of ACTH and corticosterone responses to restraint and reduced Fos activation of paraventricular nucleus neurons, consistent with a role in central inhibition of acute psychogenic stress responses. In contrast, BMI enhanced corticosterone (but not ACTH) responses to hypoxia via a mechanism suggestive of central PVN drive and enhanced adrenal sensitivity. Acute BMI increased restraint stress-induced Fos activation in known downstream targets of the prelimbic cortex (e.g., the basolateral amygdala and central amygdaloid nuclei), suggesting a connection between modulation of amygdalar signaling and stress inhibition. In contrast, hypoxia caused robust Fos activation in the basolateral and central amygdala, which was not affected by prelimbic BMI injection. The data suggest that the prelimbic cortex stimulation is sufficient to trigger inhibition of the HPA axis to psychogenic stress, but may play a very different role in enhancing HPA responsiveness to physical threats.
Exposure to acute stress has been shown to increase the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines in brain, blood and peripheral organs. However, the nature of the inflammatory response evoked by acute stress varies depending on the stressor used and species examined. The goal of the following series of studies was to characterize the consequences of social defeat in the Sprague Dawley (SD) rat using three different social defeat paradigms. In Experiments 1 and 2, adult male SD rats were exposed to a typical acute resident-intruder paradigm of social defeat (60 min) by placement into the home cage of a larger, aggressive Long Evans rat and brain tissue was collected at multiple time points for analysis of IL-1 protein and gene expression changes in the PVN, BNST and adrenal glands. In subsequent experiments, rats were exposed to once daily social defeat for 7 or 21 days (Experiment 3) or housed continuously with an aggressive partner (separated by a partition) for 7 days (Experiment 4) to assess the impact of chronic social stress on inflammatory measures. Despite the fact that social defeat produced a comparable corticosterone response as other stressors (restraint, forced swim and footshock; Experiment 5), acute social defeat did not affect inflammatory measures. A small but reliable increase in IL-1 gene expression was observed immediately after the 7th exposure to social defeat, while other inflammatory measures were unaffected. In contrast, restraint, forced swim and footshock all significantly increased IL-1 gene expression in the PVN; other inflammatory factors (IL-6, cox-2) were unaffected in this structure. These findings provide a comprehensive evaluation of stress-dependent inflammatory changes in the SD rat, raising intriguing questions regarding the features of the stress challenge that may be predictive of stress-dependent neuroinflammation.
Hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activation in response to infection is an important mechanism by which the nervous system can suppress inflammation. HPA output is controlled by the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Previously, we determined that noradrenergic inputs to the PVN contribute to, but do not entirely account for, the ability of bacterial endotoxin (i.e., lipopolysacharide, LPS) to activate the HPA axis. The present study investigated LPS-induced recruitment of neural inputs to the ventrolateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (vlBNST). GABAergic projections from the vlBNST inhibit PVN neurons at the apex of the HPA axis; thus, we hypothesize that LPS treatment activates inhibitory inputs to the vlBNST to thereby &quot;disinhibit&quot; the PVN and increase HPA output. To test this hypothesis, retrograde neural tracer was iontophoretically delivered into the vlBNST of adult male rats to retrogradely label central sources of axonal input. After one week, rats were injected i.p. with either LPS (200 g/kg BW) or saline vehicle, and then perfused with fixative 2.5h later. Brains were processed for immunohistochemical localization of retrograde tracer and the immediate-early gene product, Fos (a marker of neural activation). Brain regions that provide inhibitory input to the vlBNST (e.g., caudal nucleus of the solitary tract, central amygdala, dorsolateral BNST) were preferentially activated by LPS, whereas sources of excitatory input (e.g., paraventricular thalamus, medial prefrontal cortex) were not activated or were activated less robustly. These results suggest that LPS treatment recruits central neural systems that actively suppress vlBNST neural activity, thereby removing a potent source of inhibitory control over the HPA axis.
Increased stress responsiveness is implicated in the etiology of mood and anxiety disorders, including depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. Additionally, stress-related affective disorders have a higher incidence in women than men. Chronic stress in rodents produces numerous neuromorphological changes in a variety of limbic brain regions. Here, we examined the sex-dependent differences in presynaptic innervation of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), prefrontal cortex (PFC), bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST), and amygdala in response to chronic variable stress (CVS). Following 14 days of CVS, the presynaptic protein synaptophysin was assessed in male and female rats. Our results demonstrate that synaptophysin staining density was higher in females than males in all brain areas evaluated, indicating sex differences in the organization of presynaptic innervation. After CVS, the PVN, principal nucleus of the BST (BSTpr), and basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) displayed significantly reduced synaptophysin density in females but not males. Furthermore, males showed an increase in synaptophysin in the PVN after CVS, suggesting a sex difference in the modulation of presynaptic inputs to the PVN following chronic stress. Overall, these data suggest marked sex differences in PVN, BSTpr, and BLA presynaptic innervation as a consequence of chronic stress, which may be associated with differential stress responsivity and perhaps susceptibility to pathologies in males and females.
Chronic stress is a vulnerability factor for a number of psychiatric disorders, including anxiety and affective disorders. Social defeat in rats has proven to be a useful paradigm to investigate the neural mechanisms underlying physiologic and behavioral adaptation to acute and chronic stress. Previous studies suggest that serotonergic systems may contribute to the physiologic and behavioral adaptation to chronic stress, including social defeat in rodent models. In order to test the hypothesis that repeated social defeat alters the emotional behavior and the excitability of brainstem serotonergic systems implicated in control of emotional behavior, we exposed adult male rats either to home cage control conditions, acute social defeat, or social defeat followed 24h later by a second social defeat encounter. We then assessed behavioral responses during social defeat as well as the excitability of serotonergic neurons within the dorsal raphe nucleus using immunohistochemical staining of tryptophan hydroxylase, a marker of serotonergic neurons, and the protein product of the immediate-early gene, c-fos. Repeated social defeat resulted in a shift away from proactive emotional coping behaviors, such as rearing (explorative escape behavior), and toward reactive emotional coping behaviors such as freezing. Both acute and repeated defeat led to widespread increases in c-Fos expression in serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus. Changes in behavior following a second exposure to social defeat, relative to acute defeat, were associated with decreased c-Fos expression in serotonergic neurons within the dorsal and ventral parts of the mid-rostrocaudal dorsal raphe nucleus, regions that have been implicated in 1) serotonergic modulation of fear- and anxiety-related behavior and 2) defensive behavior in conspecific aggressive encounters, respectively. These data support the hypothesis that serotonergic systems play a role in physiologic and behavioral responses to both acute and repeated social defeat.
Exposure to stress can result in an increased risk for psychiatric disorders, especially among genetically predisposed individuals. Neuregulin 1 (NRG1) is a susceptibility gene for schizophrenia and is also associated with psychotic bipolar disorder. In the rat, the neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus show strong expression of Nrg1 mRNA. In patients with schizophrenia, a single nucleotide polymorphism in the 5' region of NRG1 interacts with psychosocial stress to affect reactivity to expressed emotion. However, there is virtually no information on the role of NRG1 in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis function, and whether the protein is expressed in the paraventricular nucleus is unknown. The present studies utilize a unique line of Nrg1 hypomorphic rats (Nrg1(Tn)) generated by gene trapping with the Sleeping Beauty transposon. We first established that the Nrg1(Tn) rats displayed reduced expression of both the mRNA and protein corresponding to the Type II NRG1 isoform. After confirming, using wild type animals, that Type II NRG1 is expressed in the neurocircuitry involved in regulating hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses to environmental stimuli, the Nrg1(Tn) rats were then used to test the hypothesis that altered expression of Type II NRG1 disrupts stress regulation and reactivity. In support of this hypothesis, Nrg1(Tn) rats have disrupted basal and acute stress recovery corticosterone secretion, differential changes in expression of glucocorticoid receptors in the pituitary, paraventricular nucleus and hippocampus, and a failure to habituate to an open field. Together, these findings point to NRG1 as a potential novel regulator of neuroendocrine responses to stress as well as behavioral reactivity.
Epidemiological studies estimate that greater than 60% of the adult US population may be categorized as either overweight or obese and there is a growing appreciation that obesity affects the functional integrity of the central nervous system (CNS). We recently developed a lentivirus (LV) vector that produces an insulin receptor (IR) antisense RNA sequence (IRAS) that when injected into the hypothalamus selectively decreases IR signaling in hypothalamus, resulting in increased body weight, peripheral adiposity and plasma leptin levels. To test the hypothesis that this obesity/hyperleptinemic phenotype would impair hippocampal synaptic transmission, we examined short term potentiation (STP) and long term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus of rats that received the LV-IRAS construct or the LV-Control construct in the hypothalamus (hypo-IRAS and hypo-Con, respectively). Stimulation of the Schaffer collaterals elicits STP that develops into LTP in the CA1 region of hypo-Con rats; conversely, hypo-IRAS rats exhibit STP that fails to develop into LTP. To more closely examine the potential role of hyperleptinemia in these electrophysiological deficits, hypo-IRAS were subjected to mild food restriction paradigms that would either: 1) prevent the development of the obesity phenotype; or 2) reverse an established obesity phenotype in hypo-IRAS rats. Both of these paradigms restored LTP in the CA1 region and reversed the decreases in the phosphorylated/total ratio of GluA1 Ser845 AMPA receptor subunit expression observed in the hippocampus of hypo-IRAS rats. Collectively, these data support the hypothesis that obesity impairs hippocampal synaptic transmission and support the hypothesis that these deficits are mediated through the impairment of hippocampal leptin activity.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a gaseous neurotransmitter that plays an important role in the regulation of sexual behavior in rodents. NO is produced, within the central nervous system, by the enzyme neural NO synthase (nNOS) whose expression is influenced by gonadal hormones. In previous studies, we demonstrated that part of the nitrergic hypothalamic and limbic system is influenced, in physiological conditions, by the hormonal fluctuations during the estrous cycle, but we were unable to distinguish among the role played by progesterone (P) or estradiol (E(2)) in inducing these changes. In the present study, we investigated the effects of E(2) and P (alone or together) on the nitrergic system of gonadectomized female mice, following a timing of administration that emulates the different phases of estrous cycle. In parallel, we tested the influence of the two hormones on sexual behavior, confirming that P works in synergistic fashion with E(2) to facilitate female receptivity. The quantitative analysis of nNOS-ir system demonstrated a statistically significant variation in the number of positive cells only in those part of the limbic-hypothalamic nitrergic system that are affected in cycling females, i.e. the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the arcuate nucleus and the medial preoptic area, with the highest number of positive neurons observed in E(2)+P group. The variable effects of E(2) and P may depend on the different distribution of their receptors within the analyzed nuclei, but the relationships among variations of estrogen and progesterone levels and in vivo modulation of nNOS expression remain unknown and needed further investigations.
This study was performed to understand the anatomical substrates for Klliker-Fuse nucleus (KFN) modulation of respiratory-related tongue movement. After application of cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) to the medial branch of the hypoglossal nerve (HGn) and injection of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into the KFN ipsilaterally, an overlapping distribution of BDA-labeled axon terminals and CTb-labeled neurons was found in the ventral compartment of the hypoglossal nucleus (HGN) ipsilateral to the application and injection sites. At the electron microscopic level, the BDA-labeled terminals made asymmetrical synaptic contacts predominantly with dendrites of the HGN neurons, some of which were labeled with CTb. Using retrograde tracing combined with in situ hybridization, we demonstrated that almost all the KFN neurons sending their axons to the HGN were positive for vesicular glutamate transporter (VGLUT) 2 mRNA but not glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 mRNA. Using a combination of anterograde and retrograde tracing techniques and immunohistochemistry for VGLUT2, we further demonstrated that the KFN axon terminals with VGLUT2 immunoreactivity established close contact with the HGN motoneurons whose axons constitute the medial branch of the HGn. The present results suggest that glutamatergic KFN fibers may exert excitatory influence upon the HGN motoneurons sending their axons to the medial branch of the HGn for the control of protruder tongue muscles contraction to maintain airway patency during respiration.
Astrocytic plaques (APs) and tuft-shaped astrocytes (TAs) are frequently found in the brains of patients with corticobasal degeneration or progressive supranuclear palsy and are considered histopathological markers of these clinicopathological entities. Possible involvement of blood vessels in these lesions, occasionally found in routine histological examination, was estimated by observing thick sections (50-100 m). The relative distance between the center of each AP/TA to the nearest blood vessel was lesser than that between the nearest blood vessel and control random reference points, and this finding confirmed that APs/TAs are formed in close proximity to blood vessels. Furthermore, three-dimensional reconstruction of sections double-immunolabeled for phosphorylated tau (AT8) and blood vessels (von Willebrand factor) showed the smaller diameter of TAs (meanSD, 31.35.2 m; n=15) and closer contact of their AT8-positive processes to blood vessels, representing proximal accumulation of phosphorylated tau in TAs. This is in contrast with larger APs (88.515.2m, n=63), in which AT8-positive processes rarely have vascular contact. Even though the endfeet of astrocytes come into close contact with blood vessels, tau deposition, observed in both TAs and APs, was always oriented around the blood vessel, implying that these apparently distinct lesions (APs/TAs) share a common mechanism for tau deposition that is oriented around the blood vessel.
Eukaryotic genomes contain a large amount of DNA repeats (also known as repetitive DNA, repetitive elements, and repetitive sequences). Here, I propose a role of repetitive DNA in the formation of higher-order structures of chromosomes. The central idea of this theory is that chromatin regions with repetitive sequences pair with regions harboring homologous repeats and that such somatic repeat pairing (RP) assembles repetitive DNA chromatin into compact chromosomal domains that specify chromatin folding in a site-directed manner. According to this theory, DNA repeats are not randomly distributed in the genome. Instead, they form a core framework that coordinates the architecture of chromosomes. In contrast to the viewpoint that DNA repeats are genomic 'junk', this theory advocates that repetitive sequences are chromatin organizer modules that determine chromatin-chromatin contact points within chromosomes. This novel concept, if correct, would suggest that DNA repeats in the linear genome encode a blueprint for higher-order chromosomal organization.

Cigarette smoke is a major risk factor for a number of diseases including lung cancer and respiratory infections. Paradoxically, it also contains nicotine, an anti-inflammatory alkaloid. There is increasing evidence that smokers have a lower incidence of some inflammatory diseases, including ulcerative colitis, and the protective effect involves the activation of a cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway that requires the 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (7nAChR) on immune cells. Obesity is characterized by chronic low-grade inflammation, which contributes to insulin resistance. Nicotine significantly improves glucose homeostasis and insulin sensitivity in genetically obese and diet-induced obese mice, which is associated with suppressed adipose tissue inflammation. Inflammation that results in disruption of the epithelial barrier is a hallmark of inflammatory bowel disease, and nicotine is protective in ulcerative colitis. This article summarizes current evidence for the anti-inflammatory effects of nicotine in obesity and ulcerative colitis. Selective agonists for the 7nAChR could represent a promising pharmacological strategy for the treatment of inflammation in obesity and ulcerative colitis. Nevertheless, we should keep in mind that the anti-inflammatory effects of nicotine could be mediated via the expression of several nAChRs on a particular target cell.
Performance on any perceptual task depends on both the perceptual capacity and the decision strategy of the subject. We provide a model to fit both aspects and apply it to data from rats performing a detection task. When rats must detect a faint visual target, the presence of other nearby stimuli (&quot;flankers&quot;) increases the difficulty of the task. In this study, we consider two specific factors. First, flankers could diminish the sensory response to the target via spatial contrast normalization in early visual processing. Second, rats may treat the sensory signal caused by the flankers as if it belonged to the target. We call this source confusion, which may be sensory, cognitive, or both. We account for contrast normalization and source confusion by fitting model parameters to the likelihood of the observed behavioral data. We test multiple combinations of target and flanker contrasts using a yes/no detection task. Contrast normalization was crucial to explain the rats' flanker-induced detection impairment. By adding a decision variable to the contrast normalization framework, our model provides a new tool to assess differences in visual or cognitive brain function between normal and abnormal rodents.
Whereas many studies on mate choice have measured the relative attractiveness of acoustic sexual signals, there is little understanding of another critical process: grouping and assigning the signals to their sources. For female tngara frogs, assigning the distinct components of male calls to the correct source is a challenge because males sing in aggregations, producing overlapping calls that lead to perceptual errors analogous to those of the 'cocktail party problem'. Here we show that for presentation of &gt;2 call components, however, subjects are more likely to group the two components with the smallest relative differences in call parameters, including relative spatial separation (a primitive acoustic cue) and relative similarity to the species-specific call sequence (a schema-based cue). Thus, like humans, the cognitive rules for the perception of auditory groups amidst multiple sound sources include the use of relative comparisons, a flexible strategy for dynamic acoustic environments.




Mutations in PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1), a mitochondrial Ser/Thr kinase, cause an autosomal recessive form of Parkinson's disease (PD), PARK6. To investigate the mechanism of PINK1 pathogenesis, we used the Drosophila Pink1 knockout (KO) model. In mitochondria isolated from Pink1-KO flies, mitochondrial respiration driven by the electron transport chain (ETC) is significantly reduced. This reduction is the result of a decrease in ETC complex I and IV enzymatic activity. As a consequence, Pink1-KO flies also display a reduced mitochondrial ATP synthesis. Because mitochondrial dynamics is important for mitochondrial function and Pink1-KO flies have defects in mitochondrial fission, we explored whether fission machinery deficits underlie the bioenergetic defect in Pink1-KO flies. We found that the bioenergetic defects in the Pink1-KO can be ameliorated by expression of Drp1, a key molecule in mitochondrial fission. Further investigation of the ETC complex integrity in wild type, Pink1-KO, PInk1-KO/Drp1 transgenic, or Drp1 transgenic flies indicates that the reduced ETC complex activity is likely derived from a defect in the ETC complex assembly, which can be partially rescued by increasing mitochondrial fission. Taken together, these results suggest a unique pathogenic mechanism of PINK1 PD: The loss of PINK1 impairs mitochondrial fission, which causes defective assembly of the ETC complexes, leading to abnormal bioenergetics.
Understanding and improving the predictive skill of imperfect models for complex systems in their response to external forcing is a crucial issue in diverse applications such as for example climate change science. Equilibrium statistical fidelity of the imperfect model on suitable coarse-grained variables is a necessary but not sufficient condition for this predictive skill, and elementary examples are given here demonstrating this. Here, with equilibrium statistical fidelity of the imperfect model, a direct link is developed between the predictive fidelity of specific test problems in the training phase where the perfect natural system is observed and the predictive skill for the forced response of the imperfect model by combining appropriate concepts from information theory with other concepts based on the fluctuation dissipation theorem. Here a suite of mathematically tractable models with nontrivial eddy diffusivity, variance, and intermittent non-Gaussian statistics mimicking crucial features of atmospheric tracers together with stochastically forced standard eddy diffusivity approximation with model error are utilized to illustrate this link.
Psychological theories of memory posit that when people recall a past event, they not only recover the features of the event itself, but also recover information associated with other events that occurred nearby in time. The events surrounding a target event, and the thoughts they evoke, may be considered to represent a context for the target event, helping to distinguish that event from similar events experienced at different times. The ability to reinstate this contextual information during memory search has been considered a hallmark of episodic, or event-based, memory. We sought to determine whether context reinstatement may be observed in electrical signals recorded from the human brain during episodic recall. Analyzing electrocorticographic recordings taken as 69 neurosurgical patients studied and recalled lists of words, we uncovered a neural signature of context reinstatement. Upon recalling a studied item, we found that the recorded patterns of brain activity were not only similar to the patterns observed when the item was studied, but were also similar to the patterns observed during study of neighboring list items, with similarity decreasing reliably with positional distance. The degree to which individual patients displayed this neural signature of context reinstatement was correlated with their tendency to recall neighboring list items successively. These effects were particularly strong in temporal lobe recordings. Our findings show that recalling a past event evokes a neural signature of the temporal context in which the event occurred, thus pointing to a neural basis for episodic memory.
The protein machinery of neurotransmitter exocytosis requires efficient orchestration in space and time, for speed and precision of neurotransmission and also for synaptic ontogeny and plasticity. However, its spatial organization in situ is virtually unknown. Aczonin/Piccolo is a putative organizer protein of mammalian active zones. We determined by immunogold electron microscopy (EM) (i) the spatial arrangement (i.e., topology) of 11 segments of the Aczonin polypeptide in situ, and correlated it to (ii) the positioning of Aczonin-interacting domains of Bassoon, CAST/ELKS, Munc13, and RIM and (iii) the ultrastructurally defined presynaptic macromolecular aggregates known as dense projections and synaptic ribbons. At conventional synapses, Aczonin assumes a compact molecular topology within a layer 35 to 80 nm parallel to the plasma membrane (PM), with a &quot;trunk&quot; sitting on the dense projection top and a C-terminal &quot;arm&quot; extending down toward the PM and sideward to the dense projection periphery. At ribbon synapses, Aczonin occupies the whole ribbon area. Bassoon colocalizes with Aczonin at conventional synapses but not at ribbon synapses. At both conventional and ribbon synapses, CAST, Munc13, and RIM are segregated from Aczonin, closer to the PM, and Aczonin is positioned such that it may control the access of neurotransmitter vesicles to the fusion site.
The autonomic nervous system (ANS) plays an important role in the human response to various internal and external stimuli, which can modify homeostasis, and exerts a tight control on essential functions such as circulation, respiration, thermoregulation and hormonal secretion. ANS dysfunction may complicate the perioperative course in the surgical patient undergoing anesthesia, increasing morbidity and mortality, and, therefore, it should be considered as an additional risk factor during pre-operative evaluation. Furthermore, ANS dysfunction may complicate the clinical course of critically ill patients admitted to intensive care units, in the case of trauma, sepsis, neurologic disorders and cardiovascular diseases, and its occurrence adversely affects the outcome. In the care of these patients, the assessment of autonomic function may provide useful information concerning pathophysiology, risk stratification, early prognosis prediction and treatment strategies. Given the role of ANS in the maintenance of systemic homeostasis, anesthesiologists and intensivists should recognize as critical the evaluation of ANS function. Measurement of heart rate variability (HRV) is an easily accessible window into autonomic activity. It is a low-cost, non-invasive and simple to perform method reflecting the balance of the ANS regulation of the heart rate and offers the opportunity to detect the presence of autonomic neuropathy complicating several illnesses. The present review provides anesthesiologists and intensivists with a comprehensive summary of the possible clinical implications of HRV measurements, suggesting that autonomic dysfunction testing could potentially represent a diagnostic and prognostic tool in the care of patients both in the perioperative setting as well as in the critical care arena.


Abnormal aggregates of the synaptic protein, -synuclein, are the dominant pathology in syndromes known as the synucleinopathies. The cellular aggregation of the protein occurs in three distinct types of inclusions in three main clinical syndromes. -Synuclein deposits in neuronal Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites in idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), as well as incidentally in a number of other conditions. In contrast, -synuclein deposits largely in oligodendroglial cytoplasmic inclusions in multiple system atrophy (MSA). Lastly, -synuclein also deposits in large axonal spheroids in a number of rarer neuroaxonal dystrophies. Disorders are usually defined by their most dominant pathology, but for the synucleinopathies, clinical heterogeneity within the main syndromes is well documented. MSA was originally viewed as three different clinical phenotypes due to different anatomical localization of the lesions. In PD, recent meta-analyses have identified four main clinical phenotypes, and clinicopathological correlations suggest that more severe and more rapid progression of pathology with chronological age, as well as the involvement of additional neuropathologies, differentiates these phenotypes. In DLB, recent large studies show that clinical diagnosis is too insensitive to identify the syndrome itself, although clinicopathological studies suggest variable clinical features occur in the different pathological forms of this syndrome (pure DLB, DLB with Alzheimer's disease (AD), and AD with amygdala predominant Lewy pathology). The recognition of considerable heterogeneity within the synucleinopathy syndromes is important for the identification of factors involved in changing their pathological phenotype.
Multiple sclerosis is the major inflammatory condition affecting the central nervous system (CNS) and is characterised by disseminated focal immune-mediated demyelination. Demyelination is accompanied by variable axonal damage and loss and reactive gliosis. It is this pathology that is thought to be responsible for the clinical relapses that often respond well to immunomodulatory therapy. However, the later secondary progressive stage of MS remains largely refractory to treatment and it is widely suggested that accumulating axon loss is responsible for clinical progression. Although initially thought to be a white matter (WM) disease, it is increasingly apparent that extensive pathology is also seen in the grey matter (GM) throughout the CNS. GM pathology is characterised by demyelination in the relative absence of an immune cell infiltrate. Neuronal loss is also seen both in the GM lesions and in unaffected areas of the GM. The slow progressive nature of this later stage combined with the presence of extensive grey matter pathology has led to the suggestion that neurodegeneration might play an increasing role with increasing disease duration. However, there is a paucity of studies that have correlated the pathological features with clinical milestones during secondary progressive MS. Here, we review the contributions that the various types of pathology are likely to make to the increasing neurological deficit in MS.


Chondroblastomas are highly destructive tumors that are derived from immature cartilage cells. The occurrence of this tumor in the temporal bone or skull base is uncommon. Approximately 70 cases have previously been reported, several of which have involved the temporomandibular joint (TMJ). We report here the case of a 67-year-old woman who presented with right-sided mixed hearing loss, a right external auditory canal mass, ear fullness, otalgia, blood-stained otorrhea, and pain around the TMJ, associated with difficulty in opening the mouth. CT and MRI revealed a mass involving the TMJ, infratemporal fossa, and pterygopalatine fossa. The patient underwent tumor resection via an infratemporal fossa approach type B. Gross total tumor removal was achieved, with no facial nerve paralysis or other complications observed after surgery. No recurrence or residual tumors were observed on CT and MRI, even after 7.5 years of follow-up. We conclude that temporal bone chondroblastomas are extremely rare and aggressive, but the outcome after appropriate surgical treatment is favorable. From the review, it may be particularly important to deal with tumors that involve the TMJ, which could affect the long-term outcomes, as well as tumor recurrence.
The most serious complications of total thyroidectomy, in cases of widespread and invasive diseases, are mainly hypoparathyroidism and laryngeal inferior nerve palsy. Lesions of the external branch of superior laryngeal nerve instead, although less obvious than the those caused by the recurrent laryngeal nerve lesions, have been taken less into consideration. The frequency of this lesion varies from 14% to 20% of cases, although in reality it is underestimated; in fact, on the one hand it is difficult to assess this, and on the other, post-thyroidectomy dysphonia is often considered inevitable. In the present retrospective research, 15 thyroidectomized patients (4 male, 11 female), have been subjected to qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the voice. Of these, 7 had a nerve lesion, while 8 did not. All the patients received a self-evaluation voice questionnaire (VHI). In all cases, a videolaryngostroboscopy has been carried out and the voice acoustic features examined through a spectrographic analysis. The results showed that removal of the thyroid, at the end of a 12-month post-surgery period, still causes an impact on the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the vocal function, whether the superior larynx nerve was injured or not. The majority of the patients, in both groups, reported that their voice had worsened in quality and durability. Hence, we have shown that the patients with upper larynx nerve lesion have an alteration of F0, show a lower energy level and a modified spectrographic quality compared to patients without injury. This low voice is often considered by patients as a normal consequence of thyroid surgery. The present research confirms that the attempt to identify and protect the superior laryngeal nerve is essential to prevent post-thyroidectomy dysphonia, but this is not sufficient to obtain the best results because of the existence of muscular and psychogenic factors that reduce the still voice capacity of the patient.



Despite the fact that important gender differences in drug and alcohol use have been previously reported, little research to date has focused on gender differences with regard to nonmedical prescription opioid use. This study preliminarily examined the presenting characteristics and correlates (e.g., age of onset, route of administration, motives for using, and method of introduction) of men and women with prescription opioid dependence. Participants were 24 (12 men and 12 women) non-treatment seeking individuals at least 18 years of age with current (i.e., past 12 months) prescription opioid dependence who participated in an in-depth interview. The average age of onset of prescription opioid use was 22.2 years (SD=8.5). In comparison to men, women were approximately six years older when they initiated prescription opioid use, but were only three years older when they began to use prescription opioids regularly (i.e., weekly), suggesting an accelerated course of disease progression among women. Over half of the sample (61.5%) endorsed chewing and almost half (45.8%) endorsed crushing and snorting prescription opioids. Men were significantly more likely than women to crush and snort prescription opioids (75.0% vs. 16.7%; p=0.01). Women were significantly more likely than men to be motivated to use prescription opioids in order to cope with interpersonal stress, and to use them first thing in the morning (ps=0.04). Concomitant alcohol and other drug use were common among both men and women. The findings highlight clinically relevant gender differences and may help enhance the design of gender-sensitive screening and treatment interventions for prescription opioids.
Beta amyloid (A) plays a central role in the pathogenesis of the most common and devastating neurodegenerative disorder, Alzheimer's disease (AD). The mechanisms of A neurotoxicity remain controversial, but include dysregulation of calcium homeostasis and oxidative stress. A large body of data suggest that cholesterol plays a significant role in AD. In mixed cultures containing hippocampal neurons and astrocytes, we have shown that neurotoxic A peptides (1-42 and 25-35) cause sporadic cytosolic calcium ([Ca(2+) ](c) ) signals in astrocytes but not in neurons, initiating a cascade that ends in neuronal death. We now show, using the cholesterol-sensitive fluorescent probe, Filipin, that membrane cholesterol is significantly higher in astrocytes than in neurons and mediates the selective response of astrocytes to A. Thus, lowering [cholesterol] using mevastatin, methyl--cyclodextrin or filipin prevented the A-induced [Ca(2+) ](c) signals, while increased membrane [cholesterol] increased A-induced [Ca(2+) ](c) signals in both neurons and astrocytes. Addition of A to lipid bilayers caused the appearance of a conductance that was significantly higher in membranes containing cholesterol. Increasing membrane [cholesterol] significantly increased A-induced neuronal and astrocytic death. We conclude that a high membrane [cholesterol] promotes A incorporation into membranes and increased [Ca(2+) ](c) leading to cell death.
Aging confers an increased risk for developing seizure activity, especially within brain regions that mediate learning and synaptic plasticity. Brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a member of the neurotrophin family that has an important role in regulating growth and development of the nervous system. BDNF is upregulated after pharmacological seizure induction and this upregulation contributes to enhanced excitability of the hippocampal mossy fiber-CA3 pathway, which is accompanied by neuropeptide Y (NPY) upregulation. Mice overexpressing a BDNF transgene in forebrain neurons provide an avenue for understanding the role of neurotrophic support in the aged hippocampus. In this study BDNF transgenic (TG) mice were utilized to determine whether increased BDNF expression through genetic manipulation resulted in age-related changes in hippocampal excitability and NPY expression. Spontaneous behavioral seizures were observed in TG mice, but not WT mice, past 5 months of age and the severity of behavioral seizures increased with age. Electrophysiological investigation of hippocampal CA3 activity indicated that slices from aged TG mice (86%), but not age-matched WT mice, or young TG mice, showed epileptiform activity in response to either repeated paired pulse or high frequency (tetanic) stimulation. Electrophysiological results were supported by the observation of robust ectopic NPY immunoreactivity in hippocampal mossy fibers of most aged TG mice (57%), which was absent in age-matched WT mice and young TG mice. The results from this study indicate that forebrain restricted BDNF overexpression produces age-related changes in hyperexcitability and NPY immunoreactivity in mossy fiber-CA3 pathway. Together, these data suggest that the capability for BDNF to promote epileptogenesis is maintained, and may be enhanced, in the aging hippocampus.
It is known that the incidence of epilepsy increases with age, but only a few studies have investigated the consequences and mechanisms of seizure and epilepsy in aged animals. Astrocytic changes are known to directly influence neuronal excitability and seizure susceptibility. However, information regarding alterations to astrocytes after seizures in aged animals is lacking in the literature. In the present study, the density and morphology of astrocytes expressing GFAP were investigated in the hippocampus of aged rats that experienced status epilepticus induced by pilocarpine. One month after seizures, astrocytes in aged rats have increased volume and present activated morphology. Despite these morphological changes, the density of astrocytes was not altered in the hippocampus of aged rats after seizures.


We examined normative beliefs about multiple sexual partners and social status in China and their association with risky sexual behaviors and sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Self-reported and biological markers of sexual risk were examined among 3,716 market vendors from a city in eastern China. Men who were older or with less education believed having multiple sexual partners was linked to higher social status. Adjusting for demographic characteristics, normative beliefs were significantly associated with having multiple sexual partners, while having multiple sexual partners was significantly associated with STIs. Normative beliefs regarding sexual behaviors may play an important role in individual risk behaviors. Future HIV/STI interventions must address community beliefs about the positive meaning of sexual risks, particularly among men with traditional beliefs about gender roles.

The effects of ethanol differ in adolescent and adult rats on a number of measures. The evidence of the effects of ethanol on spatial memory in adolescents and adults is equivocal. Whether adolescents are more or less sensitive to ethanol-induced impairment of spatial memory acquisition remains unclear; with regard to the effects of acute ethanol on spatial memory retrieval there is almost no research looking into any age difference. Thus, we examined the effects of acute ethanol on spatial memory in the Morris Watermaze in adolescents and adults. Allopregnanolone (ALLO) is a modulator of the GABA(A) receptor and has similar behavioral effects as ethanol. We sought to also determine the effects of allopreganolone on spatial memory in adolescent and adults. Male adolescent (post natal [PN]28-30) and adult (PN70-72) rats were trained in the Morris Watermaze for 6 days and acute doses of ethanol (saline, 1.5 and 2.0 g/kg) or ALLO (vehicle, 9 and 18 mg/kg) were administered on Day 7. A probe trial followed on Day 8. As expected, there were dose effects; higher doses of both ethanol and ALLO impaired spatial memory. However, in both the ethanol and ALLO conditions adolescents and adults had similar spatial memory impairments. The current results suggest that ethanol and ALLO both impair hippocampal-dependent spatial memory regardless of age in that once learning has occurred, ethanol or ALLO does not differentially impair the retrieval of spatial memory in adolescents and adults. Given the mixed results on the effect of ethanol on cognition in adolescent rats, additional research is needed to ascertain the factors critical for the reported differential results.
The adolescent brain is particularly vulnerable to the effects of alcohol, with intoxications at this developmental age often producing long-lasting effects. The present study addresses the effects of a single acute ethanol exposure on growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene expression in neurons in the cerebellum and hippocampus of adolescent rats. Male postnatal day 23 (P23) Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to ethanol vapors for 2h and after a recovery period of 2h, the cerebellum and hippocampus were harvested and samples were taken for blood alcohol concentration (BAC) determinations. We found that this exposure resulted in a mean BAC of 174 mg/dL, which resembles levels in human adolescents after binge drinking. Analyses of total RNA and protein by quantitative reverse transcription PCR and western blotting, respectively, revealed that this single ethanol exposure significantly decreased the levels of GAP-43 mRNA and protein in the cerebellum but increased the levels of mRNA and protein in the hippocampus. BDNF mRNA and protein levels were also increased in the hippocampus but not in the cerebellum of these animals. In situ hybridizations revealed that GAP-43 and BDNF mRNA levels were primarily increased by alcohol exposure in hippocampal dentate granule cells and CA3 neurons. Overall, the reported alterations in the expression of the plasticity-associated genes GAP-43 and BDNF in juvenile rats are consistent with the known deleterious effects of binge drinking on motor coordination and cognitive function.
We have selectively bred mice that reach very high blood ethanol concentrations (BECs) after drinking from a single bottle of 20% ethanol. High Drinking in the Dark (HDID-1) mice drink nearly 6g/kg ethanol in 4h and reach average BECs of more than 1.0mg/mL. Previous studies suggest that DID and two-bottle preference for 10% ethanol with continuous access are influenced by many of the same genes. We therefore asked whether HDID-1 mice would differ from the HS/Npt control stock on two-bottle preference drinking. We serially offered mice access to 3-40% ethanol in tap water versus tap water. For ethanol concentrations between 3 and 20%, HDID-1 and HS/Npt controls did not differ in two-bottle preference drinking. At the highest concentrations, the HS/Npt mice drank more than the HDID-1 mice. We also tested the same mice for preference for two concentrations each of quinine, sucrose, and saccharin. Curiously, the mice showed preference ratios (volume of tastant/total fluid drunk) of about 50% for all tastants and concentrations. Thus, neither genotype showed either preference or avoidance for any tastant after high ethanol concentrations. Therefore, we compared naive groups of HDID-1 and HS/Npt mice for tastant preference. Results from this test showed that ethanol-naive mice preferred sweet fluids and avoided quinine but the genotypes did not differ. Finally, we tested HDID-1 and HS mice for an extended period for preference for 15% ethanol versus water during a 2-h access period in the dark. After several weeks, HDID-1 mice consumed significantly more than HS. We conclude that drinking in the dark shows some genetic overlap with other tests of preference drinking, but that the degree of genetic commonality depends on the model used.





Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is a severe neurovisceral lysosomal storage disorder caused by defects in NPC1 or NPC2 proteins. Although numerous studies support the primacy of cholesterol storage, neurons of double-mutant mice lacking both NPC1 and an enzyme required for synthesis of all complex gangliosides (1,4GalNAc transferase) have been reported to exhibit dramatically reduced cholesterol sequestration. Here we show that NPC2-deficient mice lacking this enzyme also exhibit reduced cholesterol, but that genetically restricting synthesis to only a-series gangliosides fully restores neuronal cholesterol storage to typical disease levels. Examining the subcellular locations of sequestered compounds in neurons lacking NPC1 or NPC2 by confocal microscopy revealed that cholesterol and the two principal storage gangliosides (GM2 and GM3) were not consistently co-localized within the same intracellular vesicles. To determine whether the lack of GM2 and GM3 co-localization was due to differences in synthetic versus degradative pathway expression, we generated mice lacking both NPC1 and lysosomal -galactosidase, and therefore unable to generate GM2 and GM3 in lysosomes. Double mutants lacked both gangliosides, indicating that each is the product of endosomal/lysosomal processing. Unexpectedly, GM1 accumulation in double mutants increased compared to single mutants consistent with a direct role for NPC1 in ganglioside salvage. These studies provide further evidence that NPC1 and NPC2 proteins participate in endosomal/lysosomal processing of both sphingolipids and cholesterol.
The dorsal subcoeruleus nucleus (SubCD) is involved in generating two signs of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep: muscle atonia and ponto-geniculo-occipital (PGO) waves. We tested the hypothesis that single cell and/or population responses of SubCD neurons are capable of generating gamma frequency activity in response to intracellular stimulation or receptor agonist activation. Whole cell patch clamp recordings (immersion chamber) and population responses (interface chamber) were conducted on 9- to 20-day-old rat brain stem slices. All SubCD neurons (n = 103) fired at gamma frequency when subjected to depolarizing steps. Two statistically distinct populations of neurons were observed, which were distinguished by their high (&gt;80 Hz, n = 24) versus low (35-80 Hz, n = 16) initial firing frequencies. Both cell types exhibited subthreshold oscillations in the gamma range (n = 43), which may underlie the gamma band firing properties of these neurons. The subthreshold oscillations were blocked by the sodium channel blockers tetrodotoxin (TTX, n = 21) extracellularly and N-(2,6-dimethylphenylcarbamoylmethyl)triethylammonium bromide (QX-314) intracellularly (n = 5), indicating they were sodium channel dependent. Gamma frequency subthreshold oscillations were observed in response to the nonspecific cholinergic receptor agonist carbachol (CAR, n = 11, d = 1.08) and the glutamate receptor agonists N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA, n = 12, d = 1.09) and kainic acid (KA, n = 13, d = 0.96), indicating that cholinergic and glutamatergic inputs may be involved in the activation of these subthreshold currents. Gamma band activity also was observed in population responses following application of CAR (n = 4, P &lt; 0.05), NMDA (n = 4, P &lt; 0.05) and KA (n = 4, P &lt; 0.05). Voltage-sensitive, sodium channel-dependent gamma band activity appears to be a part of the intrinsic membrane properties of SubCD neurons.
Syrian hamsters, like many humans, increase food intake and body adiposity in response to stress. We hypothesized that glucocorticoids (cortisol and corticosterone) mediate these stress-induced effects on energy homeostasis. Because Syrian hamsters are dual secretors of cortisol and corticosterone, differential effects of each glucocorticoid on energy homeostasis were investigated. First, adrenal intact hamsters were injected with varying physiological concentrations of cortisol, corticosterone, or vehicle to emulate our previously published defeat regimens (i.e., 1 injection/day for 5 days). Neither food intake nor body weight was altered following glucocorticoid injections. Therefore, we investigated the effect of sustained glucocorticoid exposure on energy homeostasis. This was accomplished by implanting hamsters with supraphysiological steady-state pellets of cortisol, corticosterone, or cholesterol as a control. Cortisol, but not corticosterone, significantly decreased food intake, body mass, and lean and fat tissue compared with controls. Despite decreases in body mass and adiposity, cortisol significantly increased circulating free fatty acids, triglyceride, cholesterol, and hepatic triglyceride concentrations. Although corticosterone did not induce alterations in any of the aforementioned metabolic end points, Syrian hamsters were responsive to the effects of corticosterone since glucocorticoids both induced thymic involution and decreased adrenal mass. These findings indicate that cortisol is the more potent glucocorticoid in energy homeostasis in Syrian hamsters. However, the data suggest that cortisol alone does not mediate stress-induced increases in food intake or body mass in this species.
Pregabalin, an 2 ligand, is used clinically to treat somatic pain. A prior study suggested that pregabalin reduces distension-induced pain while increasing rectal compliance. We aimed to quantify effects of pregabalin on colonic sensory and motor functions and assess relationships between sensory effects and colonic compliance. We conducted a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study of a single oral administration of 75 or 200 mg of pregabalin in 62 healthy adults (aged 18-75 yr). Subjects underwent left colon intubation. We assessed &quot;stress-arousal symptoms&quot;, compliance, sensation thresholds, sensation ratings averaged over four levels of distension, fasting and postprandial colonic tone, and phasic motility index (MI). Analysis of covariance (adjusted for age, sex, body mass index, and corresponding predrug response) and proportional hazard models were used. There were no clinically important differences among treatment groups for demographics, predrug compliance, tone, MI, and sensation. Treatment was associated with reduced energy and increased drowsiness but no change in tension or relaxation. Sensation ratings averaged over the four distension levels were lower for gas sensation [overall effect P = 0.14, P = 0.05 (pregabalin 200 mg vs. placebo)] and for pain sensation [overall effect P = 0.12, P = 0.04 (pregabalin 200 mg vs. placebo)]. The magnitude of the effect of 200 mg of pregabalin relative to placebo is on average a 25% reduction of both gas and pain sensation ratings. Pregabalin did not significantly affect colonic compliance, sensation thresholds, colonic fasting tone, and MI. Thus 200 mg of pregabalin reduces gas and pain sensation and should be tested in patients with colonic pain.
Intraperitoneal injection of CCK reduces food intake and triggers a behavioral pattern similar to natural satiation. Reduction of food intake by CCK is mediated by vagal afferents that innervate the stomach and small intestine. These afferents synapse in the hindbrain nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) where gastrointestinal satiation signals are processed. Previously, we demonstrated that intraperitoneal (IP) administration of either competitive or noncompetitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists attenuates reduction of food intake by CCK. However, because vagal afferents themselves express NMDA receptors at both central and peripheral endings, our results did not speak to the question of whether NMDA receptors in the brain play an essential role in reduction of feeding by CCK. We hypothesized that activation of NMDA receptors in the NTS is necessary for reduction of food intake by CCK. To test this hypothesis, we measured food intake following IP CCK, subsequent to NMDA receptor antagonist injections into the fourth ventricle, directly into the NTS or subcutaneously. We found that either fourth-ventricle or NTS injection of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 was sufficient to inhibit CCK-induced reduction of feeding, while the same antagonist doses injected subcutaneously did not. Similarly fourth ventricle injection of d-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-1-propenyl-1-phosphoric acid (d-CPPene), a competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, also blocked reduction of food intake following IP CCK. Finally, d-CPPene injected into the fourth ventricle attenuated CCK-induced expression of nuclear c-Fos immunoreactivity in the dorsal vagal complex. We conclude that activation of NMDA receptors in the hindbrain is necessary for the reduction of food intake by CCK. Hindbrain NMDA receptors could comprise a critical avenue for control and modulation of satiation signals to influence food intake and energy balance.
Advances over the last 15 years have made social network analysis (SNA) a powerful tool for the study of nonhuman primate social behavior. Although many SNA-based techniques have been only very recently adopted in primatological research, others have been commonly used by primatologists for decades. The roots of SNA also stem from some of the same conceptual frameworks as the majority of nonhuman primate behavioral research. The rapid development of SNA in recent years has led to questions within the primatological community of where and how SNA fits within this field. We aim to address these questions by providing an overview of the historical relationship between SNA and the study of nonhuman primates. We begin with a brief history of the development of SNA, followed by a detailed description of the network-based visualization techniques, analytical methods and conceptual frameworks which have been employed by primatologists since as early as the 1960s. We also introduce some of the latest advances to SNA, thereby demonstrating that this approach contains novel tools for the study of nonhuman primate social behavior which may be used to shed light on questions that cannot be addressed fully using more conventional methods.
The aquaporins (AQPs) are a family of homologous water channels expressed in many tissues. In this study, the expression and immunolocalization of different AQP subtypes in rat brains were investigated by RT-PCR, immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence. The data showed that AQP1 was expressed in the subpial processes of astrocytes, choroid plexus and ependyma. AQP3, AQP5 and AQP8 had similar distribution patterns in piriform cortex, choroid plexus, hippocampus and dorsal thalamus. AQP4 and AQP9 were widely expressed in the rat brain and distributed in the subpial processes of astrocytes, ependyma, dorsal thalamus, hippocampus, white matter, suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and supraoptic nucleus. AQP3, AQP4, AQP5, AQP8 and AQP9 were found in the Bergmann glial cells of cerebellum, cochlear nucleus and trapezoid nuclei. The distinct localization of various AQPs in cerebrum and the similarities of distribution patterns within cerebellum, cochlear nucleus and trapezoid nuclei suggest that AQPs may play an important role in maintaining the specific microenvironments of the brain.

We grew cultures of rat cortical cells on microelectrode arrays to investigate the effects of glutamate-mediated neurotoxicity as a model of traumatic brain injury. Treatment with two different concentrations of glutamate, 175 and 250M, led to different outcomes. Cultures treated with 250M glutamate suffered a loss in overall activity that was not seen in cultures treated with 175M glutamate. An analysis of the changes in the synchronization of action potential firing between electrodes, however, revealed a loss of synchronization in subsets of electrode pairs treated with both the higher and lower concentrations of glutamate. We found that this loss of action potential synchronization was dependent on the initial amount of synchronization prior to injury. Finally, our data suggest that the synchronization of electrical activity as well as the susceptibility to loss of firing synchrony is independent of the distance between neurons in a network.

Sociophysiologywas a term used early in the history of sociology and then again 25 years ago to describe interactions between the &quot;social&quot; and the &quot;biological&quot; worlds. Social scientists had largely viewed biology and the brain as a &quot;black box&quot; that was not an active aspect of their work or theories. A landmark, unpublished conference in 1986 brought together social scientists and biologists dedicated to the idea that bringing sociological conceptualizations and approaches together with those of physiology might create new ways to understand human behavior. The umbrella question for sociophysiology was dual: how do social processes impact the physiology of the organism, and how does that altered physiology affect future social behavior? This paper summarizes that conference with the goal of providing a glimpse into the early history of social neuroscience and to demonstrate the variety of individuals and interests that were present at the emergence of this new field. The late Patricia R. Barchas organized and chaired the conference.

Social species, by definition, form organizations that extend beyond the individual. These structures evolved hand in hand with behavioral, neural, hormonal, cellular, and genetic mechanisms to support them because the consequent social behaviors helped these organisms survive, reproduce, and care for offspring sufficiently long that they too reproduced. Social isolation represents a lens through which to investigate these behavioral, neural, hormonal, cellular, and genetic mechanisms. Evidence from human and nonhuman animal studies indicates that isolation heightens sensitivity to social threats (predator evasion) and motivates the renewal of social connections. The effects of perceived isolation in humans share much in common with the effects of experimental manipulations of isolation in nonhuman social species: increased tonic sympathetic tonus and HPA activation; and decreased inflammatory control, immunity, sleep salubrity, and expression of genes regulating glucocorticoid responses. Together, these effects contribute to higher rates of morbidity and mortality in older adults.
There is strong evidence that empathy has deep evolutionary, biochemical, and neurological underpinnings. Even the most advanced forms of empathy in humans are built on more basic forms and remain connected to core mechanisms associated with affective communication, social attachment, and parental care. Social neuroscience has begun to examine the neurobiological mechanisms that instantiate empathy, especially in response to signals of distress and pain, and how certain dispositional and contextual moderators modulate its experience. Functional neuroimaging studies document a circuit that responds to the perception of others' distress. Activation of this circuit reflects an aversive response in the observer, and this information may act as a trigger to inhibit aggression or prompt motivation to help. Moreover, empathy in humans is assisted by other domain-general high-level cognitive abilities, such as executive functions, mentalizing, and language, which expand the range of behaviors that can be driven by empathy.
According to the influential theory of Berridge (1996, 2009), food reward comprises two components: food 'liking' and 'wanting', with 'liking' referring to the pleasure derived from eating a given food and 'wanting' referring to appetitive motivation. Animal research shows that these two components have separate neural correlates. In examining reward driven eating in man, researchers have thus begun to develop interest in indicators of 'liking' and 'wanting'. But validating 'liking' and 'wanting' requires the dissociation of these components when theory dictates they should diverge. One such circumstance is neural sensitization as this leads to exaggerated 'wanting' without increased 'liking'. However, there are no data suggesting that such sensitization is the likely result of (over)eating. Without sensitization, one cannot determine whether task performance is indicative of true food 'liking' or 'wanting'. It is concluded that it is important to assess appetite and palatability in the study of reward driven eating, but determining whether these measurements reflect either food 'wanting' or food 'liking' is not.
The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) screen was developed as a brief instrument to identify mild cognitive impairment and dementia among older individuals. To date, limited information is available regarding the neuroimaging signatures associated with performance on the scale, or the relationship between the MoCA and more comprehensive cognitive screening measures. The present study examined performances on the MoCA among 111 non-clinical older adults (ages 51-85) enrolled in a prospective study of cognitive aging. Participants were administered the MoCA, Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE), and the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS). A subset of participants (N = 69) underwent structural 3 T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to define the volumes of total frontal gray matter, total hippocampus, T2-weighted subcortical hyperintensities (SH), and total brain volume. The results revealed significant correlations between the total score on the MoCA and total score on the RBANS and MMSE, though the strength of the correlations was more robust between the MoCA and the RBANS. Modest correlations between individual subscales of the MoCA and neuroimaging variables were evident, but no patterns of shared variance emerged between the MoCA total score and neuroimaging indices. In contrast, total brain volume correlated significantly with total score on the RBANS. These results suggest that additional studies are needed to define the significance of MoCA scores relative to brain integrity among an older population.



A historical review is presented of the link between Ludwig Wittgenstein, considered the most important philosopher of the 20th century, and medicine, particularly neurology and psychiatry. Wittgenstein worked as a porter at Guy's Hospital in London, and then as a technician at the Royal Victoria Infirmary in Newcastle. He wrote about his important insights into language, and neuroscience. It has been suggested that he had Asperger syndrome and a possible movement disorder (mannerisms).
Recent models have proposed a two-stage process of biological motion recognition. First, template or snapshot neurons estimate the body form. Then, motion is estimated from body form change. This predicts separate aftereffects for body form and body motion. We tested this prediction. Observers viewing leftward- or rightward-facing point-light walkers that walked forward or backward subsequently experienced oppositely directed aftereffects in stimuli ambiguous in the facing or the walking direction. These aftereffects did not originate from adaptation to the motion of the individual light points, because they occurred for limited-lifetime stimuli that restrict local motion. They also occurred when the adaptor displayed a random sequence of body postures that did not induce the walking motion percept. We thus conclude that biological motion gives rise to separate form and motion aftereffects and that body form representations are involved in biological motion perception.

Recent developments in the science of autism have provoked widespread unease among autism activists. Drawing on the findings of a major international gathering of researchers, ethicists, and activists, this paper presents the first major analysis of the ethical questions arising from this unease. We outline the scientific developments that have provoked the most discomfort, analyze the response to these developments from within and without the autism community, and trace the current state of the ethical debate. Having done so, we contend that these ethical questions are unlikely to be resolved as they depend on fundamentally conflicting assumptions about the nature and desirability of neurocognitive difference. We conclude by arguing for a new range of democratic mechanisms that could enable the scientific community, autistics, and other concerned parties to respond collectively to such entrenched ethical disputes.

Human neuroimaging studies have well demonstrated the presence of a &quot;default system&quot; in the brain, which shows a &quot;default mode of brain activity&quot;, i.e., greater activity during the resting state than during an attention-demanding cognitive task. The default system consists mainly of the medial prefrontal and medial parietal areas. It has been proposed that this default activity is concerned with internal thought processes. Here, I first describe activities observed in the human default system measured by several methods, in relation task performance, development, aging and psychiatric disorder. I will then introduce recent nonhuman primate studies that indicate correlated low-frequency spontaneous brain activity within the default system, high metabolic levels in these medial brain areas during rest and task-induced suppression of neuronal activity in the medial parietal area. Furthermore, I will present our data in which we found task-induced deactivation in the monkey default system, and will examine similarities and differences in default activity between the human and nonhuman primate. Finally, I will discuss the functional significance of the default system and consider the possibility of internal thought processes in the monkey.
In experimental designs of animal models, memory is often assessed by the time for a performance measure to occur (latency). Depending on the cognitive test, this may be the time it takes an animal to escape to a hidden platform (water maze), an escape tunnel (Barnes maze) or to enter a dark component (passive avoidance test). Latency outcomes are usually statistically analyzed using ANOVAs. Besides strong distributional assumptions, ANOVA cannot properly deal with animals not showing the performance measure within the trial time, potentially causing biased and misleading results. We propose an alternative approach for statistical analyses of latency outcomes. These analyses have less distributional assumptions and adequately handle results of trials in which the performance measure did not occur within the trial time. The proposed method is well known from survival analyses, provides comprehensible statistical results and allows the generation of meaningful graphs. Experiments of behavioral neuroscience and anesthesiology are used to illustrate this method.
The mechanisms involved in alcohol use disorder, a chronic relapsing brain disorder, are complex and involve various signalling systems in the brain. Recently, the orexigenic peptide ghrelin was shown to be required for alcohol-induced reward, an effect mediated via ghrelin receptors, GHS-R1A, at the level of the cholinergic-dopaminergic reward link. Moreover, ghrelin increases and GHR-R1A antagonists reduce moderate alcohol consumption in mice, and a single nucleotide polymorphism in the GHS-R1A gene has been associated with high alcohol consumption in humans. Therefore, GHS-R1A gene expression and alcohol intake were investigated in high, AA (Alko, Alcohol), versus low, ANA (Alko, Non-Alcohol), alcohol consuming rats as well as in Wistar rats. In the AA and ANA rats plasma ghrelin levels were also measured. GHS-R1A gene expression was increased in AA compared to ANA rats in nucleus accumbens, ventral tegmental area, amygdala, prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. A similar trend was observed in the ventral tegmental area of Wistar rats consuming high amounts of alcohol. Furthermore, the AA rats had significantly smaller reduction of plasma ghrelin levels over time, after several weeks of alcohol exposure, than had the ANA rats. The present study provides further evidence for that the ghrelin signalling system, in particular at the level of the mesocortocolimbic dopamine system, is involved in alcohol consumption, and thus possibly contributes to alcohol use disorder. Therefore the GHS-R1A may constitute a novel candidate for development of new treatment strategies for alcohol dependence.
Dysregulation of glycogen synthase kinase-3-beta (GSK-3) signaling pathways is thought to underlie the pathophysiology of mood disorders. In order to demonstrate that the loss of normal GSK-3 activity results in disturbances of physiological measures, we attempted to determine whether sleep-wake architecture, circadian rhythms of core body temperature and activity were altered in transgenic mice overexpressing GSK-3 activity specifically in the brain. Cortical electroencephalographic activity, body temperature (BT) and body locomotor activity (LMA) were continuously monitored using a biopotential telemetry probe. Normal circadian patterns were maintained for different measurements in both genotypes. No differences were found in total time spent asleep and waking over the 24-h recording session. However, transgenic animals overexpressing GSK-3 showed alteration in sleep continuity characterized by an increases in number of non rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep episodes (GSK-3, 227.2  1.7 vs. WT, 172.6  1.4, p &lt; 0.05) and decreases in mean episode duration (GSK-3, 3.0  0.1 vs. WT, 4.4  0.2, p &lt; 0.05). Additionally, transgenic animals exhibited marked enhancement of basal LMA and BT levels during the first part of the dark period, under both light-dark and free running dark-dark circadian cycles. Our findings indicate that transgenic mice overexpressing GSK-3 activity exhibit severe fragmentation of sleep-wake cycle during both the light and dark periods, without showing deviancy in total durations of vigilance states. The results strongly suggest that GSK-3 activity is elemental for the maintenance of circadian motor behavior levels required for proper regulation of BT and sleep-wake organization.
Asymmetries in brain and behaviour have been demonstrated in numerous species representing all major vertebrate taxa, and may be a universal feature of the vertebrate nervous system. While descriptions of lateralization at the behavioural and neuroanatomical level are widespread, examples of correlation between asymmetries in behaviour and neural structures remain relatively scarce. In the past few years, the habenular nucleus has emerged as a potential site for the neural basis of some lateralized behaviours. Here we investigate the relation between continuous individual variation in asymmetry of the habenulae and behaviour in the detour task in the convict cichlid (Amatitlania nigrofasciata). We found that both male and female convicts show a significant population-level bias towards relatively larger left habenulae. We also show that habenular asymmetry is correlated with behavioural lateralization in both males and females, but in opposite directions. This adds to previous studies showing both in convict cichlids and other vertebrates an interaction between sex and lateralized behaviour. The results of this study increase our understanding of the role of the habenula in lateralized behaviour and highlight the importance of a comparative approach to understanding the development and evolution of habenular asymmetry.
Adrenomedullin (AM) has been demonstrated to be involved in the development of opioid tolerance. The present study further investigated the role of AM in the maintenance of morphine tolerance, morphine-associated hyperalgesia and its cellular mechanisms. Intrathecal (i.t.) injection of morphine for 6 days induced a decline of its analgesic effect and hyperalgesia. Acute administration of the AM receptor antagonist AM(22-52) resumed the potency of morphine in a dose-dependent manner (12, 35.8 and 71.5 g, i.t.). The AM(22-52) treatment also suppressed morphine tolerance-associated hyperalgesia. Furthermore, i.t. administration of AM(22-52) at a dose of 35.8 g reversed the morphine induced-enhancement of nNOS (neuronal nitric oxide synthase) and CGRP immunoreactivity in the spinal dorsal horn and/or dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Interestingly, chronic administration of morphine reduced the expression of the endogenous opioid peptide bovine adrenal medulla 22 (BAM22) in small- and medium-sized neurons in DRG and this reduction was partially reversed by the administration of AM(22-52) (35.8 g). These results suggest that the activation of AM receptors was involved in the maintenance of morphine tolerance mediating by not only upregulation of the pronociceptive mediators, nNOS and CGRP but also the down-regulation of pain-inhibiting molecule BAM22. Our data support the hypothesis that the level of both pronociceptive mediators and endogenous pain-inhibiting molecules has an impact on the potency of morphine analgesia. Targeting AM receptors is a promising approach to maintain the potency of morphine analgesia during chronic use of this drug.
Excitatory or inhibitory conditioning processes have been proposed to account for the context-dependent establishment of amphetamine psychomotor sensitization in rodents. The purpose of this study was to test the predictions of these theories in mice. We first assessed the consequence of the extinction of post-sensitization conditioned activity (CR) on the ulterior expression of sensitization. We also assessed the relations between several measures of sensitization and conditioned hyperactivity revealed on a saline challenge using simple and multiple regression analyses. Context-dependent sensitization was induced via 7 amphetamine injections in the test context given alternately with 7 saline injections in another context in paired mice, unpaired mice receiving the converse pretreatment. Context-dependent sensitization (drug challenge) and the CR (saline challenge) were revealed subsequently. After CR extinction (over 7 every-other-day repetition of the saline challenge), mice were tested again for context-dependent sensitization. Against the excitatory conditioning model, CR extinction spared context-dependent sensitization in paired mice, and regression analyses revealed no significant correlations between the size of the CR and several measures of sensitization. In apparent agreement with the inhibitory conditioning model, unpaired mice expressed higher levels of sensitization in the test context after extinction than before. However, regression analyses did not indicate that activity on the saline challenge was related to measures of sensitization in unpaired mice. Therefore, the present results support neither the excitatory nor the inhibitory conditioning models of context-dependent sensitization, but remain compatible with theories proposing that other inhibitory mechanisms modulate sensitization.
Much research has implicated the striatum in motor learning, but the underlying mechanism is still under extensive investigation. In this study, genome-wide analysis of gene expression was conducted in mice that have learned a complex motor task. It is well recognized that successful learning requires repetitive training and is learned slowly over several training sessions. We therefore used mice that have fully learned the accelerating rotarod task that discriminates the faster and slower phases of motor learning. As important modulators of movement behavior, the striatum was the target of this analysis along with the cerebellum and anterior cortex. To identify potential genes implicated in long memorization process, we compared the lists of genes modulated in the striatum to those modulated in the cerebellum and cortex. As a second approach, we also determined which gene ontology categories were enriched in modulated striatal genes and identified genes with the highest numbers of annotation throughout categories. Although only some of these changes were further confirmed by RT-PCR, these two complementary analyses allowed the identification of highly relevant genes like calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase 2, protein kinase C zeta and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Notably, these genes are all associated with synaptic plasticity, suggesting that stabilized neuronal connections in the striatum are the foundation of durable motor memory. Our study provides the first report of a whole genome analysis of gene expression in mice that have memorized a new complex motor task, and expands our knowledge on striatal gene expression changes associated with motor skill learning.
The reuniens nucleus (RE) is the largest nucleus of the midline thalamic nuclei (MLN). RE has strongly connections with the amygdala and hippocampus, the structures that are involved in the learning and memory processes. In our previous report we have shown the role of RE in the spatial learning and memory using Morris water maze (MWM) task. Since RE is connected to multiple limbic structures, its involvement in the emotional learning and memory is a possibility. The present study was designed to elucidate the role of RE in acquisition, consolidation, and retrieval on the passive avoidance (PA) task which depends on a distributed network including the thalamus, amygdala, medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and hippocampus. For this purpose, rats were chronically implanted with a cannula aimed at the RE through which 0.5 l tetracaine (2%) or saline were injected. Rats were trained in a PA task and their retention test was performed 24h later. The injection of saline or tetracaine was applied 5 min before or 5, 90, and 360 min after the acquisition trial and 5 min before the retention tests. Our findings showed that inactivation of RE before training did not affect acquisition, but affected memory retention 24h later in PA task. Moreover, inactivation of RE only 5 min after training impaired consolidation but not after 90 or 360 min. Also, inactivation of the RE, 5 min before the retrieval test impaired memory retrieval in PA task. In conclusion, it seems that RE is involved in memory processes in rats.
A key to advancing the understanding of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)-like symptoms is the development of spontaneous animal models. Over 55 generations of bidirectional selection for nest-building behavior in house mice, Mus musculus, resulted in a 40-fold difference in the amount of cotton used for a nest in high (BIG) and low (SMALL) selected lines. The nesting behavior of BIG mice appears to be compulsive-like and has initial face validity as an animal model for OCD in humans. Compulsive-like digging behavior was assessed; BIG male mice buried about three times as many marbles as SMALL male mice, strengthening face validity. Using the open field and elevated plus maze, SMALL male mice showed higher levels of anxiety/fear-like behavior than BIG male mice, indicating that compulsive-like and not anxiety-like behavior was measured. To establish predictive validity, chronic (4 weeks) oral administration of fluoxetine (30, 50 and 100mg/kg/day) and clomipramine (80 mg/kg/day), both effective in treating OCD, significantly reduced compulsive-like nest-building behavior in BIG male mice. Compulsive-like digging behavior was also significantly reduced by chronic oral fluoxetine (30 and 80 mg/kg/day) treatment in BIG male mice. General locomotor activity was not affected by chronic oral fluoxetine (30 and 80 mg/kg/day) treatment; chronic oral treatment with desipramine (30 mg/kg/day), an antidepressant not effective in treating OCD, had no effect on nesting behavior of BIG male mice, strengthening predictive validity. Together, the results indicate that these mice have good face and predictive validity as a non-induced mouse model of compulsive-like behavior relevant to OCD.
The prominence of Bayesian modeling of cognition has increased recently largely because of mathematical advances in specifying and deriving predictions from complex probabilistic models. Much of this research aims to demonstrate that cognitive behavior can be explained from rational principles alone, without recourse to psychological or neurological processes and representations. We note commonalities between this rational approach and other movements in psychology - namely, Behaviorism and evolutionary psychology - that set aside mechanistic explanations or make use of optimality assumptions. Through these comparisons, we identify a number of challenges that limit the rational program's potential contribution to psychological theory. Specifically, rational Bayesian models are significantly unconstrained, both because they are uninformed by a wide range of process-level data and because their assumptions about the environment are generally not grounded in empirical measurement. The psychological implications of most Bayesian models are also unclear. Bayesian inference itself is conceptually trivial, but strong assumptions are often embedded in the hypothesis sets and the approximation algorithms used to derive model predictions, without a clear delineation between psychological commitments and implementational details. Comparing multiple Bayesian models of the same task is rare, as is the realization that many Bayesian models recapitulate existing (mechanistic level) theories. Despite the expressive power of current Bayesian models, we argue they must be developed in conjunction with mechanistic considerations to offer substantive explanations of cognition. We lay out several means for such an integration, which take into account the representations on which Bayesian inference operates, as well as the algorithms and heuristics that carry it out. We argue this unification will better facilitate lasting contributions to psychological theory, avoiding the pitfalls that have plagued previous theoretical movements.
Traditional models of drug-seeking behavior have shown that exposure to associated environmental cues can trigger relapse. These learned associations take place during repeated drug administration, resulting in conditioned reinforcement. Although considerable investigation has occurred regarding simple conditioned stimuli, less is known about complex environmental cues, particularly those that may be salient in human addiction. Recent studies indicate that music can serve as a contextual conditioned stimulus in rats and influence drug-seeking behavior during abstinence. The purpose of the present study was to further assess the effectiveness of music as a conditioned stimulus in rats, to determine rats' preferences for two contrasting pieces of music, and to determine rats' preferences for music versus silence. To this end, we created an apparatus that gave instrumental control of musical choice (Miles Davis vs. Beethoven) to the rats themselves. After determining baseline musical preference, animals were conditioned with cocaine (10 mg/kg) to the music they initially preferred least, with alternating conditioning sessions pairing saline with the music preferred most. The animals were subsequently tested in a drug-free state to determine what effect this conditioning had on musical preference. The results indicate that music serves as an effective contextual conditioned stimulus, significantly increasing both musical preference and locomotor activity after repeated cocaine conditioning. Furthermore, we found that rats initially favor silence over music, but that this preference can be altered as a result of cocaine-paired conditioning. These findings demonstrate that, after repeated association with reward (cocaine), music can engender a conditioned context preference in rats; these findings are consistent with other evidence showing that musical contextual cues can reinstate drug-seeking behavior in rats.
Previous studies have shown that microinjections of the GABA-A agonist muscimol into the median raphe nucleus (MR) result in large increases in the intake of solid foods. In the current study, we used microstructural techniques to characterize the effects of intra-MR muscimol injections on the consumption of either a 0.05 M or a 0.29 M sucrose solution. After injections of either saline or muscimol, animals consumed more of the 0.29 M than the 0.05 M solution, an effect which resulted primarily from increases in the initial rate of consumption with no change in the rate at which licking decayed across the test session. In contrast, intra-MR muscimol injections had little effect on the initial licking rate, but greatly increased meal duration, indicating that this treatment affected ingestion in a different way than did altering the sucrose concentration. Muscimol injections produced a significantly larger increase in the intake of the 0.29 M than of the 0.05 M solution. Intra-MR muscimol injections did not alter the within burst rate of licking, suggesting that they did not affect the functioning of the licking pattern generator. In contrast, these injections did increase the number of licks contained within &quot;clusters,&quot; that is groups of licks separated from each other by intervals of more than 0.5 sec. These findings show that inactivation of the MR produces a powerful effect on the intake of liquid diets, and that the nature of this effect is different from that produced here by changes in sucrose concentration and from those reported after pharmacological manipulations of a number of other brain systems. We additionally discuss several theoretical issues arising in the interpretation of microstructural data. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2011 APA, all rights reserved).
Age-specific behavioral and neural characteristics may predispose adolescents to initiate and escalate use of alcohol and drugs. Adolescents may avidly seek novel experiences, including drugs of abuse, because of enhanced incentive motivation for drugs and natural rewards, perhaps especially when that incentive motivation is sensitized by prior drug exposure. Using a Pavlovian conditioned approach (PCA) procedure, sign-tracking (ST) and goal-tracking (GT) behavior was examined in amphetamine-sensitized and control adolescent and adult female Sprague-Dawley rats, with expression of elevated ST behavior used to index enhanced incentive motivation for reward-associated cues. Rats were first exposed to a sensitizing regimen of amphetamine injections (3.0 mg/kg/ml d-amphetamine per day) or given saline (0.9% wt/vol) once daily for 4 days. Expression of ST and GT was then examined over 8 days of PCA training consisting of 25 pairings of an 8-s presentation of an illuminated lever immediately followed by response-independent delivery of a banana-flavored food pellet. Results showed that adults clearly displayed more ST behavior than adolescents, reflected via both more contacts with, and shorter latencies to approach, the lever. Prior amphetamine sensitization increased ST (but not GT) behaviors regardless of age. Thus, when indexed via ST, incentive motivation was found to be greater in adults than adolescents, with a prior history of amphetamine exposure generally sensitizing incentive motivation for cues predicting a food reward regardless of age.

Oxycodone, a popularly used opioid for treating pain, is widely abused. Other drugs of abuse have been shown to affect time perception, which, in turn, may affect sensitivity to future consequences. This may contribute to continued use. This study evaluated the effect of oxycodone on time perception in normal healthy volunteers. For this within-subject, double-blind design study, participants performed a temporal reproduction task before and after receiving placebo or oxycodone (15 mg, orally) over six outpatient sessions. Participants were first trained with feedback to reproduce three standard intervals (1.1, 2.2, and 3.3 s) in separate blocks by matching response latency from a start signal to the duration of that block's standard interval. During testing, participants were instructed to reproduce the three intervals from memory without feedback before and after drug administration. Oxycodone significantly lengthened time estimations for the two longer intervals relative to placebo. These results suggest that opioids alter temporal processing for intervals greater than 1 s, raising questions about the effect of these drugs on the valuation of future consequences.
Previous studies have suggested that treatment with antagonists or partial agonists of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors containing the 2-subunit (2 nAChRs) results in antidepressant-like effects. In this study, we tested three novel compounds with different affinity and functional efficacy at 42 nAChRs, which were synthesized as part of nAChR discovery projects at Pfizer, in the tail-suspension, forced-swim, and novelty-suppressed feeding tests of antidepressant efficacy. All compounds tested reduced immobility in the forced-swim test and one of the compounds also reduced immobility in the tail-suspension test. All the compounds appeared to affect food intake on their own, with two compounds reducing feeding significantly in the home cage, precluding a clear interpretation of the results in the novelty-suppressed feeding test. None of the compounds altered locomotor activity at the doses and time points used here. Therefore, a subset of these compounds has pharmacological and behavioral properties that demonstrate the potential of nicotinic compounds as a treatment of mood disorders. Further development of nicotinic-based antidepressants should focus on increasing nAChR subtype selectivity to obtain consistent antidepressant properties with an acceptable side-effect profile.
It is widely accepted that inflammation plays some role in the progression of chronic neurodegenerative diseases such as AD (Alzheimer's disease), but its precise role remains elusive. It has been known for many years that systemic inflammatory insults can signal to the brain to induce changes in CNS (central nervous system) function, typically grouped under the syndrome of sickness behaviour. These changes are mediated via systemic and CNS cytokine and prostaglandin synthesis. When patients with dementia suffer similar systemic inflammatory insults, delirium is a frequent consequence. This profound and acute exacerbation of cognitive dysfunction is associated with poor prognosis: accelerating cognitive decline and shortening time to permanent institutionalization and death. Therefore a better understanding of how delirium occurs during dementia and how these episodes impact on existing neurodegeneration are now important priorities. The current review summarizes the relationship between dementia, systemic inflammation and episodes of delirium and addresses the basic scientific approaches currently being pursued with respect to understanding acute cognitive dysfunction during aging and dementia. In addition, despite there being limited studies on this subject, it is becoming increasingly clear that infections and other systemic inflammatory conditions do increase the risk of AD and accelerate the progression of established dementia. These data suggest that systemic inflammation is a major contributor to the progression of dementia and constitutes an important clinical target.
In the present review, we look back at the recent history of GWAS (genome-wide association studies) in AD (Alzheimer's disease) and integrate the major findings with current knowledge of biological processes and pathways. These topics are essential for the development of animal models, which will be fundamental to our complete understanding of AD.
A number of studies demonstrate disturbances of the central innate immune system in AD (Alzheimer's disease). In animal and human studies, there is evidence of close communication between systemic and central innate immune systems. Animal models of neurodegeneration show evidence of an exaggerated central innate immune response following systemic inflammation. Clinical studies of AD show evidence of increased cognitive decline and exaggerated sickness behaviour in response to systemic inflammation. Recognition of this communication pathway offers alternative explanations for a number of recognized risk factors in the development and progression of AD and highlights the potential of the manipulation of systemic innate immunity as a novel therapeutic approach.
RNA editing is a post-transcriptional process with an important role in gene modification. This editing process involves site-selective deamination of adenosine into inosine in the pre-mRNA, leading to the alteration of translation codons and splicing sites in nuclear transcripts, thereby enabling functionally distinct proteins to arise from a single gene. One important instance is the neuron editing of the ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs). GluRs play a key role in excitatory synaptic transmission and plasticity in the central nervous system (CNS); their channel properties are largely dictated by the subunit composition of the tetrameric receptors. AMPA/kainate channels are assembled from GluA1-4 AMPA or GluK1-5 kainate receptor subunits. In particular, three of the four AMPA and two of the five kainate receptor subunits are subject to RNA editing. The editing positions have been named on the basis of the amino acid substitutions, such as the Q/R site in AMPA GluA2; the Q/R site in GluK1 and GluK2; the R/G site in GluA2, GluA3, and GluA4; and the I/V and Y/C sites in GluK2. These amino acid changes lead to profound alterations of the channel properties. This paper reviews the most relevant data showing the importance of glutamate receptor RNA editing in finely tuning glutamatergic neurotransmission in the normal CNS and following alterations of the editing process in association with disease phenotypes. Overall, these data indicate that a highly regulated process of glutamate receptor editing is of key importance in the proper function of neuronal cells and in their ability to adapt and modulate synaptic function.
I hypothesize here that the ability of probiotics to synthesize neuroactive compounds provides a unifying microbial endocrinology-based mechanism to explain the hitherto incompletely understood action of commensal microbiota that affect the host's gastrointestinal and psychological health. Once ingested, probiotics enter an interactive environment encompassing microbiological, immunological, and neurophysiological components. By utilizing a trans-disciplinary framework known as microbial endocrinology, mechanisms that would otherwise not be considered become apparent since any candidate would need to be shared among all three components. The range of neurochemicals produced by probiotics includes neurochemicals for which receptor-based targets on immune and neuronal elements (intestinal and extra-intestinal) have been well characterized. Production of neurochemicals by probiotics therefore allows for their consideration as delivery vehicles for neuroactive compounds. This unifying microbial endocrinology-based hypothesis, which may facilitate the selection and design of probiotics for clinical use, also highlights the largely unrecognized role of neuroscience in understanding how microbes may influence health.
A wide diversity of models have been proposed to account for the spiking response of central neurons, from the integrate-and-fire (IF) model and its quadratic and exponential variants, to multiple-variable models such as the Izhikevich (IZ) model and the well-known Hodgkin-Huxley (HH) type models. Such models can capture different aspects of the spiking response of neurons, but there is few objective comparison of their performance. In this article, we provide such a comparison in the context of well-defined stimulation protocols, including, for each cell, DC stimulation, and a series of excitatory conductance injections, arising in the presence of synaptic background activity. We use the dynamic-clamp technique to characterize the response of regular-spiking neurons from guinea-pig visual cortex by computing families of post-stimulus time histograms (PSTH), for different stimulus intensities, and for two different background activities (low- and high-conductance states). The data obtained are then used to fit different classes of models such as the IF, IZ, or HH types, which are constrained by the whole data set. This analysis shows that HH models are generally more accurate to fit the series of experimental PSTH, but their performance is almost equaled by much simpler models, such as the exponential or pulse-based IF models. Similar conclusions were also reached by performing partial fitting of the data, and examining the ability of different models to predict responses that were not used for the fitting. Although such results must be qualified by using more sophisticated stimulation protocols, they suggest that nonlinear IF models can capture surprisingly well the response of cortical regular-spiking neurons and appear as useful candidates for network simulations with conductance-based synaptic interactions.



Oxidative stress is a major component of harmful cascades activated in neurodegenerative disorders. We sought to elucidate possible effects of alginate oligosaccharide (AOS) on H(2)O(2)-induced cell death and to determine the underlying molecular mechanisms in neuron-like PC12 cells. We found that AOS treatment protected PC12 cells against H(2)O(2)-induced endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and mitochondrial-dependent apoptotic cell death. AOS promoted Bcl-2 expression, while blocked Bax expression and inhibited H(2)O(2)-induced caspase-3 activation. It also blocked PARP cleavage. AOS acted on key molecules in apoptotic cell death pathway and reduced p53, p38, c-June NH2-terminal kinase phosphorylations, inhibited NFkB, and enhanced Nrf2 activation. These results suggest that treatment of PC12 cells with AOS can block H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative stress and caspase-dependent apoptotic cascades originating from both ER and mitochondria. Our invivo experiments further confirm the neuroprotective potential of AOS against A-induced neural damage. According to our data, the involvement of caspase-independent pathway in AOS-induced protection appears to be unlikely.
Here, we report in vivo 3-D visualization of the layered organization of a rat olfactory bulb (OB) by a swept source optical coherence tomography (SS-OCT). The SS-OCT operates at a wavelength of 1334 nm with respective theoretical depth and lateral resolutions of 6.7 m and 15.4 m in air and hence it is possible to get a 3D structural map of OB in vivo at the micron level resolution with millimeter-scale imaging depth. Up until now, with methods such as MRI, confocal microscopy, OB depth structure in vivo had not been clearly visualized as these do not satisfy the criterion of simultaneously providing micron-scale spatial resolution and imaging up to a few millimeter in depth. In order to confirm the OB's layered organization revealed by SS-OCT, we introduced the technique of electrocoagulation to make landmarks across the layered structure. To our knowledge this is such a first study that combines electrocoagulation and OCT in vivo of rat OB. Our results confirmed the layered organization of OB, and moreover the layers were clearly identified by electrocoagulation landmarks both in the OCT structural and anatomical slice images. We expect such a combined study is beneficial for both OCT and neuroscience fields.
The existence of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) dimers and/or oligomers has been demonstrated in heterologous systems using a variety of biochemical and biophysical assays. While these interactions are the subject of intense research because of their potential role in modulating signaling and altering pharmacology, evidence for the existence of receptor interactions in vivo is still elusive because of a lack of appropriate methods to detect them. Here, we adapted and optimized a proximity ligation assay (PLA) for the detection in brain slices of molecular proximity of two antigens located on either the same or two different GPCRs. Using this approach, we were able to confirm the existence of dopamine D2 and adenosine A2A receptor complexes in the striatum of mice ex vivo.



Since 2005, Acute National Health Service (NHS) Trusts have been funded using a system called Payment by Results. This provides a national or regionally set tariff per patient treated, according to a health resource group code. Health resource group codes vary according to diagnosis or procedures carried out and patient co-morbidities. This only funds trusts admitting patients rather than those advising remotely, as neurosurgical centres do for the majority of emergency referrals. Numbers of referrals and emergency admissions to our unit were analysed for the last 4 years in addition to consultant and secretarial time devoted to these cases. This demonstrated an increase in the number of referrals and time spent advising. For the trust hosting the neurosurgical department, this represents a funding deficit for services offered. In our region, this has been remedied by charging neighbouring trusts a fee for emergency neurosurgical referral advice. However, this is difficult to administrate and would be better served as a service-level agreement with our commissioners. Only when this has been achieved, can neurosurgical centres provide a comprehensive consultant-led emergency service without it being to the detriment of the host trust.

Chordomas constitute &lt;5% of vertebral column tumours and a third of these arise in the upper cervical spine and tend to be clival - usually midline, with occasional eccentric extension. We report a case of cervical chordoma presenting as a lateral neck mass and discuss its origin, diagnosis and management.


BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE The endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) is degraded primarily by monoacylglycerol lipase (MGL). We compared peripheral antinociceptive effects of JZL184, a novel irreversible MGL inhibitor, with the reversible MGL-preferring inhibitor URB602 and exogenous 2-AG in rats. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH Nociception in the formalin test was assessed in groups receiving dorsal paw injections of vehicle, JZL184 (0.001-300 g), URB602 (0.001-600 g), 2-AG (ED(50)), 2-AG + JZL184 (at their ED(50)), 2-AG + URB602 (at their ED(50)), AM251 (80 g), AM251 + JZL184 (10 g), AM630 (25 g) or AM630 + JZL184 (10 g). Effects of MGL inhibitors on endocannabinoid accumulation and on activities of endocannabinoid-metabolizing enzymes were assessed. KEY RESULTS Intra-paw administration of JZL184, URB602 and 2-AG suppressed early and late phases of formalin pain. JZL184 and URB602 acted through a common mechanism. JZL184 (ED(50) Phase 1: 0.06  0.028; Phase 2: 0.03  0.011 g) produced greater antinociception than URB602 (ED(50) Phase 1: 120  51.3; Phase 2: 66  23.9 g) or 2-AG. Both MGL inhibitors produced additive antinociceptive effects when combined with 2-AG. Antinociceptive effects of JZL184, like those of URB602, were blocked by cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB(1)) and cannabinoid receptor 2 (CB(2)) antagonists. JZL184 suppressed MGL but not fatty-acid amide hydrolase or N-arachidonoyl-phosphatidylethanolamine phospholipase D activities ex vivo. URB602 increased hind paw 2-AG without altering anandamide levels. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS MGL inhibitors suppressed formalin-induced pain through peripheral CB(1) and CB(2) receptor mechanisms. MGL inhibition increased paw skin 2-AG accumulation to mediate these effects. MGL represents a target for the treatment of inflammatory pain.
Considerable evidence demonstrates that manipulation of the endocannabinoid system regulates nausea and vomiting in humans and other animals. The anti-emetic effect of cannabinoids has been shown across a wide variety of animals that are capable of vomiting in response to a toxic challenge. CB(1) agonism suppresses vomiting, which is reversed by CB(1) antagonism, and CB(1) inverse agonism promotes vomiting. Recently, evidence from animal experiments suggests that cannabinoids may be especially useful in treating the more difficult to control symptoms of nausea and anticipatory nausea in chemotherapy patients, which are less well controlled by the currently available conventional pharmaceutical agents. Although rats and mice are incapable of vomiting, they display a distinctive conditioned gaping response when re-exposed to cues (flavours or contexts) paired with a nauseating treatment. Cannabinoid agonists ((9) -THC, HU-210) and the fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) inhibitor, URB-597, suppress conditioned gaping reactions (nausea) in rats as they suppress vomiting in emetic species. Inverse agonists, but not neutral antagonists, of the CB(1) receptor promote nausea, and at subthreshold doses potentiate nausea produced by other toxins (LiCl). The primary non-psychoactive compound in cannabis, cannabidiol (CBD), also suppresses nausea and vomiting within a limited dose range. The anti-nausea/anti-emetic effects of CBD may be mediated by indirect activation of somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) receptors in the dorsal raphe nucleus; activation of these autoreceptors reduces the release of 5-HT in terminal forebrain regions. Preclinical research indicates that cannabinioids, including CBD, may be effective clinically for treating both nausea and vomiting produced by chemotherapy or other therapeutic treatments.
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE The substituted benzamide, metoclopramide, is a dopamine receptor antagonist and is widely prescribed in the symptomatic treatment of nausea and vomiting, although it can cause adverse motor and non-motor side effects. The effects of metoclopramide on brain metabolism have not been investigated to date. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH To determine the effects of metoclopramide on brain function, cerebral perfusion changes after a single oral dose were assessed in healthy volunteers using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques. Arterial spin labelling (ASL) perfusion MRI was used to measure cerebral blood flow before and after metoclopramide. Blood haemodynamics in the vertebral and internal carotid arteries were evaluated using phase-contrast MRI. KEY RESULTS Metoclopramide altered haemodynamics in the carotid arteries and the cerebral perfusion. Perfusion increased bilaterally in the putamen, consistent with antagonism of dopamine D(2) receptors by metoclopramide and possibly related to its motor side effects. In contrast, reduced perfusion was observed in the insular cortices and anterior temporal lobes. In addition, functional connectivity between the insular cortex and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was decreased. These cortical changes affecting neural circuits between high-order association areas may underlie certain neuropsychiatric conditions occasionally reported after metoclopramide administration. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS The present results show the sensitivity of ASL to detect small changes in regional blood flow, closely related to brain function, after a single pharmacological challenge, highlighting the potential of this technique for human pharmacological studies.
Translational molecular imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) and allied technologies offer unrivalled applications in the discovery of biomarkers and aetiological mechanisms relevant to human disease. Foremost among clinical PET findings during the past two decades of addiction research is the seminal discovery of reduced dopamine D(2/3) receptor expression in the striatum of drug addicts, which could indicate a predisposing factor and/or compensatory reaction to the chronic abuse of stimulant drugs. In parallel, recent years have witnessed significant improvements in the performance of small animal tomographs (microPET) and a refinement of animal models of addiction based on clinically relevant diagnostic criteria. This review surveys the utility of PET in the elucidation of neuropharmacological mechanisms underlying drug addiction. It considers the consequences of chronic drug exposure on regional brain metabolism and neurotransmitter function and identifies those areas where further research is needed, especially concerning the implementation of PET tracers targeting neurotransmitter systems other than dopamine, which increasingly have been implicated in the pathophysiology of drug addiction. In addition, this review considers the causal effects of behavioural traits such as impulsivity and novelty/sensation-seeking on the emergence of compulsive drug-taking. Previous research indicates that spontaneously high-impulsive rats--as exemplified by 'Zippy'--are pre-disposed to escalate intravenous cocaine self-administration, and subsequently to develop compulsive drug taking tendencies that endure despite concurrent adverse consequences of such behaviour, just as in human addiction. The discovery using microPET of pre-existing differences in dopamine D(2/3) receptor expression in the striatum of high-impulsive rats suggests a neural endophenotype that may likewise pre-dispose to stimulant addiction in humans.
Attentional biases may influence the eye-movements made when judging bodies and so alter the visual information sampled when making a judgment. This may lead to an overestimation of body size. We measured the eye-movements made by 16 anorexic observers and 16 age-matched controls when judging body size and attractiveness. We combined behavioural data with a novel eye-movement analysis technique that allowed us to apply spatial statistical techniques to make fine spatial discriminations in the pattern of eye-movements between our observer groups. Our behavioural results show that anorexic observers overestimate body size relative to controls and find bodies with lower body mass indexes more attractive. For both judgments, the controls' fixations centre on the stomach, but the anorexic observers show a much wider fixation pattern extending to encompass additional features such as the prominence of the hip and collar bones. This additional visual information may serve to alter their behavioural judgments towards an overestimation of body size and shift their ideal body size towards a significantly lower value.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 is activated by small subunits, of which p35 is the most abundant. The functions of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 signalling in cognition and cognitive disorders remains unclear. Here, we show that in schizophrenia, a disorder associated with impaired cognition, p35 expression is reduced in relevant brain regions. Additionally, the expression of septin 7 and OPA1, proteins downstream of truncated p35, is decreased in schizophrenia. Mimicking a reduction of p35 in heterozygous knockout mice is associated with cognitive endophenotypes. Furthermore, a reduction of p35 in mice results in protein changes similar to schizophrenia post-mortem brain. Hence, heterozygous p35 knockout mice model both cognitive endophenotypes and molecular changes reminiscent of schizophrenia. These changes correlate with reduced acetylation of the histone deacetylase 1 target site H3K18 in mice. This site has previously been shown to be affected by truncated p35. By restoring H3K18 acetylation with the clinically used specific histone deacetylase 1 inhibitor MS-275 both cognitive and molecular endophenotypes of schizophrenia can be rescued in p35 heterozygous knockout mice. In summary, we suggest that reduced p35 expression in schizophrenia has an impact on synaptic protein expression and cognition and that these deficits can be rescued, at least in part, by the inhibition of histone deacetylase 1.
Diffusion tensor imaging is highly sensitive to the microstructural integrity of the brain and has uncovered significant abnormalities following traumatic brain injury not appreciated through other methods. It is hoped that this increased sensitivity will aid in the detection and prognostication in patients with traumatic injury. However, the pathological substrates of such changes are poorly understood. Specifically, decreases in fractional anisotropy derived from diffusion tensor imaging are consistent with axonal injury, myelin injury or both in white matter fibres. In contrast, in both humans and animal models, increases in fractional anisotropy have been suggested to reflect axonal regeneration and plasticity, but the direct histological evidence for such changes remains tenuous. We developed a method to quantify the anisotropy of stained histological sections using Fourier analysis, and applied the method to a rat controlled cortical impact model to identify the specific pathological features that give rise to the diffusion tensor imaging changes in subacute to chronic traumatic brain injury. A multiple linear regression was performed to relate the histological measurements to the measured diffusion tensor changes. The results show that anisotropy was significantly increased (P&lt;0.001) in the perilesioned cortex following injury. Cortical anisotropy was independently associated (standardized =0.62, P=0.04) with the coherent organization of reactive astrocytes (i.e. gliosis) and was not attributed to axons. By comparison, a decrease in white matter anisotropy (P&lt;0.001) was significantly related to demyelination (=0.75, P=0.0015) and to a lesser extent, axonal degeneration (=-0.48, P=0.043). Gliosis within the lesioned cortex also influenced diffusion tensor tractography, highlighting the fact that spurious tracts in the injured brain may not necessarily reflect continuous axons and may instead depict glial scarring. The current study demonstrates a novel method to relate pathology to diffusion tensor imaging findings, elucidates the underlying mechanisms of anisotropy changes following traumatic brain injury and significantly impacts the clinical interpretation of diffusion tensor imaging findings in the injured brain.
The neuroprotective effect of the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor has been extensively studied in various toxic models of Parkinson's disease. However, it remains unclear whether this neurotrophic factor can protect against the toxicity induced by the aggregation-prone protein -synuclein. Targeted overexpression of human wild-type -synuclein in the nigrostriatal system, using adeno-associated viral vectors, causes a progressive degeneration of the nigral dopamine neurons and the development of axonal pathology in the striatum. In the present study, we investigated, using different paradigms of delivery, whether glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor can protect against the neurodegenerative changes and the cellular stress induced by -synuclein. We found that viral vector-mediated delivery of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor into substantia nigra and/or striatum, administered 2-3 weeks before -synuclein, was inefficient in preventing the wild-type -synuclein-induced loss of dopamine neurons and terminals. In addition, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor overexpression did not ameliorate the behavioural deficit in this rat model of Parkinson's disease. Quantification of striatal -synuclein-positive aggregates revealed that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor had no effect on -synuclein aggregation. These data provide the evidence for the lack of neuroprotective effect of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor against the toxicity of human wild-type -synuclein in an in vivo model of Parkinson's disease. The difference in neuroprotective efficacy of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor seen in our model and the commonly used neurotoxin models of Parkinson's disease, raises important issues pertinent to the interpretation of the results obtained in preclinical models of Parkinson's disease, and their relevance for the therapeutic use glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor in patients with Parkinson's disease.

Cannabinoid CB1 receptors (CB1Rs) regulate the neurodegenerative damage of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and of multiple sclerosis (MS). The mechanism by which CB1R stimulation exerts protective effects is still unclear. Here we show that pharmacological activation of CB1Rs dampens the tumor necrosis factor  (TNF)-mediated potentiation of striatal spontaneous glutamate-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs), which is believed to cogently contribute to the inflammation-induced neurodegenerative damage observed in EAE mice. Furthermore, mice lacking CB1Rs showed a more severe clinical course and, in parallel, exacerbated alterations of sEPSC duration after induction of EAE, indicating that endogenous cannabinoids activate CB1Rs and mitigate the synaptotoxic action of TNF in EAE. Consistently, we found that mice lacking the fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), and thus expressing abnormally high brain levels of the endocannabinoid anandamide, developed a less severe EAE associated with preserved TNF-induced sEPSC alterations. CB1Rs are important modulators of EAE pathophysiology, and might play a mechanistic role in the neurodegenerative damage of MS patients.
Stressful experiences typically have short-lived neuroendocrine and neurochemical effects, but the processes leading to these biological alterations may be sensitized so that later challenges promote exaggerated responses. As stressors and immunogenic insults have both been associated with inflammatory immune variations within the brain, we assessed whether a social defeat stressor would result in augmented corticosterone release and mRNA expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) upon later social defeat (sensitization) or endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide: LPS) challenges (cross-sensitization). In the absence of a prior stressor experience, the social defeat challenge did not affect prefrontal interleukin (IL)-1 or tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- mRNA expression, but increased that of IL-6, whereas LPS increased the expression of each cytokine. Among mice that had initially been repeatedly defeated, IL-1 and TNF- expression was enhanced after the social defeat challenge, whereas this was not evident in response to the LPS challenge. In contrast, the initial social defeat stressor had protracted effects in that increase of IL-6 expression was limited upon subsequent challenge with either social defeat or LPS. Previous social stressor experiences also limited the corticosterone rise ordinarily elicited by either social defeat or LPS treatment. It seems that a powerful stressor, such as social defeat, may have persistent effects on later corticosterone and cytokine responses to different types of stressful insults (social versus systemic challenges), but the nature of the effects varies with the specific process assessed.
Chronic psychosocial stress is a risk factor for many affective and somatic disorders, including inflammatory bowel diseases. In support chronic subordinate colony housing (CSC, 19 days), an established mouse model of chronic psychosocial stress, causes the development of spontaneous colitis. However, the mechanisms underlying the development of such stress-induced colitis are poorly understood. Assessing several functional levels of the colon during the initial stress phase, we show a pronounced adrenal hormone-mediated local immune suppression, paralleled by impaired intestinal barrier functions, resulting in enhanced bacterial load in stool and colonic tissue. Moreover, prolonged treatment with broad-spectrum antibiotics revealed the causal role of these early maladaptations in the development of stress-induced colitis. Together, we demonstrate that translocation of commensal bacteria is crucial in the initiation of stress-induced colonic inflammation. However, aggravation by the immune-modulatory effects of fluctuating levels of adrenal hormones is required to develop this into a full-blown colitis.
A growing body of evidence supports a role of inflammation in the loss of central nervous system neurons both to acute and chronic insults, while its contribution to the loss of neurons in the enteric nervous system remains largely uninvestigated. We have addressed this issue by exploring the role of inflammation in dopaminergic (DAergic) myenteric neuronal degeneration secondary to MPTP lesioning in mice deficient in MyD88, a protein implicated in the cascade of events leading to the innate immune response. Our results show that MPTP-treated MyD88 knock out (MyD88(-/-)) mice were protected against the toxin-induced TH-immunoreactive neuronal degeneration at the level of the myenteric plexus of the distal ileum, which causes a 50% loss of such neurons in MPTP-treated WT mice. Interestingly, the density of macrophages was the same in the MyD88(-/-) mice subjected to MPTP, as opposed to the increase in density observed in wild-type (WT) mice treated with the toxin, which was due to an infiltration of monocyte from the blood to the myenteric tissue. Furthermore, in MPTP-treated MyD88(-/-) mice, resident macrophages exhibited a predominant pro-repair phenotype, which could have contributed to the protection of DAergic neurons in the myenteric plexus. Taken together, our results suggest a critical role for the MyD88-dependent pathway in the gastrointestinal DAergic degeneration induced by MPTP.
Solving simple arithmetic problems involves three stages: encoding the problem, retrieving or calculating the answer, and reporting the answer. This study compared the event-related potentials elicited by single-digit addition and multiplication problems to examine the relationship between encoding and retrieval/calculation stages. Results showed that the operation effect appeared as early as the encoding of the first operand and continued to the retrieval/calculation stage: compared to addition, multiplication elicited larger negative potentials in the left anterior electrodes and larger positive potentials in the right posterior electrodes. The consistency of this operation effect across the first two stages of arithmetic processing suggests that encoding of arithmetic problems can be modulated by the nature of representation of the to-be-retrieved arithmetic facts, and thus these two stages are additive rather than interactive.
We retrospectively analyzed central tegmental tract (CTT) lesions in 120 consecutive autopsy cases of developmental brain disorders to investigate the significance of symmetrical CTT lesions. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings of CTT lesions have been sporadically reported in various cases of child neurological diseases. In this study, symmetrical CTT lesions were observed in 25 (20.8%) among 120 cases of developmental brain disorders. These 25 cases were classified into three groups (groups I-III) in decreasing order of the severity of the lesion. Compared to five cases of group I in which CTT lesions were accompanied by diffuse tegmental damage, 20 cases of groups II or III developed relatively selective CTT lesions in which the medial longitudinal fasciculus and/or medial or lateral lemniscus were preserved. The causes of brain disorders in all three groups seemed to be different, and lysosomal disorders and congenital brain anomalies were frequently seen in cases in groups II and III, respectively. The dentato-rubro-olivary system is known to be involved in palatal myoclonus, and five out of 13 cases in group II showed myoclonic epilepsy. Compared with 95 cases without the CTT lesion, the changes in the pontine reticular formation were more closely associated with the CTT lesion than those in the inferior olivary nucleus. In conclusion, in cases of developmental brain disorders, the neuropathology of the symmetrical CTT lesion should be investigated.
Growing evidence indicates that neuroinflammation can alter adult neurogenesis by mechanisms as yet unclear. We have previously demonstrated that the neuroinflammatory response and neuronal damage after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection is reduced in cyclooxygenase-1 deficient (COX-1(-/-)) mice. In this study, we investigated the role of COX-1 on hippocampal neurogenesis during LPS-induced neuroinflammation, using COX-1(-/-) and wild type (WT) mice. We found that LPS-induced neuroinflammation resulted in the decrease of proliferation, survival and differentiation of hippocampal progenitor cells in WT but not in COX-1(-/-) mice. Thus, we demonstrate for the first time that COX-1 is involved in the inhibition of BrdU progenitor cells in proliferation and hippocampal neurogenesis after LPS. These results suggest that COX-1 may represent a viable therapeutic target to reduce neuroinflammation and promote neurogenesis in neurodegenerative diseases with a strong inflammatory component.
The brain transforms clues from the external world, the sensory stimuli, into activities in neuroglial networks. These circuits are activated in specialized sensory cortices where specific functional modules are responsible for the spatiotemporal coding of the stimulus. A major challenge in the neuroscience field has been to image the spatial distribution and follow the temporal dynamics of the activation of such large populations in vivo. Functional imaging techniques developed in the last 30 years have enabled researchers to solve this critical issue, and are reviewed here. These techniques utilize sources of contrast of radioisotopic, magnetic and optical origins and exploit two major families of signals to image sensory activity: the first class uses sources linked to cellular energy metabolism and hemodynamics, while the second involves exogenous indicators of neuronal activity. The whole panel of imaging techniques has fostered the functional exploration of the olfactory bulb which is one of the most studied sensory structures. We summarize the major results obtained using these techniques that describe the spatial and temporal activity patterns in the olfactory glomeruli, the first relay of olfactory information processing in the main olfactory bulb. We conclude this review by describing promising technical developments in optical imaging and future directions in the study of olfactory spatiotemporal coding.


Plasminogen activators play an important role in synaptic plasticity associated with the crossed phrenic phenomenon (CPP) and recovery of respiratory function after spinal cord injury. A genetic approach using knockout mice lacking various genes in the plasminogen activator/plasmin system has shown that induction of urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) is required during the first hour after a C2-hemisection for the acquisition of the CPP response. The uPA knockout mice do not show the structural remodeling of phrenic motor neuron synapses characteristic of the CPP response. As shown here uPA acts in a cell signaling manner via binding to its receptor uPAR rather than as a protease, since uPAR knockout mice or knock-in mice possessing a modified uPA that is unable to bind to uPAR both fail to generate a CPP and recover respiratory function. Microarray data and real-time PCR analysis of mRNAs induced in the phrenic motor nucleus after C2-hemisection in C57Bl/6 mice as compared to uPA knockout mice indicate a potential cell signaling cascade downstream possibly involving -integrin and Src, and other pathways. Identification of these uPA-mediated signaling pathways may provide the opportunity to pharmacologically upregulate the synaptic plasticity necessary for recovery of phrenic motoneuron activity following cervical spinal cord injury.
Marshall Nirenberg will always be remembered for deciphering the genetic code by which DNA and RNA sequences specify the amino acid sequence in proteins. His switch to neurobiology in the 1960s was driven, in part, by an interest in the possibility of a neural code specifying the development and functioning of the neural circuits that underlie brain function. Neural cell adhesion or recognition molecules would probably be involved in such circuit formation, and this review briefly examines one set of such molecules. The specific binding between presynaptic neurexins and postsynaptic neuroligins could constitute one aspect of the code underlying the formation of specific synaptic circuits.
Degeneration of neural retina causes vision impairment and can lead to blindness. Neural stem and progenitor cells might be used as a tool directed to regenerative medicine of the retina. Here, we describe a novel platform for cell phenotype-specific drug discovery and screening of proneurogenic factors, able to boost differentiation of neural retinal progenitor cells. By using single cell calcium imaging (SCCI) and a rational-based stimulation protocol, a diversity of cells emerging from differentiated retinal neurosphere cultures were identified. Exposure of retinal progenitor cultures to KCl or to -amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) stimulated Ca(2+) transients in microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP-2) positive neurons. Doublecortin (DCX) and polysialated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) positive neuroblasts were distinguished from differentiated neurons on the basis of their response to muscimol. Ca(2+) fluxes in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) or glutamine synthetase (GS) positive cells were induced by ATP. To validate the platform, neurospheres were treated with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) (proneurogenic) or ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) (gliogenic factor). BDNF increased the percentage of differentiated cells expressing Tuj-1 sensitive to KCl or AMPA and reduced the population of cells responding to muscimol. CNTF exposure resulted in a higher number of cells expressing GFAP responding to ATP. All together, our data may open new perspectives for cell type-specific discovery of drug targets and screening of novel proneurogenic factors to boost differentiation of neural retina cells to treat degenerative retinal diseases.
Mounting evidence indicates cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors (CKIs) of the Cip/Kip family, including p57(Kip2) and p27(Kip1), control not only cell cycle exit but also corticogenesis. Nevertheless, distinct activities of p57(Kip2) remain poorly defined. Using in vivo and culture approaches, we show p57(Kip2) overexpression at E14.5-15.5 elicits precursor cell cycle exit, promotes transition from proliferation to neuronal differentiation, and enhances process outgrowth, while opposite effects occur in p57(Kip2)-deficient precursors. Studies at later ages indicate p57(Kip2) overexpression also induces precocious glial differentiation, suggesting stage-dependent effects. In embryonic cortex, p57(Kip2) overexpression advances cell radial migration and alters postnatal laminar positioning. While both CKIs induce differentiation, p57(Kip2) was twice as effective as p27(Kip1) in inducing neuronal differentiation and was not permissive to astrogliogenic effects of ciliary neurotrophic factor, suggesting that the CKIs differentially modulate cell fate decisions. At molecular levels, although highly conserved N-terminal regions of both CKIs elicit cycle withdrawal and differentiation, the C-terminal region of p57(Kip2) alone inhibits in vivo migration. Furthermore, p57(Kip2) effects on neurogenesis and gliogenesis require the N-terminal cyclin/CDK binding/inhibitory domains, while previous p27(Kip1) studies report cell cycle-independent functions. These observations suggest p57(Kip2) coordinates multiple stages of corticogenesis and exhibits distinct and common activities compared with related family member p27(Kip1).
Few microanatomical measures have been reliably correlated with cognitive measures in aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD), particularly in the early stages of degeneration, such as mild cognitive impairment (MCI). However, cortical minicolumn organization has been shown to correlate with cognitive ability in aging monkeys, and the present study extends this finding to humans. We have previously reported that minicolumn spacing of cells in human association cortex is selectively reduced in normal aging (minicolumn thinning). The present study found that such measures detected early disease changes in MCI as well as further minicolumn thinning and disruption in AD. Plaques, tangles, and minicolumns were quantified, postmortem, for 20 controls, 10 MCI, and 20 AD subjects. Minicolumn changes were correlated with premortem cognitive scores (mini-mental state examination and verbal fluency). Two regions were studied from each brain: association cortex in the planum temporale (BA22) and primary auditory cortex (BA41). The relationship between minicolumns and cognitive function was strongest in association cortex, whereas in primary auditory cortex, it appeared to be an epiphenomenon of overall brain atrophy. Microanatomical changes reflecting selective regional vulnerability to AD pathology and differential involvement in the cognitive deficit of AD are therefore detectable in the early stage of MCI.
Learning words is central in human development. However, lacking clear evidence for how or where language is processed in the developing brain, it is unknown whether these processes are similar in infants and adults. Here, we use magnetoencephalography in combination with high-resolution structural magnetic resonance imaging to noninvasively estimate the spatiotemporal distribution of word-selective brain activity in 12- to 18-month-old infants. Infants watched pictures of common objects and listened to words that they understood. A subset of these infants also listened to familiar words compared with sensory control sounds. In both experiments, words evoked a characteristic event-related brain response peaking 400 ms after word onset, which localized to left frontotemporal cortices. In adults, this activity, termed the N400m, is associated with lexico-semantic encoding. Like adults, we find that the amplitude of the infant N400m is also modulated by semantic priming, being reduced to words preceded by a semantically related picture. These findings suggest that similar left frontotemporal areas are used for encoding lexico-semantic information throughout the life span, from the earliest stages of word learning. Furthermore, this ontogenetic consistency implies that the neurophysiological processes underlying the N400m may be important both for understanding already known words and for learning new words.
Cortical -aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic interneurons in rodents originate mainly in ventrally positioned ganglionic eminences (GEs), but their origin in primates is still debated. We studied human fetal forebrains during the first half of gestation (5-23 gestational weeks, gw) for the expression of ventral transcription factors, Nkx2.1, Dlx1,2, Lhx6, and Mash1, important for development of neocortical interneurons. In embryonic (5-8 gw) human forebrain, these factors were expressed in the GE but also dorsally in the neocortical ventricular/subventricular zones (VZ/SVZ). Furthermore, their expression was retained in cells of all fetal cortical layers up to midgestation (20 gw). Nkx2.1 continued to be expressed not only in the GE but also in a subpopulation of neocortical interneurons. Moreover, proliferation marker Ki67 revealed that calretinin(+), Mash1(+), and Nkx2.1(+) cells proliferate in the neocortical VZ/SVZ at midgestation. At least some of the Mash1(+) progenitors in the neocortical SVZ could be colabeled with GABA, whereas others were oligodendrocyte progenitors, indicating a link between the 2 lineages. Taken together, these results suggest the existence of several categories of dorsal interneuronal progenitors in the human neocortical VZ/SVZ, in addition to ventrally derived cortical interneurons described in rodents. These human-specific developmental events may underlie human brain's higher complexity and capacity to process information.

Emanuel Swedenborg is widely accredited for his religious fervor and devout dedication to his spirituality. He spearheaded the creation of what is known today as the New Jerusalem Church. However, Swedenborg also served as a prominent figure in the European Enlightenment, making noteworthy strides in the fields of mathematics and science. His acumen for science instilled in the medical world groundbreaking ideas that would forever innovate the practice of medicine. Not only did Swedenborg describe intricacies of the cerebral cortex but he also discovered the perivascular spaces, the foramen of Magendie, and the cerebrospinal fluid. He noted the importance of the pituitary gland or &quot;arch gland&quot; in maintaining normal neurological function. Lastly, in a period where the cortex was given no significant function, Swedenborg developed the idea of somatotopic organization, and this was almost 100years prior to Fritsch and Hitzig. It is on the shoulders of such great pioneers as Emanuel Swedenborg that we base our current understanding of the nervous system.

The Y loops of Drosophila spermatocytes are formed by the expression of huge individual transcription units on the Y chromosome and their large size provides a unique system for the investigation of the organisation of transcription in intact nuclei. By labelling ribonucleo-protein (RNP) components, the loop chromatin and nascent transcripts in Y loop C, we reveal a highly structured organisation of RNP domains associated with nascent transcripts. We distinguish two types of RNP domain, a proximal domain that runs alongside the chromatin of loop C and a distal RNP domain that wraps around the proximal domain and the loop chromatin. The proximal domain is marked by the Pasilla protein, and separate distal subdomains are marked by the S5 antigen and Boule. We discuss the implications of this highly structured co-transcriptional architecture for the organisation of the process of transcription.
To help define the relationships among inflammation, Alzheimer disease, and depression, the Texas Alzheimer's Research Consortium analyzed an array of inflammatory biomarkers in a cohort of patients with Alzheimer disease and in controls. Inflammation severity was highly correlated with earlier age at onset of Alzheimer disease and was also associated with cognitive decline. The relationship between inflammation and depression was not as clear, and it varied with aspects of depression, gender, and the presence of Alzheimer disease.



Exome sequencing is rapidly becoming a fundamental tool for genetics and functional genomics laboratories. This methodology has enabled the discovery of novel pathogenic mutations causing mendelian diseases that had, until now, remained elusive. In this review, we discuss not only how we envisage exome sequencing being applied to a complex disease, such as Parkinson's disease, but also what are the known caveats of this approach.

Landau-Kleffner syndrome (LKS) is a childhood disorder characterized by an acquired aphasia that emerges in association with epileptiform electroencephalographic abnormalities. The language loss is often characterized by a severe disturbance of auditory language comprehension (verbal auditory agnosia) combined with a substantial disruption of expressive language. Comorbid behavioral disturbances commonly involve hyperactivity and attentional problems but sometimes encompass a more pervasive pattern of difficulties resembling an autism spectrum disorder. Now one the most frequently described forms of acquired aphasia in children, LKS has had a profound influence on both neurological practice and cognitive neuroscience. Here, we review current conceptualizations of LKS, consider its pleomorphic manifestations and discuss existing and future diagnostic issues and dilemmas. The potential relevance of LKS to understanding other disorders, including autistic regression, is considered.
Genomics has been revolutionizing medicine over the past decade by offering mechanistic insights into disease processes and engendering the age of &quot;individualized medicine.&quot; Because of the sheer number of measures generated by gene sequencing methods, genomics requires &quot;Big Science&quot; where large datasets on genes are analyzed in reference to electronic medical record data. This revolution has largely bypassed the behavioral neurosciences, mainly because of the paucity of behavioral data in medical records and the labor-intensity of available neuropsychological assessment methods. We describe the development and implementation of an efficient neuroscience-based computerized battery, coupled with a computerized clinical assessment procedure. This assessment package has been applied to a genomic study of 10,000 children aged 8-21, of whom 1000 also undergo neuroimaging. Results from the first 3000 participants indicate sensitivity to neurodevelopmental trajectories. Sex differences were evident, with females outperforming males in memory and social cognition domains, while for spatial processing males were more accurate and faster, and they were faster on simple motor tasks. The study illustrates what will hopefully become a major component of the work of clinical and research neuropsychologists as invaluable participants in the dawning age of Big Science neuropsychological genomics.

Within the past few decades, there has been a surge of interest in the investigation of mindfulness as a psychological construct and as a form of clinical intervention. This article reviews the empirical literature on the effects of mindfulness on psychological health. We begin with a discussion of the construct of mindfulness, differences between Buddhist and Western psychological conceptualizations of mindfulness, and how mindfulness has been integrated into Western medicine and psychology, before reviewing three areas of empirical research: cross-sectional, correlational research on the associations between mindfulness and various indicators of psychological health; intervention research on the effects of mindfulness-oriented interventions on psychological health; and laboratory-based, experimental research on the immediate effects of mindfulness inductions on emotional and behavioral functioning. We conclude that mindfulness brings about various positive psychological effects, including increased subjective well-being, reduced psychological symptoms and emotional reactivity, and improved behavioral regulation. The review ends with a discussion on mechanisms of change of mindfulness interventions and suggested directions for future research.
Adult Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a life-long, chronic disorder, which has its onset in childhood and is associated with significant functional impairment. ADHD appears to be highly comorbid with other psychiatric disorders, however, literature is lacking concerning ADHD/anxiety comorbidity. To that end, we examined the prevalence of ADHD in an anxiety disorder sample. Consecutive patients referred to an anxiety disorders clinic completed a variety of anxiety disorder self-report measures as well as the Adult ADHD self-report scale and were clinically assessed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV, and the ADHD module of the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview. Of the 129 patients assessed, the rate of adult ADHD was 27.9%. The mean age of the sample was 33.1  12.5 years, and the mean baseline CGI-S was 4.6  1.1 (moderate to marked severity). The majority of the sample was female (63.6%) and single (49.5%). The most common comorbid disorders associated with ADHD were major depressive disorder (53.8%), social phobia (38.5%), generalized anxiety disorder (23.1%), and impulse control disorders (30.8%). Individuals with ADHD had higher symptom severity scores for obsessive-compulsive disorder, (P 0.05) and for GAD (P 0.05) and reported a significantly earlier age of onset for depression as compared to those without (P 0.05). The prevalence of adult ADHD was higher in our anxiety disorders clinic sample than found in the general population. Clinical implications of these findings are discussed.
PDZ (PSD-95/Discs-large/ZO-1 homology) domains represent putative targets in several diseases including cancer, stroke, addiction and neuropathic pain. Here we describe the application of a simple and fast screening assay based on fluorescence polarization (FP) to identify inhibitors of the PDZ domain in PICK1 (protein interacting with C kinase 1). We screened 43,380 compounds for their ability to inhibit binding of an Oregon Green labeled C-terminal dopamine transporter peptide (OrG-DAT C13) to purified PICK1 in solution. The assay was highly reliable with excellent screening assay parameters (Z'0.7 and Z0.6). Out of ~200 compounds that reduced FP to less than 80% of the control wells, six compounds were further characterized. The apparent affinities of the compounds were determined in FP competition binding experiments and ranged from ~5.0 M to ~193 M. Binding to the PICK1 PDZ domain was confirmed for five of the compounds (CSC-03, CSC-04, CSC-43, FSC-231 and FSC-240) in a non-fluorescence based assay by their ability to inhibit pull-down of PICK1 by a C-terminal DAT GST fusion protein. CSC-03 displayed the highest apparent affinity (5.0 M) in the FP assay, and was according to fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) experiments capable of inhibiting the interaction between the C-terminus of the GluR2 subunit of the AMPA-type glutamate receptor and PICK1 in live cells. Additional experiments suggested that CSC-03 most likely is an irreversible inhibitor but with specificity for PICK1 since it did not bind three different PDZ domains of PSD-95. Summarized, our data suggest that FP based screening assays might be a widely applicable tool in the search for small molecule inhibitors of PDZ domain interactions.


Until recently, nitrite has been considered a stable oxidation inert metabolite of nitric oxide (()NO) metabolism. This view is now changing as it has been shown that nitrite can be reduced back to ()NO and thus one may consider a reversible interaction regarding ()NO:nitrite couple. Not only physiological regulatory actions have been assigned to nitrite but also may represent, in addition to nitrate, the largest ()NO reservoir in the body. This notion has obvious importance when considering that ()NO is a ubiquitous regulator of cell functions, ranging from neuromodulation to the regulation of vascular tone. Particularly in the stomach, following ingestion of nitrate and food or beverages-containing polyphenols, a rich chemistry occurs in which ()NO, ()NO-derived species and nitroso or nitrated derivatives may be formed. Most of these molecules may play an important role in vivo. For instance, it has been shown that polyphenol-catalyzed nitrite reduction to ()NO may induce local vasodilation and that ethanol (from wine) reacts with ()NO-derived species yielding nitroso derivatives endowed with ()NO-donating properties. Thus, this review reveals new pathways for the biological effects of dietary nitrite encompassing its interaction with dietary components (polyphenols, red wine, lipids), yielding products with impact on human physiology and pathology, namely cardiovascular, urinary and gastrointestinal systems. Novel therapeutic strategies are therefore expected to follow the elucidation of the mechanisms of nitrite biology.
Defecatory disorders are a common cause of chronic constipation and should be managed by biofeedback-guided pelvic floor retraining. While anorectal tests are necessary to diagnose defecatory disorders, recent studies highlight the utility of a careful digital rectal examination. While obstetric anal injury can cause fecal incontinence (FI), diarrhea is a more important risk factor for FI among women in the community, who typically develop FI after age 40. Initial management of fecal incontinence should focus on bowel disturbances. Pelvic floor retraining with biofeedback therapy is beneficial for patients who do not respond to bowel management. Sacral nerve stimulation should be considered in patients who do not respond to conservative therapy.
Borrelia burgdorferi infection, the tick-borne spirochetosis known as Lyme disease or Lyme borreliosis, involves the nervous system (neuroborreliosis) in 10% to 15% of patients. Common manifestations include lymphocytic meningitis, cranial neuritis, mononeuropathy multiplex, and painful radiculoneuritis. Rare patients develop inflammation in the brain or spinal cord. Regardless of the form of involvement, neuroborreliosis can be microbiologically cured in virtually all patients using standard 2- to 4-week antimicrobial regimens. Oral regimens appear to be as effective as parenteral ones in most instances. Although patients ill with Lyme disease may have concomitant cognitive or memory difficulty, these symptoms are not specific to neuroborreliosis and, when present in isolation, should not be viewed as suggestive of this diagnosis. When present as part of Lyme disease, they do not require additional or different treatment.
Psychogenic movement disorders (PMD) and other conversion disorders (CD) with apparent neurologic signs (neurologic CD) plague patients and perplex physicians. Due to a lack of objective evidence of underlying brain lesions, CD were largely abandoned by neurologists and remained poorly understood psychiatric diagnoses throughout most of the 20th century. Modern neuroscience now supports increasingly comprehensive biological models for these complex disorders, definitively establishing their place in both neurology and psychiatry. Although it is often clinically useful to distinguish a movement disorder as either &quot;organic&quot; or &quot;psychogenic,&quot; this dichotomy is difficult to defend scientifically. Here we describe the neuroimaging and neurophysiologic evidence for dysfunctional neural networks in PMD, explain the diagnostic potential of clinical neurophysiologic testing, discuss the promising if increasingly complex role of neuropsychiatric genetics, and review current treatment strategies.
In 2011, there are greater than 20 antiepileptic medications available. These medications work by modulating neuronal excitability. Reproductive hormones have been found to have a role in the pathogenesis and treatment of seizures by also altering neuronal excitability, especially in women with catamenial epilepsy. The female reproductive hormones have in general opposing effects on neuronal excitability; estrogens generally impart a proconvulsant neurophysiologic tone, whereas the progestogens have anticonvulsant effects. It follows then that fluctuations in the levels of serum progesterone and estrogen throughout a normal reproductive cycle bring about an increased or decreased risk of seizure occurrence based upon the serum estradiol/progesterone ratio. Therefore, using progesterone, its metabolite allopregnanolone, or other hormonal therapies have been explored in the treatment of patients with epilepsy.
Given the cytoprotective ability of erythropoietin (EPO) in cerebral microvascular endothelial cells (ECs) and the invaluable role of ECs in the central nervous system, it is imperative to elucidate the cellular pathways for EPO to protect ECs against brain injury. Here we illustrate that EPO relies upon the modulation of SIRT1 (silent mating type information regulator 2 homolog 1) in cerebral microvascular ECs to foster cytoprotection during oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD). SIRT1 activation which results in the inhibition of apoptotic early membrane phosphatidylserine (PS) externalization and subsequent DNA degradation during OGD becomes a necessary component for EPO protection in ECs, since inhibition of SIRT1 activity or diminishing its expression by gene silencing abrogates cell survival supported by EPO during OGD. Furthermore, EPO promotes the subcellular trafficking of SIRT1 to the nucleus which is necessary for EPO to foster vascular protection. EPO through SIRT1 averts apoptosis through activation of protein kinase B (Akt1) and the phosphorylation and cytoplasmic retention of the forkhead transcription factor FoxO3a. SIRT1 through EPO activation also utilizes mitochondrial pathways to prevent mitochondrial depolarization, cytochrome c release, and Bad, caspase 1, and caspase 3 activation. Our work identifies novel pathways for EPO in the vascular system that can govern the activity of SIRT1 to prevent apoptotic injury through Akt1, FoxO3a phosphorylation and trafficking, mitochondrial membrane permeability, Bad activation, and caspase 1 and 3 activities in ECs during oxidant stress.
Axonal growth cones (GCs) steer in response to extrinsic cues using mechanisms that include local protein synthesis. This adaptive form of gene regulation occurs with spatial precision and depends on subcellular mRNA localisation. Recent genome-wide studies have shown unexpectedly complex and dynamically changing mRNA repertoires in growing axons and GCs. Axonal targeting of some transcripts seems to be highly selective and involves sequence diversity in non-coding regions generated by transcriptional and/or post-transcriptional mechanisms. New evidence reports direct coupling of a guidance receptor to the protein synthesis machinery and other findings demonstrate that some guidance cues can repress translation. The recent findings shed further light on the exquisitely regulated process that enables distant cellular compartments to respond to local stimuli.
The cerebellum plays an essential role in motor learning. The ability to identify specific sensory and motor signals carried by neurons with known connectivity makes the cerebellum an attractive system for investigating how synaptic plasticity relates to learning. Early studies focused primarily on a single form of plasticity, long-term depression at parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses. Recent work has highlighted both the diversity of synaptic plasticity that exists within the cerebellum and the fact that individual plasticity mechanisms can have unexpected consequences when they act within neural circuits.
The cerebellum is a subcortical brain structure that is essential for learning and controlling movement. Recent work shows that the cerebellum also plays a role in certain perceptual abilities, beyond what would be expected secondary to poor movement control. This review covers these and other recent advances, focusing on how cerebellar damage affects human abilities ranging from sensory perception to movement control and motor learning.
This review focuses on recent progress in understanding mechanisms for filtering self-generated sensory signals in cerebellum-like circuits in fish and mammals. Recent in vitro studies in weakly electric gymnotid fish have explored the interplay among anti-Hebbian plasticity, synaptic dynamics, and feedforward inhibition in canceling self-generated electrosensory inputs. Studies of the mammalian dorsal cochlear nucleus have revealed multimodal integration and anti-Hebbian plasticity, suggesting that this circuit may adaptively filter incoming auditory information. In vivo studies in weakly electric mormryid fish suggest a key role for granule cell coding in sensory filtering. The clear links between synaptic plasticity and systems level sensory filtering in cerebellum-like circuits may provide insights into hypothesized adaptive filtering functions of the cerebellum itself.
Skilled grasp is a sensorimotor process requiring the brain to extract sensory cues from the environment to shape a motor command. Although a large body of literature has focused on which brain areas either integrate the visual object's properties or control the motor output, it is still unclear how grasp-related information is transferred from one area to another. Understanding interactions between brain areas is crucial for the study of visuomotor transformations. Recently, new advances in both human and non-human primates have shown it is possible to study cortico-cortical interactions during different task contexts. This sheds new light on how brain areas are integrated in a dynamic network for controlling grasping actions.
Neuronal circuits underlying rhythmic behaviors (central pattern generators: CPGs) can generate rhythmic motor output without sensory input. However, sensory input is pivotal for generating behaviorally relevant CPG output. Here we discuss recent work in the decapod crustacean stomatogastric nervous system (STNS) identifying cellular and synaptic mechanisms whereby sensory inputs select particular motor outputs from CPG circuits. This includes several examples in which sensory neurons regulate the impact of descending projection neurons on CPG circuits. This level of analysis is possible in the STNS due to the relatively unique access to identified circuit, projection, and sensory neurons. These studies are also revealing additional degrees of freedom in sensorimotor integration that underlie the extensive flexibility intrinsic to rhythmic motor systems.
How are novel actions generated and learned? We introduce a selectionist view of de novo action learning, and present some of the main postulates of such a view. This view contrasts with the notion that all actions are generated in response to particular stimuli and hence instructed by the world. It postulates that actions are generated in the actor (the organism) and selected by the environment (stimuli). Selection may occur iteratively until actions can be executed more rapidly and precisely, less variably, and eventually be elicited by particular stimuli. We also discuss experiments that support the particular predictions of this theory.






The acronym mTOR defines a family of serine-threonine protein kinase called mammalian target of rapamycin. The major role of these kinases in the cell is to merge extracellular instructions with information about cellular metabolic resources and to control the rate of anabolic and catabolic processes accordingly. In mammalian cells mTOR is present in two distinct heteromeric protein complexes commonly referred to as mTOR complex 1 (mTORC1) and mTOR complex 2 (mTORC2), involved in the control of a wide variety of cellular processes. It has been recently reported that compounds acting modulating mTOR activity, beside mediating the well recognized processes exploited in the anticancer and immunosuppressant effects, are provided with neuroprotective properties. In fact, mTOR is involved in the mechanism of PI3K/Akt-induced upregulation of glutamate transporter 1, GLT1, that is linked to several neuronal disorders such as stroke, Alzheimer's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Furthermore, in adult brain mTOR is crucial for numerous physiological processes such as synaptic plasticity, learning, memory, and brain control of food uptake. Moreover, the activation of mTOR pathway is involved in neuronal development, dendrite development and spine morphogenesis.
Various peptide sequences have been discovered by selecting peptide-phage display libraries in vitro against specific receptors or in vivo in tumor-bearing animals. One class of these peptides is characterized by the presence of Asn-Gly-Asp (NGR), a structural motif that can recognize the endothelium and other cells of neoangiogenic vessels. Because of this property these peptides have been used by several investigators to deliver a variety of drugs, cytokines, nanoparticles, viruses and imaging agents to tumor blood vessels. Here we review the reports on these conjugates and discuss the structural, functional and stability properties of NGR embedded into different molecular scaffolds.


Multiple extracellular signals have been identified that regulate actin dynamics within motile cells, but how these instructive cues present on the cell surface exert their precise effects on the internal actin cytoskeleton is still poorly understood. One particularly interesting class of these cues is a group of extracellular proteins that negatively alter the movement of cells and their processes. Over the years, these types of events have been described using a variety of terms and herein we provide an overview of inhibitory/repulsive cellular phenomena and highlight the largest known protein family of repulsive extracellular cues, the Semaphorins. Specifically, the Semaphorins (Semas) utilize Plexin cell-surface receptors to dramatically collapse the actin cytoskeleton and we summarize what is known of the direct molecular and biochemical mechanisms of Sema-triggered actin filament (F-actin) disassembly. We also discuss new observations from our lab that reveal that the multidomain oxidoreductase (Redox) enzyme Molecule Interacting with CasL (MICAL), an important mediator of Sema/Plexin repulsion, is a novel F-actin disassembly factor. Our results indicate that MICAL triggers Sema/Plexin-mediated reorganization of the F-actin cytoskeleton and suggest a role for specific Redox signaling events in regulating actin dynamics.

Interneurons, which release the neurotransmitter -aminobutyric acid (GABA), are the major inhibitory cells of the central nervous system (CNS). Despite comprising only 20-30% of the cerebral cortical neuronal population, these cells play an essential and powerful role in modulating the electrical activity of the excitatory pyramidal cells onto which they synapse. Although interneurons are present in all regions of the mature telencephalon, during embryogenesis these cells are generated in specific compartments of the ventral (subpallial) telencephalon known as ganglionic eminences. To reach their final destinations in the mature brain, immature interneurons migrate from the ganglionic eminences to developing telencephalic structures that are both near and far from their site of origin. The specification and migration of these cells is a complex but precisely orchestrated process that is regulated by a combination of intrinsic and extrinsic signals. The final outcome of which is the wiring together of excitatory and inhibitory neurons that were born in separate regions of the developing telencephalon. Disruption of any aspect of this sequence of events during development, either from an environmental insult or due to genetic mutations, can have devastating consequences on normal brain function.
The progenitors of cerebellar GABAergic interneurons proliferate up to postnatal development in the prospective white matter, where they give rise to different neuronal subtypes, in defined quantities and according to precise spatiotemporal sequences. To investigate the mechanisms that regulate the specification of distinct interneuron phenotypes, we examined mice lacking the G1 phase-active cyclin D2. It has been reported that these mice show severe reduction of stellate cells, the last generated interneuron subtype. We found that loss of cyclin D2 actually impairs the whole process of interneuron genesis. In the mutant cerebella, progenitors of the prospective white matter show reduced proliferation rates and enhanced tendency to leave the cycle, whereas young postmitotic interneurons undergo severe delay of their maturation and migration. As a consequence, the progenitor pool is precociously exhausted and the number of interneurons is significantly reduced, although molecular layer interneurons are more affected than those of granular layer or deep nuclei. The characteristic inside-out sequence of interneuron placement in the cortical layers is also reversed, so that later born cells occupy deeper positions than earlier generated ones. Transplantation experiments show that the abnormalities of cyclin D2(-/-) interneurons are largely caused by cell-autonomous mechanisms. Therefore, cyclin D2 is not required for the specification of particular interneuron subtypes. Loss of this protein, however, disrupts regulatory mechanisms of cell cycle dynamics that are required to determine the numbers of interneurons of different types and impairs their rhythm of maturation and integration in the cerebellar circuitry.
The lacrimal gland (LG) develops through branching morphogenesis and produces secretions, including tears, that lubricate and protect the ocular surface. Despite the prevalence of LG disorders such as dry eye, relatively little is known about the regulation of LG development. In this study, we show that the homeobox transcription factor Barx2 is highly expressed in conjunctival epithelium, eyelids and ocular [lacrimal, harderian (HG), and meibomian (MG)] glands and is necessary for normal ocular gland and eyelid development. Barx2(-/-) mice show defective LG morphogenesis, absence of the HG, and defects in MG and eyelid fusion. Ex vivo antisense assays confirm the requirement for Barx2 in LG bud elongation and branching. Gene expression profiles reveal decreased expression of several adhesion and matrix remodeling molecules in Barx2(-/-) LGs. In culture, Barx2 regulates expression of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and epithelial cell migration through the extracellular matrix. Fibroblast growth factors are crucial regulators of LG development and we show that Barx2 is required for Fgf10-induced LG bud elongation and that both Barx2 and Fgf10 cooperate in the regulation of MMPs. Together, these data suggest a mechanism for the effects of loss of Barx2 on ocular gland development. Intriguingly, salivary glands that also express a high level of Barx2 develop normally in Barx2(-/-) mice and do not show altered levels of MMPs. Thus, the function of Barx2 is specific to ocular gland development. Based on our data, we propose a functional network involving Barx2, Fgf10 and MMPs that plays an essential role in regulating branching morphogenesis of the ocular glands.
The BMP pathway is essential for scaling of the presynaptic motoneuron arbor to the postsynaptic muscle cell at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Genetic analyses indicate that the muscle is the BMP-sending cell and the motoneuron is the BMP-receiving cell. Nevertheless, it is unclear how this directionality is established as Glass bottom boat (Gbb), the known BMP ligand, is active in motoneurons. We demonstrate that crimpy (cmpy) limits neuronal Gbb activity to permit appropriate regulation of NMJ growth. cmpy was identified in a screen for motoneuron-expressed genes and encodes a single-pass transmembrane protein with sequence homology to vertebrate Cysteine-rich transmembrane BMP regulator 1 (Crim1). We generated a targeted deletion of the cmpy locus and find that loss-of-function mutants exhibit excessive NMJ growth. In accordance with its expression profile, tissue-specific rescue experiments indicate that cmpy functions neuronally. The overgrowth in cmpy mutants depends on the activity of the BMP type II receptor Wishful thinking, arguing that Cmpy acts in the BMP pathway upstream of receptor activation and raising the possibility that it inhibits Gbb activity in motoneurons. Indeed, the cmpy mutant phenotype is strongly suppressed by RNAi-mediated knockdown of Gbb in motoneurons. Furthermore, Cmpy physically interacts with the Gbb precursor protein, arguing that Cmpy binds Gbb prior to the secretion of mature ligand. These studies demonstrate that Cmpy restrains Gbb activity in motoneurons. We present a model whereby this inhibition permits the muscle-derived Gbb pool to predominate at the NMJ, thus establishing the retrograde directionality of the pro-growth BMP pathway.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is an age-related, progressive, multisystem neurodegenerative disorder resulting in significant morbidity and mortality, as well as a growing social and financial burden in an aging population. The hallmark of PD is loss of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta, leading to bradykinesia, rigidity and tremor. Current pharmacological treatment is therefore centred upon dopamine replacement to alleviate symptoms. However, two major problems complicate this approach: (i) motor symptoms continue to progress, requiring increasing doses of medication, which result in both short-term adverse effects and intermediate- to long-term motor complications; (ii) dopamine replacement does little to treat non-dopaminergic motor and non-motor symptoms, which are an important source of morbidity, including dementia, sleep disturbances, depression, orthostatic hypotension, and postural instability leading to falls. It is critical, therefore, to develop a broader and more fundamental therapeutic approach to PD, and major research efforts have focused upon developing neuroprotective interventions. Despite many encouraging preclinical data suggesting the possibility of addressing the underlying pathophysiology by slowing cell loss, efforts to translate this into the clinical realm have largely proved disappointing in the past. Barriers to finding neuroprotective or disease-modifying drugs in PD include a lack of validated biomarkers of progression, which hampers clinical trial design and interpretation; difficulties separating symptomatic and neuroprotective effects of candidate neuroprotective therapies; and possibly fundamental flaws in some of the basic preclinical models and testing. However, three recent clinical trials have used a novel delayed-start design in an attempt to overcome some of these roadblocks. While not examining markers of cell loss and function, which would determine neuroprotective effects, this trial design pragmatically tests whether earlier versus later intervention is beneficial. If positive (i.e. if an earlier intervention proves more effective), this demonstrates disease modification, which could result from neuroprotection or from other mechanisms. This strategy therefore provides a first step towards supporting neuroprotection in PD. Of the three delayed-start design clinical trials, two have investigated early versus later start of rasagiline, a specific irreversible monoamine oxidase B inhibitor. Each trial has supported, although not proven, disease-modifying effects. A third delayed-start-design clinical trial examining potential disease-modifying effects of pramipexole has unfortunately reportedly been negative according to preliminary presentations. The suggestion that rasagiline is disease modifying is made all the more compelling by in vitro and PD animal-model studies in which rasagiline was shown to have neuroprotective effects. In this review, we examine efforts to demonstrate neuroprotection in PD to date, describe ongoing neuroprotection trials, and critically discuss the results of the most recent delayed-start clinical trials that test possible disease-modifying activities of rasagiline and pramipexole in PD.
Among the cognitive causes of dyslexia, phonological and magnocellular deficits have attracted a substantial amount of research. Their role and their exact impact on reading ability are still a matter of debate, partly also because large samples of dyslexics are hard to recruit. Here, we report a new technique to simulate dyslexic symptoms in normal readers in two ways. Although difficulties in grapheme-to-phoneme conversion were elicited by manipulating the identifiability of written letters, visual-magnocellular processing deficits were generated by presenting letters moving dynamically on the screen. Both factors were embedded into a lexical word-pseudoword decision task with proficient German readers. Although both experimental variations systematically increased lexical decision times, they did not interact. Subjects successfully performed word-pseudoword distinctions at all levels of simulation, with consistently longer reaction times for pseudowords than for words. Interestingly, detecting a pseudoword was more difficult in the grapheme-to-phoneme conversion simulation as indicated by a significant interaction of word type and letter shape. These behavioural effects are consistent with those observed in 'real' dyslexics in the literature. The paradigm is thus a potential means of generating novel hypotheses about dyslexia, which can easily be tested with normal readers before screening and recruiting real dyslexics.
The current study investigated which time components of rapid automatized naming (RAN) predict group differences between dyslexic and non-dyslexic readers (matched for age and reading level), and how these components relate to different reading measures. Subjects performed two RAN tasks (letters and objects), and data were analyzed through a response time analysis. Our results demonstrated that impaired RAN performance in dyslexic readers mainly stem from enhanced inter-item pause times and not from difficulties at the level of post-access motor production (expressed as articulation rates). Moreover, inter-item pause times account for a significant proportion of variance in reading ability in addition to the effect of phonological awareness in the dyslexic group. This suggests that non-phonological factors may lie at the root of the association between RAN inter-item pauses and reading ability. In normal readers, RAN performance was associated with reading ability only at early ages (i.e. in the reading-matched controls), and again it was the RAN inter-item pause times that explain the association.
Successful emotion regulation is important for maintaining psychological well-being. Although it is known that emotion regulation strategies, such as cognitive reappraisal and expressive suppression, may have divergent consequences for emotional responses, the cognitive processes underlying these differences remain unclear. Here we used eye-tracking to investigate the role of attentional deployment in emotion regulation success. We hypothesized that differences in the deployment of attention to emotional areas of complex visual scenes may be a contributing factor to the differential effects of these two strategies on emotional experience. Eye-movements, pupil size, and self-reported negative emotional experience were measured while healthy young adult participants viewed negative IAPS images and regulated their emotional responses using either cognitive reappraisal or expressive suppression. Consistent with prior work, reappraisers reported feeling significantly less negative than suppressers when regulating emotion as compared to a baseline condition. Across both groups, participants looked away from emotional areas during emotion regulation, an effect that was more pronounced for suppressers. Critically, irrespective of emotion regulation strategy, participants who looked toward emotional areas of a complex visual scene were more likely to experience emotion regulation success. Taken together, these results demonstrate that attentional deployment varies across emotion regulation strategies and that successful emotion regulation depends on the extent to which people look toward emotional content in complex visual scenes.
Many people believe that sexual orientation (homosexuality vs. heterosexuality) is determined by education and social constraints. There are, however, a large number of studies indicating that prenatal factors have an important influence on this critical feature of human sexuality. Sexual orientation is a sexually differentiated trait (over 90% of men are attracted to women and vice versa). In animals and men, many sexually differentiated characteristics are organized during early life by sex steroids, and one can wonder whether the same mechanism also affects human sexual orientation. Two types of evidence support this notion. First, multiple sexually differentiated behavioral, physiological, or even morphological traits are significantly different in homosexual and heterosexual populations. Because some of these traits are known to be organized by prenatal steroids, including testosterone, these differences suggest that homosexual subjects were, on average, exposed to atypical endocrine conditions during development. Second, clinical conditions associated with significant endocrine changes during embryonic life often result in an increased incidence of homosexuality. It seems therefore that the prenatal endocrine environment has a significant influence on human sexual orientation but a large fraction of the variance in this behavioral characteristic remains unexplained to date. Genetic differences affecting behavior either in a direct manner or by changing embryonic hormone secretion or action may also be involved. How these biological prenatal factors interact with postnatal social factors to determine life-long sexual orientation remains to be determined.
The pattern of fetal growth is a major determinant of the subsequent health of the infant. We recently showed in undernourished (UN) mice that fetal growth is maintained until late pregnancy, despite reduced placental weight, through adaptive up-regulation of placental nutrient transfer. Here, we determine the role of the placental-specific transcript of IGF-II (Igf2P0), a major regulator of placental transport capacity in mice, in adapting placental phenotype to UN. We compared the morphological and functional responses of the wild-type (WT) and Igf2P0-deficient placenta in WT mice fed ad libitium or 80% of the ad libitium intake. We observed that deletion of Igf2P0 prevented up-regulation of amino acid transfer normally seen in UN WT placenta. This was associated with a reduction in the proportion of the placenta dedicated to nutrient transport, the labyrinthine zone, and its constituent volume of trophoblast in Igf2P0-deficient placentas exposed to UN on d 16 of pregnancy. Additionally, Igf2P0-deficient placentas failed to up-regulate their expression of the amino acid transporter gene, Slc38a2, and down-regulate phosphoinositide 3-kinase-protein kinase B signaling in response to nutrient restriction on d 19. Furthermore, deleting Igf2P0 altered maternal concentrations of hormones (insulin and corticosterone) and metabolites (glucose) in both nutritional states. Therefore, Igf2P0 plays important roles in adapting placental nutrient transfer capacity during UN, via actions directly on the placenta and/or indirectly through the mother.
Sexually nave, hormone-primed, C57BL/6J female mice are not receptive to mating attempts by conspecific males. Repeated experience with sexually active males and concurrent treatment with estradiol and progesterone gradually increases female receptivity over the course of five trials to maximal levels. Ovarian hormones activate their cognate nuclear steroid receptors estrogen receptor- and progesterone receptor to induce female sexual receptivity. Nuclear receptors recruit coactivators of transcription that include histone acetyltransferases to hormone responsive genes. In this set of studies, we found that the histone deacetylase inhibitor sodium butyrate enhances the experiential acquisition of receptivity. Evidence is provided that the actions of sodium butyrate on receptivity require activated estrogen receptor- and progesterone.
The IGFs and the IGF type 1 receptor (IGF-1R) are essential mediators of normal mammary gland development in mice. IGF-I and the IGF-1R have demonstrated functions in formation and proliferation of terminal end buds and in ductal outgrowth and branching during puberty. To study the functions of IGF-1R during pregnancy and lactation, we established transgenic mouse lines expressing a human dominant-negative kinase dead IGF-1R (dnhIGF-1R) under the control of the whey acidic protein promoter. We provide evidence that the IGF-1R pathway is necessary for normal epithelial proliferation and alveolar formation during pregnancy. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the whey acidic protein-dnhIGF-1R transgene causes a delay in alveolar differentiation including lipid droplet formation, lumen expansion, and -casein protein expression. Analysis of IGF-1R signaling pathways showed a decrease in P-IGF-1R and P-Akt resulting from expression of the dnhIGF-1R. We further demonstrate that disruption of the IGF-1R decreases mammary epithelial cell expression of the signaling intermediates insulin receptor substrate (IRS)-1 and IRS-2. No alterations were observed in downstream signaling targets of prolactin and progesterone, suggesting that activation of the IGF-1R may directly regulate expression of IRS-1/2 during alveolar development and differentiation. These data show that IGF-1R signaling is necessary for normal alveolar proliferation and differentiation, in part, through induction of signaling intermediates that mediate alveolar development.
A decade ago the compatible solutes mannosylglycerate (MG) and glucosylglycerate (GG) were considered to be rare in nature. Apart from two species of thermophilic bacteria, Thermus thermophilus and Rhodothermus marinus, and a restricted group of hyperthermophilic archaea, the Thermococcales, MG had only been identified in a few red algae. Glucosylglycerate was considered to be even rarer and had only been detected as an insignificant solute in two halophilic microorganisms, a cyanobacterium, as a component of a polysaccharide and of a glycolipid in two actinobacteria. Unlike the hyper/thermophilic MG-accumulating microorganisms, branching close to the root of the Tree of Life, those harbouring GG shared a mesophilic lifestyle. Exceptionally, the thermophilic bacterium Persephonella marina was reported to accumulate GG. However, and especially owing to the identification of the key-genes for MG and GG synthesis and to the escalating numbers of genomes available, a plethora of new organisms with the resources to synthesize these solutes has been recognized. The accumulation of GG as an 'emergency' compatible solute under combined salt stress and nitrogen-deficient conditions now seems to be a disseminated survival strategy from enterobacteria to marine cyanobacteria. In contrast, the thermophilic and extremely radiation-resistant bacterium Rubrobacter xylanophilus is the only actinobacterium known to accumulate MG, and under all growth conditions tested. This review addresses the environmental factors underlying the accumulation of MG, GG and derivatives in bacteria and archaea and their roles during stress adaptation or as precursors for more elaborated macromolecules. The diversity of pathways for MG and GG synthesis as well as those for some of their derivatives is also discussed. The importance of glycerate-derived organic solutes in the microbial world is only now being recognized. Their stress-dependent accumulation and the molecular aspects of their interactions with biomolecules have already fuelled several emerging applications in biotechnology and biomedicine.
Transcription factors (TF) regulate gene expression acting as DNA sequence-specific binding factors, orchestrating cofactor recruitment and assembly of the transcriptional machinery. Nuclear receptors, a ligand-inducible TF class, regulate a large proportion of the genome, yet achieve highly cell-specific and context-dependent transcription, despite their widespread expression. High-throughput genome-wide profiling of TF binding reveals a startling proportion of colocalized cell- and context-specific TF-binding patterns, implying TF interactions play a critical role in transcription. These interactions depend on the chromatin architecture, that predominantly acts to predetermine accessibility of TF-binding sites at regulatory elements. Here, we summarize recent findings that highlight the importance of combinatorial TF interactions in determining diverse nuclear receptor-mediated transcriptional responses, emphasizing the significance of chromatin structure in directing TF and nuclear receptor recruitment. Interactions between TFs are likely to be a general mechanism of regulatory factors, contributing to transcriptional control in health and disease.


Benign epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BECTS) is associated with language disturbances during the active phase of the seizure disorder. However, it is not yet known whether these deficits are reversible or have long-term impact on the development of language skills. We report on a study conducted in 13 patients in remission from BECTS and 13 age-matched controls, who underwent neuropsychological assessments. We also recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) during a verb generation task, to determine cortical lateralization of language. The BECTS group showed significant language deficits compared to controls as well as a pattern of atypical ERP lateralization in frontal regions. These findings support the view that BECTS in childhood may lead to enduring effects on brain maturation and language development.

We systematically reviewed evidence-based determinants of health-related quality of life (QOL) in adults undergoing epilepsy surgery and assessed the effect of study methods. Medline, Embase, and the Cochrane library (1950-2008) were searched systematically. Two authors independently performed every step of the review. We obtained the proportion of studies reporting statistically significant positive or negative impact on QOL. Of 39 eligible studies, 32 assessed the impact of surgery on QOL and 29 (90.6%) found a significant positive effect. The most prevalent preoperative determinant was psychological function. Seizure freedom was the most prevalent postoperative determinant (80% of studies), followed by antiepileptic drug adverse events, employment status, and psychological function. Psychosocial (95%), physical (91%), and overall QOL (90%) domains improved most frequently, whereas role limitation (63%) and cognition (78%) improved least frequently. Methods, choice of instrument, and time of measurement influenced QOL outcomes and should be carefully chosen in future studies.
Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) has an incidence ranging between 0.09 and 9 per 1000 patient-years depending on the patient population and the study methodology. It is the commonest cause of death directly attributable to epilepsy, and occurs at or around the time of a seizure. The principal risk factor for SUDEP is poorly controlled generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Other risk factors include polytherapy, male sex, early age at onset of epilepsy, symptomatic etiology, and, possibly, treatment with lamotrigine. The mechanisms underlying SUDEP are poorly understood, but autonomic dysfunction, central apnea, cerebral depression, and cardiac arrthymias have all been described in animal models of SUDEP and during human seizures. Prevention of this fatal event should be aimed at optimizing control of seizures, including prompt referral for consideration of epilepsy surgery. All patients should be told about the risks of SUDEP and informed that complete seizure control appears to be the one proven way of preventing the phenomenon.
The severity of brain tumor associated seizures often mirror the growth of the underlying tumor, and may be intractable to conventional antiepileptic drugs. We present a patient with intractable seizures in the setting of a low grade glioma who responded dramatically to temozolomide despite minimal radiographic change in tumor size. Temozolomide is an effective treatment for seizure control in patients with brain tumors.
The N1 component of the auditory evoked potential (AEP) is a robust and easily recorded metric of auditory sensory-perceptual processing. In patients with schizophrenia, a diminution in the amplitude of this component is a near-ubiquitous finding. A pair of recent studies has also shown this N1 deficit in first-degree relatives of schizophrenia probands, suggesting that the deficit may be linked to the underlying genetic risk of the disease rather than to the disease state itself. However, in both these studies, a significant proportion of the relatives had other psychiatric conditions. As such, although the N1 deficit represents an intriguing candidate endophenotype for schizophrenia, it remains to be shown whether it is present in a group of clinically unaffected first-degree relatives. In addition to testing first-degree relatives, we also sought to replicate the N1 deficit in a group of first-episode patients and in a group of chronic schizophrenia probands. Subject groups consisted of 35 patients with schizophrenia, 30 unaffected first-degree relatives, 13 first-episode patients, and 22 healthy controls. Subjects sat in a dimly lit room and listened to a series of simple 1,000-Hz tones, indicating with a button press whenever they heard a deviant tone (1,500 Hz; 17% probability), while the AEP was recorded from 72 scalp electrodes. Both chronic and first-episode patients showed clear N1 amplitude decrements relative to healthy control subjects. Crucially, unaffected first-degree relatives also showed a clear N1 deficit. This study provides further support for the proposal that the auditory N1 deficit in schizophrenia is linked to the underlying genetic risk of developing this disorder. In light of recent studies, these results point to the N1 deficit as an endophenotypic marker for schizophrenia. The potential future utility of this metric as one element of a multivariate endophenotype is discussed.




We investigated the effect of long-term musical training on the time course of development of neuronal representations within the auditory cortex by means of magnetoencephalography. In musicians but not in nonmusicians, pre-attentive encoding of a complex regularity within a tone sequence was evident by a constant increase of the pattern mismatch negativity within &lt; 10 min. The group difference was more pronounced in the left hemisphere, indicating stronger plastic changes in its structures supporting temporal analysis and sound pattern encoding. The results suggest an effect of long-term musical training on short-term auditory learning processes. This has implications not only for cognitive neuroscience in showing how short-term and long-term neuronal plasticity can interact within the auditory cortex, but also for educational and clinical applications of implicit auditory learning where beneficial effects of (musical) experience might be exploited.
Changes in intracellular Ca(2+) play a key role in regulating gene expression and developmental changes in oligodendroglial precursor cells (OPCs). However, the mechanisms by which Ca(2+) influx in OPCs is controlled remains incompletely understood. Although there are several mechanisms that modulate Ca(2+) influx, in many systems the large-conductance, voltage- and Ca(2+) -activated K(+) channel (BK channel) plays an important role in regulating both membrane excitability and intracellular Ca(2+) levels. To date, the role of the BK channel in the regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) in oligodendroglial lineage cells is unknown. Here we investigated whether cells of the oligodendroglial lineage express BK channels and what potential role they play in regulation of Ca(2+) influx in these cells. In oligodendrocytes derived from differentiated adult neural precursor cells (NPCs, obtained from C57bl6 mice) we observed outward currents that were sensitive to the BK channel blocker iberiotoxin (IbTx). Further confirmation of the expression of the BK channel was obtained utilizing other blockers of the BK channel and by confocal immunofluoresence labelling of the BK channel on oligodendroglia. Using Fura-2AM to monitor intracellular Ca(2+) , it was observed that inhibition of the BK channel during glutamate-induced depolarization led to an additive increase in intracellular Ca(2+) levels. Electrophysiological difference currents demonstrated that the expression levels of the BK channel decrease with developmental age. This latter finding was further corroborated via RT-PCR and Western blot analysis. We conclude that the BK channel is involved in regulating Ca(2+) influx in OPCs, and may potentially play a role during differentiation of oligodendroglial lineage cells.
We combined computational modeling and experimental measurements to determine the influence of dendritic structure on the diffusion of intracellular chemical signals in mouse cerebellar Purkinje cells and hippocamal CA1 pyramidal cells. Modeling predicts that molecular trapping by dendritic spines causes diffusion along spiny dendrites to be anomalous and that the value of the anomalous exponent (d(w) ) is proportional to spine density in both cell types. To test these predictions we combined the local photorelease of an inert dye, rhodamine dextran, with two-photon fluorescence imaging to track diffusion along dendrites. Our results show that anomalous diffusion is present in spiny dendrites of both cell types. Further, the anomalous exponent is linearly related to the density of spines in pyramidal cells and d(w) in Purkinje cells is consistent with such a relationship. We conclude that anomalous diffusion occurs in the dendrites of multiple types of neurons. Because spine density is dynamic and depends on neuronal activity, the degree of anomalous diffusion induced by spines can dynamically regulate the movement of molecules along dendrites.
Mammalian retina harbours a self-sustained circadian clock able to synchronize to the light : dark (LD) cycle and to drive cyclic outputs such as night-time melatonin synthesis. Clock genes are expressed in distinct parts of the tissue, and it is presently assumed that the retina contains several circadian oscillators. However, molecular organization of cell type-specific clockworks has been poorly investigated. Here, we questioned the presence of a circadian clock in rat photoreceptors by studying 24-h kinetics of clock and clock output gene expression in whole photoreceptor layers isolated by vibratome sectioning. To address the importance of light stimulation towards photoreceptor clock properties, animals were exposed to 12 : 12 h LD cycle or 36 h constant darkness. Clock, Bmal1, Per1, Per2, Cry1, Cry2, RevErb and Ror clock genes were all found to be expressed in photoreceptors and to display rhythmic transcription in LD cycle. Clock genes in whole retinas, used as a reference, also showed rhythmic expression with marked similarity to the profiles in pure photoreceptors. In contrast, clock gene oscillations were no longer detectable in photoreceptor layers after 36 h darkness, with the exception of Cry2 and Ror. Importantly, transcripts from two well-characterized clock output genes, Aanat (arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase) and c-fos, retained sustained rhythmicity. We conclude that rat photoreceptors contain the core machinery of a circadian oscillator likely to be operative and to drive rhythmic outputs under exposure to a 24-h LD cycle. Constant darkness dramatically alters the photoreceptor clockwork and circadian functions might then rely on inputs from extra-photoreceptor oscillators.
Peripheral nerve injury induces axonal degeneration and demyelination, which are collectively referred to as Wallerian degeneration. It is generally assumed that axonal degeneration is a trigger for the subsequent demyelination processes such as myelin destruction and de-differentiation of Schwann cells, but the detailed sequence of events that occurs during this initial phase of demyelination following axonal degeneration remains unclear. Here we performed a morphological analysis of injured sciatic nerves of wlds mice, a naturally occurring mutant mouse in which Wallerian degeneration shows a significant delay. The slow Wallerian degerenation phenotype of the wlds mutant mice would enable us to dissect the events that take place during the initial phase of demyelination. Ultrastrucural analysis using electron microscopy showed that the initial process of myelin destruction was activated in injured nerves of wlds mice even though they exhibit morphologically complete protection of axons against nerve injury. We also found that some intact axons were completely demyelinated in degenerating nerves of wlds mice. Furthermore, we observed that de-differentiation of myelinating Schwann cells gradually proceeded even though the axons remained morphologically intact. These data suggest that initiation and progression of demyelination in injured peripheral nerves is, at least in part, independent of axonal degeneration.
The pedunculopontine nucleus (PPN), part of the reticular activating system, modulates waking and paradoxical sleep. During waking and paradoxical sleep, EEG responses are characterized by low-amplitude, high-frequency oscillatory activity in the beta-gamma band range (~20-80 Hz). We have previously reported that gamma band activity may be intrinsically generated by the membrane electroresponsiveness of PPN neurons, and that the neuronal ensemble generates different patterns of gamma activity in response to specific transmitters. This study attempted to identify the voltage-gated calcium and potassium channels involved in the rising and falling phases of gamma oscillations in PPN neurons. We found that all rat (8-14 day) PPN cell types showed gamma oscillations in the presence of TTX and synaptic blockers when membrane potential was depolarized using current ramps. PPN neurons showed gamma oscillations when voltage-clamped at holding potentials above -30 mV, suggesting that their origin may be spatially located beyond voltage-clamp control. The average frequency for all PPN cell types was 23  1 Hz and this increased under carbachol (47  2 Hz; anova df = 64, t = 12.5, P &lt; 0.001). The N-type calcium channel blocker -conotoxin-GVIA partially reduced gamma oscillations, while the P/Q-type blocker -agatoxin-IVA abolished them. Both -CgTX and -Aga blocked voltage-dependent calcium currents, by 56 and 52% respectively. The delayed rectifier-like potassium channel blocker -dendrotoxin also abolished gamma oscillations. In carbachol-induced PPN population responses, -agatoxin-IVA reduced higher, and -CgTx mostly lower, frequencies. These results suggest that voltage-dependent P/Q- and, to a lesser extent, N-type calcium channels mediate gamma oscillations in PPN.
Clinical studies suggest that exposure to stress can increase risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although the precise links between stress and vulnerability to develop AD remain uncertain, recent animal work suggests that stress may promote susceptibility to AD pathology by activating tau kinases and inducing tau phosphorylation (tau-P). Our previous findings indicate the differential involvement of corticotropin-releasing factor receptor (CRFR) types 1 and 2 in regulating tau-P in the hippocampus induced by acute restraint, an emotional stressor. To assess the generality of CRFR involvement in stress-induced tau-P and tau kinase activity, the present study extends our investigation to a well-characterized physiological stressor, i.e. immune challenge induced by bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Acute systemic administration of LPS (100 g/kg) robustly increased hippocampal (but not isocortical or cerebellar) tau-P, peaking at 40-120 min postinjection and abating thereafter. Assessments of the genotype dependence of this effect yielded results that were distinct from the restraint model. Treatment with LPS increased phosphorylation in wild-type, single and double CRFR knockouts with only subtle variation, which included a reliable exaggeration of tau-P responses in CRFR1-deficient mice. Parallel analyses implicated glycogen synthase kinase-3 and cyclin-dependent kinase-5 as likely cellular mediators of LPS-induced tau-P. Conversely, our data suggest that temperature-dependent fluctuations in tau protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) may not play a role in this context. Thus, neither the strict CRFR1 dependence of restraint-induced tau-P nor the exaggeration of these responses in CRFR2 null mice generalize to the LPS model. CRFR mediation of stress-induced hippocampal tau-P may be limited to emotional stressors.
Ongoing neuronal oscillations in vivo exhibit non-random amplitude fluctuations as reflected in a slow decay of temporal auto-correlations that persist for tens of seconds. Interestingly, the decay of auto-correlations is altered in several brain-related disorders, including epilepsy, depression and Alzheimer's disease, suggesting that the temporal structure of oscillations depends on intact neuronal networks in the brain. Whether structured amplitude modulation occurs only in the intact brain or whether isolated neuronal networks can also give rise to amplitude modulation with a slow decay is not known. Here, we examined the temporal structure of cholinergic fast network oscillations in acute hippocampal slices. For the first time, we show that a slow decay of temporal correlations can emerge from synchronized activity in isolated hippocampal networks from mice, and is maximal at intermediate concentrations of the cholinergic agonist carbachol. Using zolpidem, a positive allosteric modulator of GABA(A) receptor function, we found that increased inhibition leads to longer oscillation bursts and more persistent temporal correlations. In addition, we asked if these findings were unique for mouse hippocampus, and we therefore analysed cholinergic fast network oscillations in rat prefrontal cortex slices. We observed significant temporal correlations, which were similar in strength to those found in mouse hippocampus and human cortex. Taken together, our data indicate that fast network oscillations with temporal correlations can be induced in isolated networks in vitro in different species and brain areas, and therefore may serve as model systems to investigate how altered temporal correlations in disease may be rescued with pharmacology.
Many drugs (e.g. amisulpride) have been used to treat troublesome clozapine-induced salivation; however, varying success has been achieved in this respect, probably because, until recently, the salivatory action of clozapine has been largely unexplained. In the rat, clozapine and its main metabolite, N-desmethylclozapine, were found to exert mixed secretory actions: excitatory, through muscarinic acetylcholine M1-receptors giving rise to a long-lasting, low-level flow of saliva; and inhibitory, through muscarinic M3-receptors and (1) -adrenoceptors reducing the parasympathetically and sympathetically nerve-evoked flow of saliva. The aim of the present study was to define the interactions between clozapine and N-desmethylclozapine, and clozapine and amisulpride, with respect to the excitatory response. Submandibular glands, sensitized by chronic parasympathetic preganglionic denervation, were studied in pentobarbitone-anaesthetized rats. To prevent clozapine from being metabolized to N-desmethylclozapine by hepatic enzymes, the liver was, under terminal anaesthesia, excluded from the circulation. The weak receptor-stimulating clozapine prevented the strong receptor-stimulating N-desmethylclozapine, at specific ratios in humans and in rats, from exerting its full agonistic action. In conclusion, the contribution of N-desmethylclozapine to the clozapine-induced sialorrhoea was, at most, only partly additive. Furthermore, the present experimental set-up failed to demonstrate any anti-salivatory action of amisulpride on the clozapine-induced flow of saliva.

In children and adolescents the Second Generation Antipsychotics (SGAs) represent the class of psychotropic drugs whose use has grown more significantly in recent years: they are primarily used for treatment of patients with disruptive behavior disorders, mood disorders and pervasive developmental disorders or mental retardation. In order to compare the efficacy and tolerability of antipsychotics against placebo or each other, a systematic Medline/PubMed search for randomized, double blind studies on SGA in patients younger than 18 years of age at enrollment, was conducted. Papers on schizophrenia, discussed in another article of this specific issue, were excluded by the efficacy analysis. A set of standard efficacy and safety indices, such as treatment effect sizes (ES), the Numbers Needed to Treat (NNT) and Numbers Needed to Harm (NNH), was used to compare medications. 32 studies analyzing efficacy and/or tolerability of SGAs in children and adolescents with bipolar, autistic or disruptive behavior disorders, and Tourette syndrome were identified. SGAs efficacy on mania, extreme mood variability, irritability, aggression and disruptive behavior appears to be greater than for psychotic symptoms in schizophrenia: average NNT was 2-5, whereas for schizophrenia it varies between 3 for risperidone and 10 for olanzapine, quetiapine, and aripiprazole. As for schizophrenia, different SGAs show a similar efficacy for specific non-psychotic disorders, but they significantly differ in their safety profile. In randomized studies, adverse effects were usually relatively minor, easily predictable and manageable, whereas long-term open-label studies have indicated that some adverse event, such as the metabolic effects, may be severe and potentially life threatening on the long-term. Taken together, these findings suggest that the choice of a specific treatment should be guided primarily by the safety profile of specific antipsychotics, considering specific risk factors (i.e. obesity and BMI, family history of diabetes or cardiovascular disorder, etc) for the single patient.
Recent changes in legislation have stimulated a new wave of interest and activity in paediatric psychopharmacology. This increased activity has coincided with a recognition that pragmatic measures of outcome such as those that tap into impairment and health related quality of life (HRQOL) have the potential to add considerably to the traditional symptom based measures of outcome. There are however considerable methodological issues associated with these types of measure, and these are made more complex when they are applied in mental health and paediatric settings. There is a clear need for the continued development of valid and reliable measures of HRQOL and impairment that are fit for purpose for use in clinical trials. Other more specific issues that need to be considered, and which all require further investigation include those relating to; age, self versus proxy ratings, contextual issues, generic versus disorder specific measures and definitions of clinically meaningful change. Most of the child and adolescent mental health trials that have included pragmatic measures have been conducted in ADHD samples, have been industry sponsored, use only parent ratings and focus on one drug (atomoxetine). Taken together they do however suggest that pharmacological treatments can impact positively on impairment and HRQOL, although with smaller effect sizes than is seen for symptom reduction. Further studies, across a wider range of disorders and treatments with multiple measures and multiple raters, are to be encouraged. In addition to reporting the basic outcomes from these studies researchers should use these data to improve the measurement models and refine both the measures and the trial designs.
Although rhythmic coordination has been extensively studied in the literature, questions remain about the correspondence of constraints that have been identified in the related contexts of inter-limb and intra-limb coordination. Here we used a 2-DOF robot arm which allows flexible manipulation of forces to investigate the effect on coordination stability of intra-limb coordination of: (i) the synchrony of force requirements and (ii) the involvement of bi-functional muscles. Ten subjects produced simultaneous rhythmic flexion-extension (FE) and supination-pronation (SP) elbow movements in two coordination patterns: (1) flexion synchronized with supination/extension with pronation (in-phase pattern) and (2) flexion synchronized with pronation/extension with supination (anti-phase pattern). The movements were produced with five different settings of the robot arm: a neutral setting that imposed balanced force requirements, and four other settings that increased the force requirements for one direction in both DOF. When combined with specific coordination patterns, these settings created conditions in which either synchronous or alternate patterns of forcing were necessary to perform the task. Results showed that synchronous tasks were more stable than asynchronous tasks (P&lt;0.05). Within the synchronous tasks, some robot settings were designed to either increase or decrease the use of bi-functional muscles. Although there was no difference for the bi-functional muscle biceps brachii, the coordination was more stable for the condition in which the greatest force requirements corresponded to the mechanical action of the bi-functional pronator teres (P&lt;0.05). In conclusion, force synchrony increases the stability of rhythmic intra-limb coordination, but further research is needed to clarify the role of bi-functional muscles in this effect.
It has been shown that visually guided and memory-guided actions are under the control of dissociable neural systems. This experiment measured event-related potentials (ERPs) in a cross-modal dual-task paradigm to investigate the attentional requirements of these two types of actions. In a primary joystick-controlled continuous reciprocal aiming task, participants moved a cursor back and forth between two targets of variable size in visually guided (VIS) and memory-guided (MEM) conditions. In a secondary dichotic listening task, ERPs were collected while infrequent high and frequent low pitch tones were delivered to both ears. Participants responded to the infrequent tones delivered to only one attended ear. Aiming and listening were performed separately and together as a dual task. We were interested in two ERP components: the P300 component, which reflects voluntary attention, and the mismatch negativity (MMN), which reflects automatic attention. The results showed that the P300 component elicited by the auditory task was decreased in amplitude by the dual-task conditions compared with the auditory task alone. Moreover, P300 latency was increased by the MEM aiming condition, but not the VIS aiming condition. On the other hand, the MMN component elicited by the auditory task was only attenuated by the VIS aiming condition, not by the MEM aiming condition. Together, these results suggest that memory-guided aiming requires more voluntary attention and less automatic attention than visually guided aiming.
Theories of motor learning argue that the acquisition of novel motor skills requires a task-specific organization of sensory and motor subsystems. We examined task-specific coupling between motor subsystems as subjects learned a novel stick-balancing task. We focused on learning-induced changes in finger movements and body sway and investigated the effect of practice on their coupling. Eight subjects practiced balancing a cylindrical wooden stick for 30min a day during a 20day learning period. Finger movements and center of pressure trajectories were recorded in every fifth practice session (4 in total) using a ten camera VICON motion capture system interfaced with two force platforms. Motor learning was quantified using average balancing trial lengths, which increased with practice and confirmed that subjects learned the task. Nonlinear time series and phase space reconstruction methods were subsequently used to investigate changes in the spatiotemporal properties of finger movements, body sway and their progressive coupling. Systematic increases in subsystem coupling were observed despite reduced autocorrelation and differences in the temporal properties of center of pressure and finger trajectories. The average duration of these coupled trajectories increased systematically across the learning period. In short, the abrupt transition between coupled and decoupled subsystem dynamics suggested that stick balancing is regulated by a hierarchical control mechanism that switches from collective to independent control of the finger and center of pressure. In addition to traditional measures of motor performance, dynamical analyses revealed changes in motor subsystem organization that occurred when subjects learned a novel stick-balancing task.
It has become increasingly clear that astrocytes may play an important role in the genesis of glaucoma. Astrogliosis occurs in response to ocular stress or the presence of noxious stimuli. Agents that appear to stimulate reactive gliosis are becoming increasingly clear. One class of agents that is emerging is the endothelins (ETs; specifically, ET-1). In this review we examine the interactions of ET-1 with astrocytes and provide examples where ET-1 appears to contribute to activation of astrocytes and play a role in the neurodegenerative effects that accompany such reactivation resulting in astrogliosis. These actions are presented in the context of glaucoma although information is also presented with respect to ET-1's role in the central nervous system and brain. While much has been learned with respect to ET-1/astrocyte interactions, there are still a number of questions concerning the potential therapeutic implications of these findings. Hopefully this review will stimulate others to examine this potential.
Aging shows slowly progressive changes and is associated with many functional and morphological changes in the central nervous system. The accumulation of reactive oxygen species causes age-related deterioration in neuronal function and contributes to the increase of disease susceptibility during normal aging. In the present study, we compared the neuronal distribution and immunoreactivities of 4-hydroxy-2E-nonenal (4-HNE, end product of lipid peroxidation), and superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and SOD2 in the cervical and lumbar spinal cord between adult (2-3 years) and aged (10-12 years) dogs. No significant change in neuronal morphology was observed after cresyl violet staining. The number of NeuN (a marker for neurons)-immunoreactive neurons was not significantly changed in the aged group compare to the adult group. In addition, we could not find Fluoro-Jade B (a marker for degenerating neurons) positive cells in both the adult and aged dogs. However, numbers of 4-HNE-, SOD1- and SOD2-immunoreactive cells were significantly increased in both the cervical and lumbar spinal cord of the aged dog: The increase rates of these cells in the aged spinal cord were higher in the lumbar level than the cervical level. In brief, 4-HNE, SOD1 and SOD2 levels are much increased in the aged spinal cord compared to the adult spinal cord.
Brain injury in the motor cortex can result in deleterious functional deficits of skilled and fine motor functions. However, in contrast to humans, the destruction of cortex and its descending fibers has been thought not to cause remarkable deficits in simple locomotion in quadropedal animals. In the present study, we aimed to investigate in detail how lesion of the sensorimotor cortex affected locomotion ability in mice using the KinemaTracer system, a novel video-based kinematic analyzer. We found that traumatic injury to the left sensorimotor cortex induced several apparent deficits in the movement of contralesional right limbs during treadmill locomotion. The step length of right limbs decreased, and the speed in the forward direction was abrogated in the swing phase. The coordinates and angle of each joint were also changed after the injury. Some of the abnormal values in these parameters gradually recovered near the control level. The number of cFos-expressing neurons following locomotion significantly decreased in the right side of the spinal cord in injured mice, suggesting a role for cortex and descending fibers in locomotion. In contrast, interlimb coordination did not change remarkably even after the injury, supporting the notion that the basic locomotor pattern was determined by intraspinal neural circuits. These results indicate that the motor cortex and its descending fibers regulate several aspects of fine limb movement during locomotion. Our findings provide practical parameters to assess motor deficits and recovery following cortical injury in mice.
Adult neurogenesis in the primate brain is generally accepted to occur primarily in two specific areas; the subgranular zone (SGZ) of the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG) and the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the lateral ventricles. Hippocampal neurogenesis is well known to be downregulated by stress and aging in rodents, however there is less evidence documenting the sensitivity of neuroblasts generated in the SVZ. In primates, migrating cells generated in the SVZ travel via a unique temporal stream (TS) to the amygdala and entorhinal cortex. Using adult common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), we examined whether i) adult-generated cells in the marmoset amygdala differentiate into doublecortin-positive (DCX+) neuroblasts, and ii) whether lasting changes occur in DCX-expressing cells in the DG or amygdala when animals are exposed to 2 weeks of psychosocial stress. A surprisingly large population of DCX+ immature neurons was found in the amygdala of these 4-year-old monkeys with an average density of 163,000 DCX+ cells per mm(3). Co-labeling of these highly clustered cells with PSA-NCAM supports that a subpopulation of these cells are migratory and participate in chain-migration from the SVZ to the amygdala in middle-aged marmosets. Exposure to 2 weeks of isolation and social defeat stress failed to alter the numbers of BrdU+, or DCX+ cells in the hippocampus or amygdala when evaluated 2 weeks after psychosocial stress, indicating that the current stress paradigm has no long-term consequences on neurogenesis in this primate.
Peripheral nerve injury can result in formation of a neuroma, which is often associated with heightened sensitivity to normally innocuous stimuli as well as spontaneous dysesthesia and pain. The onset and persistence of neuropathic pain have been linked to spontaneous ectopic electrogenesis in axons within neuromas, suggesting an involvement of voltage-gated sodium channels. Sodium channel isoforms Na(V)1.3, Na(V)1.7 and Na(V)1.8 have been shown to accumulate in chronic painful human neuromas, while, to date, only Na(V)1.3 has been reported to accumulate within experimental neuromas. Although recent evidence strongly support a major contribution for Na(V)1.7 in nociception, the expression of Na(V)1.7 in injured axons within acute neuromas has not been studied. The current study examined whether Na(V)1.7 accumulates in experimental rat neuromas. We further investigated whether activated (phosphorylated) mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase ERK1/2, which is known to modulate Na(V)1.7 properties, is co-localized with Na(V)1.7 within axons in neuromas. We demonstrate increased levels of Na(V)1.7 in experimental rat sciatic nerve neuromas, 2weeks after nerve ligation and transaction. We further show elevated levels of phosphorylated ERK1/2 within individual neuroma axons that exhibit Na(V)1.7 accumulation. These results extend previous descriptions of sodium channel and MAP kinase accumulation within experimental and human neuromas, and suggest that targeted blockade of Na(V)1.7 or ERK1/2 may provide a strategy for amelioration of chronic pain that often follows nerve injury and formation of neuromas.
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is a moderately effective adjunctive treatment for patients suffering from medically refractory epilepsy and is explored as a treatment option for several other disorders. The present review provides a critical appraisal of the studies on VNS in animal models of seizures and epilepsy. So far, these studies mostly applied short-term VNS in seizure models, demonstrating that VNS can suppress and prevent seizures and affect epileptogenesis. However, the mechanism of action is still largely unknown. Moreover, studies with a clinically more relevant setup where VNS is chronically applied in epilepsy models are scarce. Future directions for research and the application of this technology in animal models of epilepsy are discussed.
Stress interacts with addictive processes to increase drug use, drug seeking, and relapse. The hippocampal formation (HF) is an important site at which stress circuits and endogenous opioid systems intersect and likely plays a critical role in the interaction between stress and drug addiction. Our prior studies demonstrate that the stress-related neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and the delta-opioid receptor (DOR) colocalize in interneuron populations in the hilus of the dentate gyrus and stratum oriens of CA1 and CA3. While independent ultrastructural studies of DORs and CRF receptors suggest that each receptor is found in CA1 pyramidal cell dendrites and dendritic spines, whether DORs and CRF receptors colocalize in CA1 neuronal profiles has not been investigated. Here, hippocampal sections of adult male and proestrus female Sprague-Dawley rats were processed for dual label pre-embedding immunoelectron microscopy using well-characterized antisera directed against the DOR for immunoperoxidase and against the CRF receptor for immunogold. DOR-immunoreactivity (-ir) was found presynaptically in axons and axon terminals as well as postsynaptically in somata, dendrites and dendritic spines in stratum radiatum of CA1. In contrast, CRF receptor-ir was predominantly found postsynaptically in CA1 somata, dendrites, and dendritic spines. CRF receptor-ir frequently was observed in DOR-labeled dendritic profiles and primarily was found in the cytoplasm rather than at or near the plasma membrane. Quantitative analysis of CRF receptor-ir colocalization with DOR-ir in pyramidal cell dendrites revealed that proestrus females and males show comparable levels of CRF receptor-ir per dendrite and similar cytoplasmic density of CRF receptor-ir. In contrast, proestrus females display an increased number of dual-labeled dendritic profiles and an increased membrane density of CRF receptor-ir in comparison to males. We further examined the functional consequences of CRF receptor-ir colocalization with DOR-ir in the same neuron using the hormone responsive neuronal cell line NG108-15, which endogenously expresses DORs, and assayed intracellular cAMP production in response to CRF receptor and DOR agonists. Results demonstrated that short-term application of DOR agonist SNC80 inhibited CRF-induced cAMP accumulation in NG108-15 cells transfected with the CRF receptor. These studies provide new insights on opioid-stress system interaction in the hippocampus of both males and females and establish potential mechanisms through which DOR activation may influence CRF receptor activity.
Following brain injury, neurons efferently connected from the lesion site are denervated and remodel their dendritic tree. Denervation-induced dendritic reorganization of granule cells was investigated in the dentate gyrus of the Thy1-GFP mouse. After mechanical transection of the perforant path, single granule cells were 3D-reconstructed at different time points post-lesion (3d, 7d, 10d, 30 d, 90 d and 180 d) and their soma size, total dendritic length, number of dendritic segments and dendritic branch orders were studied. Changes in spine densities were determined using 3D-analysis of individual dendritic segments. Following entorhinal denervation the granule cell arbor progressively atrophied until 90 d post-lesion (reduction of total dendritic length to ~50% of control). Dendritic alterations occurred selectively in the denervated outer molecular layer, where a loss of distal dendritic segments and a reduction of mean segment length were seen. At 180 d post-lesion total dendritic length partially recovered (~70% of control). This recovery appeared to be the result of a re-elongation of surviving dendrites rather than dendritic re-branching, since the number of dendritic segments did not recover. In contrast to the protracted dendritic changes, spine density changes followed a faster time course. In the denervated layer spine densities dropped to ~65% of control values and fully recovered by 30 d post-lesion. We conclude that entorhinal denervation in mouse causes protracted and long-term structural alterations of the granule cell dendritic tree. Spontaneously occurring reinnervation processes, such as the sprouting of surviving afferent fibers, are insufficient to maintain the granule cell dendritic arbor.
The use of immunotherapy for Alzheimer's disease (AD) has traditionally focused on the amyloid- (A) peptide and has shown great potential in both animal and human studies. However, an emerging body of work has begun to concentrate on tau and to develop immunization protocols designed to decrease tau pathology in AD and other tauopathies. This commentary will discuss the use of immunotherapy for AD, focusing on tau immunotherapy in the context of recent reports on the use of tau phospho-peptides in transgenic models of tau pathology.
Late preterm infants, born between 34 and 36 weeks gestation, have significantly higher morbidity than neonates born at full term, which may be partly related to reduced sensitivity of the arterial baroreflex. The present study assessed baroreflex control of heart rate (HR) and renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) in near-term fetal sheep at 123  1 days gestation. At this age, although fetuses are not fully mature in some respects (term is 147 days), sleep-state cycling is established [between high-voltage, low-frequency (HV) and low-voltage, high-frequency (LV) sleep], and neural myelination is similar to the term human infant. Fetal sheep were instrumented to record blood pressure (BP), HR (n = 15) and RSNA (n = 5). Blood pressure was manipulated using vasoactive drugs, phenylephrine and sodium nitroprusside. In both HV and LV sleep, phenylephrine was associated with increased arterial BP and decreased HR. In HV sleep, phenylephrine was associated with a fall in RSNA, from 124  14 to 58  11% (P &lt; 0.05), but no significant change in RSNA in LV sleep. In contrast, the fall in BP after sodium nitroprusside was associated with a significant increase in HR during LV but not HV sleep, and there was no significant effect of hypotension on RSNA. These data demonstrate that in near-term fetal sheep baroreflex activity is only partly active and is highly modulated by sleep state. Critically, there was no RSNA response to marked hypotension; this finding has implications for the ability of the late preterm fetus to adapt to low BP.
INTRODUCTION: Tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and some frontotemporal dementias, are neurodegenerative diseases characterised by pathological lesions comprised of tau protein. There is currently a significant and urgent unmet need for disease-modifying therapies for these conditions and recently attention has turned to tau as a potential target for intervention. AREAS COVERED: Increasing evidence has highlighted pathways associated with tau-mediated neurodegeneration as important targets for drug development. Here, the authors review recently published papers in this area and summarise the genetic and pharmacological approaches that have shown efficacy in reducing tau-associated neurodegeneration. These include the use of agents to prevent abnormal tau processing and increase tau clearance, therapies targeting the immune system, and the manipulation of tau pre-mRNA to modify tau isoform expression. EXPERT OPINION: Several small molecule tau-based treatments are currently being assessed in clinical trials, the outcomes of which are eagerly awaited. Current evidence suggests that therapies targeting tau are likely, at least in part, to form the basis of an effective and safe treatment for Alzheimer's disease and related neurodegenerative disorders in which tau deposition is evident.

Increased binding of type 1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptor ligands in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and other areas has been shown in post-mortem studies, although there are some inconsistent results. The study by Dalton et al. employed a more rigorous control for potentially confounding variables and investigated whether the density of CB1 receptors and their mRNA expression were different in subtypes of schizophrenia patients. They observed an increased density of CB1 receptors in paranoid schizophrenia as compared with nonparanoid schizophrenia patients and controls. This finding strengthens the evidence for the involvement of endocannabinoids in schizophrenia. However, it is difficult to reconcile with previous observations of increased levels of anandamide in the cerebrospinal fluid in paranoid schizophrenia, since CB1 receptor agonists were shown to induce the downregulation of these receptors. The precise role of the endocannabinoid system in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia remains far from understood.
Neurochemical dementia diagnostics (NDD) is a routine laboratory tool used in the diagnostic process for patients with neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease. Currently, two groups of biomarkers analyzed in the cerebrospinal fluid are considered - namely amyloid- peptides and Tau proteins - along with the hyperphosphorylated forms of the latter (pTau). Current directions in the development of NDD include the following: search for novel biomarkers with improved analytical or diagnostic performance; optimization of the analysis of the biomarkers already available (e.g., by improved quality control and interlaboratory comparison of results); applications of novel technologies enabling better management of patient samples; and search for biomarkers in the blood. This article presents the state-of-the-art in the field of cerebrospinal fluid-based NDD, and also summarizes some of the hypotheses of how the future development of NDD tools might look.

Recent reports have demonstrated that interactions between the microtubule-associated protein tau and the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase Fyn play a critical role in mediating synaptic toxicity and neuronal loss in response to -amyloid (A) in models of Alzheimer's disease. Disruption of interactions between Fyn and tau may thus have the potential to protect neurons from A-induced neurotoxicity. Here, we investigated tau and Fyn interactions and the potential implications for positioning of these proteins in membrane microdomains. Tau is known to bind to Fyn via its Src-homology (SH)3 domain, an association regulated by phosphorylation of PXXP motifs in tau. Here, we show that Pro216 within the PXXP(213-216) motif in tau plays an important role in mediating the interaction of tau with Fyn-SH3. We also show that tau interacts with the SH2 domain of Fyn, and that this association, unlike that of Fyn-SH3, is influenced by Fyn-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of tau. In particular, phosphorylation of tau at Tyr18, a reported target of Fyn, is important for mediating Fyn-SH2-tau interactions. Finally, we show that tyrosine phosphorylation influences the localization of tau to detergent-resistant membrane microdomains in primary cortical neurons, and that this trafficking is Fyn-dependent. These findings may have implications for the development of novel therapeutic strategies aimed at disrupting the tau/Fyn-mediated synaptic dysfunction that occurs in response to elevated A levels in neurodegenerative disease.

This review highlights our investigations into the neuroprotective efficacy of estradiol and other estrogenic agents in a clinically relevant animal model of transient global ischemia, which causes selective, delayed death of hippocampal CA1 neurons and associated cognitive deficits. We find that estradiol rescues a significant number of CA1 pyramidal neurons that would otherwise die in response to global ischemia, and this is true when hormone is provided as a long-term pretreatment at physiological doses or as an acute treatment at the time of reperfusion. In addition to enhancing neuronal survival, both forms of estradiol treatment induce measurable cognitive benefit in young animals. Moreover, estradiol and estrogen analogs that do not bind classical nuclear estrogen receptors retain their neuroprotective efficacy in middle-aged females deprived of ovarian hormones for a prolonged duration (8weeks). Thus, non-feminizing estrogens may represent a new therapeutic approach for treating the neuronal damage associated with global ischemia.
Photoperiodism is the ability of plants and animals to measure environmental day length to ascertain time of year. Central to the evolution of photoperiodism in animals is the adaptive distribution of energetically challenging activities across the year to optimize reproductive fitness while balancing the energetic tradeoffs necessary for seasonally-appropriate survival strategies. The ability to accurately predict future events requires endogenous mechanisms to permit physiological anticipation of annual conditions. Day length provides a virtually noise free environmental signal to monitor and accurately predict time of the year. In mammals, melatonin provides the hormonal signal transducing day length. Duration of pineal melatonin is inversely related to day length and its secretion drives enduring changes in many physiological systems, including the HPA, HPG, and brain-gut axes, the autonomic nervous system, and the immune system. Thus, melatonin is the fulcrum mediating redistribution of energetic investment among physiological processes to maximize fitness and survival.
Recent in vitro evidence suggests that T-type Ca(2+) channels are implicated in the mechanisms of ischemia-induced delayed neuronal cell death. The aim of this work was to study the neuroprotective potential of mibefradil and pimozide, both T-type Ca(2+) channel inhibitors, in an in vivo rat model of global ischemia. We performed blinded and randomized placebo vs. treatment experiments using 57 animals to test mibefradil and fourteen animals to test pimozide. Each treated animal received a single stereotactic intraventricular injection of mibefradil or intraperitoneal injection of pimozide prior to transient global cerebral ischemia. The primary endpoint was the number of neurons surviving in the CA1 region 72 h after insult as evaluated by NeuN-labeled cell counts. All physiological variables monitored immediately before and after ischemic insult were equivalent between all groups. Surviving neurons in the CA1 region were significantly more frequent in the treated groups compared to the placebo group (mibefradil: 36.8  2.8 cells in a 200  100 m counting area vs. placebo: 25.2  3.2 [P &lt; 0.01]; pimozide: 39.4  1.12 vs. placebo: 27.8  0.7 [P &lt; 0.0001]). Thus, administration of mibefradil or pimozide effectively prevents neuronal death after ischemia in a rat model of global ischemia. This study provides further support for a neuroprotective effect of T-type Ca(2+) current inhibition during ischemia.
The behavioral characterization of animals that carry genetic disorder abnormalities in a controlled genetic and environmental background may be used to identify human deficits that are significant to understand underlying neurobiological mechanisms. Here, we studied whether previously reported object recognition impairments in mice with a supernumerary X chromosome relate to specific cognitive deficits in Klinefelter syndrome (47,XXY). We aimed to optimize face validity by studying temporal object recognition in human cognitive assays. Thirty-four boys with Klinefelter syndrome (mean age 12.01) were compared with 90 age-matched normal controls, on a broad range of visual object memory tasks, including tests for pattern and temporal order discrimination. The results indicate that subjects with Klinefelter syndrome have difficulty in the processing of visual object and pattern information. Visual object patterns seem difficult to discriminate especially when temporal information needs to be processed and reproduced. On the basis of cross-species comparison, we propose that impaired temporal processing of object pattern information is an important deficit in Klinefelter syndrome. The current study shows how cross-species behavioral characterization may be used as a starting point to understand the neurobiology of syndromal phenotypic expression. The features of this study may serve as markers for interventions in Klinefelter syndrome. Similar cross-species evaluations of standard mouse behavioral paradigms in different genetic contexts may be powerful tools to optimize genotype-phenotype relationships.
Amphetamines have rewarding and aversive effects. Relative sensitivity to these effects may be a better predictor of vulnerability to addiction than sensitivity to one of these effects alone. We tested this hypothesis in a dose-response study in a second replicate set of mouse lines selectively bred for high vs. low methamphetamine (MA) drinking (MADR). Replicate 2 high (MAHDR-2) and low (MALDR-2) MA drinking mice were bred based on MA consumption in a two-bottle choice procedure and examined for novel tastant drinking. Sensitivities to the rewarding and aversive effects of several doses of MA (0.5, 2 and 4 mg/kg) were measured using a place conditioning procedure. After conditioning, mice were tested in a drug-free and then drug-present state for time spent in the saline- and MA-paired contexts. Similar to the first set of MADR lines, by the end of selection, MAHDR-2 mice consumed about 6 mg MA/kg/18 h, compared to nearly no MA in MALDR-2 mice, but had similar taste preference ratios. MAHDR-2 mice exhibited place preference in both the drug-free and drug-present tests, and no significant place aversion. In contrast, MALDR-2 mice exhibited no place preference or aversion during the drug-free test, but robust place aversion in the drug-present test. These data extend our preliminary findings from the first set of MADR lines and support the hypothesis that the combination of greater sensitivity to the rewarding effects of MA and insensitivity to the aversive effects of MA is genetically associated with heightened risk for MA consumption.
Genomic resources for hundreds of species of evolutionary, agricultural, economic, and medical importance are unavailable due to the expense of well-assembled genome sequences and difficulties with multigenerational studies. Teleost fish provide many models for human disease but possess anciently duplicated genomes that sometimes obfuscate connectivity. Genomic information representing a fish lineage that diverged before the teleost genome duplication (TGD) would provide an outgroup for exploring the mechanisms of evolution after whole-genome duplication. We exploited massively parallel DNA sequencing to develop meiotic maps with thrift and speed by genotyping F(1) offspring of a single female and a single male spotted gar (Lepisosteus oculatus) collected directly from nature utilizing only polymorphisms existing in these two wild individuals. Using Stacks, software that automates the calling of genotypes from polymorphisms assayed by Illumina sequencing, we constructed a map containing 8406 markers. RNA-seq on two map-cross larvae provided a reference transcriptome that identified nearly 1000 mapped protein-coding markers and allowed genome-wide analysis of conserved synteny. Results showed that the gar lineage diverged from teleosts before the TGD and its genome is organized more similarly to that of humans than teleosts. Thus, spotted gar provides a critical link between medical models in teleost fish, to which gar is biologically similar, and humans, to which gar is genomically similar. Application of our F(1) dense mapping strategy to species with no prior genome information promises to facilitate comparative genomics and provide a scaffold for ordering the numerous contigs arising from next generation genome sequencing.

Malignant glioma is among of the most devastating, and least curable, types of cancer. Since the re-emergence of the cancer stem cell hypothesis, much progress has been made towards elucidating the cellular origin of these tumors. The hypothesis that tumors are hierarchically organized, with a cancer stem cell at the top that shares defining features with somatic stem cells and provides therapeutic refractoriness properties, has put adult stem cells into the limelight as prime suspect for malignant glioma. Much confusion still exists, though, as to the particular cell type and processes that lead to oncogenic transformation. In this review, we will discuss recent developments and novel hypotheses regarding the origin of malignant gliomas, especially glioblastoma. In particular, we argue that glioblastoma is the result of different pathways originating in multiple sources that all ultimately converge in the same disease. Further attention is devoted to potential scenarios leading to transformation of different stem/progenitor cell types of the brain, and the probability and relevance of these scenarios for malignant tumorigenesis.
As with other elements of the peripheral auditory system, spiral ganglion neurons display specializations that vary as a function of location along the tonotopic axis. Previous work has shown that voltage-gated K(+) channels and synaptic proteins show graded changes in their density that confers rapid responsiveness to neurons in the high frequency, basal region of the cochlea and slower, more maintained responsiveness to neurons in the low frequency, apical region of the cochlea. In order to understand how voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs) may contribute to these diverse phenotypes, we identified the VGCC -subunits expressed in the ganglion, investigated aspects of Ca(2+)-dependent neuronal firing patterns, and mapped the intracellular and intercellular distributions of seven VGCC -subunits in the spiral ganglion in vitro. Initial experiments with qRT-PCR showed that eight of the ten known VGCC -subunits were expressed in the ganglion and electrophysiological analysis revealed firing patterns that were consistent with the presence of both LVA and HVA Ca(2+) channels. Moreover, we were able to study seven of the -subunits with immunocytochemistry, and we found that all were present in spiral ganglion neurons, three of which were neuron-specific (Ca(V)1.3, Ca(V)2.2, and Ca(V)3.3). Further characterization of neuron-specific -subunits showed that Ca(V)1.3 and Ca(V)3.3 were tonotopically-distributed, whereas Ca(V)2.2 was uniformly distributed in apical and basal neurons. Multiple VGCC -subunits were also immunolocalized to Schwann cells, having distinct intracellular localizations, and, significantly, appearing to distinguish putative compact (Ca(V)2.3, Ca(V)3.1) from loose (Ca(V)1.2) myelin. Electrophysiological evaluation of spiral ganglion neurons in the presence of TEA revealed Ca(2+) plateau potentials with slopes that varied proportionately with the cochlear region from which neurons were isolated. Because afterhyperpolarizations were minimal or absent under these conditions, we hypothesize that differential density and/or kinetics of one or more of the VGCC -subunits could account for observed tonotopic differences. These experiments have set the stage for defining the clear multiplicity of functional control in neurons and Schwann cells of the spiral ganglion.
Tau is a neuronal microtubule-associated protein implicated in microtubules stabilization, axonal establishment and elongation during neuronal morphogenesis. Because of its elevated expression in neocortical regions and hippocampus, tau might play a role in sculpting collective neural responses underlying slow and fast brain oscillations and/or long-range synchronization patterns between hippocampus and neocortex. To test this hypothesis, local field potentials were recorded in tau-deficient (tau(-/-) ) and wild-type mice from different neocortical regions and from the hippocampus during spontaneous motor exploratory behavior. We found that tau(-/-) mice showed hippocampal theta slowing and reduced levels of gamma long-range synchronization involving the frontal cortex. We hypothesize that the lack of normal phosphorylated tau during early stages of development might influence the maturation of parvalbumin interneurons affecting the spatiotemporal structure of long-range gamma synchronization. Also, the proper functioning of gap-junction channels might be compromised by the absence of tau in hippocampal networks. Altogether, these results provide novel insights into the functional role of tau protein in the formation of collective neural responses and emergence of neocortical-hippocampal interactions in the mammalian brain.
In the CNS, prolonged activation of GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) has been shown to evoke biphasic postsynaptic responses, consisting of an initial hyperpolarization followed by a depolarization. A potential mechanism underlying the depolarization is an acute chloride (Cl(-)) accumulation resulting in a shift of the GABA(A) reversal potential (E(GABA)). The amount of GABA-evoked Cl(-) accumulation and accompanying depolarization depends on presynaptic and postsynaptic properties of GABAergic transmission, as well as on cellular morphology and regulation of Cl(-) intracellular concentration ([Cl(-)](i)). To analyze the influence of these factors on the Cl(-) and voltage behavior, we studied spatiotemporal dynamics of activity-dependent [Cl(-)](i) changes in multicompartmental models of hippocampal cells based on realistic morphological data. Simulated Cl(-) influx through GABA(A) Rs was able to exceed physiological Cl(-) extrusion rates thereby evoking HCO(3)(-) -dependent E(GABA) shift and depolarizing responses. Depolarizations were observed in spite of GABA(A) receptor desensitization. The amplitude of the depolarization was frequency-dependent and determined by intracellular Cl(-) accumulation. Changes in the dendritic diameter and in the speed of GABA clearance in the synaptic cleft were significant sources of depolarization variability. In morphologically reconstructed granule cells subjected to an intense GABAergic background activity, dendritic inhibition was more affected by accumulation of intracellular Cl(-) than somatic inhibition. Interestingly, E(GABA) changes induced by activation of a single dendritic synapse propagated beyond the site of Cl(-) influx and affected neighboring synapses. The simulations suggest that E(GABA) may differ even along a single dendrite supporting the idea that it is necessary to assign E(GABA) to a given GABAergic input and not to a given neuron.

Selective dysfunction in the medial temporal lobe (MTL) in amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) results in a relatively circumscribed impairment in episodic memory. Previously, we found that activation extent in MTL during encoding correlated with subsequent recognition (hit rate) in controls but not in MCI patients (Mandzia et al. [2009]: Neurobiol Aging 30:717-730). Here, we examined whether functional connectivity amongst MTL and cortical regions might better explain differences in subsequent recognition success. Participants underwent fMRI scanning during picture encoding, and multivariate analysis was used to characterize the relationship between network activations and recognition. Both patients and controls activated a canonical MTL encoding network. However, this network correlated with hit rate only for controls. In MCI patients, recognition variability was best explained by the engagement of an additional network including BA 20. We propose that this pattern represents functional reorganization caused by reduced efficiency in the MTL network. Our findings suggest that understanding brain-behavior relationships in neurological disorders requires examination of large-scale networks, even when dysfunction is relatively focal as in MCI.
Swine-origin H1N1 influenza virus (S-OIV) appeared in 2009 with a higher incidence rate among children. Although fever was the most common symptom, some complicated cases occurred. We evaluated the percentages of effector T cells, B cells, and regulatory T cells in peripheral blood from 5 children infected by S-OIV (1 with acute necrotizing encephalitis, 2 with pneumonia, and 2 without complications), 5 children with seasonal influenza, and 5 healthy children. We found higher percentages of T-bet(+) CD4(+)CD8(+) T cells, monocytes, and B cells, granzyme B(+) and perforin(+) CD4(+), and CD8(+) T cells in affected children with both seasonal and H1N1 influenza than in controls, whereas both groups demonstrated similar percentages of CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells. In infected children with complications we observed high percentages of perforin(+) and interferon-(+) CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells associated with low percentages of T regulatory cells. Our data suggest a dysregulation of antipathogen type I immune responses in complicated S-OIV infections.
Mutations in the heart and muscle isoform of adenine nucleotide translocator 1 (ANT1) are associated with autosomal-dominant progressive external opthalmoplegia (adPEO) clinically characterized by exercise intolerance, ptosis and muscle weakness. The pathogenic mechanisms underlying the mitochondrial myopathy caused by ANT1 mutations remain largely unknown. In yeast, expression of ANT1 carrying mutations corresponding to the human adPEO ones causes a wide range of mitochondrial abnormalities. However, functional studies of ANT1 mutations in mammalian cells are lacking, because they have been hindered by the fact that ANT1 expression leads to apoptotic cell death in commonly utilized replicating cell lines. Here, we successfully express functional ANT1 in differentiated mouse myotubes, which naturally contain high levels of ANT1, without causing cell death. We demonstrate, for the first time in these disease-relevant mammalian cells, that mutant human ANT1 causes dominant mitochondrial defects characterized by decreased ADP-ATP exchange function and abnormal translocator reversal potential. These abnormalities are not due to ANT1 loss of function, because knocking down Ant1 in myotubes causes functional changes different from ANT1 mutants. Under certain physiological conditions, mitochondria consume ATP to maintain membrane potential by reversing the ADP-ATP transport. The modified properties of mutant ANT1 can be responsible for disease pathogenesis in adPEO, because exchange reversal occurring at higher than normal membrane potential can cause excessive energy depletion and nucleotide imbalance in ANT1 mutant muscle cells.
Sarcomeric -actinins (-actinin-2 and -3) are a major component of the Z-disk in skeletal muscle, where they crosslink actin and other structural proteins to maintain an ordered myofibrillar array. Homozygosity for the common null polymorphism (R577X) in ACTN3 results in the absence of fast fiber-specific -actinin-3 in 20% of the general population. -Actinin-3 deficiency is associated with decreased force generation and is detrimental to sprint and power performance in elite athletes, suggesting that -actinin-3 is necessary for optimal forceful repetitive muscle contractions. Since Z-disks are the structures most vulnerable to eccentric damage, we sought to examine the effects of -actinin-3 deficiency on sarcomeric integrity. Actn3 knockout mouse muscle showed significantly increased force deficits following eccentric contraction at 30% stretch, suggesting that -actinin-3 deficiency results in an increased susceptibility to muscle damage at the extremes of muscle performance. Microarray analyses demonstrated an increase in muscle remodeling genes, which we confirmed at the protein level. The loss of -actinin-3 and up-regulation of -actinin-2 resulted in no significant changes to the total pool of sarcomeric -actinins, suggesting that alterations in fast fiber Z-disk properties may be related to differences in functional protein interactions between -actinin-2 and -actinin-3. In support of this, we demonstrated that the Z-disk proteins, ZASP, titin and vinculin preferentially bind to -actinin-2. Thus, the loss of -actinin-3 changes the overall protein composition of fast fiber Z-disks and alters their elastic properties, providing a mechanistic explanation for the loss of force generation and increased susceptibility to eccentric damage in -actinin-3-deficient individuals.
Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) have difficulties in movement adaptation to optimize performance in novel environmental contexts such as altered screen cursor-hand relationships. Prior studies have shown that the time course of the distortion differentially affects visuomotor adaptation to screen cursor rotations, suggesting separate mechanisms for gradual and sudden adaptation. Moreover, studies in human and non-human primates suggest that adaptation to sudden kinematic distortions may engage the basal ganglia, whereas adaptation to gradual kinematic distortions involves cerebellar structures. In the present studies, participants were patients with PD, who performed center-out pointing movements, using either a digitizer tablet and pen or a computer trackball, under normal or rotated screen cursor feedback conditions. The initial study tested patients with PD using a cross-over experimental design for adaptation to gradual as compared with sudden rotated hand-screen cursor relationships and revealed significant after-effects for the gradual adaptation task only. Consistent with these results, findings from a follow-up experiment using a trackball that required only small finger movements showed that patients with PD adapt better to gradual as against sudden perturbations, when compared to age-matched healthy controls. We conclude that Parkinson's disease affects adaptation to sudden visuomotor distortions but spares adaptation to gradual distortions.
Recordings of the dominant finger during the reading of braille sentences by experienced readers reveal that the velocity of the finger changes frequently during the traverse of a line of text. These changes, not previously reported, involve a multitude of accelerations and decelerations, as well as reversals of direction. We investigated the origin of these velocity intermittencies (as well as movement reversals) by asking readers to twice read out-loud or silently sentences comprising high- or low-frequency words which combined to make grammatical sentences that were either meaningful or nonmeaningful. In a control condition we asked braille readers to smoothly scan lines of braille comprised of meaningless cell combinations. Word frequency and re-reading each contribute to the kinematics of finger movements, but neither sentence meaning nor the mode of reading do so. The velocity intermittencies were so pervasive that they are not easily attributable either to linguistic processing, text familiarity, mode of reading, or to sensory-motor interactions with the textured patterns of braille, but seem integral to all braille finger movements except reversals. While language-related processing can affect the finger movements, the effects are superimposed on a highly intermittent velocity profile whose origin appears to lie in the motor control of slow movements.



The sarcoplasmic reticulum is a unique organelle found in muscle cells that is dedicated to the regulation of Ca(2+) homeostasis and activation of myofilament contraction. The functional requirement for an efficient and synchronous activation of Ca(2+) release from the SR, following the depolarization of the plasma membrane, accounts for the complex three-dimensional organization of internal membranes observed in muscle cells and for the localization of proteins at specific sites of the SR. Recent advancements in understanding the molecular basis of SR structure and function have greatly increased our understanding of muscle cellular physiology and biology. Parallel work has revealed that several human diseases affecting skeletal and cardiac tissues are linked to either mutations or altered post-translational modifications of SR proteins.
There is a shift in sensitivity to systemically administered psychostimulants in adolescence, as evidenced by less amphetamine-induced locomotor activity in adolescent compared to adult rodents. Locomotor activating effects of amphetamine are dependent on drug actions in the core of the nucleus accumbens (NAc), but the contribution of this region to age differences in amphetamine sensitivity has not been studied directly. In the present study, we investigated the development of the NAc using targeted injections of amphetamine (0, 3, or 6 g/side) directly into the NAc core in early (postnatal day 30; P30) or late (P45) adolescence, or in adulthood (P75). Locomotor activity was recorded during two 1h sessions, 48 h apart. Amphetamine increased locomotor activity at all ages. P45 rats were more active than adults only at the 3 g/side dose, but this difference was not significant when baseline activity was taken into account. In contrast, P30 rats were more active than adults at the 6 g/side dose, indicating that the magnitude of the locomotor response is highest in early adolescence. Results of the present study are the first to directly show a developmental difference in the sensitivity of the NAc to amphetamine under conditions in which the influence of pharmacokinetic factors and regulatory brain regions is minimized.
We investigated the functional and histological recovery of middle cerebral artery occluded (MCAo) rats after of duplicate intravenous (i.v.) injection of human neural stem cells (hNSCs). Rats received i.v. injections of hNSCs (HB1.F3, 4  10(6) cells) on day 1 (1C), day 7 (7C), or both days 1 and 7 (1/7C) following MCAo. Functional recovery of rats was evaluated 1 day before MCAo and 1, 7, 14, 21, and 28 days following MCAo, using the modified neurological severity score (mNSS), and cylinder test. Nissl staining and anti-human nuclear matrix antigen /NeuN or GFAP were used to measure infarct size and investigate the migration and differentiation of injected cells. Treatment with hNSCs did not significantly affect infarct size of ischemic animals. Behavior evaluation using mNSS showed that functional deficits in the 1C group were reduced faster than in the 7C and 1/7C groups, and functional recovery in 1/7C rats was significantly more pronounced than that in the 7C group (day 21). Injected cells were identified at the boundary of lesions, where they had differentiated into neurons and astrocytes. Our study suggests that duplicate i.v. administration of hNSCs after stroke offers no advantages over single administration, 1 day following an ischemic event.



Presented is a report on black-box evaluation of feedback control systems for commercial hearing aids. The aim of the study is to examine the ability of existing instrumental measures to quantify the performance of the feedback control system in black-box settings and on realistic signals, when more than one element of the signal processing chain may be active (compression, noise suppression, microphone directionality, etc.). The evaluation is carried out on 6 different hearing aids and for 10 measures. Thereby it is possible to see which measure is best suited to measuring which specific characteristic of the feedback control system, and serves as a beginning for conducting perceptual tests. The study uses static (but variable) feedback paths and is based on signals recorded from the in-ear microphone of an artificial head, on which the hearing instruments are mounted.
The present study investigated the effects of binaural spectral mismatch on binaural benefits in the context of bilateral cochlear implants using acoustic simulations. Binaural spectral mismatch was systematically manipulated by simulating changes in the relative insertion depths across ears. Sentence recognition, presented unilaterally and bilaterally, were measured in normal-hearing listeners in quiet and noise at +5 dB signal-to-noise ratio. Significant binaural benefits were observed when the interaural difference in insertion depth was 1 mm or less. This result suggests a dependence of the binaural benefit on redundant speech information, rather than on similarity in performance across ears.

Despite the availability of many treatment options, depressive disorders remain a global public health problem. Even in affluent nations, 70% of reported cases either do not receive the recommended level of treatment or do not get treated at all, and this percentage does not reflect cases of depression that go unreported due to lack of access to health care, stigma, or other reasons. In developing countries, the World Health Organization estimates that &lt;10% receive proper depression care due to poverty, stigma, and lack of governmental mental health resources and providers. Current treatments do not work for everyone, and even people who achieve remission face a high risk of recurrence and residual disability. The development of low-cost effective interventions that can serve either as initial therapy for mild symptoms or as adjunctive therapy for partial responders to medication is an immense unmet need. Positive activity interventions (PAIs) teach individuals ways to increase their positive thinking, positive affect, and positive behaviors. The majority of such interventions, which have obtained medium-size effect sizes, have been conducted with nondepressed individuals, but two randomized controlled studies in patients with mild clinical depression have reported promising initial findings. In this article, the authors review the relevant literature on the effectiveness of various types of PAIs, draw on social psychology, affective neuroscience and psychophamacology research to propose neural models for how PAIs might relieve depression, and discuss the steps needed to translate the potential promise of PAIs as clinical treatments for individuals with major and minor depressive disorders.
The factors responsible for interindividual differences in speech-understanding ability among hearing-impaired listeners are not well understood. Although audibility has been found to account for some of this variability, other factors may play a role. This study sought to examine whether part of the large interindividual variability of speech-recognition performance in individuals with severe-to-profound high-frequency hearing loss could be accounted for by differences in hearing-loss onset type (early, progressive, or sudden), age at hearing-loss onset, or hearing-loss duration. Other potential factors including age, hearing thresholds, speech-presentation levels, and speech audibility were controlled. Percent-correct (PC) scores for syllables in dissyllabic words, which were either unprocessed or lowpass filtered at cutoff frequencies ranging from 250 to 2,000 Hz, were measured in 20 subjects (40 ears) with severe-to-profound hearing losses above 1 kHz. For comparison purposes, 20 normal-hearing subjects (20 ears) were also tested using the same filtering conditions and a range of speech levels (10-80 dB SPL). Significantly higher asymptotic PCs were observed in the early (&lt;=4 years) hearing-loss onset group than in both the progressive- and sudden-onset groups, even though the three groups did not differ significantly with respect to age, hearing thresholds, or speech audibility. In addition, significant negative correlations between PC and hearing-loss onset age, and positive correlations between PC and hearing-loss duration were observed. These variables accounted for a greater proportion of the variance in speech-intelligibility scores than, and were not significantly correlated with, speech audibility, as quantified using a variant of the articulation index. Although the lack of statistical independence between hearing-loss onset type, hearing-loss onset age, hearing-loss duration, and age complicate and limit the interpretation of the results, these findings indicate that other variables than audibility can influence speech intelligibility in listeners with severe-to-profound high-frequency hearing loss.
The perception of intent in Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) often relies on synthetic animacy displays. This study tests intention perception in ASD via animacy stimuli derived from human motion. Using a forced choice task, 28 participants (14 ASDs; 14 age and verbal-I.Q. matched controls) categorized displays of Chasing, Fighting, Flirting, Following, Guarding and Playing, from two viewpoints (side, overhead) in both animacy and full video displays. Detailed analysis revealed no differences between populations in accuracy, or response patterns. Collapsing across groups revealed Following and Video displays to be most accurately perceived. The stimuli and intentions used are compared to those of previous studies, and the implication of our results on the understanding of Theory of Mind in ASD is discussed.
Localizing the self in time is fundamental for daily life functioning and is lacking in severe disabling neuropsychiatric disorders like schizophrenia. Brains keep track of time across an impressive range of scales. Great progress has been made in identifying the molecular machinery of the circadian clock, the brain's master clock that operates on the 24-hour scale and allows animals to know the &quot;time of the day&quot; that important events occur, without referring to external cues. However, the biology of interval timing, the mechanism responsible for durations in the seconds-to-minutes-to-hours range, remains a mystery, and an obvious question is whether there is a common biological solution for keeping track of time across these 2 time scales. To address this, we trained Cry1/Cry2 double knockout mice on an interval timing task with durations that ranged between 3 and 27 seconds. The mice were kept under constant light conditions to avoid any exogenously induced form of daily rhythmicity. We observed that the homozygous knockouts displayed as accurate and precise a temporal memory as the control mice. This suggests that the Cry1 and Cry2 genes are not an important component of the interval timer. Furthermore, proper calibration of the interval timer does not depend on a functional circadian clock. Thus, these 2 timing systems likely rely on different and independent biological mechanisms.
The circadian mutation duper in Syrian hamsters shortens the free-running circadian period ((DD)) by 2 hours when expressed on a tau mutant ((ss)) background and by 1 hour on a wild-type background. We have examined the effects of this mutation on phase response curves and entrainment. In contrast to wild types, duper hamsters entrained to 14L:10D with a positive phase angle. Super duper hamsters (expressing duper on a (ss) background) showed weak entrainment, while (ss) animals either completely failed to entrain or showed sporadic entrainment with episodes of relative coordination. As previously reported, wild-type and (ss) hamsters show low amplitude resetting in response to 15-minute light pulses after short-term (10 days) exposure to DD. In contrast, super duper hamsters show high amplitude resetting. This effect is attributable to the duper allele, as hamsters carrying duper on a wild-type background also show large phase shifts. Duper mutants that were born and raised in DD also showed high amplitude resetting in response to 15-minute light pulses, indicating that the effect of the mutation on PRC amplitude is not an aftereffect of entrainment to 14L:10D. Hamsters that are heterozygous for duper do not show amplified resetting curves, indicating that for this property, as for determination of free-running period, the mutant allele is recessive. In a modified Aschoff type II protocol, super duper and duper hamsters show large phase shifts as soon as the second day of DD. Despite the amplification of the PRC in super duper hamsters, the induction of Period1 gene expression in the SCN by light is no greater in these mutants than in wild-type animals. Period2 expression in the SCN did not differ between super duper and wild-type hamsters exposed to light at CT15, but albumin site D-binding protein (Dbp) mRNA showed higher basal levels and greater light induction in the SCN of super duper compared to wild-type animals. These results indicate that the duper mutation alters the amplitude of the circadian oscillator and further distinguish it from the tau mutation.
Three animals born to homozygous tau mutant ((ss), &quot;super short&quot;) Syrian hamsters showed extremely short free-running periods of locomotor activity ((DD) of approximately 17.8 hours). Inbreeding produced 33 such &quot;super duper&quot; animals, which had a (DD) of 18.09  0.05 hours, which was shorter than that of (ss) hamsters (20.66  0.07 hours, p &lt; 0.001). To test the hypothesis that a gene (Duper) is responsible for a 2-hour shortening of (DD), we backcrossed super duper hamsters to unrelated (ss) animals. The F(1) pups uniformly had a (DD) similar to that of (ss) hamsters (19.89  0.15 hours), but F(2) animals showed a 1:1 ratio of the 18- to 20-hour phenotypes. In contrast, the F(1) of a cross between super duper hamsters and (ss) animals presumed heterozygous for duper showed a 1:1 ratio of 18- to 20-hour phenotypes, and inbreeding of the super duper F(1) offspring uniformly produced F(2) pups with extremely short (DD) (17.86  0.5 hours). We isolated the duper mutation on a wild-type background through crossing of super duper with wild-type animals. Restriction digests identified short-period F(2) pups that lack the mutant CK1 allele, and these animals had a mean (DD) of 23.11  0.04 hours. (DD) of duper hamsters born and raised in DD was significantly shorter than in hamsters raised in 14L:10D (21.92  0.12 hours, p &lt; 0.0001). (DD) shortened twice as much in (s) and (ss) hamsters than in wild-type animals that were homozygous for duper, indicating the presence of epistatic interactions. Assortment of phenotypes in the F(2) generation fit the expected distribution for expression of duper as recessive ((2) = 6.41, p &gt; 0.1). Neither CK1 nor CK1 coding region base sequences differed between super duper and (ss) hamsters. The growth rate of super duper mutants is similar to that of (ss) animals but slightly but significantly reduced at particular postweaning time points. We conclude that duper represents a new mutation that substantially reduces (DD) and has significant effects on physiology and metabolism.
Hypothermia can unintentionally occur in daily life, e.g., in cardiovascular surgery or applied as therapeutics in the neurosciences critical care unit. So far, the temperature-induced spatiotemporal responses of the neural function have not been fully understood. In this study, we investigated the functional change in cerebral blood flow (CBF), accompanied with neuronal activation, by laser speckle imaging (LSI) during hypothermia. Laser speckle images from Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 8, male) were acquired under normothermia (37C) and moderate hypothermia (32C). For each animal, 10 trials of electrical hindpaw stimulation were delivered under both temperatures. Using registered laser speckle contrast analysis and temporal clustering analysis (TCA), we found a delayed response peak and a prolonged response window under hypothermia. Hypothermia also decreased the activation area and the amplitude of the peak CBF. The combination of LSI and TCA is a high-resolution functional imaging method to investigate the spatiotemporal neurovascular coupling in both normal and pathological brain functions.
The current paper describes the design and population testing of a flicker sensitivity assessment technique corresponding to the psychophysical approach for straylight measurement. The purpose is twofold: to check the subjects' capability to perform the straylight test and as a test for retinal integrity for other purposes. The test was implemented in the Oculus C-Quant straylight meter, using homemade software (MATLAB). The geometry of the visual field lay-out was identical, as was the subjects' 2AFC task. A comparable reliability criterion (&quot;unc&quot;) was developed. Outcome measure was logTCS (temporal contrast sensitivity). The population test was performed in science fair settings on about 400 subjects. Moreover, 2 subjects underwent extensive tests to check whether optical defects, mimicked with trial lenses and scatter filters, affected the TCS outcome. Repeated measures standard deviation was 0.11 log units for the reference population. Normal values for logTCS were around 2 (threshold 1%) with some dependence on age (range 6 to 85 years). The test outcome did not change upon a tenfold (optical) deterioration in visual acuity or straylight. The test has adequate precision for checking a subject's capability to perform straylight assessment. The unc reliability criterion ensures sufficient precision, also for assessment of retinal sensitivity loss.

Muscle inactivity due to injury or disease results in muscle atrophy. The molecular mechanisms contributing to muscle atrophy are poorly understood. However, it is clear that expression of atrophy-related genes, like Atrogin-1 and MuRF-1, are intimately tied to loss of muscle mass. When these atrophy-related genes are knocked out, inactive muscles retain mass. Muscle denervation stimulates muscle atrophy and Myogenin (Myog) is a muscle-specific transcription factor that is highly induced following muscle denervation. To investigate if Myog contributes to muscle atrophy, we have taken advantage of conditional Myog null mice. We show that in the denervated soleus muscle Myog expression contributes to reduced muscle force, mass, and cross-sectional area. We found that Myog mediates these effects, at least in part, by regulating expression of the Atrogin-1 and MuRF-1 genes. Indeed Myog over-expression in innervated muscle stimulates Atrogin-1 gene expression and Myog over-expression stimulates Atrogin-1 promoter activity. Thus, Myog and the signaling cascades regulating its induction following muscle denervation may represent novel targets for therapies aimed at reducing denervation-induced muscle atrophy.
The derivation of neural lineages from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) in vitro is based largely on exposure of hESCs to exogenous signals and substrates, designed to mimic conditions in the developing embryo. However, selection of specific lineages and the discovery of gene function in human neural development may be enhanced by the ability to intrinsically regulate gene expression. Recombinant lentiviral vectors provide an efficient method to stably introduce genes into hESC and their differentiating derivatives. Here we review the methods used to derive neural cells from hESCs, transduction of these cells with lentiviral vectors, and improvements that have been made to the vectors to enhance viral integration and transgene expression. Finally, we explore prospects for future uses of lentiviral vectors in hESC research, including their applications in library screening for drug development, zinc finger nucleases for gene editing and optogenetics to interrogate cellular pathways and function.
It has been almost 25 years since the initial discovery that tau was the primary component of the neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in Alzheimer disease (AD) brain. Although AD is defined by both -amyloid (A) pathology (A plaques) and tau pathology (NFTs), whether or not tau played a critical role in disease pathogenesis was a subject of discussion for many years. However, given the increasing evidence that pathological forms of tau can compromise neuronal function and that tau is likely an important mediator of A toxicity, there is a growing awareness that tau is a central player in AD pathogenesis. In this review we begin with a brief history of tau, then provide an overview of pathological forms of tau, followed by a discussion of the differential degradation of tau by either the proteasome or autophagy and possible mechanisms by which pathological forms of tau may exert their toxicity. We conclude by discussing possible avenues for therapeutic intervention based on these emerging themes of tau's role in AD.
Accurate identification of ischemic penumbra will improve stroke patient selection for reperfusion therapies and clinical trials. Current magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques have limitations and lack validation. Oxygen challenge T(2)(*) MRI (T(2)(*) OC) uses oxygen as a biotracer to detect tissue metabolism, with penumbra displaying the greatest T(2)(*) signal change during OC. [(14)C]2-deoxyglucose (2-DG) autoradiography was combined with T(2)(*) OC to determine metabolic status of T(2)(*)-defined penumbra. Permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion was induced in anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=6). Ischemic injury and perfusion deficit were determined by diffusion- and perfusion-weighted imaging, respectively. At 147  32 minutes after stroke, T(2)(*) signal change was measured during a 5-minute 100% OC, immediately followed by 125 Ci/kg 2-DG, intravenously. Magnetic resonance images were coregistered with the corresponding autoradiograms. Regions of interest were located within ischemic core, T(2)(*)-defined penumbra, equivalent contralateral structures, and a region of hyperglycolysis. A T(2)(*) signal increase of 9.22%  3.9% (mean  s.d.) was recorded in presumed penumbra, which displayed local cerebral glucose utilization values equivalent to contralateral cortex. T(2)(*) signal change was negligible in ischemic core, 3.2%  0.78% in contralateral regions, and 1.41%  0.62% in hyperglycolytic tissue, located outside OC-defined penumbra and within the diffusion abnormality. The results support the utility of OC-MRI to detect viable penumbral tissue following stroke.
Accurate imaging of the ischemic penumbra is a prerequisite for acute clinical stroke research. T(2)(*) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) combined with an oxygen challenge (OC) is being developed to detect penumbra based on changes in blood deoxyhemoglobin. However, inducing OC with 100% O(2) induces sinus artefacts on human scans and influences cerebral blood flow (CBF), which can affect T(2)(*) signal. Therefore, we investigated replacing 100% O(2) OC with 40% O(2) OC (5 minutes 40% O(2) versus 100% O(2)) and determined the effects on blood pressure (BP), CBF, tissue pO(2), and T(2)(*) signal change in presumed penumbra in a rat stroke model. Probes implanted into penumbra and contralateral cortex simultaneously recorded pO(2) and CBF during 40% O(2) (n=6) or 100% O(2) (n=8) OC. In a separate MRI study, T(2)(*) signal change to 40% O(2) (n=6) and 100% O(2) (n=5) OC was compared. Oxygen challenge (40% and 100% O(2)) increased BP by 8.2% and 18.1%, penumbra CBF by 5% and 15%, and penumbra pO(2) levels by 80% and 144%, respectively. T(2)(*) signal significantly increased by 4.56%  1.61% and 8.65%  3.66% in penumbra compared with 2.98%  1.56% and 2.79%  0.66% in contralateral cortex and 1.09%  0.82% and -0.32%  0.67% in ischemic core, respectively. For diagnostic imaging, 40% O(2) OC could provide sufficient T(2)(*) signal change to detect penumbra with limited influence in BP and CBF.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with oxygen challenge (T(2)(*) OC) uses oxygen as a metabolic biotracer to define penumbral tissue based on CMRO(2) and oxygen extraction fraction. Penumbra displays a greater T(2)(*) signal change during OC than surrounding tissue. Since timely restoration of cerebral blood flow (CBF) should salvage penumbra, T(2)(*) OC was tested by examining the consequences of reperfusion on T(2)(*) OC-defined penumbra. Transient ischemia (109  20 minutes) was induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=8). Penumbra was identified on T(2)(*)-weighted MRI during OC. Ischemia and ischemic injury were identified on CBF and apparent diffusion coefficient maps, respectively. Reperfusion was induced and scans repeated. T(2) for final infarct and T(2)(*) OC were run on day 7. T(2)(*) signal increase to OC was 3.4% in contralateral cortex and caudate nucleus and was unaffected by reperfusion. In OC-defined penumbra, T(2)(*) signal increased by 8.4%  4.1% during ischemia and returned to 3.25%  0.8% following reperfusion. Ischemic core T(2)(*) signal increase was 0.39%  0.47% during ischemia and 0.84%  1.8% on reperfusion. Penumbral CBF increased from 41.94  13 to 116.5  25 mL per 100 g per minute on reperfusion. On day 7, OC-defined penumbra gave a normal OC response and was located outside the infarct. T(2)(*) OC-defined penumbra recovered when CBF was restored, providing further validation of the utility of T(2)(*) OC for acute stroke management.
The occurrence of spontaneous seizures in mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) is preceded by a latent phase that provides a time window for identifying and treating patients at risk. However, a reliable biomarker of epileptogenesis has not been established and the underlying processes remain unclear. Growing evidence suggests that astrocytes contribute to an imbalance between excitation and inhibition in epilepsy. Here, astrocytic and neuronal neurotransmitter metabolism was analyzed in the latent phase of the kainate model of MTLE in an attempt to identify epileptogenic processes and potential biomarkers. Fourteen days after status epilepticus, [1-(13)C]glucose and [1,2-(13)C]acetate were injected and the hippocampal formation, entorhinal/piriform cortex, and neocortex were analyzed by (1)H and (13)C magnetic resonance spectroscopy. The (13)C enrichment in glutamate, glutamine, and -aminobutyric acid (GABA) from [1-(13)C]glucose was decreased in all areas. Decreased GABA content was specific for the hippocampal formation, together with a pronounced decrease in astrocyte-derived [1,2-(13)C]GABA and a decreased transfer of glutamine for the synthesis of GABA. Accumulation of branched-chain amino acids combined with decreased [4,5-(13)C]glutamate in hippocampal formation could signify decreased transamination via branched-chain aminotransferase in astrocytes. The results point to astrocytes as major players in the epileptogenic process, and (13)C enrichment of glutamate and GABA as potential biomarkers.
Delayed hypothermia salvages CA1 neurons from global ischemic injury. However, the effects of this potent neuroprotectant on endogenous repair mechanisms, such as neurogenesis, have not been clearly examined. In this study, we quantified and phenotyped newly generated cells within the hippocampus following untreated and hypothermia-treated ischemia. We first show that CA1 pyramidal neurons did not spontaneously regenerate after ischemia. We then compared the level of neuroprotection when hypothermia was initiated either during or after ischemia. Treatment efficacy decreased with longer delays, but hypothermia delayed for up to 12 hours was neuroprotective. Although bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation was elevated in ischemic groups, CA1 neurogenesis did not occur as the BrdU label did not colocalize with neuronal nuclei (NeuN) in any of the groups. Instead, the majority of BrdU-labeled cells were Iba-positive microglia, and neuroprotective hypothermia decreased the delayed generation of microglia during the third postischemic week. Conversely, hypothermia delayed for 12 hours significantly increased the survival of newly generated dentate granule cells at 4 weeks after ischemia. Thus, our findings show that CA1 neurogenesis does not contribute to hypothermic neuroprotection. Importantly, we also show that prolonged hypothermia positively interacts with postischemic repair processes, such as neurogenesis, resulting in improved functional outcome.

We used discrete-time survival mixture modeling to examine 5,305 adolescents from the 1997 National Longitudinal Survey of Youth regarding the impact of parental monitoring during early adolescence (ages 14-16) on initiation of sexual intercourse and problem behavior engagement (ages 14-23). Four distinctive parental-monitoring groups were identified and labeled as &quot;High,&quot; &quot;Increasing,&quot; &quot;Decreasing,&quot; and &quot;Low&quot;. About 68% of adolescents received a high level of parental monitoring from ages 14 to 16 (High), 6 and 9% respectively exhibited an accelerated (Increasing) and a decelerated trajectory (Decreasing), and 17% had consistently low parental monitoring (Low). Relative to participants in the Low group, adolescents in the High group delayed sexual initiation by 1.5years. Males, relative to females, were more likely to have had a low trajectory of parental monitoring, and were more likely to initiate sexual intercourse before age 14. In contrast to White Adolescents, Hispanics and Blacks were less likely to receive High parental monitoring, and had a higher rate of early sexual initiation before age 14. The study demonstrates the temporal relationship of parental monitoring with adolescent sexual initiation from a longitudinal perspective. An increase of parental monitoring across ages is accompanied with a decrease of sexual risk. The continual high level of parental monitoring from ages 14 to 16 also mitigated the risk of engagement in substance use and delinquent behaviors from ages 14 to 23.
Isolated sulfite oxidase deficiency is a rare neurometabolic disorder that closely mimics hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy both clinically and radiologically. Phenotypic and imaging observations in 2 children (aged 14 months and 8 years) with this disease are described. Both had profound mental retardation, microcephaly, spastic quadriparesis, and uncontrolled seizures from the neonatal period. Diagnosis was established by demonstrating the presence of sulfites in urine and genetic analysis. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain revealed severe cystic leukomalacia, cortical atrophy with ulegyric pattern, and cerebellar hypoplasia that progressed over time in both the patients. Early diagnosis of this devastating disorder will provide an opportunity for genetic counseling and prenatal testing.
Despite its extensive use, the validity of the Rey Complex Figure in predicting everyday behavioral executive dysfunction displayed by children with various neuropsychological disorders is unknown. The copied figures of 263 children aged 6 to 17 years were rescored using an accuracy approach that measured visuospatial ability and three process approaches developed to measure executive functioning. Controlling for age and IQ, partial correlations between scores derived by all scoring methods and the parent ratings on an executive function inventory were zero. In contrast, all four scoring approaches were associated with parent ratings on questionnaires that indexed children's academic achievement, developmental status, and adaptive ability. The findings suggest that the ecological validity of the Rey Complex Figure for children with various central nervous system disorders is more associated with visual-motor integration skills than executive functioning.
Natalizumab is a widely accepted drug for the relapsing-remitting subtype of multiple sclerosis (RRMS). The present longitudinal exploratory study in RRMS patients analyzes the effects of natalizumab treatment on the levels of pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokine protein levels and also the frequency and suppressor function of regulatory T cells. Flow cytometry was used to determine cytokines and regulatory T cell frequency while regulatory T cell suppressor function was assayed in vitro at different time-points after starting with natalizumab. Results showed serum levels of pro-inflammatory interferon gamma and interleukin (IL)-12p70, as well as anti-inflammatory IL-4 and IL-10, were elevated just a few hours or days after first IV infusion of natalizumab. Interestingly, other cytokines like IL-5 or IL-13 were also elevated while pro-inflammatory IL-17, IL-2, and IL-1 increased only after a long-term treatment, suggesting different immune mechanisms. In contrast, we did not observe any effect of natalizumab treatment on regulatory T cell frequency or activity. In conclusion, these results suggest natalizumab has other immunological effects beyond VLA-4 interaction and inhibition of CNS extravasation, the relevance of which is as yet unknown and warrants further investigation.




Pontine ischemia usually results in focal deficits such as hemiparesis, facial palsy, dysarthria, disorders of eye movements or vertigo. Although rarely described, involuntary abnormal movements and &quot;convulsions&quot; due to pontine lesions can also occur. Here we describe a 67-year-old woman with hypertension who presented with a tonic movement mimicking a versive seizure in the acute phase of bilateral pontine ischemia. Post-stroke movement disorders are well known. They are usually associated with supratentorial lesions and rarely occur in the acute phase, but &quot;seizure-like&quot; episodes can be seen in pontine ischemia. Awareness of this rare phenomenon is useful for the management of acute stroke patients.
Primary intraosseous sacral paraganglioma is a rare case of location for spinal paragangliomas, which generally manifest as intradural extramedullary tumors of the cauda equina region. The diagnosis can be elusive considering the rarity of sacral paragangliomas. The clinical importance of recognizing this relatively benign tumor cannot be overemphasized as the outcome, extent of surgery and management differs significantly from other common bony sacral tumors which are generally malignant. We report a rare case of sacral paraganglioma that was diagnosed only after histopathological examination, along with a relevant review of the literature.
Dexpramipexole (KNS-760704; [6R]-4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-N6-propyl-2,6-benzothiazole-diamine) is a novel synthetic amino-benzothiazole in development for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Preclinical studies have shown that dexpramipexole is neuroprotective in vitro and in vivo, is highly orally bioavailable and water soluble, and rapidly achieves and maintains high central nervous system concentrations relative to plasma. Two phase 1 clinical studies were conducted to assess the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of single and multiple doses of dexpramipexole in 54 healthy male and female adults. The effect of food on the single-dose PK of dexpramipexole was also evaluated. Single doses (50 mg, 150 mg, or 300 mg) and multiple doses (50 mg twice daily, 100 mg twice daily, or 150 mg twice daily) of dexpramipexole over 4.5 days were safe and well tolerated. Dexpramipexole was rapidly absorbed, with time to maximum plasma concentration ranging from 1.8 to 2.6 hours and half-life ranging from 6.4 to 8.1 hours under fasted conditions, and was mostly eliminated in urine as unchanged parent drug (84%-90% of dose). Food had no effect on the single-dose PK of dexpramipexole. These findings support the ongoing development of dexpramipexole for the treatment of ALS and further evaluation of the compound's therapeutic potential in other neurodegenerative diseases.

Men who have sex with men (MSM) represent more than half of all new HIV infections in the United States. Utilizing a collaborative, community based approach, a brief risk reduction intervention was developed and pilot tested among newly HIV-diagnosed MSM receiving HIV care in a primary care setting. Sixty-five men, within 3 months of diagnosis, were randomly assigned to the experimental condition or control condition and assessed at baseline, 3-month, and 6-month follow-up. Effect sizes were calculated to explore differences between conditions and over time. Results demonstrated the potential effectiveness of the intervention in reducing risk behavior, improving mental health, and increasing use of ancillary services. Process evaluation data demonstrated the acceptability of the intervention to patients, clinic staff, and administration. The results provide evidence that a brief intervention can be successfully integrated into HIV care services for newly diagnosed MSM and should be evaluated for efficacy.
Paternal care is rare among mammals, occurring in 6% of species. California mice (Peromyscus californicus) are unusual; fathers participate extensively in raising their young and display the same components of parental care as mothers, with the exception of nursing. Parenting is a complex experience, having stressful and enriching aspects. The hippocampus is sensitive to experience and responds to both stress and environmental enrichment with changes in structure and function. In rats, where females care exclusively for offspring, parenting is associated with suppressed hippocampal adult neurogenesis. Since this effect has been causally linked to lactation, it is unlikely that fathers would show a similar change. To investigate this issue, we examined adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus of California mouse fathers compared to males without pups and observed reduced adult neurogenesis. Similar effects were found in California mouse mothers. Next, we investigated whether behaviors linked to the hippocampus, namely, object recognition and novelty-suppressed feeding, were altered in fathers, and observed no substantial changes. During caregiving, suppressed adult neurogenesis does not appear to be related to changes in behaviors associated with the hippocampus, although it is possible that there are other effects on hippocampal function.
We propose a cognitive and neurobiological framework for creativity in nonhuman animals based on the framework previously proposed by Kaufman and Kaufman (2004), with additional insight from recent animal behavior research, behavioral neuroscience, and creativity theories. The additional information has lead to three major changes in the 2004 model-the addition of novelty seeking as a subcategory of novelty recognition, the addition of specific neurological processing sites that correspond to each of the processes, and the transformation of the model into a spectrum in which all three levels represent different degrees of the creative process (emphasis on process) and the top level, dubbed innovation, is defined by the creative product. The framework remains a three-level model of creativity. The first level is composed of both the cognitive ability to recognize novelty, a process linked to hippocampal function, and the seeking out of novelty, which is linked to dopamine systems. The next level is observational learning, which can range in complexity from imitation to the cultural transmission of creative behavior. Observational learning may critically depend on the cerebellum, in addition to cortical regions. At the peak of the model is innovative behavior, which can include creating a tool or exhibiting a behavior with the specific understanding that it is new and different. Innovative behavior may be especially dependent upon the prefrontal cortex and/or the balance between left and right hemisphere functions.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a persistent increase in synaptic transmission that is thought to contribute to a variety of adaptive processes including learning and memory. Although learning is known to undergo circannual variations, it is not known whether LTP undergoes similar changes despite the importance of LTP in learning and memory. Here we report that synapses in the CNS of the medicinal leech demonstrate seasonal variation in the capacity to undergo LTP following paired presynaptic and postsynaptic stimulation. LTP was observed during the April-October period, but no LTP was observed during the November-March period. Application of forskolin, a technique often used to produce chemical LTP, failed to elicit potentiation during the November-March period. Implementing stimulation patterns that normally result in long term depression (LTD) also failed to elicit any change in synaptic strength during the November-March period. These experiments indicate that LTP and LTD can be influenced by circannual rhythms and also suggest a seasonal influence on learning and memory.
Previous research has suggested that the use of the fingers may play a functional role in the development of a mature counting system. However, the role of developmental vision in the elaboration of a finger numeral representation remains unexplored. In the current study, 14 congenitally blind children and 14 matched sighted controls undertook three different test batteries that examined (a) general cognitive abilities, (b) the spontaneous use of finger-counting and finger-montring strategies (where &quot;finger-montring&quot; is a term used to characterize the way people raise their fingers to show numerosities to other people), and (c) the canonicity level of the finger-counting and finger-montring habits. Compared with sighted controls, blind children used their fingers less spontaneously to count and in a less canonical way to count and show quantities. These results demonstrate that the absence of vision precludes the development of a typical finger numeral representation and suggest that the use of canonical finger-counting and finger-montring strategies relies on the visual recognition of particular hand shapes.
When the auditory and visual components of spoken audiovisual nonsense syllables are mismatched, perceivers produce four different types of perceptual responses, auditory correct, visual correct, fusion (the so-called McGurk effect), and combination (i.e., two consonants are reported). Here, quantitative measures were developed to account for the distribution of the four types of perceptual responses to 384 different stimuli from four talkers. The measures included mutual information, correlations, and acoustic measures, all representing audiovisual stimulus relationships. In Experiment 1, open-set perceptual responses were obtained for acoustic /b/ or /l/ dubbed to video /b, d, g, v, z, l, w, /. The talker, the video syllable, and the acoustic syllable significantly influenced the type of response. In Experiment 2, the best predictors of response category proportions were a subset of the physical stimulus measures, with the variance accounted for in the perceptual response category proportions between 17% and 52%. That audiovisual stimulus relationships can account for perceptual response distributions supports the possibility that internal representations are based on modality-specific stimulus relationships.
Late ventral visual areas generally consist of cells having a significant degree of translation invariance. Such a &quot;bag of features&quot; representation is useful for the recognition of individual objects; however, it seems unable to explain our ability to parse a scene into multiple objects and to understand their spatial relationships. We review several schemes (e.g., global features and serial attention) for how to reconcile bag-of-features representation with our ability to understand relationships; we review structural description theories that, in contrast, suggest that a neural binding mechanism assigns the features of each object in a scene to a separate &quot;slot&quot; to which relational information for that object is explicitly bound. Four functional magnetic resonance imaging-adaptation experiments assessed how ventral stream regions respond to rearrangements of two objects in a minimal scene that depict scene translations and relational changes. Changes of relative position (e.g., elephant above bus changing to bus above elephant) produced larger releases of adaptation in the anterior lateral occipital complex (LOC) than physically equivalent translations, providing evidence that spatial relations are explicitly encoded in the anterior LOC in agreement with structural description theories.
The defining functional feature of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors is activation gating, the energetic coupling of ligand binding into opening of the associated ion channel pore. NMDA receptors are obligate heterotetramers typically composed of glycine-binding GluN1 and glutamate-binding GluN2 subunits that gate in a concerted fashion, requiring all four ligands to bind for subsequent opening of the channel pore. In an individual subunit, the extracellular ligand-binding domain, composed of discontinuous polypeptide segments S1 and S2, and the transmembrane channel-forming domain, composed of M1-M4 segments, are connected by three linkers: S1-M1, M3-S2, and S2-M4. To study subunit-specific events during pore opening in NMDA receptors, we impaired activation gating via intrasubunit disulfide bonds connecting the M3-S2 and S2-M4 in either the GluN1 or GluN2A subunit, thereby interfering with the movement of the M3 segment, the major pore-lining and channel-gating element. NMDA receptors with gating impairments in either the GluN1 or GluN2A subunit were dramatically resistant to channel opening, but when they did open, they showed only a single-conductance level indistinguishable from wild type. Importantly, the late gating steps comprising pore opening to its main long-duration open state were equivalently affected regardless of which subunit was constrained. Thus, the NMDA receptor ion channel undergoes a pore-opening mechanism in which the intrasubunit conformational dynamics at the level of the ligand-binding/transmembrane domain (TMD) linkers are tightly coupled across the four subunits. Our results further indicate that conformational freedom of the linkers between the ligand-binding and TMDs is critical to the activation gating process.

There is little prospectively gathered data on the course of headaches during pregnancy and postpartum, and the influence of breastfeeding is unclear. This is a large, prospective study, which invited all pregnant women in the catchment area during a defined period. All participants (n=2,126) filled in questionnaires concerning headache. Among these, a total of 208 women with migraine according to the International Headache Society criteria also filled in detailed headache diaries during pregnancy and the puerperal period. Freedom from earlier headaches during pregnancy was significantly more common than new onset of headache during pregnancy (p&lt;0.001). This was not influenced by prior use of oral contraceptives. According to the diaries, there was a gradual decrease during pregnancy in the frequency of all headaches and of self-considered migraine. There was also a significant decrease in the duration of headaches (p&lt;0.001) during pregnancy compared to before. Earlier parity did not influence the course. Apart from a significant increase during the first week postpartum (p&lt;0.01), the overall occurrence of headaches during puerperium did not differ from the pregnancy period. Compared to pregnancy, there was a postpartum increase in the mean intensity (p&lt;0.01) and duration (p=0.050) of headaches, as well as in the mean number of analgesics used (p&lt;0.001). Breastfeeding did not influence the occurrence of headaches postpartum. These data are of practical value for informing pregnant migraineurs about the typical clinical prospects and for giving advice on breastfeeding.
Headache disorders are a major public-health priority, and there is pressing need for effective solutions to them. Better health care for headache-and ready access to it-are central to these solutions; therefore, the organisation of headache-related services within the health systems of Europe becomes an important focus. These recommendations are the result of collaboration between the European Headache Federation and Lifting The Burden: the Global Campaign against Headache. The process of development included wide consultation. To meet the very high level of need for headache care both effectively and efficiently, the recommendations formulate a basic three-level model of health-care organisation rationally spread across primary and secondary health-care sectors, taking account of the different skills and expertise in these sectors. They recognise that health services are differently structured in countries throughout Europe, and not always adequately resourced. Therefore, they aim to be adaptable to suit these differences. They are set out in five sections: needs assessment, description of the model, adaptation, standards and educational implications.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is considered to have a role in age-related cognitive decline. A recent study has shown that a promoter polymorphism of the IL-1 gene (rs16944) is associated with cognitive performance in elderly males without dementia. In this study, we examined whether polymorphisms of the IL-1 gene also influence cognitive functions in elderly females. Cognitive functions were assessed by the Wechsler adult intelligence scale-revised (WAIS-R) in 99 elderly (60 years) females without dementia. We selected five tagging polymorphisms from the IL-1 gene and examined the associations with the WAIS-R scores. Significant associations were found between verbal intelligence quotient (IQ) and the genotypes of rs1143634 and rs1143633 (P=0.0037 and P=0.010, respectively). No significant associations of rs16944 genotype were found with verbal or performance IQ. However, individuals homozygous for the G allele of rs16944 achieved higher scores in digit span compared with their counterpart, which is consistent with the previous findings in males. These results suggest that IL-1 gene variation may have a role in cognitive functions in aging females as well as males.
Information is limited on alcohol use among Arab Americans. The purpose of this study was to describe and analyze the alcohol use pattern among Arab Americans by reviewing existing surveys using an acculturation model. Secondary data analysis. Nationally, English-speaking immigrant Arab Americans reported lower rates of lifetime alcohol use (50.8%), past month use (26.4%) and binge drinking (10%) than the White majority group. In a state survey, self-identified English-speaking Arab Americans were less likely to report past month use (45.6%) than the White majority group but reported similar rate of binge drinking (17.0%). Locally, lifetime drinking was reported by 46.2% of the immigrants but only 13.4% of refugees fleeing war. Few databases are available to estimate alcohol use pattern among Arab Americans; the limited data suggest a drinking pattern consistent with acculturation. However, the potential influence of other factors is unknown and needs to be investigated.
In intracerebral hemorrhage, microglia become rapidly activated and remove the deposited blood and cellular debris. To survive in a harmful hemorrhagic or posthemorrhagic condition, activated microglia must be equipped with appropriate self-defensive mechanism(s) to resist the toxicity of hemin, a component released from damaged RBCs. In the current study, we found that activation of microglia by pretreatment with LPS markedly reduced their vulnerability to hemin toxicity in vitro. Similarly, intracorpus callosum microinjection of LPS prior to hemin treatment reduced the brain tissue damage caused by hemin and increased microglial density in the penumbra in rats. LPS induced the expressions of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) and heme oxygenase (HO)-1, the rate-limiting enzyme in heme degradation in microglia. The preventive effect by LPS was significantly diminished by an iNOS inhibitor, L-N(6)-(1-iminoethyl)lysine, whereas it was mimicked by a NO donor, diethylamine-NONOate, both suggesting the crucial role of NO in the modulation of hemin-induced toxicity in activated microglia. We further found that NO reduced hemin toxicity via inhibition of hemin-induced activation of JNK and p38 MAPK pathways in microglia. Whereas HO-1 expression in LPS-stimulated microglia was markedly blocked by L-N(6)-(1-iminoethyl)lysine, the HO-1 inhibitor, tin protoporphyrin, increased iNOS expression and decreased the susceptibility of LPS-activated microglia to hemin toxicity. The data indicate that the mutual interaction between NO and HO-1 plays a critical role in modulating the adaptive response of activated microglia to hemin toxicity. Better understanding of the survival mechanism of activated microglia may provide a therapeutic strategy to attenuate the devastating intracerebral hemorrhagic injury.
Polyisoprenoid alcohols are membrane lipids that are present in every cell, conserved from archaea to higher eukaryotes. The most common form, alpha-saturated polyprenol or dolichol is present in all tissues and most organelle membranes of eukaryotic cells. Dolichol has a well defined role as a lipid carrier for the glycan precursor in the early stages of N-linked protein glycosylation, which is assembled in the endoplasmic reticulum of all eukaryotic cells. Other glycosylation processes including C- and O-mannosylation, GPI-anchor biosynthesis and O-glucosylation also depend on dolichol biosynthesis via the availability of dolichol-P-mannose and dolichol-P-glucose in the ER. The ubiquity of dolichol in cellular compartments that are not involved in glycosylation raises the possibility of additional functions independent of these protein post-translational modifications. The molecular basis of several steps involved in the synthesis and the recycling of dolichol and its derivatives is still unknown, which hampers further research into this direction. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge on structural and functional aspects of dolichol metabolites. We will describe the metabolic disorders with a defect in known steps of dolichol biosynthesis and recycling in human and discuss their pathogenic mechanisms. Exploration of the developmental, cellular and biochemical defects associated with these disorders will provide a better understanding of the functions of this lipid class in human.
Computational Cognitive Neuroscience (CCN) is a new field that lies at the intersection of computational neuroscience, machine learning, and neural network theory (i.e., connectionism). The ideal CCN model should not make any assumptions that are known to contradict the current neuroscience literature and at the same time provide good accounts of behavior and at least some neuroscience data (e.g., single-neuron activity, fMRI data). Furthermore, once set, the architecture of the CCN network and the models of each individual unit should remain fixed throughout all applications. Because of the greater weight they place on biological accuracy, CCN models differ substantially from traditional neural network models in how each individual unit is modeled, how learning is modeled, and how behavior is generated from the network. A variety of CCN solutions to these three problems are described. A real example of this approach is described, and some advantages and limitations of the CCN approach are discussed.
While the development of microelectrode arrays has enabled access to disparate regions of a cortex for neurorehabilitation, neuroprosthetic and basic neuroscience research, accurate interpretation of the signals and manipulation of the cortical neurons depend upon the anatomical placement of the electrode arrays in a layered cortex. Toward this end, this report compares two in vivo methods for identifying the placement of electrodes in a linear array spaced 100 m apart based on in situ laminar analysis of (1) ketamine-xylazine-induced field potential oscillations in a rat motor cortex and (2) an intracortical electrical stimulation-induced movement threshold. The first method is based on finding the polarity reversal in laminar oscillations which is reported to appear at the transition between layers IV and V in laminar 'high voltage spindles' of the rat cortical column. Analysis of histological images in our dataset indicates that polarity reversal is detected 150.1  104.2 m below the start of layer V. The second method compares the intracortical microstimulation currents that elicit a physical movement for anodic versus cathodic stimulation. It is based on the hypothesis that neural elements perpendicular to the electrode surface are preferentially excited by anodic stimulation while cathodic stimulation excites those with a direction component parallel to its surface. With this method, we expect to see a change in the stimulation currents that elicits a movement at the beginning of layer V when comparing anodic versus cathodic stimulation as the upper cortical layers contain neuronal structures that are primarily parallel to the cortical surface and lower layers contain structures that are primarily perpendicular. Using this method, there was a 78.7  68 m offset in the estimate of the depth of the start of layer V. The polarity reversal method estimates the beginning of layer V within 90 m with 95% confidence and the intracortical stimulation method estimates it within 69.3 m. We propose that these methods can be used to estimate the in situ location of laminar electrodes implanted in the rat motor cortex.
Electrocorticography, primarily used in a clinical context, is becoming increasingly important for fundamental neuroscientific research, as well as for brain-computer interfaces. Recordings from these implanted electrodes have a number of advantages over non-invasive recordings in terms of band width, spatial resolution, smaller vulnerability to artifacts and overall signal quality. However, an unresolved issue is that signals vary greatly across electrodes. Here, we examine the effect of blood vessels lying between an electrode and the cortex on signals recorded from subdural grid electrodes. Blood vessels of different sizes cover extensive parts of the cortex causing variations in the electrode-cortex connection across grids. The power spectral density of electrodes located on the cortex and electrodes located on blood vessels obtained from eight epilepsy patients is compared. We find that blood vessels affect the power spectral density of the recorded signal in a frequency-band-specific way, in that frequencies between 30 and 70 Hz are attenuated the most. Here, the signal is attenuated on average by 30-40% compared to electrodes directly on the cortex. For lower frequencies this attenuation effect is less pronounced. We conclude that blood vessels influence the signal properties in a non-uniform manner.
Cognitive impairment exists in Parkinson's disease (PD) as a transitional state between cognitively intact and demented PD patients. It seems to be a risk factor for the development of dementia in PD, but the precise criteria and unfavorable cognitive profile of mild cognitive impairment in PD (MCI-PD) have not yet been established. The concept may turn to be different from that in Alzheimer's disease since we search for those already diagnosed PD patients who are at risk of developing dementia. In addition, clinical variables specific for PD also play role. Importantly, MCI possesses a metabolic basis in PD. Various biomarkers particularly including neuropsychological testing and the brain imaging hold promise in identification of MCI-PD patients with unfavorable prognoses. Well-designed longitudinal studies in MCI-PD cohorts are needed to assess the sensitivity and specificity of the PD-MCI designation as far as dementia development is concerned.
The risk of melanoma is higher in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) than in the general population. Whether the association is disease related or treatment related is unclear. The objective of this study was to assess melanoma prevalence in PD patients in Israel using active dermatologic screening. Consecutive patients with idiopathic PD were recruited by 12 Israeli centers. A movement disorder specialist assessed the severity of PD and obtained a medical, neurological, and medication history. Subsequently, a dermatologist assessed melanoma risk factors, recorded a dermatologic history, proactively performed a whole-body skin examination, and biopsied suspicious skin lesions. Of the enrolled patients (n=1,395, mean age 69.510.6years, mean PD duration 7.36.0years), 95.3% were treated with dopaminergic agents. Biopsies revealed 8 patients with melanoma in situ and 1 with invasive malignant melanoma; 14 patients reported a melanoma prior to enrollment. The observed 5-year limited duration prevalence of melanoma in PD patients was 4.4 times greater (95% CI 2.6-7.6) than expected from melanoma prevalence in an age- and sex-matched cohort from the Israel National Cancer Registry. The increase was accounted for by an elevated prevalence of melanoma in situ [relative risk 12.5 (95% CI 6.7-23.2)]. Occurrence of melanoma did not correlate with levodopa therapy or time of onset of PD. Melanoma prevalence in PD patients was higher than expected in the general Israeli population. This was not related to levodopa treatment. PD patients should be actively screened for melanoma on a routine basis.

The structure and function of the hippocampus, a brain region critical for learning and memory, is impaired by obesity and hyperlipidemia. Peripheral cholesterol and sphingolipids increase progressively with aging and are associated with a range of age-related diseases. However, the mechanisms linking peripheral cholesterol metabolism to hippocampal neuroplasticity remain poorly understood. To determine whether diets that elevate serum cholesterol influence lipid metabolism in the hippocampus, we maintained rats on a diet with high amounts of saturated fat and simple sugars for 3 months and then analyzed hippocampal lipid species using tandem mass spectrometry. The high fat diet was associated with increased serum and liver cholesterol and triglyceride levels, and also promoted cholesterol accumulation in the hippocampus. Increases in hippocampal cholesterol were associated with elevated galactosyl ceramide and sphingomyelin. To determine whether changes in lipid composition exerted biological effects, we measured levels of the lipid peroxidation products 4-hydroxynonenal-lysine and 4-hydroxynonenal-histidine; both were increased locally in the hippocampus, indicative of cell membrane-associated oxidative stress. Taken together, these observations support the existence of a potentially pathogenic relationship between dietary fat intake, peripheral cholesterol and triglyceride levels, brain cell sphingolipid metabolism, and oxidative stress.
We recently identified in a proteomic screen a novel synaptic vesicle membrane protein of 31 kDa (SV31) of unknown function. According to its membrane topology and its phylogenetic relation SV31 may function as a vesicular transporter. Based on its amino acid sequence similarity to a prokaryotic heavy metal ion transporter we analyzed its metal ion-binding properties and show that recombinant SV31 binds the divalent cations Zn(2+) and Ni(2+) and to a minor extent Cu(2+), but not Fe(2+), Co(2+), Mn(2+), or Ca(2+). Zn(2+)-binding of SV31 in viable cells was verified following heterologous transfection of pheochromocytoma cells 12 (PC12) with recombinant red fluorescent SV31 (SV31-RFP) and the fluorescent zinc indicator FluoZin-3. Sucrose density gradient fractionation of SV31-RFP-transfected PC12 cells revealed a partial overlap of SV31-RFP with synaptic-like vesicle markers and the early endosome marker rab5. Immunocytochemical analysis demonstrated a punctuate distribution in the cell soma and in neuritic processes and in addition in a compartment in vicinity to the plasma membrane that was immunopositive also for synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP-25) and syntaxin1A. Our data suggest that SV31 represents a novel Zn(2+) -binding protein that in PC12 cells is targeted to endosomes and subpopulations of synaptic-like microvesicles.
Targeting hyperphosphorylated tau by immunotherapy is emerging as a promising approach to treat tauopathies such as Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia. We have previously reported that active tau immunization clears tau aggregates from the brain and attenuates or prevents functional impairments in two different tangle mouse models. Here, we assessed the efficacy of passive immunization with the PHF1 antibody, which targets a phospho-epitope within one of our active immunogens. Homozygous female tangle mice (JNPL3, 2-3 months) were injected intraperitoneally once per week with PHF1 or pooled mouse IgG (250 g/125 L; n = 10 per group) for a total of 13 injections. Their behavior was assessed at 5-6 months of age and brain tissue was subsequently harvested for analyses of treatment efficacy. The treated mice performed better than controls on the traverse beam task (p &lt; 0.03), and had 58% less tau pathology in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus (p = 0.02). As assessed by western blots, the antibody therapy reduced the levels of insoluble pathological tau by 14-27% (PHF1, p &lt; 0.05; PHF1/total tau, p &lt; 0.0001) and 34-45% (CP13 or CP13/total tau, p &lt; 0.05). Levels of soluble tau and sarkosyl soluble tau were unchanged, compared with controls, as well as total tau levels in all the fractions. Plasma levels of PHF1 correlated inversely with tau pathology in the brainstem (p &lt; 0.01), with a strong trend in the motor cortex (p &lt; 0.06) as well as with insoluble total tau levels (p &lt; 0.02), indicating that higher dose of antibodies may have a greater therapeutic effect. Significant correlation was also observed between performance on the traverse beam task and PHF1 immunoreactivity in the dentate gyrus (p &lt; 0.05) as well as with insoluble PHF1/total tau ratio on western blots (p &lt; 0.04). These results show that passive immunization with tau antibodies can decrease tau pathology and functional impairments in the JNPL3 model. Future studies will determine the feasibility of this approach with other monoclonals and in different tangle models in which thorough cognitive assessment can be performed.
These experiments reveal for the first time that microRNAs (miRNAs) mediate oxidant regulated expression of a mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid cycle gene (mdh2). mdh2 encoded malate dehydrogenase (MDH) is elevated by an unknown mechanism in brains of patients that died with Alzheimer's disease. Oxidative stress, an early and pervasive event in Alzheimer's disease, increased MDH activity and mRNA level of mdh2 by 19% and 22%, respectively, in a mouse hippocampal cell line (HT22). Post-transcriptional events underlie the change in mRNA because actinomycin D did not block the elevated mdh2 mRNA. Since miRNAs regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally, the expression of miR-743a, a miRNA predicted to target mdh2, was determined and showed a 52% reduction after oxidant treatment. Direct interaction of miR-743a with mdh2 was demonstrated with a luciferase based assay. Over-expression or inhibition of miR-743a led to a respective reduction or increase in endogenous mRNA and MDH activity. The results demonstrate that miR-743a negatively regulates mdh2 at post-transcriptional level by directly targeting the mdh2 3'UTR. The findings are consistent with the suggestion that oxidative stress can elevate the activity of MDH through miR-743a, and provide new insights into possible roles of miRNA in oxidative stress and neurodegeneration.
Sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD) is now interpreted as a complex nervous system disorder in which the projection neurons are predominantly damaged. Such an interpretation is based on mapping of Lewy body and Lewy neurite pathology. Symptoms of the human disease are much widespread, which span from pre-clinical non-motor symptoms and clinical motor symptoms to cognitive discrepancies often seen in advanced stages. Existing symptomatic treatments further complicate with overt drug-irresponsive symptoms. PD is better understood by assimilation of extranigral degenerative pathways with nigrostriatal degenerative mechanisms. The term 'extranigral' appeared first in the 1990s to more rigorously define the nigral pathology by process of elimination. However, as clinicians progressively identified PD symptoms unresponsive to the gold standard drug l-DOPA, definitions of PD symptoms were redefined. Non-motor symptoms prodromal to motor symptoms just as pre-clinical to clinical, and conjointly emerged the concept of nigral versus extranigral degeneration in PD. While nigrostriatal degeneration is responsible for the neurobiological substrates of extrapyramydal motor features, extranigral degeneration corroborates a vast majority of other changes in discrete central, peripheral, and enteric nervous system nuclei, which together account for global symptoms of the human disease. As an extranigral site, spinal cord degeneration has also been implicated in PD progression. Interconnected to the upper CNS structures with descending and ascending pathways, spinal neurons participate in movement and sensory circuits, controlling movement and reflexes. Several clinical and in vivo studies have demonstrated signs of parkinsonism-related degenerative processes in spinal cord, which led to recent consideration of spinal cord as an area of potential therapeutic target. In a nutshell, this review explores how the existing animal models can actually reflect the human disease in order to facilitate PD research. Evolution of extranigral degeneration studies has been succinctly revisited, followed by a survey on animal models in light of recent findings in clinical PD. Together, it may help to develop effective therapeutic strategies for PD.
Autophagy is an evolutionarily conserved homeostatic process for the turnover of cellular contents, organelles and misfolded proteins through the lysosomal machinery. Recently, the involvement of autophagy in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases has attracted considerable interest because autophagy deregulation has been linked to some of these neurodegenerative disorders. This interest is further heightened by the demonstration that various autophagic pathways, including macroautophagy and chaperone-mediated autophagy, are implicated in the turnover of proteins that are prone to aggregation in cellular or animal disease models. These observations have stimulated new awareness in the pivotal role of the autophagic pathways in neurodegenerative disease pathophysiology, and have sparked extensive research aimed at deciphering the mechanisms by which autophagy is altered in these disorders. Here, we summarize the latest advances in our understanding of the role of autophagy deregulation in Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and Huntington's disease.
Glycinergic inhibitory transmission has been described in spinal cord, but rather disregarded in the brain. The spatial-temporal characterization of glycine receptors (GlyR) in the hippocampus over development is herein reported. GlyR expression increases from late embryonic stage (E18) to 7 days postnatal (P7) and decreases from P7 on. Quantitative real-time PCR showed that GlyR subunit expression changes over neuronal maturation with a preponderance of 2 and 3, over 1 and . In immature stages, GlyR delineate the cell body of neurons at the Dentate Gyrus and Cornus Ammonis 1 and 3 (CA1/CA3) and are composed of 2 and 3 subunits. At P7, synaptic GlyR2 can already be observed in the dendritic areas of Dentate Gyrus and of CA1/CA3. In the mature hippocampus, synaptic GlyR decrease and, although a few synaptic GlyR1 can still be detected in the dendritic layers, extrasynaptic 2/3-containing GlyR and somatic localized GlyR3 are the most abundant. Our results point towards an important function of a slow tonic activation of extrasynaptic GlyR, over a fast phasic activation of synaptic GlyR1. We clearly show that GlyR are widely expressed in hippocampus and that their subcellular localization and subunit composition change over development.
Methamphetamine (MA) is a highly addictive psychostimulant that, used in excess, may be neurotoxic. Although the mechanisms that underlie its addictive potential are not completely understood, in animal models matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) inhibitors can reduce behavioral correlates of addiction. In addition, evidence from genome-wide association studies suggests that polymorphisms in synaptic cell-adhesion molecules (CAMs), known MMP substrates, are linked to addictive potential in humans. In the present study, we examined the ability of MA to stimulate cleavage of intercellular adhesion molecule-5 (ICAM-5), a synaptic CAM expressed on dendritic spines in the telencephalon. Previous studies have shown that shedding of ICAM-5 is associated with maturation of dendritic spines, and that MMP-dependent shedding occurs with long term potentiation. Herein, we show that MA stimulates ectodomain cleavage of ICAM-5 in vitro, and that this is abrogated by a broad spectrum MMP inhibitor. We also show that an acute dose of MA, administered in vivo, is associated with cleavage of ICAM-5 in murine hippocampus and striatum. This occurs within 6h and is accompanied by an increase in MMP-9 protein. In related experiments, we examined the potential consequences of ICAM-5 shedding. We demonstrate that the ICAM-5 ectodomain can interact with (1) integrins, and that it can stimulate (1) integrin-dependent phosphorylation of cofilin, an event that has previously been linked to MMP-dependent spine maturation. Together these data support an emerging appreciation of MMPs as effectors of synaptic plasticity and suggest a mechanism by which MA may influence the same.
Testosterone is critical for the activation of aggressive behaviours. In many vertebrate species, circulating testosterone levels rapidly increase after aggressive encounters during the early or mid-breeding season. During the late breeding season, circulating testosterone concentrations did not change in wild male white-crowned sparrows after an aggressive encounter and, in these animals, changes in local neural metabolism of testosterone might be more important than changes in systemic testosterone levels. Local neural aromatisation of testosterone into 17-oestradiol (E(2)) often mediates the actions of testosterone, and we hypothesised that, in the late breeding season, brain aromatase is rapidly modulated after aggressive interactions, leading to changes in local concentrations of E(2). In the present study, wild male white-crowned sparrows in the late breeding season were exposed to simulated territorial intrusion (STI) (song playback and live decoy) or control (CON) for 30 min. STI significantly increased aggressive behaviours. Using the Palkovits punch technique, 13 brain regions were collected. There was high aromatase activity in several nuclei, although enzymatic activity in the CON and STI groups did not differ in any region. E(2) concentrations were much higher in the brain than the plasma. STI did not affect circulating levels of E(2) but rapidly reduced E(2) concentrations in the hippocampus, ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Unexpectedly, there were no correlations between aromatase activity and E(2) concentrations in the brain, nor were aromatase activity or brain E(2) correlated with aggressive behaviour or plasma hormone levels. This is one of the first studies to measure E(2) in microdissected brain regions, and the first study to do so in free-ranging animals. These data demonstrate that social interactions have rapid effects on local E(2) concentrations in specific brain regions.
While pharmaceutical options remain the overwhelmingly accepted treatment of choice for neurological and psychiatric diseases, significant accomplishments in regenerative neuroscience research have demonstrated the potential of cellular and synaptic functional repair in future therapies. Parkinson's disease stands out as an example in which repair by dopaminergic neurons appears a viable potential therapy. This article describes the basic neurobiological underpinnings of the rationale for cell therapy for Parkinson's disease and the challenges ahead for the use of regenerative medicine in the treatment for this disease.





We performed a case series analysis to evaluate the effects of levetiracetam (LEV) monotherapy on seizures, adverse events, cognitive functioning and quality of life (QoL) in patients with brain tumor-related epilepsy (BTRE). We also explored the possible effects of systemic therapies on the efficacy of LEV. Twenty-nine patients were followed (13 female, 16 male; age 24-75 years) with 12 months of follow-up. Patients were evaluated by QoL and neuropsychological tests. At final follow-up, mean LEV dosage was 1991.4 mg/day. Among patients who reached the final follow-up of 12 months (n = 15), 1 patient had 50% reduction of seizure frequency (SF), and 14/15 were seizure free. The difference in presence/absence of seizures between baseline and final follow-up was significant (p &lt; 0.001). Responder rate was 100%. We observed five side-effects: four mild (reversible) and one severe. Logistic regression revealed that chemotherapy and radiotherapy did not affect the efficacy of LEV in seizure outcome (p = 0.999). The following statistically significant observations emerged by tests' evaluation: less worry about seizures, effects of antiepileptic, and ability to maintain social functions. Our data suggest that seizure occurrence can be an important warning sign that the clinician should heed throughout the duration of the illness. Patients with BTRE represent a unique patient population that presents difficulties regarding management of two very different pathologies: epilepsy on the one hand, and brain tumor on the other. Our data indicate that LEV, in patients with BTRE, is safe and efficacious, with positive impact on QoL.
The relevance of cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD) and dementia in general emphasizes the importance of developing novel targeting approaches for detecting and treating cerebrovascular amyloid (CVA) deposits. We developed a nanoparticle-based technology that uses a monoclonal antibody against fibrillar human amyloid-42 that is surface coated onto a functionalized phospholipid monolayer. We demonstrate that this conjugated nanoparticle binds to CVA deposits in arterioles of AD transgenic mice (Tg2576) after infusion into the external carotid artery using 3 different approaches. The first 2 approaches use a blood vessel enrichment of homogenized brain and a leptomeningeal vessel preparation from thin tangential brain slices from the surface of the cerebral cortex. Targeting of CVA by the antibody-coated nanoparticle was visualized using fluorescent lissamine rhodamine-labeled phospholipids in the nanoparticles, which were compared with fluorescent staining of the endothelial cells and amyloid deposits using confocal laser scanning microscopy. The third approach used high-field strength magnetic resonance imaging of antibody-coated iron oxide nanoparticles after infusion into the external carotid artery. Dark foci of contrast enhancement in cortical arterioles were observed in T2*-weighted images of ex vivo AD mouse brains that correlated histologically with CVA deposits. The targeting ability of these nanoparticles to CVA provides opportunities for the prevention and treatment of CAA.
Motor neuron degeneration and skeletal muscle denervation are hallmarks of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), but other neuron populations and glial cells are also involved in ALS pathogenesis. We examined changes in inhibitory interneurons in spinal cords of the ALS model low-copy Gurney G93A-SOD1 (G1del) mice and found reduced expression of markers of glycinergic and GABAergic neurons, that is, glycine transporter 2 (GlyT2) and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD65/67), specifically in the ventral horns of clinically affected mice. There was also loss of GlyT2 and GAD67 messenger RNA-labeled neurons in the intermediate zone. Ubiquitinated inclusions appeared in interneurons before 20 weeks of age, that is, after their development in motor neurons but before the onset of clinical signs and major motor neuron degeneration, which starts from 25 weeks of age. Because mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) in glia might contribute to the pathogenesis, we also examined neuron-specific G93A-SOD1 mice; they also had loss of inhibitory interneuron markers in ventral horns and ubiquitinated interneuron inclusions. These data suggest that, in mutant SOD1-associated ALS, pathological changes may spread from motor neurons to interneuronsin a relatively early phase of the disease, independent of the presence of mutant SOD1 in glia. The degeneration of spinal inhibitory interneurons may in turn facilitate degeneration of motor neurons and contribute to disease progression.
Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is a multisystem disorder with a variable phenotype. The involvement of peripheral nerves in DM1 disease is controversial. The DM1 animal model DM300 transgenic mice that carry 350 to 500 CTG repeats express a mild DM1 phenotype but do not exhibit motor or sensory pathology. Here, we investigated the presence or absence of peripheral neuropathy in transgenic mice (DMSXL) that carry more than 1,300 CTG repeats and display a severe form of DM1. Electrophysiologic, histologic, and morphometric methods were used to investigate the structure and function of peripheral nerves. We observed lower compound muscle action potentials recorded from hind limb muscles and slowing of sciatic nerve conduction velocity in DMSXL versus control mice. Morphometric analyses showed an axonopathy and neuronopathy in the DMSXL mice characterized by a decrease in numbers of myelinated motor axons in sciatic nerve and in spinal cord motor neurons. Pathologic alterations in the structure of hind limb neuromuscular junctions were also detected in the DMSXL mice. These results suggest that peripheral neuropathy can be linked to a large CTG expansion and a severe form of DM1.
The tactile sensations mediated by the whisker-trigeminal system allow rodents to efficiently detect and discriminate objects. These capabilities rely strongly on the temporal and spatial structure of whisker deflections. Subthreshold but also spiking receptive fields in the barrel cortex encompass a large number of vibrissae, and it seems likely that the functional properties of these multiwhisker receptive fields reflect the multiple-whisker interactions encountered by the animal during exploration of its environment. The aim of this study was to examine the dependence of the spatial structure of cortical receptive fields on stimulus parameters. Using a newly developed 24-whisker stimulation matrix, we applied a forward correlation analysis of spiking activity to randomized whisker deflections (sparse noise) to characterize the receptive fields that result from caudal and rostral directions of whisker deflection. We observed that the functionally determined principal whisker, the whisker eliciting the strongest response with the shortest latency, differed according to the direction of whisker deflection. Thus, for a given neuron, maximal responses to opposite directions of whisker deflections could be spatially separated. This spatial separation resulted in a displacement of the center of mass between the rostral and caudal subfields and was accompanied by differences between response latencies in rostral and caudal directions of whisker deflection. Such direction-dependent receptive field organization was observed in every cortical layer. We conclude that the spatial structure of receptive fields in the barrel cortex is not an intrinsic property of the neuron but depends on the properties of sensory input.
Sensory afferent transmission and associated spinal reflexes are normally inhibited by serotonin (5-HT) derived from the brain stem. Spinal cord injury (SCI) that eliminates this 5-HT innervation leads to a disinhibition of sensory transmission and a consequent emergence of unusually long polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in motoneurons. These EPSPs play a critical role in triggering long polysynaptic reflexes (LPRs) that initiate muscles spasms. In the present study we examined which 5-HT receptors modulate the EPSPs and whether these receptors adapt to a loss of 5-HT after chronic spinal transection in rats. The EPSPs and associated LPRs recorded in vitro in spinal cords from chronic spinal rats were consistently inhibited by 5-HT(1B) or 5-HT(1F) receptor agonists, including zolmitriptan (5-HT(1B/1D/1F)) and LY344864 (5-HT(1F)), with a sigmoidal dose-response relation, from which we computed the 50% inhibition (EC(50)) and potency (-log EC(50)). The potencies of 5-HT receptor agonists were highly correlated with their binding affinity to 5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(1F) receptors, and not to other 5-HT receptors. Zolmitriptan also inhibited the LPRs and general muscle spasms recorded in vivo in the awake chronic spinal rat. The 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonists SB216641 and GR127935 and the inverse agonist SB224289 reduced the inhibition of LPRs by 5-HT(1B) agonists (zolmitriptan). However, when applied alone, SB224289, SB216641, and GR127935 had no effect on the LPRs, indicating that 5-HT(1B) receptors do not adapt to chronic injury, remaining silent, without constitutive activity. The reduction in EPSPs with zolmitriptan unmasked a large glycine-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic current (IPSC) after SCI. This IPSC and associated chloride current reversed at -73 mV, slightly below the resting membrane potential. Zolmitriptan did not change motoneuron properties. Our results demonstrate that 5-HT(1B/1F) agonists, such as zolmitriptan, can restore inhibition of sensory transmission after SCI without affecting general motoneuron function and thus may serve as a novel class of antispastic drugs.
Synaptic ribbons are proteinaceous specialized electron-dense presynaptic structures found in nonspiking sensory cells of the vertebrate nervous system. Understanding the function of these structures is an active area of research (reviewed in Matthews G, Fuchs P. Nat Rev Neurosci 11: 812-822, 2010). Previous work had shown that ribbons could be effectively labeled and visualized using peptides that bind to the synaptic ribbon protein RIBEYE via a PXDLS motif (Zenisek D, Horst NK, Merrifield C, Sterling P, Matthews G. J Neurosci 24: 9752-9759, 2004). Here, we expand on the previous work to develop new tools and strategies for 1) better visualizing synaptic ribbons, and 2) monitoring and manipulating calcium on the synaptic ribbon. Specifically, we developed a new higher-affinity peptide-based label for visualizing ribbons in live cells and two strategies for localizing calcium indicators to the synaptic ribbon.
In systems neuroscience, neural activity that represents movements or sensory stimuli is often characterized by spatial tuning curves that may change in response to training, attention, altered mechanics, or the passage of time. A vital step in determining whether tuning curves change is accounting for estimation uncertainty due to measurement noise. In this study, we address the issue of tuning curve stability using methods that take uncertainty directly into account. We analyze data recorded from neurons in primary motor cortex using chronically implanted, multielectrode arrays in four monkeys performing center-out reaching. With the use of simulations, we demonstrate that under typical experimental conditions, the effect of neuronal noise on estimated preferred direction can be quite large and is affected by both the amount of data and the modulation depth of the neurons. In experimental data, we find that after taking uncertainty into account using bootstrapping techniques, the majority of neurons appears to be very stable on a timescale of minutes to hours. Lastly, we introduce adaptive filtering methods to explicitly model dynamic tuning curves. In contrast to several previous findings suggesting that tuning curves may be in constant flux, we conclude that the neural representation of limb movement is, on average, quite stable and that impressions to the contrary may be largely the result of measurement noise.
Standard protocols testing the orientation of visuospatial attention usually present spatial cues before targets and compare valid-cue trials with invalid-cue trials. The valid/invalid contrast results in a relative behavioral or physiological difference that is generally interpreted as a benefit of attention orientation. However, growing evidence suggests that inhibitory control of response is closely involved in this kind of protocol that requires the subjects to withhold automatic responses to cues, probably biasing behavioral and physiological baselines. Here, we used two experiments to disentangle the inhibitory control of automatic responses from orienting of visuospatial attention in a saccadic reaction time task in humans, a variant of the classical cue-target detection task and a sustained visuospatial attentional task. Surprisingly, when referring to a simple target detection task in which there is no need to refrain from reacting to avoid inappropriate responses, we found no consistent evidence of facilitation of target detection at the attended location. Instead, we observed a cost at the unattended location. Departing from the classical view, our results suggest that reaction time measures of visuospatial attention probably relie on the attenuation of elementary processes involved in visual target detection and saccade initiation away from the attended location rather than on facilitation at the attended location. This highlights the need to use proper control conditions in experimental designs to disambiguate relative from absolute cueing benefits on target detection reaction times, both in psychophysical and neurophysiological studies.
Cognitive flexibility depends on the integrity of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). We showed previously that impaired decision making in pain results from amygdala-driven inhibition of medial PFC neurons, but the underlying mechanisms remain to be determined. Using whole cell patch clamp in rat brain slices and a cognitive behavioral task, we tested the hypothesis that group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) activate feed-forward inhibition to decrease excitability and output function of PFC pyramidal cells, thus impairing decision making. Polysynaptic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) and monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were evoked in layer V pyramidal cells by stimulating presumed amygdala afferents. An mGluR1/5 agonist [(S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine, DHPG] increased synaptic inhibition more strongly than excitatory transmission. The facilitatory effects were blocked by an mGluR1 [(S)-(+)--amino-4-carboxy-2-methylbenzeneacetic acid, LY367385], but not mGluR5, antagonist, 3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]pyridine. IPSCs were blocked by bicuculline and decreased by 2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium salt (NBQX). Facilitation of synaptic inhibition by DHPG was glutamate driven because it was blocked by NBQX. DHPG increased frequency but not amplitude of spontaneous IPSCs; consistent with action potential-dependent synaptic inhibition, tetrodotoxin (TTX) prevented the facilitatory effects. DHPG decreased synaptically evoked spikes (E-S coupling) and depolarization-induced spiking [frequency-current (f-I) relationship]. This effect was indirect, resulting from glutamate-driven synaptic inhibition, because it persisted when a G protein blocker was included in the pipette but was blocked by GABA(A) receptor antagonists and NBQX. In contrast, DHPG increased E-S coupling and f-I relationships in mPFC interneurons through a presynaptic action, further supporting the concept of feed-forward inhibition. DHPG also impaired the ability of the animals to switch strategies in a decision-making task; bicuculline restored normal decision making, whereas a GABA(A) receptor agonist (muscimol) mimicked the decision-making deficit. The results show that mGluR1 activates feed-forward inhibition of PFC pyramidal cells to impair cognitive functions.
The recording radius and spatial selectivity of an extracellular probe are important for interpreting neurophysiological recordings but are rarely measured. Moreover, an analysis of the recording biophysics of multisite probes (e.g., tetrodes) can provide for source characterization and localization of spiking single units, but this capability has remained largely unexploited. Here we address both issues quantitatively. Advancing a tetrode (40-m contact separation, tetrahedral geometry) in 5- to 10-m steps, we repeatedly recorded extracellular action potentials (EAPs) of single neurons in the visual cortex. Using measured spatial variation of EAPs, the tetrodes' measured geometry, and a volume conductor model of the cortical tissue, we solved the inverse problem of estimating the location and the size of the equivalent dipole model of the spike generator associated with each neuron. Half of the 61 visual neurons were localized within a radius of 100 m and 95% within 130 m around the tetrode tip (i.e., a large fraction was much further than previously thought). Because of the combined angular sensitivity of the tetrode's leads, location uncertainty was less than one-half the cell's distance. We quantified the spatial dependence of the probability of cell isolation, the isolated fraction, and the dependence of the recording radius on probe size and equivalent dipole size. We also reconstructed the spatial configuration of sets of simultaneously recorded neurons to demonstrate the potential use of 3D dipole localization for functional anatomy. Finally, we found that the dipole moment vector, surprisingly, tended to point toward the probe, leading to the interpretation that the equivalent dipole represents a &quot;local lobe&quot; of the dendritic arbor.
Pyramidal cells in the rodent hippocampus often exhibit clear spatial tuning. Theories of hippocampal function suggest that these &quot;place cells&quot; implement multiple, independent neural representations of position (maps), based on different reference frames or environmental features. Consistent with the &quot;multiple maps&quot; theory, previous studies have shown that manipulating spatial factors related to task performance modulates the within-session variability (overdispersion) of cells in the hippocampus. However, the influence of changes in reward contingency on overdispersion has not been examined. To test this, we first trained rats to collect food from three feeders positioned around a circular track (task(1)). When subjects were proficient, the reward contingency was altered such that every other feeder delivered food (task(2)). We recorded ensembles of hippocampal neurons as rats performed both tasks. Place cell overdispersion was high during task(1) but decreased significantly during task(2), and this increased reliability could not be accounted for by changes in running speed or familiarity with the task. Intuitively, decreased variability might be expected to improve neural representations of position. To test this, we used Bayesian decoding of hippocampal spike trains to estimate subjects' location. Neither the amount of probability decoded to subjects' position (local probability) nor the difference between estimated position and true location (decoding accuracy) differed between tasks. However, we found that hippocampal ensembles were significantly more self-consistent during task(2) performance. These results suggest that changes in task demands can affect the firing statistics of hippocampal neurons, leading to changes in the properties of decoded neural representations.
The growing realization that electrical coupling is present in the mammalian brain has sparked renewed interest in determining its functional significance and contrasting it with chemical transmission. One question of interest is whether the two types of transmission can be selectively regulated, e.g., if a cell makes both types of connections can electrical transmission occur in the absence of chemical transmission? We explore this issue in an experimentally advantageous preparation. B21, the neuron we study, is an Aplysia sensory neuron involved in feeding that makes electrical and chemical connections with other identified cells. Previously we demonstrated that chemical synaptic transmission is membrane potential dependent. It occurs when B21 is centrally depolarized prior to and during peripheral activation, but does not occur if B21 is peripherally activated at its resting membrane potential. In this article we study effects of membrane potential on electrical transmission. We demonstrate that maximal potentiation occurs in different voltage ranges for the two types of transmission, with potentiation of electrical transmission occurring at more hyperpolarized potentials (i.e., requiring less central depolarization). Furthermore, we describe a physiologically relevant type of stimulus that induces both spiking and an envelope of depolarization in the somatic region of B21. This depolarization does not induce functional chemical synaptic transmission but is comparable to the depolarization needed to maximally potentiate electrical transmission. In this study we therefore characterize a situation in which electrical and chemical transmission can be selectively controlled by membrane potential.
Shifts in the location of spatial attention produce increases in the gain and sensitivity of neuronal responses to sensory stimuli. Cues to shift the line of sight have the same effect on sensory responses in a motor area involved in the control of eye movements, the superior colliculus. Evidence has shown that shifts of gaze and shifts of attention are linked, suggesting there may be similar underlying mechanisms. Here, we report on a novel way in which cues to move the eyes (top-down signals) can influence sensory responses of neurons by altering the variability of their discharge rate. We measured the spatial tuning of superior colliculus neuronal activity in trials with cues to either make or withhold saccadic eye movements. We found that tuning curve widths both increased and decreased, but that the information conveyed by the neuronal discharge about the stimulus increased with a cue to make a saccade. The increase in information resulted partly from a decrease in trial-to-trial variability of neuronal discharges for stimuli located at the flanks of the tuning curves rather than from increases in the discharge rate for stimuli located at the peak of the tuning curves. This result is consistent with theoretical work and provides a novel way for cognitive signals to influence sensory responses within motor regions of the brain.
Neurotoxic effects of oxaliplatin chemotherapy, including proprioceptive impairments, are debilitating and dose limiting. Here, we sought to determine whether oxaliplatin interrupts normal proprioceptive feedback by impairing sensory transduction of muscle length and force by neurons that are not damaged by dying-back neuropathy. Oxaliplatin was administered over 4 wk to rats in doses that produced systemic changes, e.g., decreased platelets and stunted weight gain, but no significant abnormality in the terminal ends of primary muscle spindle sensory neurons. The absence of neuropathy enabled the determination of whether oxaliplatin caused functional deficits in sensory encoding without the confounding issue of axon death. Rats were anesthetized, and action potentials encoding muscle stretch and contraction were recorded intra-axonally from dorsal roots. In striking contrast with normal proprioceptors, those from oxaliplatin-treated rats typically failed to sustain firing during static muscle stretch. The ability of spindle afferents to sustain and centrally conduct trains of action potentials in response to rapidly repeated transient stimuli, i.e., vibration, demonstrated functional competence of the parent axons. These data provide the first evidence that oxaliplatin causes persistent and selective deficits in sensory transduction that are not due to axon degeneration. Our findings raise the possibility that even those axons that do not degenerate after oxaliplatin treatment may have functional deficits that worsen outcome.
Recent work has implicated low-frequency (&lt;20 Hz) neuronal phase information as important for both auditory (&lt;10 Hz) and speech [theta (4-8 Hz)] perception. Activity on the timescale of theta corresponds linguistically to the average length of a syllable, suggesting that information within this range has consequences for segmentation of meaningful units of speech. Longer timescales that correspond to lower frequencies [delta (1-3 Hz)] also reflect important linguistic features-prosodic/suprasegmental-but it is unknown whether the patterns of activity in this range are similar to theta. We investigate low-frequency activity with magnetoencephalography (MEG) and mutual information (MI), an analysis that has not yet been applied to noninvasive electrophysiological recordings. We find that during speech perception each frequency subband examined [delta (1-3 Hz), theta(low) (3-5 Hz), theta(high) (5-7 Hz)] processes independent information from the speech stream. This contrasts with hypotheses that either delta and theta reflect their corresponding linguistic levels of analysis or each band is part of a single holistic onset response that tracks global acoustic transitions in the speech stream. Single-trial template-based classifier results further validate this finding: information from each subband can be used to classify individual sentences, and classifier results that utilize the combination of frequency bands provide better results than single bands alone. Our results suggest that during speech perception low-frequency phase of the MEG signal corresponds to neither abstract linguistic units nor holistic evoked potentials but rather tracks different aspects of the input signal. This study also validates a new method of analysis for noninvasive electrophysiological recordings that can be used to formally characterize information content of neural responses and interactions between these responses. Furthermore, it bridges results from different levels of neurophysiological study: small-scale multiunit recordings and local field potentials and macroscopic magneto/electrophysiological noninvasive recordings.
The function of hippocampal theta oscillations has been subjected to constant speculation. Dynamic coupling of theta field potentials and spiking activity between the hippocampus and extra-hippocampal structures emphasizes the importance of theta-frequency oscillations in global spike-timing precision in the brain. Recent advances in understanding theta coupling between distant brain structures are discussed and explored in this article.
In the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN), neurons have hyperpolarization-activated conductances, which in some cells are enormous, that contribute to the ability of neurons to convey acoustic information in the timing of their firing by decreasing the input resistance and speeding-up voltage changes. Comparisons of the electrophysiological properties of neurons in the VCN of mutant mice that lack the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channel  subunit 1 (HCN1(-/-)) (Nolan et al. 2003) with wild-type controls (HCN1(+/+)) and with outbred ICR mice reveal that octopus, T stellate, and bushy cells maintain their electrophysiological distinctions in all strains. Hyperpolarization-activated (I(h)) currents were smaller and slower, input resistances were higher, and membrane time constants were longer in HCN1(-/-) than in HCN1(+/+) in octopus, bushy, and T stellate cells. There were significant differences in the average magnitudes of I(h), input resistances, and time constants between HCN1(+/+) and ICR mice, but the resting potentials did not differ between strains. I(h) is opposed by a low-voltage-activated potassium (I(KL)) current in bushy and octopus cells, whose magnitudes varied widely between neuronal types and between strains. The magnitudes of I(h) and I(KL) were correlated across neuronal types and across mouse strains. Furthermore, these currents balanced one another at the resting potential in individual cells. The magnitude of I(h) and I(KL) is linked in bushy and octopus cells and varies not only between HCN1(-/-) and HCN1(+/+) but also between &quot;wild-type&quot; strains of mice, raising the question to what extent the wild-type strains reflect normal mice.
The antisaccade task, where eye movements are made away from a target, has been used to investigate the flexibility of cognitive control of behavior. Antisaccades usually have longer saccade latencies than prosaccades, the so-called antisaccade cost. Recent studies have shown that this antisaccade cost can be modulated by event probability. This may mean that the antisaccade cost can be reduced, or even reversed, if the probability of surrounding events favors the execution of antisaccades. The probabilities of prosaccades and antisaccades were systematically manipulated by changing the proportion of a certain type of trial in an interleaved pro/antisaccades task. We aimed to disentangle the intertwined relationship between trial type probabilities and the antisaccade cost with the ultimate goal of elucidating how probabilities of trial types modulate human flexible behaviors, as well as the characteristics of such modulation effects. To this end, we examined whether implicit trial type probability can influence saccade latencies and also manipulated the difficulty of cue discriminability to see how effects of trial type probability would change when the demand on visual perceptual analysis was high or low. A mixed-effects model was applied to the analysis to dissect the factors contributing to the modulation effects of trial type probabilities. Our results suggest that the trial type probability is one robust determinant of antisaccade cost. These findings highlight the importance of implicit probability in the flexibility of cognitive control of behavior.
Recent advances in experimental stimulation methods have raised the following important computational question: how can we choose a stimulus that will drive a neuron to output a target spike train with optimal precision, given physiological constraints? Here we adopt an approach based on models that describe how a stimulating agent (such as an injected electrical current or a laser light interacting with caged neurotransmitters or photosensitive ion channels) affects the spiking activity of neurons. Based on these models, we solve the reverse problem of finding the best time-dependent modulation of the input, subject to hardware limitations as well as physiologically inspired safety measures, that causes the neuron to emit a spike train that with highest probability will be close to a target spike train. We adopt fast convex constrained optimization methods to solve this problem. Our methods can potentially be implemented in real time and may also be generalized to the case of many cells, suitable for neural prosthesis applications. With the use of biologically sensible parameters and constraints, our method finds stimulation patterns that generate very precise spike trains in simulated experiments. We also tested the intracellular current injection method on pyramidal cells in mouse cortical slices, quantifying the dependence of spiking reliability and timing precision on constraints imposed on the applied currents.

All neuroscience nurses must be able to evaluate different avenues to inform their practice and solve clinical problems. The three methodologies discussed in this article have particular strengths in certain situations and require different skill sets, time, and resources. Quality improvement, evidence-based practice, and research are interconnected and inform each other. It can be difficult at times for the practitioners to identify the right method to answer clinical questions. The state of readiness for frontline staff to manage clinical problems with evidence-based practice and research must be advanced for the scientific knowledge employed by our profession to be visible in our clinical care.
Posterior fossa syndrome can occur after neurosurgical resections of childhood posterior fossa tumors, such as medulloblastomas. Posterior fossa syndrome is characterized by transient mutism, emotional lability, cognitive deficits, weakness, ataxia, and cranial nerve dysfunction. Symptoms generally appear 1 to 3 days after surgery and persist for months to years. Neuroscience nurses play an integral role in helping affected children and their families through the diagnosis, treatment, and sequelae of this frightening syndrome.


Several signaling pathways in neurons engage the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) calcium store by triggering calcium release. After release, ER calcium levels must be restored. In many non-neuronal cell types, this is mediated by store-operated calcium entry (SOCE), a cellular homeostatic mechanism that activates specialized store-operated calcium channels (SOC). Although much evidence supports the existence of SOCE in neurons, its importance has been difficult to determine because of the abundance of calcium channels expressed and the lack of SOC-specific pharmacological agents. We have explored the function of the SOCE-inducing protein STIM1 in neurons. In EGFP-STIM1-expressing hippocampal neurons, the sarco- and endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA) inhibitor thapsigargin caused rapid aggregation (i.e., activation) of STIM1 in soma and dendrites. Upon STIM1 activation by thapsigargin, a dramatic reduction in STIM1 mobility was detected by fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP). By triggering release of ER calcium with 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) or carbachol (Cch), agonists of type I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChR), respectively, STIM1 was activated, and calcium entry (likely to represent SOCE) occurred in dendrites. It is therefore possible that neuronal SOCE is activated by physiological stimuli, some of which may alter the postsynaptic calcium signaling properties.
Branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs), valine, isoleucine, and leucine, are widely used among athletes as dietary integrators. Although the occurrence of untoward effects of BCCA supplementation, with particular regard to neurological disturbances, cannot be excluded, no specific studies have been performed so far. The aim of this work was to evaluate the effects of a diet enriched in BCAAs on the expression of oxidative stress pathway genes in the brain of C57Bl/6J mice. Animals were fed a standard or a BCAA diet for 95 days starting from postnatal day 21 until sacrifice. BCAA treatment, at doses comparable to human usage, significantly down-regulated the expression of some antioxidant genes, while up-regulating the expression of some oxygen transporters. In conclusion, it appears that BCAAs administered by diet could alter some specific oxidative stress pathways in the brain. Caution should thus be exercised in the widespread use of BCAAs as dietary integrators in sports practice.

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a serious problem among those co-infected with human immunodeficiency virus; however, its impact in the central nervous system (CNS) remains unclear. This study aimed to investigate the mechanisms underlying HCV core protein-mediated neurodegeneration. Analysis of human HCV seropositive cases demonstrated widespread damage to neuronal dendritic processes and sustained activation of extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK); analogous pathologies were observed in wild type injected with HCV core protein into the hippocampus. In vitro analysis in neuronal cells exposed to HCV core demonstrated retraction of the neuronal processes in an ERK/Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 (STAT3)-dependent manner dependent on toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) signaling activation. These results indicate that HCV core protein neurotoxicity may be mediated by the sustained activation of ERK/STAT3 via TLR2-IRAK1 signaling pathway. These pathways provide novel targets for development of neuroprotective treatments for HCV involvement of the CNS.

To investigate the effect of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) without other highly unsaturated fatty acids (HUFA) on n-3 and n-6 essential fatty acid (EFA) metabolism and fatty acid composition in mammals, a stable isotope tracer technique was used in adult rats fed diets with or without 1.3% of algal DHA in a base diet containing 15% of linoleic acid and 3% of alpha-linolenic acid over 8 weeks. The rats were administered orally a mixed oil containing 48 mg/kg body weight of deuterated linoleic and alpha-linolenic acids and euthanized at 4, 8, 24, 96, 168, 240, 360 and 600 h after administration of the isotopes. Fatty acid compositions and the concentrations of deuterated precursors and their respective metabolites were determined in rat liver, plasma, heart and brain as a function of time. DHA, docosapentaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid in the n-3 EFA family were significantly increased in all organs tested in the DHA-fed group, ranging from 5% to 200% greater in comparison with the control group. The accumulation of the metabolites, deuterated-DHA and deuterated-docosapentaenoic acid n-6 was greatly decreased by 1.5- to 2.5-fold in the dietary DHA group. In summary, feeding preformed DHA led to a marked increase in n-3 HUFA content of rat organs at the expense of n-6 HUFA and also prevented the accumulation of newly synthesized deuterated end products. This is the first study which has isolated the effects of DHA on the de novo metabolism on both the n-6 and n-3 EFA pathways.

Differences in the time to maximal effect (T(max)) of a series of dopamine receptor antagonists on the self-administration of cocaine are not consistent with their lipophilicity (octanol-water partition coefficients at pH 7.4) and expected rapid entry into the brain after intravenous injection. It was hypothesized that the T(max) reflects the time required for maximal occupancy of receptors, which would occur as equilibrium was approached. If so, the T(max) should be related to the affinity for the relevant receptor population. This hypothesis was tested using a series of nine antagonists having a 2500-fold range of K(i) or K(d) values for D(2)-like dopamine receptors. Rats self-administered cocaine at regular intervals and then were injected intravenously with a dose of antagonist, and the self-administration of cocaine was continued for 6 to 10 h. The level of cocaine at the time of every self-administration (satiety threshold) was calculated throughout the session. The satiety threshold was stable before the injection of antagonist and then increased approximately 3-fold over the baseline value at doses of antagonists selected to produce this approximately equivalent maximal magnitude of effect (maximum increase in the equiactive cocaine concentration, satiety threshold; C(max)). Despite the similar C(max), the mean T(max) varied between 5 and 157 min across this series of antagonists. Furthermore, there was a strong and significant correlation between the in vivo T(max) values for each antagonist and the affinity for D(2)-like dopamine receptors measured in vitro. It is concluded that the cocaine self-administration paradigm offers a reliable and predictive bioassay for measuring the affinity of a competitive antagonist for D(2)-like dopamine receptors.
The (2) auxiliary subunits ((2)-1 and (2)-2) of voltage-sensitive calcium channels are thought to be the site of action of pregabalin (Lyrica), a drug that has been shown to be anxiolytic in clinical trials for generalized anxiety disorder. Pregabalin and the chemically related drug gabapentin have similar binding and pharmacology profiles, demonstrating high-affinity, in vitro binding to both (2)-1 and (2)-2 subunits. Two independent point mutant mouse strains were generated in which either the (2)-1 subunit (arginine-to-alanine mutation at amino acid 217; R217A) or the (2)-2 subunit (arginine-to-alanine mutation at amino acid 279; R279A) were rendered insensitive to gabapentin or pregabalin binding. These strains were used to characterize the activity of pregabalin in the Vogel conflict test, a measure of anxiolytic-like activity. Pregabalin showed robust anticonflict activity in wild-type littermates from each strain at a dose of 10 mg/kg but was inactive in the (2)-1 (R217A) mutants up to a dose of 320 mg/kg. In contrast, pregabalin was active in the (2)-2 (R279A) point mutants at 10 and 32 mg/kg. The positive control phenobarbital was active in mice carrying either mutation. These data suggest that the anxiolytic-like effects of pregabalin are mediated by binding of the drug to the (2)-1 subunit.
Despite a wealth of in vitro and modelling studies it remains unclear how neuronal populations in the cerebellum interact in vivo. We address the issue of how the cerebellar input layer processes sensory information, with particular focus on the granule cells (input relays) and their counterpart inhibitory interneurones, Golgi cells. Based on the textbook view, granule cells excite Golgi cells via glutamate forming a negative feedback loop. However, Golgi cells express inhibitory mGluR2 receptors suggesting an inhibitory role for glutamate. We set out to test this glutamatergic paradox in Golgi cells. Here we show that granule cells and Golgi cells interact through extra-synaptic signalling mechanisms during sensory information processing, as well as synaptic mechanisms. We demonstrate that such interactions depend on granule cell-derived glutamate acting via inhibitory mGluR2 receptors leading causally to the suppression of Golgi cell activity for several hundreds of milliseconds. We further show that granule cell-derived inhibition of Golgi cell activity is regulated by GABA-dependent extra-synaptic Golgi cell inhibition of granule cells, identifying a regulatory loop in which glutamate and GABA may be critical regulators of Golgi cellgranule cell functional activity. Thus, granule cells may promote their own prolonged activity via paradoxical feed-forward inhibition of Golgi cells, thereby enabling information processing over long timescales.
The zebrafish is a powerful vertebrate model that is readily amenable to genetic, pharmacological and environmental manipulations to elucidate the molecular and cellular basis of movement and behaviour. We report software enabling automated analysis of zebrafish movement from video recordings captured with cameras ranging from a basic camcorder to more specialized equipment. The software, which is provided as open-source MATLAB functions, can be freely modified and distributed, and is compatible with multiwell plates under a wide range of experimental conditions. Automated measurement of zebrafish movement using this technique will be useful for multiple applications in neuroscience, pharmacology and neuropsychiatry.
Maternal treatment with synthetic corticosteroids such as dexamethasone (DEX)significantly reduces neonatal morbidity and mortality, but its effects on the fetal brain remain unclear. In this study we evaluated the effects of DEX on EEG activity in preterm fetal sheep. Ewes at 103 days gestation received two intramuscular injections of DEX (12 mg, n = 8) or saline vehicle (n = 7) 24 h apart. Fetal EEG activity was recorded from 6 h before until 120 h after the first injection (DEX-1). DEX-1 was associated with a marked transient rise in total EEG power, maximal at 12 h (P &lt; 0.001), with a relative increase in delta and reduced theta, alpha and beta activity, resolving by 24 h. Continuous EEG records showed a shift to larger but less frequent transient waveforms (P &lt; 0.001). Unexpectedly, evolving epileptiform activity, consistent with electrographic and clinical seizures, developed from 178  44 min after DEX-1.Similar but smaller changes were seen after the second injection. Following the injections, total power returned to control values, but the proportion of alpha activity progressively increased vs. controls (P &lt; 0.001), with reduced interburst interval duration and number (P &lt; 0.001). No histological neural injury or microglial activation was seen. In summary, exposure to maternal dexamethasone was associated with dramatic, evolving low-frequency hyperactivity on fetal cortical EEG recordings, followed by sustained changes consistent with maturation of fetal sleep architecture. We postulate that these effects may contribute to improved neonatal outcomes.
Motoneurone excitability is rapidly and profoundly reduced during a sustained maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) when tested in the transient silent period which follows transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex. One possible cause of this reduction in excitability is a fatigue-induced withdrawal of excitatory input to motoneurones from muscle spindle afferents. We aimed to test if muscle spindle input produced by tendon vibration would ameliorate suppression of the cervicomedullary motor-evoked potential (CMEP) in the silent period during a sustained MVC. Seven subjects performed a 2 min MVC of the elbow flexors. Stimulation of the corticospinal tract at the level of the mastoids was preceded 100 ms earlier by TMS. These stimulus pairs were delivered every 10 s during the 2 min MVC. Stimulus pairs at 30, 50, 70, 90 and 110 s were delivered while vibration (-80 Hz) was applied to the distal tendon of biceps. On a separate day, the protocol was repeated with both stimuli delivered to the motor cortex. The CMEP in the silent period decreased rapidly with fatigue (to -9% of control) and was not affected by tendon vibration (P = 0.766). The motor-evoked potential in the silent period also declined rapidly (to -5% of control) and was similarly unaffected by tendon vibration (P = 0.075). These data suggest motoneurone disfacilitation due to a fatigue-related decrease of muscle spindle discharge does not contribute significantly to the profound suppression of motoneurone excitability during the silent period. Therefore, a change to intrinsic motoneurone properties caused by repetitive discharge is most probably responsible.
Corticomuscular coherence in the beta frequency band (1530 Hz) has been demonstrated in both humans and monkeys, but its origin and functional role are still unclear. Phasefrequency plots produced by traditional coherence analysis are often complex. Some subjects show a clear linear phasefrequency relationship (indicative of a fixed delay) but give shorter delays than expected; others show a constant phase across frequencies. Recent evidence suggests that oscillations may be travelling around a peripheral sensorimotor loop. We recorded sensorimotor EEGs and EMGs from three intrinsic hand muscles in human subjects performing a precision grip task, and applied directed coherence (Granger causality) analysis to explore this system. Directed coherence was significant in both descending (EEG  EMG) and ascending(EMG  EEG) directions at beta frequencies. Average phase delays of 26.4 ms for the EEG  EMG direction and 29.5 ms for the EMG  EEG direction were closer to the expected conduction times for these pathways than the average delays estimated from coherence phase (7.9 ms). Subjects were sub-divided into different groups, based on the sign of the slope of the linear relation between corticomuscular coherence phase and frequency (positive, negative or zero). Analysis separated by these groups suggested that different relative magnitudes of EEG  EMG and EMG  EEG directed coherence might underlie the observed inter-individual differences in coherence phase.These results confirm the complex nature of corticomuscular coherence with contributions from both descending and ascending pathways.
The present study assessed the in vivo rat pial microvascular responses induced by melatonin during brain hypoperfusion and reperfusion (RE) injury. Pial microcirculation of male Wistar rats was visualized by fluorescence microscopy through a closed cranial window. Hypoperfusion was induced by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (BCCAO, 30 min); thereafter, pial microcirculation was observed for 60 min. Arteriolar diameter, permeability increase, leukocyte adhesion to venular walls, perfused capillary length (PCL), and capillary red blood cell velocity (V(RBC) ) were investigated by computerized methods. Melatonin (0.5, 1, 2 mg/kg b.w.) was intravenously administered 10 min before BCCAO and at the beginning of RE. Pial arterioles were classified in five orders according to diameter, length, and branchings. In control group, BCCAO caused decrease in order 2 arteriole diameter (by 17.5  3.0% of baseline) that was reduced by 11.8  1.2% of baseline at the end of RE, accompanied by marked leakage and leukocyte adhesion. PCL and capillary V(RBC) decreased. At the end of BCCAO, melatonin highest dosage caused order 2 arteriole diameter reduction by 4.6  2.0% of baseline. At RE, melatonin at the lower dosages caused different arteriolar responses. The highest dosage caused dilation in order 2 arteriole by 8.0  1.5% of baseline, preventing leakage and leukocyte adhesion, while PCL and V(RBC) increased. Luzindole (4 mg/kg b.w.) prior to melatonin caused order 2 arteriole constriction by 12.0  1.5% of baseline at RE, while leakage, leukocyte adhesion, PCL and V(RBC) were not affected. Prazosin (1 mg/kg b.w.) prior to melatonin did not significantly change melatonin's effects. In conclusion, melatonin caused different responses during hypoperfusion and RE, modulating pial arteriolar tone likely by MT1 and MT2 melatonin receptors while preventing blood-brain barrier changes through its free radical scavenging action.
Constant observation is a method used to insure the safety of suicidal inpatients. It involves structure and control as well as flexibility and the development of a relationship between the observer and the patient. It has been found that important observations may go unnoticed by the observer or fail to be communicated to the multidisciplinary team because of a lack of sufficient training and systematic documentation. We therefore conducted a Delphi survey to collect opinions on what would be important to observe during constant observation of suicidal patients. A panel of experienced clinicians, service users and researchers reached consensus on 37 of 40 observation items (92%). Of these, 28 were rated as the most important. As a result, we developed a form for systematic observer documentation in clinical practice, the Suicidal Patient Observation Chart. The Suicidal Patient Observation Chart includes the 28 items and covers 24 separate observation periods.
The aim of this study is to gain insight into the individual experiences of patients who attempt suicide in order to better understand the reasons for and emotions behind a suicide attempt, thus also gaining insight, through the patients' own input, into the risk and protective factors which might influence possible repeat attempts and the attitude towards the assistance they receive. Two focus groups were conducted involving 17 participants, all hospitalized at the time of research for attempting suicide. The patients proved themselves competent, even expert in indicating reasons for, risk factors of and prevention strategies for suicide. The main findings suggest that the relational factor represents a key point both as a trigger for the suicide attempt and for promoting the communication of the intent or for preventing a repeat suicide attempt, as interpersonal relationships and an empathic environment were, in essence, what was perceived as therapeutic and protective and enabled the expression of thoughts and self-understanding. Accordingly psychotherapy, non-specific relationship 'monitoring' after discharge and tutored self-help groups have been suggested. Feasibility and implementing methods as well as the role of the nurse for such interventions were discussed.
Sirtuins are a family of NAD+-dependent enzymes that regulate cellular functions through deacetylation of various proteins. Although recent reports have suggested an important role of deacetylases (i.e., histone deacetylases) in mood disorders and antidepressant action, the involvement of sirtuins in the pathophysiology of mood disorders is largely unknown. In this study, we aimed to determine whether there are alterations in sirtuin mRNA expression in peripheral white blood cells of patients with a mood disorder. Also, to examine whether the altered sirtuin mRNA expression is state- or trait-dependent, mood disorder patients who were in a remissive state were assessed. We used quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction to measure the mRNA levels of seven sirtuin isoforms (SIRT1-7) in peripheral white blood cells of patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) or bipolar disorder (BPD) during depressive and remissive states and in normal healthy subjects. The SIRT1, 2 and 6 mRNA levels in MDD and BPD patients decreased significantly in those who were in a depressive state compared to healthy controls, whereas the expression of those mRNAs in both MDD and BPD of patients in a remissive state were comparable to those in healthy controls. Thus, our data suggest that altered SIRT1, 2 and 6 expression is state-dependent and might be associated with the pathogenesis and/or pathophysiology of mood disorders.

The aim of the present study was to identify the neural substrate underlying memory impairment due to a single dose of MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) by means of pharmaco-MRI. Based on previous behavioral results it was hypothesized that this deficit could be attributed to a specific influence of MDMA on encoding. Fourteen Ecstasy users participated in this double-blind, placebo-controlled, within-subject study with two treatment conditions: MDMA (75 mg) and placebo. Memory performance was tested by means of a word learning task including two words lists, one addressing reading processes (control task, CWL) and a second (experimental task, EWL) addressing encoding and reading processes. Behavioral data showed that under the influence of MDMA, EWL performance was worse than placebo. Imaging data showed that Encoding was situated mainly in (pre)frontal, temporal and parietal areas. MDMA by Encoding interaction was situated in three areas: the left middle frontal gyrus (BA10), the right fusiform gyrus (BA19), and the left cuneus (BA18). Behavioral and functional data only correlated in BA10. It appeared that EWL performance caused BOLD signal change in BA10 during placebo treatment but not during MDMA intoxication. It is concluded that MDMA influences middle frontal gyrus processes resulting in impoverished memory encoding.
We have reported recently that inhibition of protein phosphatase (PP)-2A and PP-1 by calyculin A, a specific inhibitor of PP-2A and PP-1, induced Alzheimer-like hyperphosphorylation of tau and spatial memory retention impairment. In this study, we tested the in vivo effects of melatonin on these Alzheimer-like changes. We found that administration of melatonin intraperitoneally for 9 consecutive days before injection of calyculin A could prevent calyculin A-induced synaptophysin loss, memory retention deficits, as well as hyperphosphorylation of tau and neurofilaments. Furthermore, melatonin partially reversed the phosphorylation of the catalytic subunit of PP-2A at Tyrosine 307 (Y307), a crucial site negatively regulating the activity of PP-2A, and reduced the levels of malondialdehyde, a marker of oxidative stress, induced by calyculin A. These results suggest that melatonin could serve as a potential therapeutic agent for preventing Alzheimer-like pathological changes and behavioral abnormality via modulating the activity of PP-2A and oxidative stress.




In binocular rivalry, the conscious percept alternates stochastically between two images shown to the two eyes. Both suppressed and dominant images form afterimages (AIs) whose strength depends on the perceptual state during induction. Counterintuitively, when these two AIs rival, the AI of the previously suppressed percept gains initial dominance, even when it is weaker. Here, we examined rivalry between afterimages, between real images, and between both to examine eye-based and binocular contributions to this effect. In all experiments, we found that for both AIs and real images, the suppressed percept consistently gained initial dominance following a long suppression period. Dominance reversals failed to occur following short suppression periods and depended on an abrupt change (removal) of the stimulus. With real images, results were replicated also when eye channels were exchanged during the abrupt change. The initial dominance of the weaker, previously suppressed percept is thus not due to its weaker contrast, to it being an afterimage, or to monocular adaptation effects as previously suggested. Instead, it is due to binocular, higher level effects that favor a perceptual switch after prolonged dominance. We discuss a plausible neural account for these findings in terms of neural interactions between binocular and eye-related stages.
Normal brain function relies not only on embryonic development when major neuronal pathways are established, but also on postnatal development when neural circuits are matured and refined. Misregulation at this stage may lead to neurological and psychiatric disorders such as autism and schizophrenia. Many genes have been studied in the prenatal brain and found crucial to many developmental processes. However, their function in the postnatal brain is largely unknown, partly because their deletion in mice often leads to lethality during neonatal development, and partly because their requirement in early development hampers the postnatal analysis. To overcome these obstacles, floxed alleles of these genes are currently being generated in mice. When combined with transgenic alleles that express Cre recombinase in specific cell types, conditional deletion can be achieved to study gene function in the postnatal brain. However, this method requires additional alleles and extra time (3-6 months) to generate the mice with appropriate genotypes, thereby limiting the expansion of the genetic analysis to a large scale in the mouse brain. Here we demonstrate a complementary approach that uses virally-expressed Cre to study these floxed alleles rapidly and systematically in postnatal brain development. By injecting recombinant adeno-associated viruses (rAAVs) encoding Cre into the neonatal brain, we are able to delete the gene of interest in different regions of the brain. By controlling the viral titer and coexpressing a fluorescent protein marker, we can simultaneously achieve mosaic gene inactivation and sparse neuronal labeling. This method bypasses the requirement of many genes in early development, and allows us to study their cell autonomous function in many critical processes in postnatal brain development, including axonal and dendritic growth, branching, and tiling, as well as synapse formation and refinement. This method has been used successfully in our own lab (unpublished results) and others, and can be extended to other viruses, such as lentivirus, as well as to the expression of shRNA or dominant active proteins. Furthermore, by combining this technique with electrophysiology as well as recently-developed optical imaging tools, this method provides a new strategy to study how genetic pathways influence neural circuit development and function in mice and rats.
This study investigated the impact of drug use on employment over 20 years among men and women, utilizing data on 7,661 participants in the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth. Growth mixture modeling was applied, and five distinct employment trajectory groups were identified for both men and women. The identified patterns were largely similar for men and women except that a U-shape employment trajectory was uniquely identified for women. Early-initiation drug users, users of &quot;hard&quot; drugs, and frequent drug users were more likely to demonstrate consistently low levels of employment, and the negative relationship between drug use and employment was more apparent among men than women. Also, positive associations between employment and marriage became more salient for men over time, as did negative associations between employment and childrearing among women. Processes are dynamic and complex, suggesting that throughout the life course, protective factors that reduce the risk of employment problems emerge and change, as do critical periods for maximizing the impact of drug prevention and intervention efforts.
Several CNS disorders associated with specific antibodies to ion channels, receptors, and other synaptic proteins have been recognised over the past 10 years, and can be often successfully treated with immunotherapies. Antibodies to components of voltage-gated potassium channel complexes (VGKCs), NMDA receptors (NMDARs), AMPA receptors (AMPARs), GABA type B receptors (GABA(B)Rs), and glycine receptors (GlyRs) can be identified in patients and are associated with various clinical presentations, such as limbic encephalitis and complex and diffuse encephalopathies. These diseases can be associated with tumours, but they are more often non-paraneoplastic, and antibody assays can help with diagnosis. The new specialty of immunotherapy-responsive CNS disorders is likely to expand further as more antibody targets are discovered. Recent findings raise many questions about the classification of these diseases, the relation between antibodies and specific clinical phenotypes, the relative pathological roles of serum and intrathecal antibodies, the mechanisms of autoantibody generation, and the development of optimum treatment strategies.
The monoamine neurotransmitter disorders consist of a rapidly expanding heterogeneous group of neurological syndromes characterised by primary and secondary defects in the biosynthesis degradation, or transport of dopamine, norepinephrine, epinephrine, and serotonin. Disease onset can occur any time from infancy onwards. Clinical presentation depends on the pattern and severity of neurotransmitter abnormalities, and is predominated by neurological features (encephalopathy, epilepsy, and pyramidal and extrapyramidal motor disorders) that are primarily attributed to deficiency of cerebral dopamine, serotonin, or both. Many neurotransmitter disorders mimic the phenotype of other neurological disorders (eg, cerebral palsy, hypoxic ischaemic encephalopathy, paroxysmal disorders, inherited metabolic diseases, and genetic dystonic or parkinsonian syndromes) and are, therefore, frequently misdiagnosed. Early clinical suspicion and appropriate investigations, including analysis of neurotransmitters in CSF, are essential for accurate clinical diagnosis. Treatment strategies focus on the correction of monoamine deficiency by replacement of monoamine precursors, the use of monoamine analogues, inhibition of monoamine degradation, and addition of enzyme cofactors to promote monoamine production.
The exquisite detail provided by brain magnetic resonance imaging scans can make interpretation simultaneously straightforward and complicated, particularly to the novice. For this reason, it is essential to become familiar with normal structures before describing the pathologic condition. This article serves as a practical reference point to further enhance knowledge of the intracranial anatomy.
A weighted averaging scheme with flip angle adaptation is presented for segmented 2D-selective RF excitations and applied to single-line segments of a blipped-planar trajectory. Segments covering the central k-space, i.e. those with significant signal contributions, are averaged more often than the (outer) segments with low RF amplitudes and minor signal contributions. For compensation, these outer segments are applied with an increased RF amplitude, i.e. a larger flip angle, such that an unaltered signal contribution is obtained in a reduced number of shots. Numerical simulations and experiments in phantoms and the human brain in vivo demonstrate that the approach considerably increases the signal efficiency, i.e. the signal accumulated per time unit, without introducing profile distortions. Its application to single-voxel MR spectroscopy of a corpus-callosum-shaped region-of-interest yielded, due to an optimum coverage of the target volume, higher signal amplitudes than conventional localization based on cross-sectional RF excitations. Thus, the approach could improve the reliability of single-voxel MR spectroscopy.
To test the hypothesis that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in DNA repair genes are associated with cognitive performance during normal aging, the relationship between SNPs in selected exons in DNA base excision repair (BER) genes and cognitive performance was examined in 712 healthy Norwegian individuals aged 20-75 years. SNPs examined included PolB(Pro242Arg), hOGG1(Ser326Cys), MutYH (Met22Val), MutYH(His324Gln), APE1(Gln51His), APE1(Glu148Asp), XRCC1(Lys298Asn), XRCC1(Arg7Leu), NEIL1(Asp252Asn), and NEIL2(Arg257Leu). XRCC1(Arg7Leu) and PolB(Pro242Arg) were characterized by single nucleotide variations (0.1% homozygote SNPs). hOGG1(Ser326Cys) (Ser/Cys 40.8%/Cys/Cys 5.7%), MutYH(His324Gln) (His/Gln37%/Gln/Gln 6.0%) and APE1(Glu148Asp) (Glu/Asp 51.3%/Asp/Asp 23.0%) were characterized by higher SNP frequencies. MutYH(Met22Val), APE1(Gln51His) and NEIL2(Arg257Leu) occurred at intermediate SNP frequencies of 11.5, 7.6 and 5.3%, respectively. Interestingly, hOGG1(Ser326Cys) and APE1(Gln51His) had genotype by age interactions with general cognitive function, reasoning, control and speed of processing in cross-sectional analysis and a significant effect on longitudinal decline. Dispersed association effects involving MutYH(His324Gln), MutYH(Met22Val), PolB(Pro242Arg) and NEIL2(Arg257Leu) were also detected when APOE or CHRNA4, were included in the statistical model, a result consistent with proposed involvement of the latter markers in human cognitive decline and/or function. In summary, the results support the notion that polymorphisms in BER genes modulate cognitive performance in healthy elderly individuals.

We have generated an inducible transgenic mouse model, which expresses a mutated version of UNG1 (mutUNG1) that removes thymine, in addition to uracil from mitochondrial DNA. The abasic-sites (AP-sites) generated by removal of thymine or uracil are a threat to genomic integrity, and are particularly harmful in mitochondria due to inhibition of mitochondrial DNA polymerase. MutUNG1, accompanied by a luciferase reporter-gene, is controlled by the Tet-on system. Transgene expression is spatially regulated by the forebrain specific CaMKII-promoter, and temporally by the addition of doxycycline. Mice harboring this transgene develop compromised mitochondrial dynamics, neurodegeneration and impaired behavior.
Diminished balance ability poses a serious health risk due to the increased likelihood of falling, and impaired postural stability is significantly associated with blindness and poor vision. Noise stimulation (by improving the detection of sub-threshold somatosensory information) and tactile supplementation (i.e., additional haptic information provided by an external contact surface) have been shown to improve the performance of the postural control system. Moreover, vibratory noise added to the source of tactile supplementation (e.g., applied to a surface that the fingertip touches) has been shown to enhance balance stability more effectively than tactile supplementation alone. In view of the above findings, in addition to the well established consensus that blind subjects show superior abilities in the use of tactile information, we hypothesized that blind subjects may take extra benefits from the vibratory noise added to the tactile supplementation and hence show greater improvements in postural stability than those observed for sighted subjects. If confirmed, this hypothesis may lay the foundation for the development of noise-based assistive devices (e.g., canes, walking sticks) for improving somatosensation and hence prevent falls in blind individuals.
In neurosciences, there is increasing interest in studying affective, emotional and social processes in humans and animals. What are the conceptual framework identified for these studies and the technical approaches undertaken? What information has already emerged from these studies? Which results have already been obtained and what are the researchers' goals? Can these neuroimaging analyses provide novel insights to improve our understanding of psychiatric disorders? These are some of the questions addressed in this concise overview of our knowledge in this domain.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the first cause of dementia that leads to insidious and progressive loss of memory and cognitive functions. In the early stages of AD, there is a strong correlation between memory impairment and cortical levels of soluble amyloid- peptide oligomers (A). It has become clear that A disrupt glutamatergic synaptic function, which in turn may lead to the characteristic cognitive deficits. Conversely, experiments in rodents have conforted the notion that Ao impairs synaptic transmission and plasticity, and that mouse models with increased production of these oligomers display cognitive impairment. Many studies have attempted to determine the mechanisms by which Ao disrupt synaptic plasticity and mediate their detrimental effect, but the actual pathways are still poorly understood. Here we review this thriving area of research which aims at understanding the mechanisms of synaptic dysfunction in the early phase of AD, and its consequences on the activity of neural circuits.
Studies have shown that survival processing leads to superior memorability. The aim of the present study was to examine whether this survival recall advantage might result from stereotype activation. To test this hypothesis, we conducted a pilot study and two experiments in which participants were primed with stereotypes (Experiment 1, professor and elderly person; Experiment 2, survival-stereotype). In Experiment 1, 120 undergraduates were randomly assigned to a survival, professor stereotype, elderly person stereotype, or moving scenario and rated words for their relevance to the imagined scenario. In Experiment 2, 75 undergraduates were given a survival, survival-stereotype (based on our pilot study), or moving scenario. Both experiments showed that survival processing leads to a greater recall advantage over the stereotype groups and control group. These data indicate that the mere activation of stereotypes cannot explain the survival recall advantage.
To identify the transcriptional promoters in the proximal regions of human microRNA (miRNA) genes, we analyzed the 5' flanking regions of intergenic miRNAs and intronic miRNAs. With the TSSG program prediction, we found that the ratio of intronic-s miRNA genes with a least one promoter was significantly lower than those of intergenic miRNA genes and intronic-a miRNA genes. More than half of the miRNA genes have only one promoter and less than 20% of the miRNA genes have more than three promoters in the 5-kb upstream regions. All potential promoters are randomly distributed within these regions. Approximately 60% of the miRNA promoters have a TATA-like box, being significantly higher than that of all human promoters. Luciferase reporter assays showed that 22 of the 30 promoters drove gene expression in HEK-293 cells, indicating a high accuracy of the promoter prediction. This study lays a foundation for future investigation into the transcriptional regulatory mechanisms of human miRNA genes.
Molecular processes regulating brain stem serotonergic receptors play an important role in the control of respiration. We evaluated 5-HT(2A) receptor alterations in the brain stem of neonatal rats exposed to hypoxic insult and the effect of glucose, oxygen, and epinephrine resuscitation in ameliorating these alterations. Hypoxic stress increased the total 5-HT and 5-HT(2A) receptor number along with an up regulation of 5-HT Transporter and 5-HT(2A) receptor gene in the brain stem of neonates. These serotonergic alterations were reversed by glucose supplementation alone and along with oxygen to hypoxic neonates. The enhanced brain stem 5-HT(2A) receptors act as a modulator of ventilatory response to hypoxia, which can in turn result in pulmonary vasoconstriction and cognitive dysfunction. The adverse effects of 100% oxygenation and epinephrine administration to hypoxic neonates were also reported. This has immense clinical significance in neonatal care.
The inflammatory reaction plays an important role in the pathogenesis of the neurodegenerative disorders. tert-butylhydroquinone (tBHQ) exhibits a wide range of pharmacological activities including anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory action. In this study, we tried to elucidate possible effects of tBHQ on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced inflammatory reaction and its underlying mechanism in neuron-like PC12 cells. tBHQ inhibited LPS-induced generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and elevation of intracellular calcium level. It also inhibited LPS-induced cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), TNF-, nuclear factor KappaB (NF-kB), and caspase-3 expression in a dose-dependent manner while stabilizing nuclear factor-erythroid 2 p45-related factor 2. Moreover, the phosphorylations of p38, ERK1/2, and JNK were suppressed by tBHQ. These results suggest that the anti-inflammatory properties of tBHQ might result from inhibition of COX-2 and TNF- expression, inhibition of NF-kB nuclear translocation along with suppression of MAP kinases (p38, ERK1/2, and JNK) phosphorylation in PC12 cells, so may be a useful agent for prevention of inflammatory diseases.
The vomeronasal system (VNS) participates in the detection and processing of pheromonal information related to social and sexual behaviors. Within the VNS, two different populations of sensory neurons, with a distinct pattern of distribution, line the epithelium of the vomeronasal organ (VNO) and give rise to segregated sensory projections to the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB). Apical sensory neurons in the VNO project to the anterior AOB (aAOB), while basal neurons project to the posterior AOB (pAOB). In the AOB, the largest population of neurons are inhibitory, the granule and periglomerular cells (GCs and PGs) and remarkably, these neurons are continuously born and functionally integrated in the adult brain, underscoring their role on olfactory function. Here we show that behaviors mediated by the VNS differentially regulate adult neurogenesis across the anterior-posterior axis of the AOB. We used immunohistochemical labeling of newly born cells under different behavioral conditions in mice. Using a resident-intruder aggression paradigm, we found that subordinate mice exhibited increased neurogenesis in the aAOB. In addition, in sexually naive adult females exposed to soiled bedding odorized by adult males, the number of newly born cells was significantly increased in the pAOB; however, neurogenesis was not affected in females exposed to female odors. In addition, we found that at two months of age adult neurogenesis was sexually dimorphic, with male mice exhibiting higher levels of newly born cells than females. Interestingly, adult neurogenesis was greatly reduced with age and this decrease correlated with a decrease in progenitor cells proliferation but not with an increase in cell death in the AOB. These results indicate that the physiological regulation of adult neurogenesis in the AOB by behaviors is both sex and age dependent and suggests an important role of newly born neurons in sex dependent behaviors mediated by the VNS.

Although the incidence of HIV-associated dementia (HAD) has declined, HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) remain a significant health problem despite use of highly active antiretroviral therapy. In addition, the incidence and/or severity of HAND/HAD are increased with concomitant use of drugs of abuse, such as cocaine, marijuana, and methamphetamine. Furthermore, exposure to most drugs of abuse increases brain levels of dopamine, which has been implicated in the pathogenesis of HIV. This review evaluates the potential role of dopamine in the potentiation of HAND/HAD by drugs of abuse. In the brain, multiplication of HIV in infected macrophages/microglia could result in the release of HIV proteins such as gp120 and Tat, which can bind to and impair dopamine transporter (DAT) functions, leading to elevated levels of dopamine in the dopaminergic synapses in the early asymptomatic stage of HIV infection. Exposure of HIV-infected patients to drugs of abuse, especially cocaine and methamphetamine, can further increase synaptic levels of dopamine via binding to and subsequently impairing the function of DAT. This accumulated synaptic dopamine can diffuse out and activate adjacent microglia through binding to dopamine receptors. The activation of microglia may result in increased HIV replication as well as increased production of inflammatory mediators such as tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and chemokines. Increased HIV replication can lead to increased brain viral load and increased shedding of HIV proteins, gp120 and Tat. These proteins, as well as TNF-alpha, can induce cell death of adjacent dopaminergic neurons via apoptosis. Autoxidation and metabolism of accumulated synaptic dopamine can lead to generation of reactive oxygen species (hydrogen peroxide), quinones, and semiquinones, which can also induce apoptosis of neurons. Increased cell death of dopaminergic neurons can eventually lead to dopamine deficit that may exacerbate the severity and/or accelerate the progression of HAND/HAD.
There is growing interest in the biology of dysbindin and its genetic locus (DTNBP1) due to genetic variants associated with an increased risk of schizophrenia. Reduced levels of dysbindin mRNA and protein in the hippocampal formation of schizophrenia patients further support involvement of this locus in disease risk. Here, we discuss phylogenetically conserved dysbindin molecular interactions that define its contribution to the assembly of the biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex-1 (BLOC-1). We explore fundamental cellular processes where dysbindin and the dysbindin-containing BLOC-1 complex are implicated. We propose that cellular, tissue, and system neurological phenotypes from dysbindin deficiencies in model genetic organisms, and likely individuals affected with schizophrenia, emerge from abnormalities in few core cellular mechanisms controlled by BLOC-1-dysbindin-containing complex rather than from defects in dysbindin itself.
Since clinical application of conventional cancer therapies is usually limited by drug resistance and toxic side effects, combination of chemotherapeutic agents with gene therapy appears as an attractive therapeutic strategy to overcome these issues. Being selectively expressed in tumor tissues, survivin is a promising target for the development of anticancer strategies aimed at eliminating tumor cells while sparing normal tissues. In this work, we achieved substantial protein knockdown in a number of human cell lines, namely, A549, HeLa and MCF-7 cells which overexpress survivin, after treatment with anti-survivin siRNAs, which was associated with a significant reduction of cell viability, when compared to treatment with control siRNAs. Interestingly, when the survivin-silencing approach was combined with a chemotherapeutic agent, an enhancement of the therapeutic effect was achieved. Treatment with anti-survivin siRNAs resulted in high levels of caspase 3/7 activation, and an enhancement of this effect was observed when survivin silencing was combined with vinblastine. In addition, we showed that for A549 and HeLa cells survivin silencing contributes to the reversion of cell resistance to doxorubicin. Overall, we demonstrate that the combination of a survivin-directed silencing strategy with chemotherapeutic agents constitutes a valuable approach for cancer treatment.
Noninvasive systemic gene delivery to the central nervous system (CNS) has largely been impeded by the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Recent studies documented widespread CNS gene transfer after intravascular delivery of recombinant adeno-associated virus 9 (rAAV9). To investigate alternative and possibly more potent rAAV vectors for systemic gene delivery across the BBB, we systematically evaluated the CNS gene transfer properties of nine different rAAVEGFP vectors after intravascular infusion in neonatal mice. Several rAAVs efficiently transduce neurons, motor neurons, astrocytes, and Purkinje cells; among them, rAAVrh.10 is at least as efficient as rAAV9 in many of the regions examined. Importantly, intravenously delivered rAAVs did not cause abnormal microgliosis in the CNS. The rAAVs that achieve stable widespread gene transfer in the CNS are exceptionally useful platforms for the development of therapeutic approaches for neurological disorders affecting large regions of the CNS as well as convenient biological tools for neuroscience research.


The treatment of writer's cramp, a task-specific focal hand dystonia, needs new approaches. A deficiency of inhibition in the motor cortex might cause writer's cramp. Transcranial direct current stimulation modulates cortical excitability and may provide a therapeutic alternative. In this randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled study, we investigated the efficacy of cathodal stimulation of the contralateral motor cortex in 3 sessions in 1 week. Assessment over a 2-week period included clinical scales, subjective ratings, kinematic handwriting analysis, and neurophysiological evaluation. Twelve patients with unilateral dystonic writer's cramp were investigated; 6 received transcranial direct current and 6 sham stimulation. Cathodal transcranial direct current stimulation had no favorable effects on clinical scales and failed to restore normal handwriting kinematics and cortical inhibition. Subjective worsening remained unexplained, leading to premature study termination. Repeated sessions of cathodal transcranial direct current stimulation of the motor cortex yielded no favorable results supporting a therapeutic potential in writer's cramp.


The macro electromyography method was developed in the 1980s.1 Since then, technical modifications have been made, and a number of conditions have been explored.2, 3 This study is a methodological introduction and an update of findings in some nerve-muscle disorders. The spike component of a motor unit potential (MUP) recorded by a concentric or monopolar needle electromyography (EMG) electrode is generated primarily by fibers within 1-2 mm of the needle recording area. Given that a MUP's typical anatomical reach is 5-15 mm in diameter, it follows that conventional EMG is unable to record activity from the entire motor unit. Such information could promote understanding of muscle in health and disease. Macro EMG, with its large recording area, appears to provide this information by recording the activity from most of the fibers in a given motor unit. The value of combining macro EMG with single-fiber EMG and conventional EMG recordings is discussed.
Large muscle genes are often sequenced using complementary DNA (cDNA) made from muscle messenger RNA (mRNA) to reduce the cost and workload associated with sequencing from genomic DNA. Two potential barriers are the availability of a frozen muscle biopsy, and difficulties in detecting nonsense mutations due to nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). We present patient examples showing that use of MyoD-transduced fibroblasts as a source of muscle-specific mRNA overcomes these potential difficulties in sequencing large muscle-related genes.
Metabolic myopathies are a clinically and etiologically heterogeneous group of disorders due to defects in muscular energy metabolism. They include glycogen storage diseases, fatty acid oxidation defects, and mitochondrial disorders. The typical manifestations of a metabolic myopathy are exercise-induced myalgias, exercise intolerance, and cramps. Evaluating subjects with such symptoms is not easy because of the frequent lack of clinical features. Exercise tests are, therefore, reliable screening tools. Here, we discuss the possible role of such exercise testing techniques in the diagnostic approach of a patient with suspected metabolic myopathy.

A new carotenoid glycoside, namely neo-rehmannioside (1), together with five known compounds, 6-O-seco-hydroxyaeginetoyl ajugol (2), oxyrehmaionoside B (3), ajugol (4), geniposidic acid (5) and geniposide (6) was isolated from the 95% ethanol extract of dry roots of Rehmannia glutinosa. The structure of the new compound (1) was determined based on MS, IR, 1-D and 2-D NMR spectral data.
The discovery and exploitation of new drug targets is a key focus for both the pharmaceutical industry and academic biomedical research. To provide an insight into trends in the exploitation of new drug targets, we have analysed the drugs that were approved by the US Food and Drug Administration during the past three decades and examined the interactions of these drugs with therapeutic targets that are encoded by the human genome, using the DrugBank database and extensive manual curation. We have identified 435 effect-mediating drug targets in the human genome, which are modulated by 989 unique drugs, through 2,242 drug-target interactions. We also analyse trends in the introduction of drugs that modulate previously unexploited targets, and discuss the network pharmacology of the drugs in our data set.
Mathematically rigorous descriptions of key hypotheses and theories are becoming more common in neuroscience and are beginning to be applied to psychiatry. In this article two fictional characters, Dr. Strong and Mr. Micawber, debate the use of such computational models (CMs) in psychiatry. We present four fundamental challenges to the use of CMs in psychiatry: (a) the applicability of mathematical approaches to core concepts in psychiatry such as subjective experiences, conflict and suffering; (b) whether psychiatry is mature enough to allow informative modelling; (c) whether theoretical techniques are powerful enough to approach psychiatric problems; and (d) the issue of communicating clinical concepts to theoreticians and vice versa. We argue that CMs have yet to influence psychiatric practice, but that they help psychiatric research in two fundamental ways: (a) to build better theories integrating psychiatry with neuroscience; and (b) to enforce explicit, global and efficient testing of hypotheses through more powerful analytical methods. CMs allow the complexity of a hypothesis to be rigorously weighed against the complexity of the data. The paper concludes with a discussion of the path ahead. It points to stumbling blocks, like the poor communication between theoretical and medical communities. But it also identifies areas in which the contributions of CMs will likely be pivotal, like an understanding of social influences in psychiatry, and of the co-morbidity structure of psychiatric diseases.
Disruption to different components of the prefrontal cortex, basal ganglia, and hippocampal circuits leads to various psychiatric and neurological disorders including Parkinson's disease (PD) and schizophrenia. Medications used to treat these disorders (such as levodopa, dopamine agonists, antipsychotics, among others) affect the prefrontal-striatal-hippocampal circuits in a complex fashion. We have built models of prefrontal-striatal and striatal-hippocampal interactions which simulate cognitive dysfunction in PD and schizophrenia. In these models, we argue that the basal ganglia is key for stimulus-response learning, the hippocampus for stimulus-stimulus representational learning, and the prefrontal cortex for stimulus selection during learning about multidimensional stimuli. In our models, PD is associated with reduced dopamine levels in the basal ganglia and prefrontal cortex. In contrast, the cognitive deficits in schizophrenia are associated primarily with hippocampal dysfunction, while the occurrence of negative symptoms is associated with frontostriatal deficits in a subset of patients. In this paper, we review our past models and provide new simulation results for both PD and schizophrenia. We also describe an extended model that includes simulation of the different functional role of D1 and D2 dopamine receptors in the basal ganglia and prefrontal cortex, a dissociation we argue is essential for understanding the non-uniform effects of levodopa, dopamine agonists, and antipsychotics on cognition. Motivated by clinical and physiological data, we discuss model limitations and challenges to be addressed in future models of these brain disorders.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common type of primary brain tumor and a highly malignant and heterogeneous cancer. Current conventional therapies fail to eradicate or curb GBM cell growth. Hence, exploring the cellular and molecular basis of GBM cell growth is vital to develop novel therapeutic approaches. Neuroglia (NG)-2 is a transmembrane proteoglycan expressed by NG2+ progenitors and is strongly linked to cell proliferation in the normal brain. By using NG2 as a biomarker we identify a GBM cell population (GBM NG2+ cells) with robust proliferative, clonogenic, and tumorigenic capacity. We show that a significant proportion (mean 83%) of cells proliferating in the tumor mass express NG2 and that over 50% of GBM NG2+ cells are proliferating. Compared with the GBM NG2- cells from the same tumor, the GBM of NG2+ cells overexpress genes associated with aggressive tumorigenicity, including overexpression of Mitosis and Cell Cycling Module genes (e.g., MELK, CDC, MCM, E2F), which have been previously shown to correlate with poor survival in GBM. We also show that the coexpression pattern of NG2 with other glial progenitor markers in GBM does not recapitulate that described in the normal brain. The expression of NG2 by such an aggressive and actively cycling GBM population combined with its location on the cell surface identifies this cell population as a potential therapeutic target in a subset of patients with GBM.
Accumulations of -amyloid (A) contribute to neurological deficits associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The effects of A on basal neuronal excitability and learning-related AHP plasticity were examined using whole-cell recordings from hippocampal neurons in the 5XFAD mouse model of AD. A robust increase in A42 (and elevated levels of A38-40) in nave 5XFAD mice was associated with decreased basal neuronal excitability, evidenced by a select increase in Ca(2+)-sensitive afterhyperpolarization (AHP). Moreover, trace fear deficits observed in a subset of 5XFAD weak-learner mice were associated with a greater enhancement of the AHP in neurons, as compared to age-matched 5XFAD learner and 5XFAD nave mice. Importantly, learning-related plasticity of the AHP remained intact in a subset of 5XFAD mice that learned trace fear conditioning to a set criterion. We show that APP-PS1 mutations enhance A and disrupt basal excitability via a Ca(2+)-dependent enhancement of the AHP, and suggest disruption to learning-related modulation of intrinsic excitability resulted, in part, from altered cholinergic modulation of the AHP in the 5XFAD mouse model of AD (170 of 170).
To gain insight into the contribution of d-serine to impaired cognitive aging, we compared the metabolic pathway and content of the amino acid as well as d-serine-dependent synaptic transmission and plasticity in the hippocampus of young and old rats of the Wistar and Lou/C/Jall strains. Wistar rats display cognitive impairments with aging that are not found in the latter strain, which is therefore considered a model of healthy aging. Both mRNA and protein levels of serine racemase, the d-serine synthesizing enzyme, were decreased in the hippocampus but not in the cerebral cortex or cerebellum of aged Wistar rats, whereas the expression of d-amino acid oxidase, which degrades the amino acid, was not affected. Consequently, hippocampal levels of endogenous d-serine were significantly lower. In contrast, serine racemase expression and d-serine levels were not altered in the hippocampus of aged Lou/C/Jall rats. Ex vivo electrophysiological recordings in hippocampal slices showed a marked reduction in N-methyl-d-aspartate-receptor (NMDA-R)-mediated synaptic potentials and theta-burst-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) in the CA1 area of aged Wistar rats, which were restored by exogenous d-serine. In contrast, NMDA-R activation, LTP induction and responses to d-serine were not altered in aged Lou/C/Jall rats. These results further strengthen the notion that the serine racemase-dependent pathway is a prime target of hippocampus-dependent cognitive deficits with aging. Understanding the processes that specifically affect serine racemase during aging could thus provide key insights into the treatment of memory deficits in the elderly.
Pharmacological blockade of NR2B-containing N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) during epileptogenesis reduces neurodegeneration provoked in the rodent hippocampus by status epilepticus. The functional consequences of NMDAR activation are crucially influenced by their synaptic vs extrasynaptic localization, and both NMDAR function and localization are dependent on the presence of the NR2B subunit and its phosphorylation state. We investigated whether changes in NR2B subunit phosphorylation, and alterations in its neuronal membrane localization and cellular expression occur during epileptogenesis, and if these changes are involved in neuronal cell loss. We also explored NR2B subunit changes both in the acute phase of status epilepticus and in the chronic phase of spontaneous seizures which encompass the epileptogenesis phase. Levels of Tyr1472 phosphorylated NR2B subunit decreased in the post-synaptic membranes from rat hippocampus during epileptogenesis induced by electrical status epilepticus. This effect was concomitant with a reduced interaction between NR2B and post-synaptic density (PSD)-95 protein, and was associated with decreased CREB phosphorylation. This evidence suggests an extra-synaptic localization of NR2B subunit in epileptogenesis. Accordingly, electron microscopy showed increased NR2B both in extra-synaptic and pre-synaptic neuronal compartments, and a concomitant decrease of this subunit in PSD, thus indicating a shift in NR2B membrane localization. De novo expression of NR2B in activated astrocytes was also found in epileptogenesis indicating ectopic receptor expression in glia. The NR2B phosphorylation changes detected at completion of status epilepticus, and interictally in the chronic phase of spontaneous seizures, are predictive of receptor translocation from synaptic to extrasynaptic sites. Pharmacological blockade of NR2B-containing NMDARs by ifenprodil administration during epileptogenesis significantly reduced pyramidal cell loss in the hippocampus, showing that the observed post-translational and cellular changes of NR2B subunit contribute to excitotoxicity. Therefore, pharmacological targeting of misplaced NR2B-containing NMDARs, or prevention of these NMDAR changes, should be considered to block excitotoxicity which develops after various pro-epileptogenic brain injuries.

Insulin deficiency may contribute toward the neurological deficits of diabetic polyneuropathy (DPN). In particular, the unique trophic properties of insulin, acting on sensory neuron and axon receptors offer an approach toward reversing loss of skin axons that develops during diabetes. Here we examined how local cutaneous insulin, acting on axon receptors, influences innervation of the epidermis. That cutaneous axons might be amenable to regrowth was suggested by confirming that a high proportion of epidermal axons expressed GAP43/B50, a growth associated protein. Also, IR (insulin receptor subunit ) mRNA was expressed and upregulated in the footpads of diabetic mice and protein expression was upregulated in their sensory dorsal root ganglia. Moreover, footpads expressed mRNAs of the downstream insulin transduction molecules, IRS-1 and IRS-2. IR protein was identified in dermal axons, some epidermal sensory axons, and in keratinocytes. In separate models of experimental diabetes, we identified a surprising and rapid local response of this axon population to insulin. C57BL/6J streptozotocin (STZ) injected mice, as a model of type 1 diabetes and dbdb mice, as a model of type 2 diabetes were both evaluated after 3 months of diabetes duration. Local hindpaw plantar injections of low dose subhypoglycemic insulin (that did not alter diabetic hyperglycemia) and carrier (into the opposite paw) were given over two days and innervation studied at 5 days. Insulin injections in both models were associated with an ipsilateral rise in the density of PGP 9.5 labeled diabetic epidermal axons at 5 days, compared to that of their contralateral carrier injected hindpaw. Nondiabetic controls did not have changes in innervation following insulin. In a separate cohort of STZ diabetic mice and controls evaluated for paw sensation, there was mild improvement in mechanical, but not thermal sensation at 2 weeks after insulin injection in diabetics but not controls. Fine unmyelinated epidermal axons have considerable plasticity. Here we identify a rapid improvement of skin innervation by doses of insulin insufficient to alter glycemia or innervation of the opposite paw. Local direct insulin signaling of receptors expressed on diabetic cutaneous axons may reverse retraction of their branches during experimental DPN.
Down syndrome (DS) is the most prevalent form of mental retardation caused by genetic abnormalities in humans. This has been successfully modeled in mice to generate the Ts65Dn mouse, a genetic model of DS. This transgenic mouse model shares a number of physical and functional abnormalities with people with DS, including changes in the structure and function of neuronal circuits. Significant abnormalities in noradrenergic (NE-ergic) afferents from the locus coeruleus to the hippocampus, as well as deficits in NE-ergic neurotransmission are detected in these animals. In the current study we characterized in detail the behavioral phenotype of Ts65Dn mice, in addition to using pharmacological tools for identification of target receptors mediating the learning and memory deficits observed in this model of DS. We undertook a comprehensive approach to mouse phenotyping using a battery of standard and novel tests encompassing: (i) locomotion (Activity Chamber, PhenoTyper, and CatWalk), (ii) learning and memory (spontaneous alternation, delayed matching-to-place water maze, fear conditioning, and Intellicage), and (iii) social behavior. Ts65Dn mice showed increased locomotor activity in novel and home cage environments. There were significant and reproducible deficits in learning and memory tests including spontaneous alternation, delayed matching-to-place water maze, Intellicage place avoidance and contextual fear conditioning. Although Ts65Dn mice showed no deficit in sociability in the 3-chamber test, a marked impairment in social memory was detected. Xamoterol, a 1-adrenergic receptor (1-ADR) agonist, effectively restored the memory deficit in contextual fear conditioning, spontaneous alternation and novel object recognition. These behavioral improvements were reversed by betaxolol, a selective 1-ADR antagonist. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that this mouse model of Down syndrome displays cognitive deficits which are mediated by an imbalance in the noradrenergic system. In this experimental model of Down syndrome a selective activation of 1-ADR does restore some of these behavioral deficits. Further mechanistic studies will be needed to investigate the failure of noradrenergic system and the role of 1-ADR in cognitive deficit and pathogenesis of DS in people. Restoring NE neurotransmission or a selective activation of 1)-ADR needs to be further investigated for the development of any potential therapeutic strategy for symptomatic relief of memory deficit in DS. Furthermore, due to the significant involvement of noradrenergic system in the cardiovascular function further safety and translational studies will be needed to ensure the safety and efficacy of this approach.
Prefrontal cortex (PFC) dysfunction is common in patients with Huntington's disease (HD), a dominantly inherited neurological disorder, and has been linked to cognitive disruption. We previously reported alterations in neuronal firing patterns recorded from PFC of the R6/2 mouse model of HD. To determine if PFC dysfunction results in behavioral impairments, we evaluated performance of wild-type (WT) and R6/2 mice in a fear conditioning and extinction behavioral task. Fear conditioning and extinction retrieval were similar in both genotypes, but R6/2s exhibited less fear during extinction by freezing less than WTs. A fear reinstatement test after extinction retrieval indicated that faster extinction was not due to poor memory for conditioning. During initial extinction and extinction retrieval training, neuronal activity was recorded from prelimbic (PL) cortex, a subregion of PFC known to be important for fear expression. In WTs, a large number of neurons were activated by the conditioned stimulus during initial extinction and this activation was significantly impaired in R6/2s. Notably, there was no genotype difference in PFC activity during extinction retrieval. Thus, altered extinction is likely a result of reduced fear expression due to impairments in PL activation. Collectively, our results suggest that PFC dysfunction may play a key role in R6/2 cognitive impairments.
Caveolin-1 (Cav-1) is a transmembrane protein which clusters proteins and lipids at the cell membrane into a subclass of lipid rafts named caveolae. To increase our understanding about putative functions of Cav-1 in neuronal cells, we used mouse brain extracts and a novel technology coupling surface plasmon resonance to mass spectrometry to find binding partners to Cav-1. An interaction between Cav-1 and alpha-synclein was found and confirmed in reciprocal pulldown experiments. Genetic overexpression of alpha-synclein in mouse neuroblastoma Neuro2A cells (N2A) expectedly decreased cell survival, but also significantly increased the levels of Cav-1. Furthermore, si-RNA-mediated knockdown of Cav-1 counteracted cell death induced by overexpression of alpha-synuclein. We also used an inhibitor of proteasome (MG132) to induce cell death in a Parkinson's disease context. Cav-1 knockdown had no effect on cell death induced by MG132. Conversely, treating the cells with mevastatin, an inhibitor of cholesterol synthesis, inhibits cell death induced by MG132, but not by alpha synuclein overexpression. It can be concluded that Cav-1 may play a functional role in neuronal cells by virtue of its physical interaction with alpha-synuclein and regulate alpha synuclein-mediated actions on cell death, processes known to be involved in synucleinopathies including Parkinson's disease.
Ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1) is an intracellular protein abundantly expressed in neurons, and a mutation in UCH-L1 has been identified in familial Parkinson's disease. UCH-L1 has been detected in human cerebrospinal fluid, raising the possibility that UCH-L1 is secreted from neurons. In the present study, we showed that a portion of UCH-L1 is secreted from cultured cells. The secretion of D30K UCH-L1, which lacks ubiquitin binding activity, was decreased compared with that of wild-type UCH-L1, while the secretion of C90S UCH-L1, which lacks hydrolase activity, was not. Treatment with Brefeldin A, an inhibitor of vesicle transport from the endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi, did not block the secretion of UCH-L1, indicating that UCH-L1 is secreted by an unconventional pathway. The UCH-L1 sequence from Leu-32 to Leu-39 is similar to the unconventional secretory signal sequence of engrailed 2, and substitution of the leucines within this region (L32S/L32A/L34S/L34A/L39S/L39A) reduced the secretion of UCH-L1. We found that the Parkinson's disease-associated mutation I93M in UCH-L1 decreased the secretion of I93M UCH-L1. In addition, Parkinson's disease-linked -synuclein mutants reduced the secretion of endogenous UCH-L1. Our results indicate that the hydrolase activity is not necessary for the unconventional secretion of UCH-L1, and suggest that the ubiquitin binding activity and the sequence between Leu-32 and Leu-39 are involved in the secretion. Moreover, the secretion of UCH-L1 could be involved in the pathology of Parkinson's disease.
Pro-inflammatory cytokines released from activated microglia may be responsible for neuronal damage and resulting motor deficits associated with CNS disorders such as spinal cord injury, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis. Estrogen (17-estradiol) is capable of ameliorating motoneuron death following spinal cord injury, but has a number of deleterious side effects. Genistein (GEN), an estrogen receptor beta agonist and potent antioxidant, may represent an alternative to estrogen in treating neurodegenerative disorders. However, little is known about the neuroprotective effects of GEN. We therefore tested whether GEN would prevent apoptosis in cultured motoneurons following exposure to pro-inflammatory cytokines released from IFN- activated microglia. Exposure of ventral spinal cord 4.1 motoneurons to microglial cytokine supernatant in vitro caused significant apoptosis and reduced mitochondrial membrane potential. An increase in reactive oxygen species, intracellular Ca(2+), calpain, caspases, cytochrome c, and the bax:bcl-2 ratio were also noted. GEN treatment reversed apoptotic death and cellular changes following cytokine exposure and was associated with increased expression of estrogen receptor  suggesting that GEN may promote neuroprotection via receptor-mediated pathways. The addition of ICI 182, 780, an estrogen receptor antagonist following GEN treatment attenuated neuroprotection, suggesting that GEN may act mainly via estrogen receptor  to protect VSC4.1 motoneurons. We conclude that GEN protects cultured ventral spinal cord 4.1 cells from inflammatory insult and thus may represent a potential beneficial therapy in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
Nitrite therapy is more effective in cerebral ischemia when administered earlier. It would be beneficial during the hyperacute stages of stroke if the nitrite effect is demonstrated in intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH). When nitrite is injected intravenously 3h after ICH induction in rats, most doses of nitrite provided no beneficial effects on behavioral deficits, brain edema and hematoma volumes. A high dose of nitrite, however, decreased hematoma volume, but not brain edema. Peri-hematomal apoptosis and inflammation were similar between the control and nitrite groups. Nitrite therapy may be considered a therapeutic option in hyperacute stroke because nitrite therapy is tolerated in ICH as well.
We have characterized the changes in tissue concentrations of amino acids and biogenic amines in the central nervous system (CNS) of mice with MOG(35-55)-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model commonly used to study multiple sclerosis (MS). High performance liquid chromatography was used to analyse tissue samples from five regions of the CNS at the onset, peak and chronic phase of MOG(35-55) EAE. Our analysis includes the evaluation of several newly examined amino acids including d-serine, and the inter-relations between the intraspinal concentration changes of different amino acids and biogenic amines during EAE. Our results confirm many of the findings from similar studies using different variants of the EAE model as well as those examining changes in amino acid and biogenic amine levels in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of MS patients. However, several notable differences were observed between mice with MOG(35-55)-induced EAE with findings from human studies and other EAE models. In addition, our analysis has identified strong correlations between different amino acids and biogenic amines that appear to change in two distinct groups during EAE. Group I analyte concentrations are increased at EAE onset and peak but then decrease in the chronic phase with a large degree of variability. Group II is composed of amino acids and biogenic amines that change in a progressive manner during EAE. The altered levels of these amino acids and biogenic amines in the disease may represent a critical pathway leading to neurodegenerative processes that are now recognized to occur in EAE and MS.
Nitric oxide (()NO) is a diffusible messenger that conveys information based on its concentration dynamics, which is dictated by the interplay between its synthesis, inactivation and diffusion. Here, we characterized ()NO diffusion in the rat brain in vivo. By direct sub-second measurement of ()NO, we determined the diffusion coefficient of ()NO in the rat brain cortex. The value of 2.210(-5)cm(2)/s obtained in vivo was only 14% lower than that obtained in agarose gel (used to evaluate ()NO free diffusion). These results reinforce the view of ()NO as a fast diffusing messenger but, noticeably, the data indicates that neither ()NO diffusion through the brain extracellular space nor homogeneous diffusion in the tissue through brain cells can account for the similarity between ()NO free diffusion coefficient and that obtained in the brain. Overall, the results support that ()NO diffusion in brain tissue is heterogeneous, pointing to the existence of a pathway that facilitates ()NO diffusion, such as cell membranes and other hydrophobic structures.
We demonstrated previously that 30min of hypoxic preconditioning (HPC) applied 1day before 10min of transient global cerebral ischemia (tGCI) reduced neuronal loss in the hippocampal CA1 subregion in adult rats. The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase and protein kinase M (PKM) in the protective effect of HPC against tGCI in adult rats. We found that the activity of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase decreased in the hippocampal CA1 subregion after 10min of tGCI. This effect was not seen after 30min of HPC in adult rats. Corresponding to the changes in Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity, the surface expression of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase 1 subunit increased after HPC. Furthermore, HPC dramatically reduced the number of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells in the hippocampal CA1 subregion after tGCI. However, neither PKM nor phosphorylation of PKM was changed after tGCI or HPC. The results of the present study are consistent with the hypothesis that both enhanced recovery of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity due to preserved the protein levels of Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase 1 subunit and reduced DNA fragmentation after tGCI contribute to the protection afforded by HPC. However, PKM activation does not appear to play a role in this neuroprotection.
This study was undertaken to determine if the ketogenic diet could be useful for glioblastoma patients. The hypothesis tested was whether glioblastoma cells can metabolize ketone bodies. Cerebellar astrocytes and C6 glioblastoma cells were incubated in glutamine and serum free medium containing [2,4-(13)C]-hydroxybutyrate (BHB) with and without glucose. Furthermore, C6 cells were incubated with [1-(13)C]glucose in the presence and absence of BHB. Cell extracts were analyzed by mass spectrometry and media by (1)H magnetic resonance spectroscopy and HPLC. Using [2,4-(13)C]BHB and [1-(13)C]glucose it could be shown that C6 cells, in analogy to astrocytes, had efficient mitochondrial activity, evidenced by (13)C labeling of glutamate, glutamine and aspartate. However, in the presence of glucose, astrocytes were able to produce and release glutamine, whereas this was not accomplished by the C6 cells, suggesting lack of anaplerosis in the latter. We hypothesize that glioblastoma cells kill neurons by not supplying the necessary glutamine, and by releasing glutamate.
Cannabinoid system plays an important role in controlling neuronal excitability and brain function. On the other hand, modulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) transmission is one of the initial strategies for the treatment of seizure. The aim of the present study was to evaluate possible interaction between cannabinoidergic and GABAergic systems in pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-induced acute seizure in rat. Drugs were administered by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration 20min before a single intraperitoneal (i.p.) injection of PTZ and the latency to the first generalized tonic-clonic seizure was measured. Both the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55212-2 (10, 30, 50 and 100g/rat) and the GABA-A receptor agonist isoguvacine (IGN; 10, 30 and 50g/rat) significantly increased the latency of seizure occurrence. Moreover, the fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitor URB597 showed no anticonvulsive effect while the monoacyl glycerol lipase (MAGL) inhibitor URB602 (10, 50 and 100g/rat) protected rats against PTZ-induced seizure. Moreover, co-administration of IGN and cannabinoid compounds attenuated the anticonvulsant action of both WIN55212-2 and IGN in this model of seizure. Our data suggests that exogenous cannabinoid WIN55212-2 and MAGL inhibitor URB602 imply their antiseizure action in part through common brain receptorial system. Moreover, the antagonistic interaction of cannabinoids and IGN in protection against PTZ-induced seizure could suggest the involvement of GABAergic system in their anticonvulsant action.
Dopaminergic neurons die in Parkinson's disease (PD) due to oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in the substantia nigra (SN). We evaluated if oxidative stress occurs in other brain regions like the caudate nucleus (CD), putamen (Put) and frontal cortex (FC) in human postmortem PD brains (n=6). While protein oxidation was elevated only in CD (P&lt;0.05), lipid peroxidation was increased only in FC (P&lt;0.05) and protein nitration was unchanged in PD compared to controls. Interestingly, mitochondrial complex I (CI) activity was unaffected in PD compared to controls. There was a 3-5 fold increase in the total glutathione (GSH) levels in the three regions (P&lt;0.01 in FC and CD; P&lt;0.05 in Put) but activities of antioxidant enzymes catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione reductase and glutathione-s-tranferase were not increased. Total GSH levels were elevated in these areas because of decreased activity of gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (-GT) (P&lt;0.05) activity suggesting a decreased breakdown of GSH. There was an increase in expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) (P&lt;0.001 in FC; P&lt;0.05 in CD) and glutathione peroxidase (P&lt;0.05 in CD and Put) activity due to proliferation of astrocytes. We suggest that increased GSH and astrocytic proliferation protects non-SN brain regions from oxidative and mitochondrial damage in PD.



Long-term divergent selection for low or high body weight from the same founder population has generated two extremely divergent lines of chickens, the high- (HWS) and low-weight (LWS) selected lines. At selection age (56days), the lines differ by more than nine times in body weight. The HWS line chickens are compulsive feeders, whereas in the LWS line, some individuals are anorexic and others have very low appetite. Previous studies have implicated the central nervous system and particularly the hypothalamus in these behavioural differences. Here, we compared the mRNA expression in hypothalamus tissue from chickens on day4 post-hatch using oligonucleotide arrays and found that the divergent selection had resulted in minor but multiple expression differences. Differentially expressed genes were enriched in processes 'DNA metabolism, repair, induction of apoptosis and metabolism'. Several differentially expressed genes participate in the regulation of neuronal plasticity and development, including apoptosis, or are neurotransmittor receptor subtypes. Less change was seen when comparing hypothalamic neuropeptide mediators of appetite such as the melanocortin receptors. The genomic locations of these differentially expressed genes were then compared to the locations of growth QTLs and to a genome-wide map of chromosomal regions that have been under divergent selection between the lines. The results indicate which differentially expressed hypothalamic genes have responded to the divergent selection and that the results predict that it is more likely to find causative genes among these most differentially expressed genes. Because of such differential gene expression in hypothalamus, the lines may adapt behaviourally different particularly to the post-hatch situation when independent feeding to obtain energy is established.
The rate of DNA variation discovery has accelerated the need to collate, store and interpret the data in a standardised coherent way and is becoming a critical step in maximising the impact of discovery on the understanding and treatment of human disease. This particularly applies to the field of neurology as neurological function is impaired in many human disorders. Furthermore, the field of neurogenetics has been proven to show remarkably complex genotype-to-phenotype relationships. To facilitate the collection of DNA sequence variation pertaining to neurogenetic disorders, we have initiated the &quot;Neurogenetics Consortium&quot; under the umbrella of the Human Variome Project. The Consortium's founding group consisted of basic researchers, clinicians, informaticians and database creators. This report outlines the strategic aims established at the preliminary meetings of the Neurogenetics Consortium and calls for the involvement of the wider neurogenetic community in enabling the development of this important resource.
Fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) are important signaling molecules which act during early vertebrate central nervous system development. FGF17, together with FGF8, is a key factor in the patterning of the mid-hindbrain region with a complex picture of spatiotemporal gene expression during the various stages of cerebellar development. Disruption or reduced expression of fgf17 in mice has been associated with cerebellar vermis abnormalities. We have identified a de novo 2.3-Mb deletion of chromosome 8p21.2-p21.3 in a girl with severe growth retardation, seizures, and classical Dandy-Walker malformation. Analysis of gene expression in blood lymphocytes and skin fibroblasts revealed markedly reduced levels of FGF17, which is located 1Mb from the proximal deletion breakpoint. This is the first report of a human cerebellar malformation associated with transcriptional downregulation of the FGF17 gene.
Early elementary schooling in 2nd and 3rd grades (ages 7-9) is an important period for the acquisition and mastery of basic mathematical skills. Yet, we know very little about neurodevelopmental changes that might occur over a year of schooling. Here we examine behavioral and neurodevelopmental changes underlying arithmetic problem solving in a well-matched group of 2nd (n = 45) and 3rd (n = 45) grade children. Although 2nd and 3rd graders did not differ on IQ or grade- and age-normed measures of math, reading and working memory, 3rd graders had higher raw math scores (effect sizes = 1.46-1.49) and were more accurate than 2nd graders in an fMRI task involving verification of simple and complex two-operand addition problems (effect size = 0.43). In both 2nd and 3rd graders, arithmetic complexity was associated with increased responses in right inferior frontal sulcus and anterior insula, regions implicated in domain-general cognitive control, and in left intraparietal sulcus (IPS) and superior parietal lobule (SPL) regions important for numerical and arithmetic processing. Compared to 2nd graders, 3rd graders showed greater activity in dorsal stream parietal areas right SPL, IPS and angular gyrus (AG) as well as ventral visual stream areas bilateral lingual gyrus (LG), right lateral occipital cortex (LOC) and right parahippocampal gyrus (PHG). Significant differences were also observed in the prefrontal cortex (PFC), with 3rd graders showing greater activation in left dorsal lateral PFC (dlPFC) and greater deactivation in the ventral medial PFC (vmPFC). Third graders also showed greater functional connectivity between the left dlPFC and multiple posterior brain areas, with larger differences in dorsal stream parietal areas SPL and AG, compared to ventral stream visual areas LG, LOC and PHG. No such between-grade differences were observed in functional connectivity between the vmPFC and posterior brain regions. These results suggest that even the narrow one-year interval spanning grades 2 and 3 is characterized by significant arithmetic task-related changes in brain response and connectivity, and argue that pooling data across wide age ranges and grades can miss important neurodevelopmental changes. Our findings have important implications for understanding brain mechanisms mediating early maturation of mathematical skills and, more generally, for educational neuroscience.
Changes of functional connectivity in prodromal and early Alzheimer's disease can arise from compensatory and/or pathological processes. We hypothesized that i) there is impairment of effective inhibition associated with early Alzheimer's disease that may lead to ii) a paradoxical increase of functional connectivity. To this end we analyzed effective connectivity in 14 patients and 16 matched controls using dynamic causal modeling of functional MRI time series recorded during a visual inter-hemispheric integration task. By contrasting co-linear with non co-linear bilateral gratings, we estimated inhibitory top-down effects within the visual areas. The anatomical areas constituting the functional network of interest were identified with categorical functional MRI contrasts (Stimuli&gt;Baseline and Co-linear gratings&gt;Non co-linear gratings), which implicated V1 and V3v in both hemispheres. A model with reciprocal excitatory intrinsic connections linking these four regions and modulatory inhibitory effects exerted by V3v on V1 optimally explained the functional MRI time series in both subject groups. However, Alzheimer's disease was associated with significantly weakened intrinsic and modulatory connections. Top-down inhibitory effects, previously detected as relative deactivations of V1 in young adults, were observed neither in our aged controls nor in patients. We conclude that effective inhibition weakens with age and more so in early Alzheimer's disease.
Realizing one has missed an opportunity can influence decision behavior in the future, such that a large missed opportunity leads to more risk taking in the next round. To investigate the neuronal mechanism of this phenomenon we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in combination with a sequential decision task in which the magnitude of possible gains linearly increased, but at the same time the gain probability decreased. After subjects decided to stop a trial and to collect the gains, not only the chosen option (actual outcome), but also the alternative option (maximum possible gain in this round) was revealed. Our data show that a missed chance influenced volunteers' decision behavior: volunteers took more risk after rounds in which they had missed a large opportunity. This was paralleled by signal changes in a lateral area of the ventral striatum that scaled with the difference between what could have been gained and what was actually gained in this round. In addition, after gains signal changes in dopaminoceptive structures including the midbrain and ventral striatum together with the insula predicted individual choice behavior in the subsequent round. Thus, our data provide a neural mechanism for how missed opportunities influence future decisions.
The problem of the self has been of increasing interest in recent neuroscience. Brain imaging studies have raised the question of whether neural activity in cortical midline regions is self-specific and whether self-specific activity is related to resting state activity (RSA). A quantitative meta-analysis that included 87 studies, representing 1433 participants, was conducted to discuss these questions. First, the specificity of the self (e.g. hearing one's own name, seeing one's own face) was tested and compared across familiar (using stimuli from personally known people) and other (non-self-non-familiar, i.e. strangers and widely-known figures) conditions. Second, the relationship between the self and resting state activity, as reflected by the default-mode network (DMN), was tested. The results indicated that the perigenual anterior cingulate cortex (PACC) is specifically involved in self-processing when compared to familiarity, other, and task/stimulus effects. On the contrary, other midline regions, i.e., medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) and posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) were functionally unspecific as they were recruited during the processing of both self-specific and familiar stimuli. Finally, the PACC was recruited during self-specific stimuli and this activity overlapped with DMN activity during resting state, thus distinguishing the self-related processing from both that of the familiar and other conditions. Taken together, our data suggest that our sense of self may result from a specific kind of interaction between resting state activity and stimulus-induced activity, i.e., rest-stimulus interaction, within the midline regions.
Whole-brain functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) allows measuring brain dynamics at all brain regions simultaneously and is widely used in research and clinical neuroscience to observe both stimulus-related and spontaneous neural activity. Ultrahigh magnetic fields (7T and above) allow functional imaging with high contrast-to-noise ratios and improved spatial resolution and specificity compared to clinical fields (1.5T and 3T). High-resolution 7T fMRI, however, has been mostly limited to partial brain coverage with previous whole-brain applications sacrificing either the spatial or temporal resolution. Here we present whole-brain high-resolution (1, 1.5 and 2mm isotropic voxels) resting state fMRI at 7T, obtained with parallel imaging technology, without sacrificing temporal resolution or brain coverage, over what is typically achieved at 3T with several fold larger voxel volumes. Using Independent Component Analysis we demonstrate that high resolution images acquired at 7T retain enough sensitivity for the reliable extraction of typical resting state brain networks and illustrate the added value of obtaining both single subject and group maps, using cortex based alignment, of the default-mode network (DMN) with high native resolution. By comparing results between multiple resolutions we show that smaller voxels volumes (1 and 1.5mm isotropic) data result in reduced partial volume effects, permitting separations of detailed spatial features within the DMN patterns as well as a better function to anatomy correspondence.
A critical assumption underlying the practice of functional localization is that the voxels identified by functional localization are essentially the same as those activated in the main experiment for a particular anatomical area. Violations of this assumption bias the resulting analyses and can dramatically increase the likelihood of both Type I and Type II errors. Here we investigated how the amount of data affects the reliability of a set of common functionally-defined regions-of-interest (fROIs). Four participants were scanned ten times each to functionally localize extrastriate regions sensitive to visually presented words, objects and faces. A within-subject random-effects analysis was used as the &quot;gold standard&quot; for identifying the fROIs and the results were compared to within-subject, fixed-effect analyses typically used for functional localization. By varying the quantity of data included in the analyses, we empirically assessed the amount needed to ensure reliable identification of the fROIs. The results demonstrated that the most consistent fROIs were based on either stringent statistical thresholding (Z&gt;5.0) of large quantities of data or on lenient thresholding (Z&gt;2.3) of a modest amount of data, with both methods yielding 70-80% overlap between the functional localization results and the &quot;gold standard.&quot; Stringent statistical thresholds on typical quantities of localizer data led to the poorest reliability (&lt;20% overlap). These findings suggest that the most reliable and cost-efficient method for functional localization involves collecting a relatively small amount of data (~10 min) and using a lenient statistical threshold to identify all voxels in a given region that are sensitive to the process-of-interest.
Knowledge of cortical rhythms represents an important aspect of modern neuroscience, to understand how the brain realizes its functions. Recent data suggest that different regions in the brain may exhibit distinct electroencephalogram (EEG) rhythms when perturbed by Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) and that these rhythms can change due to the connectivity among regions. In this context, in silico simulations may help the validation of these hypotheses that would be difficult to be verified in vivo. Neural mass models can be very useful to simulate specific aspects of electrical brain activity and, above all, to analyze and identify the overall frequency content of EEG in a cortical region of interest (ROI). In this work we implemented a model of connectivity among cortical regions to fit the impulse responses in three ROIs recorded during a series of TMS/EEG experiments performed in five subjects and using three different impulse intensities. In particular we investigated Brodmann Area (BA) 19 (occipital lobe), BA 7 (parietal lobe) and BA 6 (frontal lobe). Results show that the model can reproduce the natural rhythms of the three regions quite well, acting on a few internal parameters. Moreover, the model can explain most rhythm changes induced by stimulation of another region, and inter-subject variability, by estimating just a few long-range connectivity parameters among ROIs.
Accumulating evidence from non-human primates and computational modeling suggests that dopaminergic signals arising from the midbrain (substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area) mediate striatal gating of the prefrontal cortex during the selective updating of working memory. Using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging, we explored the neural mechanisms underlying the selective updating of information stored in working memory. Participants were scanned during a novel working memory task that parses the neurophysiology underlying working memory maintenance, overwriting, and selective updating. Analyses revealed a functionally coupled network consisting of a midbrain region encompassing the substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area, caudate, and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex that was selectively engaged during working memory updating compared to the overwriting and maintenance of working memory content. Further analysis revealed differential midbrain-dorsolateral prefrontal interactions during selective updating between low-performing and high-performing individuals. These findings highlight the role of this meso-cortico-striatal circuitry during the selective updating of working memory in humans, which complements previous research in behavioral neuroscience and computational modeling.
Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) permits non-invasive probing of tissue microstructure and provides invaluable information in brain diagnostics. Our aim was to examine approaches capable of capturing more detailed information on the propagation mechanisms and underlying tissue microstructure in comparison to the conventional methods. In this work, we report a detailed in vivo diffusion study of the human brain in an extended range of the b-factors (up to 7000 s mm(-2)) performed on a group of 14 healthy volunteers at 3T. Combined diffusion kurtosis imaging (DKI) and biexponential diffusion tensor analysis (BEDTA) were applied to quantify the attenuation curves. New quantitative indices are suggested as map parameters and are shown to improve the underlying structure contrast in comparison to conventional DTI. In particular, fractional anisotropy maps related to the slow diffusion tensor are shown to attain significantly higher values and to substantially improve white matter mapping. This is demonstrated for the specified regions of the frontal and occipital lobes and for the anterior cingulate. The findings of this work are substantiated by the statistical analysis of the whole slice histograms averaged over 14 subjects. Colour-coded directional maps related to the fast and slow diffusion tensors in human brain tissue are constructed for the first time and these demonstrate a high degree of axial co-alignment of the two tensors in the white matter regions. It is concluded that a combined DKI and BEDTA offers a promising framework for monitoring tissue alteration during development and degeneration or as a consequence of the neurological disease.
Investigating auditory hallucinations that occur in health may help elucidate brain mechanisms which lead to the pathological experience of auditory hallucinations in neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. In this study, we investigated healthy individuals who reported auditory hallucinations whilst falling asleep (hypnagogic hallucinations; HG) and waking up (hypnopompic hallucinations; HP). In an initial behavioural study, we found that subjects with a history of auditory HG/HP hallucinations (n = 26) reported significantly greater subjective sensitivity to environmental sounds than non-hallucinator controls (n = 74). Then, two fMRI experiments were performed. The first examined speech-evoked brain activation in 12 subjects with a history of auditory HG/HP hallucinations and 12 non-hallucinator controls matched for age, gender and IQ. The second fMRI experiment, in the same subjects, probed how brain activation was modulated by auditory attention using a bimodal selective attention paradigm. In the first experiment, the hallucinator group demonstrated significantly greater speech-evoked activation in the left supramarginal gyrus than the control group. In the second experiment, directing attention towards the auditory (vs. visual) modality induced significantly greater activation of the anterior cingulate gyrus in the hallucinator group than in the control group. These results suggest that hallucination proneness is associated with increased sensitivity of auditory and polysensory association cortex to auditory stimulation, an effect which might arise due to enhanced attentional bias from the anterior cingulate gyrus. Our data support the overarching hypothesis that top-down modulation of auditory cortical response characteristics may be a key mechanistic step in the generation of auditory hallucinations.
Patients with prosopagnosia are unable to recognize faces consciously, but when tested indirectly they can reveal residual identification abilities. The neural circuitry underlying this covert recognition is still unknown. One candidate for this function is the partial survival of a pathway linking the fusiform face area (FFA) and anterior-inferior temporal (AIT) cortex, which has been shown to be essential for conscious face identification. Here we performed functional magnetic, and diffusion tensor imaging in FE, a patient with severe prosopagnosia, with the goal of identifying the neural substrates of his robust covert face recognition. FE presented massive bilateral lesions in the fusiform gyri that eliminated both FFAs, and also disrupted the fibers within the inferior longitudinal fasciculi that link the visual areas with the AITs and medial temporal lobes. Therefore participation of the fusiform-temporal pathway in his covert recognition was precluded. However, face-selective activations were found bilaterally in his occipital gyri and in his extended face system (posterior cingulate and orbitofrontal areas), the latter with larger responses for previously-known faces than for faces of strangers. In the right hemisphere, these surviving face selective-areas were connected via a partially persevered inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus. This suggests an alternative occipito-frontal pathway, absent from current models of face processing, that could explain the patient's covert recognition while also playing a role in unconscious processing during normal cognition.
To what extent does attention modulate neural activity in early visual areas? fMRI measurements of attentional modulation in primary visual cortex (V1) show large effects, while single unit recordings show much smaller ones. This discrepancy suggests that fMRI measures of attention may be inflated, perhaps by activity related to other processes. To test whether effects measured with fMRI actually reflect attentional enhancement, we used a rapid acquisition protocol to determine their timing. Subjects were presented with two stimuli on either side of fixation and were cued to attend one and ignore the other. Attended stimuli showed a greater magnitude of response in V1, but this increase was delayed, by roughly one second in time, relative to both unattended responses and response increases due to boosting stimulus contrast. These results suggest that fMRI measurements of attention may primarily depend upon other processes that take a relatively long time to feed back to V1. Our results demonstrate the importance of using the fine timing information available in the fMRI response.
The core difficulty in developmental dyslexia across languages is a &quot;phonological deficit&quot;, a specific difficulty with the neural representation of the sound structure of words. Recent data across languages suggest that this phonological deficit arises in part from inefficient auditory processing of the rate of change of the amplitude envelope at syllable onset (inefficient sensory processing of rise time). Rise time is a complex percept that also involves changes in duration and perceived intensity. Understanding the neural mechanisms that give rise to the phonological deficit in dyslexia is important for optimising educational interventions. In a three-deviant passive 'oddball' paradigm and a corresponding blocked 'deviant-alone' control condition we recorded ERPs to tones varying in rise time, duration and intensity in children with dyslexia and typically developing children longitudinally. We report here results from test Phases 1 and 2, when participants were aged 8-10 years. We found an MMN to duration, but not to rise time nor intensity deviants, at both time points for both groups. For rise time, duration and intensity we found group effects in both the Oddball and Blocked conditions. There was a slower fronto-central P1 response in the dyslexic group compared to controls. The amplitude of the P1 fronto-centrally to tones with slower rise times and lower intensity was smaller compared to tones with sharper rise times and higher intensity in the Oddball condition, for children with dyslexia only. The latency of this ERP component for all three stimuli was shorter on the right compared to the left hemisphere, only for the dyslexic group in the Blocked condition. Furthermore, we found decreased N1c amplitude to tones with slower rise times compared to tones with sharper rise times for children with dyslexia, only in the Oddball condition. Several other effects of stimulus type, age and laterality were also observed. Our data suggest that neuronal responses underlying some aspects of auditory sensory processing may be impaired in dyslexia.
Most studies on mathematics learning in the field of educational neuroscience have focused on the neural correlates of very elementary numerical processing skills in children. Little is known about more complex mathematical skills that are formally taught in school, such as arithmetic. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, the present study investigated how brain activation during single-digit addition and subtraction is modulated by problem size and arithmetic operation in 28 children aged 10-12 years with different levels of arithmetical fluency. Commensurate with adult data, large problems and subtractions activated a fronto-parietal network, including the intraparietal sulci, the latter of which indicates the influence of quantity-based processes during procedural strategy execution. Different from adults, the present findings revealed that particularly the left hippocampus was active during the solution of those problems that are expected to be solved by means of fact retrieval (i.e. small problems and addition), suggesting a specific role of the hippocampus in the early stages of learning arithmetic facts. Children with low levels of arithmetical fluency showed higher activation in the right intraparietal sulcus during the solution of problems with a relatively small problem size, indicating that they continued to rely to a greater extent on quantity-based strategies on those problems that the children with relatively higher arithmetical fluency already retrieved from memory. This might represent a neural correlate of fact retrieval impairments in children with mathematical difficulties.
Inhibitory control (IC) is an important contributor to educational performance, and undergoes rapid development in childhood. Age-related changes in IC were assessed using an in-depth analysis of reaction time, the Lateralized Readiness Potential (LRP), and other event-related potential (ERP) measures to control for speed of processing. Five-year-olds, 8-year-olds and adults completed an adapted Stroop task. Both reaction time and ERP results suggest that IC does develop in this age range, over and above changes in speed of processing. The LRP identified two processes that contribute to IC. These processes develop at different rates--an early process, involving how the conflict is initially responded to is mature by age 5, while a later process, involving how the conflict is overcome is still developing after 8 years of age. We propose that these early and late processes reflect interference suppression and response inhibition, respectively. Further, a single-trial analysis of the LRP in the incongruent condition provides evidence that the LRP is consistent across trials and functionally similar in each age group. These results corroborate previous findings regarding the development of IC, and present a new and useful tool for assessing IC across development.
Learning to read in alphabetic orthographies starts with learning a script code consisting of letter-speech sound pairs. Although children know which letters belong to which speech sounds within months, it takes much longer to automatically integrate them into newly constructed audiovisual objects. This extended learning process corresponds with observations that reliable letter and word specific activations in the fusiform cortex also occur relatively late in reading development. The present review discusses electrophysiological and neuroimaging studies of the nature and mechanisms involved in letter-speech sound integration in normal and dyslexic readers. It is demonstrated that letter-speech sound associations do not develop in parallel with visual letter recognition but immediately work in concert to form orthographic-phonological bonds which remain active even in experienced reading. Effective letter-speech sound integration may be necessary for reliable letter recognition to develop. In contrast, it is this basic integration of letters and speech sounds which poses an immediate problem for beginning dyslexic readers, and remains problematic in adult dyslexic readers. It is hypothesized that a specific orthographic-phonological binding deficit may not only act as a proximal cause for reading deficits in dyslexia, but may also explain the notorious lack of reading fluency. Finally, it is suggested that similar integrated audiovisual representations may also exist for larger grain-sizes in the same posterior occipitotemporal/inferoparietal network as identified for orthographic-phonological integration of letters and speech sounds.
Relational aggression such as social rejection is common within school peer groups. Converging evidence suggests that adolescent females are particularly sensitive to social rejection. We used a novel fMRI adaptation of the Cyberball social rejection paradigm to investigate the neural response to social rejection in 19 mid-adolescent (aged 14-16) and 16 adult female participants. Across all participants, social exclusion (relative to inclusion) elicited a response in bilateral medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) extending into ventral and subgenual anterior cingulate cortex and medial orbitofrontal cortex; and the left ventrolateral PFC (vlPFC); regions that have been associated in previous studies with social evaluation, negative affective processing, and affect regulation respectively. However, the exclusion-related response in right vlPFC, a region associated in previous studies with the regulation of rejection-related distress, was attenuated in adolescents. Within mPFC, greater activation during exclusion vs. inclusion was associated with greater self-reported susceptibility to peer influence in adolescents but not in adults. This suggests that the brain's response to experimentally-induced social rejection relates to adolescent behaviour in real-world social interactions. We speculate about the potential implications of these findings for educational settings. In particular, functional development of affective circuitry during adolescence may influence social interaction within the school peer group.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging studies have reported reduced activation in parietotemporal and occipitotemporal areas in adults and children with developmental dyslexia compared to controls during reading and reading related tasks. These patterns of regionally reduced activation have been linked to behavioral impairments of reading-related processes (e.g., phonological skills and rapid automatized naming). The observed functional and behavioral differences in individuals with developmental dyslexia have been complemented by reports of reduced gray matter in left parietotemporal, occipitotemporal areas, fusiform and lingual gyrus and the cerebellum. An important question for education is whether these neural differences are present before reading is taught. Developmental dyslexia can only be diagnosed after formal reading education starts. However, here we investigate whether the previously detected gray matter alterations in adults and children with developmental dyslexia can already be observed in a small group of pre-reading children with a family-history of developmental dyslexia compared to age and IQ-matched children without a family-history (N = 20/mean age: 5:9 years; age range 5:1-6:5 years). Voxel-based morphometry revealed significantly reduced gray matter volume indices for pre-reading children with, compared to children without, a family-history of developmental dyslexia in left occipitotemporal, bilateral parietotemporal regions, left fusiform gyrus and right lingual gyrus. Gray matter volume indices in left hemispheric occipitotemporal and parietotemporal regions of interest also correlated positively with rapid automatized naming. No differences between the two groups were observed in frontal and cerebellar regions. This discovery in a small group of children suggests that previously described functional and structural alterations in developmental dyslexia may not be due to experience-dependent brain changes but may be present at birth or develop in early childhood prior to reading onset. Further studies using larger sample sizes and longitudinal analyses are needed in order to determine whether the identified structural alterations may be utilized as structural markers for the early identification of children at risk, which may prevent the negative clinical, social and psychological outcome of developmental dyslexia.

We report the case of a woman who started complaining of depression, attention and memory problems at the age of 49. Over the following 6 years, serial neuropsychological assessments showed fluctuating, but overall progressively worsening, performances in tests exploring attention, working memory, language and executive functions. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination showed identical IgG oligoclonal bands in serum and CSF. Neurological examination, to date, only reveals minimal pyramidal and cerebellar signs. Although typical clinical and laboratory evidence indicating a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS) in this patient is lacking, an extensive diagnostic work-up ruled out many other causes of leukoencephalopathy and neuroradiological features strongly suggest this diagnosis. Multiple sclerosis may present with cognitive or neuropsychiatric symptoms; this should be kept in mind, especially in younger patients, even in the absence of &quot;classical&quot; physical symptoms.
The Five-Point Test is one of the various measures of figural fluency functions that have been developed as nonverbal analogues to word fluency tasks, and used in neuropsychological assessment to evaluate the ability to initiate and sustain mental productivity, and to self-monitor and regulate responding in the visual-spatial domain. The aim of the current study was to collect normative data for a version of the Five-Point Test (M-FPT) administered to a sample of Italian healthy adults aged 16-60 (n=332). Performance on the M-FPT was scored by computing the cumulative number of unique designs (UDs) performed on a 3-min administration time. Two supplemental scores were also computed: (a) the cumulative strategies (CSs) consisting with the number of UDs incorporated into enumerative or rotational strategies; (b) the error index (ErrI), consisting with the percentage between the number of perseverative or rule-breaking errors and the number of designs overall. Multiple regression analyses revealed a significant effect of age and education, but not gender, for both UDs and CSs. Equivalent scores and cut-off scores were then determined for UDs and CSs. Descriptive statistical analyses and cut-off scores were reported for ErrI. The availability of normative data for the M-FPT will be valuable in clinical settings for assessing of executive dysfunctions on the visual-spatial subdomain of subjects with brain injury. However, in order to increase the usefulness of the test, the upper limits of the age range of the normative sample should be widened. Moreover, further analyses should be required for determining the inter-rater and test-retest reliability for M-FPT performances, and providing evidence of the sensitivity of this measure to brain disturbances generally and to frontal lobe dysfunction specifically.
Hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSPs) include a group of neurodegenerative diseases, and so far 46 SPG loci have been mapped and 17 genes isolated. Among the autosomal dominant HSPs (AD-HSPs), SPG10 is a rare form due to mutations in KIF5A gene (locus 12q13.3). We describe the clinical, neurophysiological, morphological and genetic study of an Italian family with AD-HSP. The proband presented with an adult onset spastic paraparesis and diffuse paresthesias where neurophysiological and nerve biopsy morphological studies revealed an axonal neuropathy. Molecular genetic analysis identified a new missense mutation (c.608C&gt;G) of KIF5A gene resulting in a serine to cysteine substitution, S203C, located in a highly conserved domain of the protein. This pedigree confirms the occurrence of an axonal peripheral neuropathy in SPG10.
Several lines of evidence suggest a detrimental role of the nuclear factor-B (NF-B) activation in the dystrophic process. We showed in previous studies that its inhibition through drugs with antioxidant properties, have beneficial effects in mdx mice. We tested whether genistein, a well-known isoflavone, inhibitor of NF-B, MAPK and TNF- and readily available for clinical use, could have a beneficial effect in mdx mice in comparison with methylprednisolone, the gold standard treatment for DMD patients. Five-week old mdx mice received for five weeks: genistein (daily or 3-times/week), methylprednisolone or vehicle. Genistein treatment: (1) increased forelimb strength and strength normalized to weight; (2) reduced serum creatine-kinase levels; (3) reduced markers of oxidative stress; (4) reduced muscle necrosis and enhanced regeneration. The positive results were more evident with the daily administration of genistein and were comparable to the effect of corticosteroids. Our data support the novel hypothesis that, as other more specific therapeutic approaches are still under development, this soy-derived compound is a promising option to be further investigated in dystrophic process.


Although intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) has been reported to improve the status of expanded disability status scale (EDSS) of multiple sclerosis (MS) patients and reduce the annual relapse rate, some studies did not find its beneficial effects. In the present study, using an animal model for MS, we found that prophylactic, but not therapeutic, treatment successfully suppressed the disease development. During the search for factors involved in the disease suppression by IVIG, we obtained evidence suggesting that IVIG exerts its function, at least in part, by suppressing activation of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-2 and -9. Gelatin zymography revealed that gelatinase activities were suppressed by IVIG treatment in the spinal cord, but not in plasma. This finding raises the possibility that IVIG blocks MMP activities at the interface between the blood stream and CNS. With in situ zymography, we also observed that gelatinase activities were expressed mainly in astrocytes in the inflamed spinal cord of control rats and that this expression was attenuated by the treatment. These findings provide useful information to set optimal conditions for IVIG treatment of MS and to obtain more beneficial effects.
Tumors from a prospective cohort of adult patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma (n=73), treated uniformly with radiochemotherapy, were examined for 10q23/PTEN deletion by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Statistical methods were employed to evaluate the degree of association between 10q23/PTEN deletion status and patient age. Survival analysis was performed using Kaplan-Meier log-rank test and multivariable Cox models to assess the prognostic value of 10q23/PTEN deletion. Interestingly, 10q23/PTEN homozygous deletion was frequent in patients &gt;45 years of age (P=0.034) and the median age of patients harboring PTEN homozygous deletions was significantly higher than those with the retained status (P=0.019). 10q23/PTEN homozygous deletion was associated with shorter survival in the entire cohort as well in patients &gt;45 years (P&lt;0.05), indicating that loss of 10q23/PTEN showed clinical importance in elderly patients. Our study highlights the independent prognostic/predictive value of 10q23/PTEN deletion status as identified by FISH, particularly in glioblastoma patients aged &gt;45 years.
Inflammatory pseudotumors (IP) are non-neoplastic lesions characterized by collagenous stroma and polyclonal mononuclear infiltrates. It is best characterized in the lung, but can occur in the CNS, mimicking a neoplastic process. We discuss the available literature and our cases in order to elucidate best medical practices when confronted with such a lesion. We report on two cases of intraventricular inflammatory pseudotumor in patients who presented with symptoms of CSF obstruction. Both patients were treated surgically with significant clinical improvement. Histopathologically, both specimens revealed a plasma cell granuloma variant of IP. A Medline search for English articles identified 46 cases of CNS IP, only eight of which were located within the ventricle. As with our case, most patients presented due to CSF obstruction or mass effect. Radiographically, the lesions have a variable appearance although most enhanced with gadolinium. Complete resection was achieved in 67% with a 12% rate of recurrence. With incomplete resection or biopsy alone, progression is seen despite steroid or radiation administration. Malignant transformation was only reported once. CNS IP is a rare pathological entity that cannot be diagnosed through clinical presentation or radiographic characteristics, but rather through a careful neuropathological inspection. The available literature suggests that complete resection with close follow-up is necessary.
The members of the neuropeptide Y (NPY) family are key players in food-intake regulation. In humans this family consists of NPY, peptide YY (PYY) and pancreatic polypeptide (PP) which interact with distinct preference for the four receptors showing very low sequence identity, i.e. Y1, Y2, Y4 and Y5. The binding of similar peptides to these divergent receptors makes them highly interesting for mutagenesis studies. We present here a site-directed mutagenesis study of four amino acid positions in the human Y2 receptor. T(3.40) was selected based on sequence alignments both between subtypes and between species and G(2.68), L(4.60) and Q(6.55) also on previous binding studies of the corresponding positions in the Y1 receptor. The mutated receptors were characterized pharmacologically with the peptide agonists NPY, PYY, PYY(3-36), NPY(13-36) and the non-peptide antagonist BIIE0246. Interestingly, the affinity of NPY and PYY(3-36) increased for the mutants T(3.40)I and Q(6.55)A. Increased affinity was also observed for PYY to Q(6.55)A. PYY(3-36) displayed decreased affinity for G(2.68)N and L(4.60)A whereas binding of NPY(13-36) was unaffected by all mutations. The antagonist BIIE0246 showed decreased affinity for T(3.40)I, L(4.60)A and Q(6.55)A. Although all positions investigated were found important for interaction with at least one of the tested ligands the corresponding positions in hY1 seem to be of greater importance for ligand binding. Furthermore these data indicate that binding of the agonists and the antagonist differs in their points of interaction. The increase in the binding affinity observed may reflect an indirect effect caused by a conformational change of the receptor. These findings will help to improve the structural models of the human NPY receptors.
Forward models, generated from the efference copies of motor commands, are thought to monitor the accuracy of ongoing movement. By comparing predicted with actual afferent information, forward models also aid in the differentiation of self-produced movements from externally generated ones. Many have proposed that a consequence of this comparison is attenuation of the predicted component of incoming sensory signals. Previous work from our laboratory has shown that following the removal of an external visual reference, discrete sequential forces exceed target values. Forces produced at the fingertip were perceived as weaker, which lead to a systematic, compensatory over-production of the magnitudes required. The relatively new repetitive TMS protocol of continuous theta-burst stimulation (cTBS) has been shown to reliably depress cortical excitability for a period following stimulation. If sensory attenuation mechanisms were responsible for the overproduction of forces found in our previous results, we hypothesized that reducing cortical excitability of M1 through application of cTBS would induce discrepancy between the efference copy generated and motor output produced. As a result, we expected the overproduction of forces following visual feedback removal would be reduced after receiving cTBS. Participants produced series of pinch grip forces in time to a metronome and to visually specified force magnitudes. Visual feedback of force output was extinguished 10s into experimental trials and participants performed continued responses for the remaining 10s. Results confirmed our hypothesis. Mean peak force and constant error were greater and more positive in the absence of visual feedback regardless of stimulation condition; however, the magnitude of increase was significantly reduced following cTBS compared with baseline and sham conditions. Variability was not differentially affected by stimulation condition, increasing only with removal of visual feedback contingent upon the larger forces produced in these trials. Our findings provide further evidence to support the idea that TBS may differentially affect motor output and efference copy generation.
Magical ideation has been shown to be related to measures of hand preference, in which those with mixed handedness exhibit higher levels of magical ideation than those with either consistent left- or right-handedness. It is unclear whether the relation between magical ideation and hand preference is the result of a bias in questionnaire-taking behaviour or of some neuropsychological concomitant of cerebral specialization. We sought to replicate this finding and further investigate how magical ideation is related to other measures of laterality, including handedness based on finger-tapping performance, and cerebral asymmetries for language, spatial judgment, and face processing as revealed by fMRI. Creative achievement was also assessed by questionnaire and correlated with magical ideation and the other measures. Magical ideation and creativity were positively correlated, and both were negatively correlated with absolute hand preference but not with hand performance or with any of the cerebral asymmetries being assessed. The results do not support the notion that the observed association between magical ideation, creativity and hand preference has a neuropsychological explanation based on reduced cerebral lateralization.
Previous research has consistently shown that the left parietal cortex is critical for numerical processing, but the role of the right parietal lobe has been much less clear. This study used the intraoperative cortical electrical stimulation approach to investigate neural dissociation in the right parietal cortex for subtraction and multiplication. Results showed that multiplication (as well as picture naming) was not affected by the cortical electrical stimulation on all the targeted sites of the right parietal cortex as well as those of the right temporal cortex. In contrast, stimulation at three right parietal sites (two sites in the right inferior parietal lobule and one in the right angular gyrus) impaired performance on simple subtraction problems. This study provided the first evidence from an intraoperative cortical electrical stimulation study to show the dissociation of arithmetic operations in the right parietal cortex. This dissociation between subtraction and multiplication suggests that the right parietal cortex plays a more significant role in quantity processing (subtraction) than in verbal processing (multiplication) in numerical processing.
Neural oscillatory deficits have been proposed to be a core feature of schizophrenia spectrum disorders. In this study we aimed to confirm this by examining early evoked oscillatory patterns in the EEG theta, beta and gamma bands in individuals with high schizotypal personality trait scores. We carried out an event-related experiment using a computerised delayed matching to sample working memory (WM) task on a sample of volunteers scoring high or low on the Schizotypal Personality Questionnaire (SPQ). Phase-locking factor (PLF), a measure of network synchronisation, was reduced in the beta and gamma bands in two distinct topographical regions (fronto-central and centraloccipital). In addition, signal power in the beta band was decreased in the high schizotypy group in the same fronto-occipital network. These findings suggest that abnormalities in functional connectivity, already described in schizophrenia, extend to schizotypy. Further, the pattern and latency of the altered neural oscillations in the high schizotypy group suggests a deficient modulation of the sensory processing by higher-order structures. Such top-down deficits have been reported in schizophrenia and this data supports the idea that top-down dysfunction is a vulnerability trait that is independent of disease course, medication or symptom severity.
Research integrating neuroimaging and molecular genetics has yielded important insights into how variability in brain chemistry predicts individual differences in brain function, behavior and related risk for psychopathology. However, existing studies have been limited by their focus on the independent effects of single polymorphisms with modest impact on brain chemistry. Here, we explored the effects of five functional polymorphisms affecting dopamine (DA) signaling on reward-related ventral striatum (VS) reactivity, measured with BOLD fMRI, in a sample of 69 Caucasians. We also compiled individual multilocus genetic profile scores reflecting the additive effects of alleles conferring relatively increased DA signaling across the five polymorphic loci: DAT1 9-repeat, DRD4 7-repeat, DRD2 -141C Del, DRD2 Taq1A C (A2), and COMT (158)Met. These multilocus DA profile scores accounted for 10.9% of the inter-individual variability in reward-related VS reactivity. In contrast, none of the individual polymorphisms accounted for significant variability. Our results show that biologically informed multilocus genetic profiles have unique promise as indices of variability in brain chemistry that may yield advances in mapping individual differences in behaviorally relevant brain function. In turn, such genetic profiles may fuel gene-environment interactions research establishing trajectories of risk for psychopathology.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) or 'ecstasy' has been associated with memory deficits during abstinence and intoxication. The human neuropharmacology of MDMA-induced memory impairment is unknown. This study investigated the role of 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(1A) receptors in MDMA-induced memory impairment. Ketanserin is a 5-HT(2A) receptor blocker and pindolol a 5-HT(1A) receptor blocker. It was hypothesized that pretreatment with ketanserin and pindolol would protect against MDMA-induced memory impairment. Subjects (N=17) participated in a double-blind, placebo-controlled, within-subject design involving six experimental conditions consisting of pretreatment (T1) and treatment (T2). T1 preceded T2 by 30min. T1-T2 combinations were: placebo-placebo, pindolol 20mg-placebo, ketanserin 50mg-placebo, placebo-MDMA 75mg, pindolol 20mg-MDMA 75mg, and ketanserin 50mg-MDMA 75mg. Memory function was assessed at Tmax of MDMA by means of a word-learning task (WLT), a spatial memory task and a prospective memory task. MDMA significantly impaired performance in all memory tasks. Pretreatment with a 5-HT(2A) receptor blocker selectively interacted with subsequent MDMA treatment and prevented MDMA-induced impairment in the WLT, but not in the spatial and prospective memory task. Pretreatment with a 5-HT(1A) blocker did not affect MDMA-induced memory impairment in any of the tasks. Together, the results demonstrate that MDMA-induced impairment of verbal memory as measured in the WLT is mediated by 5-HT(2A) receptor stimulation.
We have shown previously that aberrant hippocampal (HPC) output underlies the dopamine (DA) dysfunction observed in the methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) developmental model of schizophrenia in the rodent. This alteration of HPC activity was proposed to result from a reduction in parvalbumin (PV)-expressing GABAergic interneurons and consequent destabilization of the output of pyramidal neurons, as well as disrupted activation across a broad neural network. In vivo extracellular recordings were performed in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and ventral HPC of saline- (SAL) and MAM-treated animals. A novel benzodiazepine-positive allosteric modulator (PAM), selective for the 5 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor, SH-053-2'F-R-CH3, was tested for its effects on the output of the HPC, leading to dopamine system hyperactivity in MAM-treated animals. In addition, the effect of SH-053-2'F-R-CH3 on the hyperactive locomotor response to amphetamine in MAM animals was examined. We demonstrate that treatment with the 5GABA(A)R PAM reduced the number of spontaneously active DA neurons in the VTA of MAM animals to levels observed in SAL rats, both when administered systemically and when directly infused into the ventral HPC. Moreover, HPC neurons in both SAL and MAM animals showed diminished cortical-evoked responses following 5GABA(A)R PAM treatment. In addition, the increased locomotor response to amphetamine observed in MAM rats was reduced following 5GABA(A)R treatment. This study supports a novel treatment of schizophrenia that targets abnormal HPC output, which in turn normalizes dopaminergic neuronal activity.
Long-term potentiation (LTP), considered the neurophysiological basis for learning and memory, is facilitated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), an action more evident when LTP is evoked by weak -burst stimuli and dependent on co-activation of adenosine A(2A) receptors (A(2A)R), which are more expressed in aged rats. As -burst stimuli also favor LTP in aged animals, we hypothesized that enhanced LTP in aging could be related to changes in neuromodulation by BDNF. The magnitude of CA1 LTP induced by a weak -burst stimuli delivered to the Schaffer collaterals was significantly higher in hippocampal slices taken from 36 to 38 and from 70 to 80-week-old rats, when compared with LTP magnitude in slices from 4 or 10 to 15-week-old rats; this enhancement does not impact in cognitive improvement as aged rats revealed an impairment on hippocampal-dependent learning and memory performance, as assessed by the Morris water maze tests. The scavenger for BDNF, TrkB-Fc, and the inhibitor of Trk phosphorylation, K252a, attenuated LTP in slices from 70 to 80-week-old rats, but not from 10 to 15-week-old rats. When exogenously added, BDNF significantly increased LTP in slices from 4 and 10 to 15-week-old rats, but did not further increased LTP in 36 to 38 or 70 to 80-week-old rats. The effects of exogenous BDNF on LTP were prevented by the A(2A)R antagonist, SCH58261 (7-(2-phenylethyl)-5-amino-2-(2-furyl)-pyrazolo-[4,3-e]-1,2,4-triazolo[1,5-c]pyrimidine). These results indicate that the higher LTP magnitude observed upon aging, which does not translate into improved spatial memory performance, is a consequence of an increase in the tonic action of endogenous BDNF.
Adolescence is a period of increased behavioral and psychiatric vulnerabilities. It is also a time of dramatic structural and functional neurodevelopment. In recent years studies have examined the precise nature of these brain and behavioral changes, and several hypotheses link them together. In this review we discuss this research and recent electrophysiological data from behaving rats that demonstrate reduced neuronal coordination and processing efficiency in adolescents. A more comprehensive understanding of these processes will further our knowledge of adolescent behavioral vulnerabilities and the pathophysiology of mental illnesses that manifest during this period.
Exposure to psychostimulants, including both abused and therapeutic drugs, can occur first during human adolescence. Animal modeling is useful not only to reproduce adolescent peculiarities but also to study neurobehavioral adaptations to psychostimulant consumption. Human adolescence (generally considered as the period between 9/12 and 18 years old) has been compared with the age window between postnatal days (pnd) 28/35 and 50 in rats and mice. These adolescent rodents display basal hyperlocomotion and higher rates of exploration together with a marked propensity for sensation-seeking and risk-taking behaviors. Moreover, peculiar responses to psychostimulants, including enhanced locomotor sensitization, no drug-induced stereotypy and reduced place conditioning have been described in adolescent rodents. During this age window, forebrain dopamine systems undergo profuse remodeling, thus providing a neuro-biological substrate to explain behavioral peculiarities observed during adolescence, as well as the reported vulnerabilities to several drugs. Further, methylphenidate (MPH, better known as Ritalin), a psychostimulant extensively prescribed to children and adolescents diagnosed with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), raises concerns for its long-term safety. Using magnetic resonance techniques, MPH-induced acute effects appear to be different in adolescent rats compared to adult animals. Moreover, adolescent exposure to MPH seems to provoke persistent neurobehavioral consequences: long-term modulation of self-control abilities, decreased sensitivity to natural and drug reward, enhanced stress-induced emotionality, together with an enhanced cortical control over sub-cortical dopamine systems and an enduring up-regulation of Htr7 gene expression within the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). In summary, additional studies in animal models are necessary to better understand the long-term consequences of adolescent MPH, and to further investigate the safety of the prescription and administration of such pharmacological treatment at early life stages.
Computational neuroscience integrate-and-fire attractor network models can be used to understand the factors that alter the stability of cortical networks in the face of noise caused for example by neuronal spiking times. A reduction of the firing rates of cortical neurons caused for example by reduced NMDA receptor function (present in schizophrenia) can lead to instability of the high firing rate attractor states that normally implement short-term memory and attention, contributing to the cognitive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Reduced cortical inhibition caused by a reduction of GABA neurotransmission (present in schizophrenia) can lead to instability of the spontaneous firing states of cortical networks, leading to a noise-induced jump to a high firing rate attractor state even in the absence of external inputs, contributing to the positive symptoms of schizophrenia. We consider how effects occurring at the time of late adolescence including synaptic pruning, decreases in grey matter volume, and changes in GABA-mediated inhibition and dopamine may contribute to the onset in some individuals of schizophrenia at this time.
OBJECTIVE Low back pain is one of the most inextricable problems encountered in clinics. Animal models that imitate symptoms in humans are valuable tools for investigating low back pain mechanisms and the possible therapeutic applications. With the development of genetic technology in pain field, the possibility of mutating specific genes in mice has provided a potent tool for investigating the specific mechanisms of pain. The aim of the present study was to develop a mouse model of chronic compression of dorsal root ganglion (CCD), in which gene mutation can be applied to facilitate the studies of chronic pain. METHODS Chronic compression of L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia was conducted in mice by inserting ne stainless steel rods into the intervertebral foramina, one at L4 and the other at L5. Mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia were examined with von Frey filaments and radiating heat stimulator, respectively. RESULTS The CCD mice displayed dramatic mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia as well as tactile allodynia in the hindpaw ipsilateral to CCD. In addition, this mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia as well as tactile allodynia was also found to spread to the contralateral hindpaw. CONCLUSION This model, combined with the possible genetic modification, will strengthen our knowledge of the underlying mechanisms of low back pain. It also favors the development of new treatment strategies for pain and hyperalgesia after spinal injury and other disorders which affect the dorsal root ganglion in humans.
