A high-sensitive liquid chromatographic method based on precolumn derivatization and fluorescence detection allowing simultaneous determination of serotonin (5-HT), noradrenaline (NA) and dopamine (DA) in brain microdialysis samples is described. 5-HT, NA and DA were derivatized with benzylamine and 1,2-diphenylethylenediamine in the presence of potassium hexacyanoferrate(III) and glycine, which yielded to highly fluorescent and stable benzoxazoles. The derivatized samples were separated on a microbore column (150 mm x 1.0mm i.d., packed with C18 silica, 5 microm) within 60 min. The mobile phase consisted of acetonitrile-Briton-Robinson buffer (pH 7.2) (32:68, v/v) containing 5 mM Na2EDTA and 5 mM octanesulfonic acid sodium salt. The detection limits (signal-to-noise ratio of 3) for 5-HT, NA and DA were 76, 42 and 95 amol/10 microl injected on-column, respectively. Microdialysis samples were collected at 10-min intervals from the probes implanted in the prefrontal cortex of awake rats. The basal levels of 5-HT, NA and DA were 7.3 +/- 0.7, 5.3 +/- 0.31 and 8.1 +/- 0.47 fmol/5 microl (mean +/- S.E.M., n = 5). Following 90-min perfusion with tetrodotoxin (1 microM) or calcium-free Ringer solution, the DA and NA levels were reduced to about 15 and 20%, respectively and the 5-HT levels to 45 and 60% of the basal levels, respectively. Reserpine, 12h after a dose of 5mg/kg i.p., reduced the extracellular 5-HT, NA and DA concentrations to about 34, 39 and 32% of the basal levels, respectively. In conclusion, the preset microdialysis/analytical method enables simultaneous monitoring of basal and pharmacologically reduced neuronal release of 5-HT, NA and DA in the rat brain.
A novel telemetric system based on either differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) or direct current amperometry (DCA) by using a diffused infrared transmission channel is presented. Unlike similar pre-existing instruments based on infrared transmission, the present system works on a single-way communication, thus avoiding problems related to cross-talking between two-way channels. The infrared channel is also immune from electromagnetic interferences from the surrounding environment. Further advancement is the development of an original miniaturised system (dimension 1cm x 1.2 cm x 0.5 cm) with reduced weight (5-6 g), suitable for affixing to the rat head and allowing real time telemetric monitoring using DCA sampling of neurotransmitters such as dopamine or serotonin every 100 ms. The set-up is based on a transmitter (TX) circuit mounted on the animal's head and connected to the electrodes inserted into its brain. The TX circuit generates the proper electrical signals for DPV or DCA, collects the electrical response of the brain and transmits it, via an infrared channel, to a receiving station (RX) interfaced with a personal computer. The PC performs the sampling and elaboration of polarographic traces in a flexible and programmable way.
The thyroid hormone triiodothyronine (T3) augments and accelerates the effects of antidepressant drugs. Although the majority of studies showing this have used tricyclics, a few studies have shown similar effects with the selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluoxetine. In this study we investigated the effects of fluoxetine (5 mg/kg), T3 (20 microg/kg) and the combination of these drugs, each administered daily for 7 days, on serotonergic function in the rat brain, using in vivo microdialysis. Fluoxetine alone induced a trend towards desensitization of 5-HT1A autoreceptors as shown by a reduction in the effect of 8-OH-DPAT to lower 5-HT levels in frontal cortex, and desensitized 5-HT1B autoreceptors in frontal cortex. The combination of fluoxetine and T3 induced desensitization of 5-HT1B autoreceptors in hypothalamus. Since there is evidence linking hypothalamic function and depression, we suggest that this effect may partly account for the therapeutic efficacy of the combination of an SSRI and T3.
Microdialysis is currently optimized to sample the extrasynaptic pool. As such, the technique has facilitated discovery of ischemia-induced excitotoxic glutamate overflow (Benveniste H, Drejer J, Schousboe A, Diemer NH, 1987, Regional cerebral glucose phosphorylation and blood flow after insertion of a microdialysis fiber through the dorsal hippocampus in the rat. J. Neurochem., 49, 729-734) and adenosinergic sleep drive (Porkka-Heiskanen T, Strecker RE, Thakkar M, Bjorkum AA, Greene RW, McCarley RW, 1997, Adenosine: a mediator of the sleep-inducing effects of prolonged wakefulness. Science, 276 (5316), 1265-1268); and is proving essential for clinical monitoring of glutamate and cellular metabolites in stroke and head trauma (Sarrafzadeh AS, Sakowitz OW, Kiening KL, Benndorf G, Lanksch WR, Unterberg AW. Bedside microdialysis: a tool to monitor cerebral metabolism in subarachnoid hemorrhage patients? Crit. Care Med. 2002, 30 (5): 1062-1070). Study of the origin of extrasynaptic glutamate sampled with microdialysis has advanced understanding of extrasynaptic signal processing (Baker DA, Xi ZX, Shen H, Swanson CJ, Kalivas PW. The origin and neuronal function of in vivo nonsynaptic glutamate. J. Neurosci. 2002, 22 (20): 9134-9141; Baker DA, McFarland K, Lake RW, Shen H, Tang XC, Toda S, Kalivas PW, 2003, Neuroadaptations in cystine-glutamate exchange underlie cocaine relapse. Nat. Neurosci., 6, 743-749) in the CNS. Microdialysis studies furthermore demonstrate that synaptic pools of some neurotransmitters spill into the extrasynaptic space. For this reason, microdialysis has provided a window into the synaptic pool that has significantly advanced understanding of neurotransmitter control of behavior (Tanda G, Pontieri FE, Di Chiara G, 1997, Cannabinoid and heroin activation of mesolimbic dopamine transmission by a common mu1 opioid receptor mechanism. Science, 276, 2048-2050). Nonetheless, ability to sample synaptic pools of neurotransmitters is limited. Here we summarize evidence that microdialysis often fails to sample synaptic pools of neurotransmitters, such as glutamate and GABA because of rapid clearance and limited diffusion of these neurotransmitters from the synapse. Moreover, we consider means to move the dialysis membrane closer to the synapse to facilitate sampling of the synaptic pool of these neurotransmitters by minimizing tissue trauma, decreasing probe size and increasing temporal resolution.
Hydrogel-coated microsensors based on carbon fiber electrodes (CFEs) are promising tools for in vivo analysis of endogeneous compounds such as glutamate. However, their construction generally depends on manual fabrication, which often results in poor reproducibility. The aim of this study was to improve the reproducibility and performance of glutamate microsensors. CFEs (10 microm diameter, 300-500 microm long) were coated with a cross-linked redox-polymer hydrogel containing l-glutamate oxidase, horseradish peroxidase and ascorbate oxidase. Various parameters that are likely to influence the reproducibility of the glutamate microsensors were studied. It appeared that the most crucial step in determining the microsensor performance is the manual hydrogel-application procedure. To control this procedure an automated dipcoater was constructed, which allowed mechanical application of the hydrogel on the CFE under standardized conditions. Significant improvements in performance were seen when the CFEs were dipcoated for 10 min at 37 degrees C. Further improvements were obtained when the automated hydrogel application was combined with other cross-link methods, such as electrodeposition and electrostatic complexation. A crucial factor in determining the microsensor performance is the hydrogel thickness. Microscopic observations revealed that, despite the use of an automated dipcoater, the layer thickness was not constant. By combining the automated dipcoat technique with amperometry, the layer thickness could be indirectly monitored and controlled, which resulted in significant improvements of the reproducibility of the sensors.
Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) at a carbon-fiber microelectrode (CFM) provides exquisite temporal and spatial resolution for monitoring brain chemistry. The utility of this approach has recently been demonstrated by measuring sub-second dopamine changes associated with behavior. However, one drawback is the cable link between animal and recording equipment that restricts behavior and precludes monitoring in complex environments. As a first step towards developing new instrumentation to overcome this technical limitation, the goal of the present study was to establish proof of principle for the wireless transmission of FSCV at a CFM. Proof of principle was evaluated in terms of measurement stability, fidelity, and susceptibility to ambient electrical noise. Bluetooth digital telemetry provided bi-directional communication between remote and home-base units and stable, high-fidelity data transfer comparable to conventional, wired systems when tested using a dummy cell (i.e., a resistor and capacitor in series simulating electrical properties of a CFM), and dopamine measurements with flow injection analysis and in the anesthetized rat with electrical stimulation. The wireless system was also less susceptible to interference from ambient electrical noise. Taken together, the present findings establish proof of principle for the wireless transmission of FSCV at a CFM.
In vivo studies on cerebral glucose and lactate metabolism following a brain insult require fast and sensitive monitoring techniques. Here we report on-line monitoring of ischemic events and metabolic changes following reperfusion in striatum of freely moving rats subjected to endothelin-1 (60-240 pmol) induced, transient focal cerebral ischemia using slow microdialysis (0.5 microl/min), fast sampling (every minute) and flow-injection analysis with biosensors for glucose and lactate. The high-time resolution provides detailed information on lactate rise times and duration of low glucose. In rats, developing large striatal lesions, lactate increased from 1.0 +/- 0.1 to 4.2 +/- 0.7 mM within 37 +/- 1 min, whereas glucose dropped from 0.3 +/- 0.1 mM to below detection levels (&lt;0.05 mM) for a period of 80 +/- 18 min. The lactate increase measured over a 2-h period after endothelin-1 infusion was highly correlated with striatal infarct size. In some rats oscillatory changes are observed which cannot be detected in traditional assays. The here-described monitoring technique applied in a clinically relevant rat model is a sensitive tool to study post-ischemic energy metabolism, effects of therapeutic interventions and its relationship with histological outcome.
Serotonin (5-HT) has been proposed to promote neuronal plasticity during the treatment of mood and anxiety disorders and following neurodegenerative insult by altering the expression of critical genes including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). In this study, mice with constitutive reductions in the serotonin transporter (SERT) or BDNF were investigated to further assess the functional relationship between serotonin neurotransmission and BDNF expression. Using a modified extraction procedure and a commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbant assay, 50% decreases in BDNF protein in hippocampus, frontal cortex and brain stem were confirmed in 4-month-old mice lacking one copy of the BDNF gene (BDNF(+/-)). By contrast, 4-month-old male and female mice with partial (SERT(+/-)) or complete (SERT(-/-)) reductions in SERT expression showed no differences in BDNF protein levels compared to SERT(+/+) mice, although male SERT knockout mice of all genotypes had higher BDNF levels in hippocampus, frontal cortex, and brain stem than female animals. Microdialysis also was performed in BDNF(+/-) mice. In addition to other phenotypic aspects suggestive of altered serotonin neurotransmission, BDNF(+/-) mice show accelerated age-related degeneration of 5-HT forebrain innervation. Nevertheless, extracellular 5-HT levels determined by zero net flux microdialysis were similar between BDNF(+/+) and BDNF(+/-) mice in striatum and frontal cortex at 8-12 months of age. These data illustrate that a 50% decrease in BDNF does not appear to be sufficient to cause measurable changes in basal extracellular 5-HT concentrations and, furthermore, that constitutive reductions in SERT expression are not associated with altered BDNF protein levels at the ages and in the brain regions examined in this study.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a versatile molecule involved in a wide range of biological processes. Under physiological conditions, NO reacts with oxyhemoglobin (OxyHb) to form methemoglobin (MetHb) at a very high rate. Previous works have shown that MetHb is proportional to NO and that MetHb absorption contributes to the in vivo absorption spectrum recorded with visible spectroscopy using optical fibers. However, in vivo spectrophotometric monitoring of a single molecule has long been a problem because the overlapping of OxyHb, deoxyhemoglobin (DeoxyHb), MetHb, cytochromes and other chromophores absorption spectra make in vivo quantitative spectroscopy difficult. The aim of this work was to evaluate the possibility of obtaining the contribution of each main endogenous chromophore, especially OxyHb, DeoxyHb and MetHb, to the in vivo visible absorption spectrum recorded from rat cortex, hippocampus and striatum. A least-square approach with a fitting equation containing the in vitro spectrum of the main endogenenous chromophores was used. The validity of this approach was studied by increasing the endogenous MetHb level with NO infusion and by biliverdin perfusion. Data indicate that in vivo visible spectroscopy in combination with the least-square fitting method may be a useful tool for gaining insight into the roles of NO, hemoglobins and the interaction between them even from small cerebral areas.
The autofluorescence properties of serotonin (5-HT) were investigated by light spectrofluorometry in in vitro, ex vivo and in vivo experiments. Ex vivo samples were prepared from rat brain regions containing serotonin (5-HT) i.e. cortex, striatum, hippocampus. Rats were untreated (controls) or previously submitted to chronic behavioural or pharmacological treatments known to affect endogenous 5-HT levels. Autofluorescence analysis (excitation: 366 nm) on hippocampus homogenates supplied with exogenous 5-HT revealed spectral alterations attributable to changes of endogenous 5-HT levels. In vivo, real time fluorescence studies were performed via a 50 microm diameter optic fiber probe stereotaxically implanted into selected brain areas of anaesthetised rats treated with fluoxetine or 5-OH-tryptophan. All autofluorescence data were consistent with those obtained in parallel experiments performed with ex vivo or in vivo voltammetry, confirming that auto-fluorescence spectroscopy is a suitable technique for the direct assessment of fluorescent neurotransmitters. This is a reliable evidence of the in vivo application of spectroscopy together with optic fiber probe for in vivo, in situ and real time measurement of 5-HT in discrete brain areas.
The technique of microdialysis utilizing three simultaneously implanted probes in the anaesthetized rat enables monitoring of pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of a tested drug both in blood (1st probe) and brain (2nd probe) compartments and the pharmacodynamic (PD) response of neurotransmitters (3rd probe) released into, or accumulating within the brain extracellular fluid (ECF). In the present study, the PK/PD characteristics of cocaine (psychostimulant, strong abuse potential) and methylphenidate (dopamimetic drug without reinforcing properties) and two novel NeuroSearch (NS) drug candidates, NS-A and NS-B, were examined in blood and brain microdialysates from the anaesthetized rats. The extracellular levels of dopamine (DA) were monitored in the striatum or prefrontal cortex. The NS-A compound entered the brain ECF at a slightly slower rate then methylphenidate; however, both compounds showed about the same effect on the speed of accumulation of extracellular DA concentrations, which gradually increased to about 450% of the basal, predrug levels at the end of the sampling period (180 min). The NS-B compound showed more rapid PK profiles than those observed after methylphenidate and NS-A. The concentrations of NS-B reached the maximal values already 40 min after its administration, while at that time, the corresponding DA values were still unchanged. In fact, the increase in DA concentrations was about two times slower when compared to that of methylphenidate or NS-A-drugs. Faster kinetics of NS-B and its delayed effect on extracellular DA suggests that this compound is metabolized to an active intermediate product, which itself exerts stronger dopamimetic activity in the rat prefrontal cortex that the original NS-B substance. The present study illustrates the feasibility of triple-probe microdialysis to monitor the rate of extracellular accumulation of a drug candidate and DA levels in vivo and compare the resulting PK/PD profiles to those obtained for cocaine and methylphenidate. These measures may serve as initial neurochemical indicators of potential psychomimetic or reinforcing properties of the tested substances.
A method for high temporal resolution monitoring of five neurotransmitters, dopamine (DA), noradrenaline (NA), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate (Glu), l-aspartate (L-Asp), in freely-moving rats using microdialysis and capillary electrophoresis with laser-induced fluorescence detection (CE-LIFD) was developed. An on-line device, including microdialysis and derivatization with naphthalene-2,3-dicarboxaldehyde, mixes the dialysate with derivatization reagents directly in the collection tube, i.e. with no reactor. Thereafter, collected derivatized samples are analyzed off-line with an automated CE system coupled to a LIFD using a 442 nm excitation. The sampling time was limited by the minimal volume required for the analysis by the automated CE system used: neurotransmitters could be determined in 667 nl dialysates (940 nl after derivatization), i.e. in samples collected every 20 s with a flow rate of 2 microl/min. The detection limits at the dialysis probe were 3 x 10(-9), 1 x 10(-9), 1.9 x 10(-8), 4.2 x 10(-7), 2.1 x 10(-7) mol/l for DA, NA, GABA, Glu and L-Asp, respectively. The protocol was validated using in vitro/in vivo tests and the performances--repeatability, linearity, characteristics of the probes--were determined. Finally, the high temporal resolution allowed the simultaneous monitoring of these neurotransmitters in rats with genetic absence epilepsy and revealed, for the first time, increases in GABA concentrations concomitantly with the seizures, detected when our new microdialysis method was combined to electroencephalographic recordings.
Amperometry allows real-time measurement of in vivo electrochemical signals, albeit with no capacity to identify the constituents of the signal. In the present study, differential amperometry was used to monitor catecholamine and serotonin (5-HT) simultaneously at the same location. 'Dident' carbon fibre microelectrodes (microelectrodes with two working electrodes in a single assembly) were constructed and coated with Nafion to prevent poisoning on contact with brain tissue. One electrode (channel A) was held at +200 mV versus Ag/AgCl to monitor catecholamines selectively. This potential is too low to oxidise 5-HT. The second electrode (channel B), recording faradaic current at +500 mV versus Ag/AgCl, measured the sum of catecholamine and 5-HT oxidation. The 5-HT current component was the difference of channel B minus channel A. With appropriate balancing of the two channels, it is possible to record catecholamines and 5-HT simultaneously at the same dident microelectrode. Examples of measurements in striatum, cortex and locus coeruleus are shown.

Several studies have investigated a connection between diabetes and major depressive disorder (MDD). Whether these associations are mediated by changes in insulin is not known. Insulin seems to play a role in violent behaviour. To further elucidate the role of insulin in MDD and violent, aggressive, or impulsive behaviour, we measured insulin in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in 74 patients with a recent suicide attempt. Patients were divided into those with and without MDD, and they were also subgrouped by whether the suicide attempt was considered to be violent or not. It was found that patients with a violent suicide attempt had significantly higher CSF-insulin (5.9+/-1.0 pmol/l) than those with a nonviolent attempt (5.3+/-0.7 pmol/l). In contrast, there were no significant differences in CSF-insulin between patients with MDD and patients without. Our findings support the hypothesis that CSF-insulin is involved in violent behaviour, but not connected to MDD as such.
Visual orienting of attention and gaze are widely considered to be mediated by shared neural pathways, with automatic phenomena such as inhibition of return (IOR)--the bias against returning to recently visited locations--being generated via the direct pathway from retina to superior colliculus (SC). Here, we show that IOR occurs without direct access to the SC, by using a technique that employs stimuli visible only to short-wave-sensitive (S) cones. We found that these stimuli, to which the SC is blind , were quite capable of eliciting IOR, measured by traditional manual responses. Critically, however, we found that S cone stimuli did not cause IOR when saccadic eye movement responses were required. This demonstrates that saccadic IOR is not the same as traditional IOR, providing support for two separate cortical and collicular mechanisms of IOR. These findings represent a clear dissociation between visual orienting of attention and gaze.
The primary visual cortex is, of course, for vision--or so you would think. But it seems that, in blind people, the primary visual cortex can take on an important role in language processing. This suggests considerable flexibility in the processes by which subregions of the human brain become specialised for different functions.
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) of cancer is a promising technique based on the formation of singlet oxygen following irradiation of a sensitizer with visible light. In the present work we investigated the role of calpains in PDT, using the human lymphoblastoid CCRF-CEM cells and bisulfonated aluminum phthalocyanine (AlPcS2) as a sensitizer. Photosensitization induced apoptotic cell death and a time-dependent activation of calpains, as determined using the fluorogenic substrate succinyl-Leu-Leu-Val-Tyr-7-amido-4-methylcoumarin (SLLVY-AMC). However, inhibition of calpains with calpain inhibitor II or with PD 150606 did not affect the demise process. The results indicate that although calpains are activated in PDT, they do not play a major role in tumor cell death.

The authors determined the prevalence of dementia in 338 (response rate 65%) 95-year-old persons, living in Gteborg, Sweden, and compared the result with a previously examined population sample of 85 year olds. The prevalence of dementia according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (3rd rev. ed) was higher in women (55%) than in men (37%) at age 95, and the proportion of mild dementia and vascular dementia was lower in 95 than in 85 year olds.
Multiple sclerosis (MS), a neurologic disorder that affects 400,000 persons in the United States, consists of an inflammatory and a neurodegenerative phase. Treatment options now approved by the FDA specifically target the inflammatory phase of MS and include immunomodulators (i.e., interferon betas and glatiramer acetate) and an immunosuppressant, mitoxantrone. This article discusses the methods of monitoring disease progression using disability scales and MRI and reviews the clinical efficacy and tolerability of the FDA-approved therapies. All of the immunomodulators are approved for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS. Only mitoxantrone is approved for the treatment of worsening relapsing-remitting MS, secondary progressive MS, and progressive-relapsing MS. Early treatment with these disease-modifying agents is desirable to reduce the progression of the disease and to limit long-term disability.
Research into therapy for multiple sclerosis (MS) is occurring at a rapid pace, and current treatment options approved by the FDA specifically target the inflammatory phase of MS. However, drugs that are not FDA-approved are routinely used to treat MS. One example is corticosteroids, which are commonly used to treat acute relapses. Other drugs that are commonly used to treat patients who do not respond to the FDA-approved agents include the following: methotrexate, azathioprine, cyclophosphamide, and pulse steroids. Drugs being studied as possible therapeutic agents include the statins, mycophenolate mofetil, various monoclonal antibodies (e.g., alemtuzumab, daclzumab, natalizumab, and rituximab), antibiotics and antivirals, and the pregnancy hormone estriol. Disease modifying agents (DMAs) that promote remyelination would be beneficial for preventing long-term disability, and such agents are also under active investigation (e.g., IV immunoglobulin G and stem cell transplantation). Combination therapy with DMAs with different mechanisms of action may be advantageous in the future for providing optimal treatment that both delays the progression of disability and promotes repair and remyelination.
Patients with worsening relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS), secondary progressive MS, and progressive relapsing MS are potential candidates for treatment with mitoxantrone. Early identification of these patients is essential because there is emerging evidence that early and aggressive treatment might delay or limit long-term disability. Treatment with mitoxantrone is associated with certain adverse events, such as cardiotoxicity. However, the possible benefits of treatment (e.g., reduction in disease progression) outweigh the risks for patients with aggressive or worsening disease. With the selection of appropriate patients and careful monitoring for adverse events, mitoxantrone can be safely administered.
Cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) is a persistent attenuation of synaptic transmission at the parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapse mediated by the removal of GluR2 subunit-containing alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors. The removal of AMPA receptors requires protein kinase C phosphorylation of the GluR2 subunit within its carboxyl-terminal PSD-95/Discs Large/Zona Occludens-1 (PDZ) ligand and binding of the PDZ domain-containing protein, PICK1. The sequence of the GluR2 subunit is similar to that of the GluR3 and GluR4c subunits, which also contain PDZ ligands and protein kinase C consensus sites. Although GluR3 and GluR4c are also expressed in Purkinje cells, we have previously shown that cerebellar LTD is absent in GluR2(-/-) mice, suggesting that these subunits are unable to substitute functionally for GluR2. Here, we examine the apparent difference in the regulation of these AMPA receptor subunits by attempting to rescue LTD in GluR2(-/-) Purkinje cells with WT and mutant GluR2 and GluR3 subunits. Our results show that the selective interaction of the GluR2 subunit with the N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor protein is required for synaptic, but not extrasynaptic, incorporation of AMPA receptors as well as for their competence to undergo LTD. In addition, perfusion of a synthetic peptide that acutely disrupts the interaction of GluR2 with N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor selectively depletes GluR2-containing receptors from synapses and occludes LTD. These findings demonstrate that interaction of AMPA receptors with N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor plays a critical role in incorporation of AMPA receptors into synapses and for their subsequent removal during cerebellar LTD.
We report that a low-calorie diet can lessen the severity of neurochemical deficits and motor dysfunction in a primate model of Parkinson's disease. Adult male rhesus monkeys were maintained for 6 months on a reduced-calorie diet [30% caloric restriction (CR)] or an ad libitum control diet after which they were subjected to treatment with a neurotoxin to produce a hemiparkinson condition. After neurotoxin treatment, CR monkeys exhibited significantly higher levels of locomotor activity compared with control monkeys as well as higher levels of dopamine (DA) and DA metabolites in the striatal region. Increased survival of DA neurons in the substantia nigra and improved manual dexterity were noted but did not reach statistical significance. Levels of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, which is known to promote the survival of DA neurons, were increased significantly in the caudate nucleus of CR monkeys, suggesting a role for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor in the anti-Parkinson's disease effect of the low-calorie diet.
Animal's numerical competence has been one of the central issues in comparative psychology, cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience. A great number of studies indicate that animals have the capability to subitize small numerousness and judge relative numerousness. However, it is pendent if they have the counting ability. There is no evidence that animals can estimate numerousness. Neurophysiological studies show that the posterior parietal cortex and the prefrontal cortex in monkeys are involved in the neural mechanisms underlying numerical competence.
Radiation exposure is known to have profound effects on the brain, leading to precursor cell dysfunction and debilitating cognitive declines [Nat. Med. 8 (2002) 955]. Although a plethora of data exist on the effects of high radiation doses, the effects of low-dose irradiation, such as ones received during repetitive diagnostic and therapeutic exposures, are still under-investigated [Am. J. Otolaryngol. 23 (2002) 215; Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97 (2000) 889; Curr. Opin. Neurol. 16 (2003) 129]. Furthermore, most studies of the biological effects of ionizing radiation have been performed using a single acute dose, while clinically and environmentally relevant exposures occur predominantly under chronic/repetitive conditions. Here, we have used a mouse model to compare the effects of chronic/repetitive and acute low-dose radiation (LDR) exposure (0.5Gy) to ionizing radiation on the brain in vivo. We examined the LDR effects on p42/44 MAPK (ERK1/ERK2), CaMKII, and AKT signaling-the interconnected pathways that have been previously shown to be crucial for neuronal survival upon irradiation. We report perturbations in ERK1/2, AKT, and CREB upon acute and chronic/repetitive low-dose exposure in the hippocampus and frontal cortex of mice. These studies were paralleled by the analysis of radiation effects on neurogenesis and cellular proliferation. Repetitive exposure had a much more pronounced effect on cellular signaling and neurogenesis than acute exposure. These results suggest that studies of single acute exposures might be limited in terms of their predictive value. We also present the first evidence of sex differences in radiation-induced signaling in the hippocampus and frontal cortex. We show the role of estrogens in brain radiation responses and discuss the implications of the observed changes.
Nitric oxide is an important mediator that participates in reduction-oxidation (redox) mechanisms and in cellular signal transduction pathways. Two types of post-translational modifications are induced by nitric oxide: S-nitrosylation of cysteine residues and nitration of tyrosine residues. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis-based Western blotting was used to detect, and liquid chromatography (LC)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) to determine the amino acid sequence of, several different nitrated proteins in the human pituitary. Proteins from several 2D gel spots, which corresponded to the strongly positive anti-nitrotyrosine Western blot spots, were subjected to in-gel trypsin-digestion and LC-MS/MS analysis. MS/MS, SEQUEST analysis, and de novo sequencing were used to determine the nitration site of each nitrated peptide. A total of four different nitrated peptides were characterized and were matched to four different proteins: synaptosomal-associated protein, actin, immunoglobulin alpha Fc receptor, and cGMP-dependent protein kinase 2. Those nitrotyrosyl-proteins participate in neurotransmission, cellular immunity, and cellular structure and mobility.
Estradiol (E(2)) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) can act independently or in concert to promote neurite outgrowth in vivo and in cultured neurons. This study examined the role of crosstalk between estrogen receptor (ER)alpha and the IGF-I receptor as a critical mediator of hormone- and growth factor-dependent neurite outgrowth in a homogenous cell system. We used control PC12 cells and PC12 cells stably transfected with ER alpha, both of which express IGF-I receptor. Cells were treated for 1 week with vehicle, 1 nM E(2) or 100 ng/ml IGF-I alone or with E(2) or IGF-I in the presence of either the IGF-I receptor antagonist JB1 or the ER antagonist ICI 182,780. IGF-I significantly increased neurite outgrowth, as measured by the percentage of process-bearing cells, and absolute neurite length per cell in both control and ER alpha-transfected PC12 cells. In contrast, E(2) increased process formation and extension only in PC12 cells that were stably transfected with ER alpha. ICI 182,780 and JB1 blocked the IGF-I-induced increases in neurite length in both cell types. The efficacy of ICI 182,780 in control PC12 cells may have been due to the upregulation of ER alpha in these cells by the 7-day treatment with IGF-I. The ER and IGF-I receptor antagonists similarly blocked the E(2)-induced increase in neurite lengths in ER alpha-transfected cells. Immunofluorescent analysis of the cellular distribution of an axonal marker, phospho-neurofilament, verified that the processes extended by PC12 cells were neurites. These data suggest that receptor crosstalk between IGF-I receptors and ER alpha has an important role in neurite formation and extension even in a single-cell system.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is associated with febrile convulsions and childhood status epilepticus (SE). Since the initial precipitating injury, triggering epileptogenesis, occurs during this SE, we aimed to examine the metabolic and morphological cerebral changes during the acute phase of experimental SE noninvasively. In the rat lithium-pilocarpine model of SE, we performed quantified T(2)- and isotropic-diffusion-weighted (DW) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at 3 and 5 h of SE and acquired single-voxel (1)H MR spectra at 2, 4 and 6 h of SE. T(2) was globally decreased, most pronounced in the amygdala (Am) and piriformic cortex (Pi), in which also a significant decrease in apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) was found. In contrast, ADC values increased transiently in the hippocampus (HC) and thalamus (Th). MR spectra showed a decrease in N-acetylaspartate (NAA) and choline (Cho) and an increase of lactate in a hippocampal voxel. The T(2) decrease, attributed to raised deoxyhemoglobin, and the presence of lactate both indicate a mismatch between oxygen demand and delivery. The ADC decrease, indicative of excitotoxicity, confirms that the amygdala and piriformic cortex are particularly vulnerable to lithium-pilocarpine-induced seizures. The transient ADC increase in the thalamus may reflect the breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), which is shown to occur in this region at these time points. Neuronal damage and failure of energy-dependent formation of NAA are likely causes of an observed decrease in NAA, while the decrease in Cho is possibly due to depletion of the cholinergic system. This study illustrates that relative hypoxia, excitotoxicity and concomitant neuronal damage associated with SE can be probed noninvasively with MR. These pathological phenomena are the first to contribute to the pathophysiology of spontaneous recurrent seizures in a later stage in this animal model.
We have previously shown evidence for the existence of a calcium-independent, GTP-regulated mechanism of secretion from neutrophils, but this secretory mechanism remains to be fully elucidated. Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), the various substrates of which include Munc18 and synapsin 1, has been implicated in neuronal secretion. Although the Cdk5 activator, p35, and Cdk5-p35 activity are primarily associated with neurons, we report here that p35 also exists in neutrophils and that an active Cdk5-p35 complex is present in these cells. Cdk5-p35 activity in human neutrophils is mostly localized in secretory granules, which show an increase in Cdk5-p35 level and activity upon GTP stimulation. The potent Cdk5 inhibitor, roscovitine, completely blocks GTP-stimulated granule Cdk5 activity, which accompanies lactoferrin secretion from neutrophil-specific granules. Roscovitine also inhibits GTP-induced lactoferrin secretion and surface localization of the secretion markers, CD63 and CD66b, to a certain extent. Furthermore, neutrophils from wild-type mice treated with roscovitine and neutrophils from p35(-/-) mice exhibit comparable surface expression levels of both CD63 and CD66b upon GTP stimulation. Although our data suggest that other molecules control GTP-induced secretion from neutrophils, it is clear that Cdk5-p35 is required to elicit the maximum GTP-induced secretory response. Our observation that multiple proteins in neutrophil granules serve as specific substrates of Cdk5 further supports the premise that the kinase is a key component of the GTP-regulated secretory apparatus in neutrophils.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5), a serine/threonine kinase that displays kinase activity predominantly in neurons, is activated by two non-cyclin activators, p35 or p39. Here, we report a physical and functional interaction between the Cdk5/p35 complex and mouse Sds3 (mSds3), an essential component of mSin3-histone deacetylase (HDAC) co-repressor complex. mSds3 binds to p35 both in vitro and in vivo, enabling active Cdk5 to phosphorylate mSds3 at serine 228. A mSds3 S228A mutant retained mSin3 binding activity, but its dimerization was not greatly enhanced by p35 when compared with wild type. Notably, p35 overexpression augmented mSds3-mediated transcriptional repression in vitro. Interestingly, mutational studies revealed that the ability of exogenous mSds3 to rescue cell growth and viability in mSds3 null cells correlates with its ability to be phosphorylated by Cdk5. The identification of mSds3 as a substrate of the Cdk5/p35 complex reveals a new regulatory mechanism in controlling the mSin3-HDAC transcriptional repressor activity and provides a new potential therapeutic means to inhibit specific HDAC activities in disease.
KChIP proteins regulate Shal, Kv4.x, channel expression by binding to a conserved sequence at the N terminus of the subunit. The binding of KChIP facilitates a redistribution of Kv4 protein to the cell surface, producing a large increase in current along with significant changes in channel gating kinetics. Recently we have shown that mutants of Kv4.2 lacking the ability to bind an intersubunit Zn(2+) between their T1 domains fail to form functional channels because they are unable to assemble to tetramers and remain trapped in the endoplasmic reticulum. Here we find that KChIPs are capable of rescuing the function of Zn(2+) site mutants by driving the mutant subunits to assemble to tetramers. Thus, in addition to known trafficking effects, KChIPs play a direct role in subunit assembly by binding to monomeric subunits within the endoplasmic reticulum and promoting tetrameric channel assembly. Zn(2+)-less Kv4.2 channels expressed with KChIP3 demonstrate several distinct kinetic changes in channel gating, including a reduced time to peak and faster entry into the inactivated state as well as extending the time to recover from inactivation by 3-4 fold.
Using a reporter gene assay in PC12, HEK293, HeLa, and NIH-3T3 cells, we show that the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 significantly inhibits transcriptional activation of various transcription factors, including NF kappa B, AP1, CRE, and NFAT. A Bcl-2 mutant lacking its BH4 domain (Delta BH4) also inhibited transcription, whereas a Bcl-2 mutant lacking its transmembrane domain (Delta TM) was ineffective. Furthermore, Bcl-2 chimeric proteins containing transmembrane domains from the mitochondrial protein monoamine oxidase B (MaoB) or the endoplasmic reticulum protein cytochrome b(5) showed no effect on transcription factor activity. Subcellular localization studies showed that under conditions of transient transfection, the active Bcl-2 forms (wild type and Delta BH4) were predominantly found in the nuclear fraction, whereas the non-active forms (Delta TM, MaoB, and cytochrome b(5)) were in the non-nuclear fraction. Additionally, stably expressed Bcl-2 loses its ability to inhibit transcriptional activation and localizes predominantly to the non-nuclear fraction. Expression of FKBP38 (a chaperone that shuttles Bcl-2 to the mitochondria) removes co-expressed Bcl-2 from the nuclear fraction and reverses its effect on transcription factor activity. Finally, using an inducible gene expression system, we show that nuclear compartment-associated Bcl-2 prevents entry of NF kappa B subunits to the nucleus without affecting NF kappa B release from its cytosolic inhibitory sub-unit I kappa B alpha. These results suggest that (a) Bcl-2 suppresses transcriptional activity of multiple transcription factors; (b) Bcl-2 does not interfere with NF kappa B activation but prevents entrance of its active subunits to the nucleus; (c) membrane anchoring is required for this function of Bcl-2; and (d) association of Bcl-2 with the nuclear compartment is also necessary. We speculate that nuclear compartment-associated Bcl-2 may affect nuclear trafficking of multiple factors necessary for transcriptional activity.
In human vision, the response to luminance contrast at each small region in the image is controlled by a more global process where suppressive signals are pooled over spatial frequency and orientation bands. But what rules govern summation among stimulus components within the suppressive pool? We addressed this question by extending a pedestal plus pattern mask paradigm to use a stimulus with up to three mask components: a vertical 1 c/deg pedestal, plus pattern masks made from either a grating (orientation = -45 degrees ) or a plaid (orientation = +/-45 degrees ), with component spatial frequency of 3 c/deg. The overall contrast of both types of pattern mask was fixed at 20% (i.e., plaid component contrasts were 10%). We found that both of these masks transformed conventional dipper functions (threshold vs. pedestal contrast with no pattern mask) in exactly the same way: The dipper region was raised and shifted to the right, but the dipper handles superimposed. This equivalence of the two pattern masks indicates that contrast summation between the plaid components was perfectly linear prior to the masking stage. Furthermore, the pattern masks did not drive the detecting mechanism above its detection threshold because they did not abolish facilitation by the pedestal (Foley, 1994). Therefore, the pattern masking could not be attributed to within-channel masking, suggesting that linear summation of contrast signals takes place within a suppressive contrast gain pool. We present a quantitative model of the effects and discuss the implications for neurophysiological models of the process.

Organized neuronal migration and guided axon outgrowth are key determinants of the development of the functional nervous system. L1, a member of the Ig superfamily of cell surface receptors, stimulates cell migration and neurite outgrowth through the MAP kinases ERK1, 2. The signaling molecules participating in this signaling cascade have only partly been identified. Here it is shown that L1 clustering activates the guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) Vav2 and the Rac1 effector p21 associated kinase 1 (Pak1). Also, we found that Pak1 kinase activity contributes to ERK activation by L1, and is necessary for L1-potentiated haptotactic cell migration. A signaling pathway is proposed from L1 through Vav2, Rac1, Pak1 and ERK that may be important for L1 mediated neuronal cell migration.
Behavioural, neuropsychological and functional imaging studies suggest possible interactions between number processing and finger representation. Since grasping requires the object size to be estimated in order to determine the appropriate hand shaping, coding number magnitude and grasping may share common processes. In the present study, participants performed either a grip closure or opening depending on the parity of a visually presented digit. Electromyographic recordings revealed that grip closure was initiated faster in response to small digit presentation whereas grip opening was initiated faster in response to large digits. This result was interpreted in reference to a recent theory which proposed that physical and numerical quantities are represented by a generalized magnitude system dedicated to action.

Recently, MHC class I molecules have been shown to be important for the retraction of synaptic connections that normally occurs during development [Huh, G.S., Boulanger, L. M., Du, H., Riquelme, P. A., Brotz, T. M. &amp; Shatz, C. J. (2000) Science 290, 2155-2158]. In the adult CNS, a classical response of neurons to axon lesion is the detachment of synapses from the cell body and dendrites. We have investigated whether MHC I molecules are involved also in this type of synaptic detachment by studying the synaptic input to sciatic motoneurons at 1 week after peripheral nerve transection in beta2-microglobulin or transporter associated with antigen processing 1-null mutant mice, in which cell surface MHC I expression is impaired. Surprisingly, lesioned motoneurons in mutant mice showed more extensive synaptic detachments than those in wild-type animals. This surplus removal of synapses was entirely directed toward inhibitory synapses assembled in clusters. In parallel, a significantly smaller population of motoneurons reinnervated the distal stump of the transected sciatic nerve in mutants. MHC I molecules, which traditionally have been linked with immunological mechanisms, are thus crucial for a selective maintenance of synapses during the synaptic removal process in neurons after lesion, and the lack of MHC I expression may impede the ability of neurons to regenerate axons.
Synaptotagmin (Syt) I, a ubiquitous synaptic vesicle protein, comprises a transmembrane region and two C2 domains. The C2 domains, which have been shown to be essential for both synaptic vesicle exocytosis and endocytosis, are also seen as the Ca(2+) sensors in synaptic vesicular release. In a previous study, we reported that a polyclonal antibody raised against the squid (Loligo pealei) Syt I C2B domain, while inhibiting vesicular endocytosis, was synaptic release neutral at the squid giant synapse. Recent reports concerning the C2B requirements for synaptic release prompted us to readdress the role of C2B in squid giant synapse function. Presynaptic injection of another anti-Syt I-C2B antibody (using recombinant whole C2B domain expressed in mammalian cell culture as an antigen) into the presynaptic terminal reproduced our previous results, i.e., reduction of vesicular endocytosis without affecting synaptic release. This set of results addresses the issue of the geometrical arrangement of the Ca(2+) sensor, allowing the C2B domain antibody to restrict Ca(2+)-dependent C2B self-oligomerization without modifying the Ca(2+)-dependent release process.
One of the most exciting findings in recent years has been the discovery of RNA interference (RNAi). RNAi is an important system that allows sequence-specific gene silencing through targeted degradation of mRNA by cognate double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). RNAi plays a role in endogenous cellular processes, such as developmental control and heterochromatin formation, and serves as an antiviral defense mechanism. Recent findings suggest that RNAi and related pathways are involved in protecting the genome against instabilities caused by transposons and repetitive sequences. Several rapidly developing RNAi methodologies provide a new approach for elucidation of gene functions. RNAi technology is also currently being evaluated as a potentially useful method to develop highly specific dsRNA-based gene-silencing therapeutics. In this paper, we review the use of RNAi in neuroscience research and as a possible therapeutic tool for treatment of neurological diseases.
In diabetes, peripheral nerves suffer deficient neurotrophic support-a situation which resembles axotomy. This raises the question: does inappropriate establishment of an axotomised neuronal phenotype contribute to diabetic neuropathy, and in extremis, does this provoke apoptosis? We hybridized reverse-transcribed RNA, from the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of 8-week streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats, to Affymetrix Rat Genome U34A chips and scanned the array for expression of (a) genes that are upregulated by axotomy, (b) proapoptotic and (c) anti-apoptotic genes. Expression of the axotomy-responsive genes coding for growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43), galanin, neuropeptide Y (NPY), pre-pro-vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (pre-pro-VIP), neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), protease nexin 1, heat-shock protein 27 (HSP 27) and myosin light chain kinase II (MLCK II) was unaffected in ganglia from diabetic rats compared to controls; thus, no axotomised phenotype was established. The expression of the majority of proapoptotic genes in the DRG was also unaltered (bax, bad, bid, bok, c-Jun, p38, TNFR1, caspase 3 and NOS2). Similarly there was no change in expression of the majority of antiapoptotic genes (bcl2, bcl-xL, bcl-w, NfkappaB). These alterations in gene expression make it clear that neither axotomy nor apoptotic phenotypes are established in neurones in this model of diabetes.
DeltaFosB is a unique transcription factor that plays an essential role in long-term adaptive changes in the brain associated with diverse conditions, such as drug addiction, Parkinson's disease, depression, and antidepressant treatment. It is induced in brain, in a region- and cell-type-specific manner by many types of chronic perturbations. Once induced, it persists for long periods of time due to its unusual stability. The transcriptional effects of DeltaFosB are complex, because the protein can function as both a transcriptional activator and repressor. Progress has been made in identifying specific target genes for DeltaFosB and in relating some of these genes to DeltaFosB's cellular and behavioral actions. Future studies will help us to better understand the biochemical basis of DeltaFosB's unique stability, as well as the precise molecular pathways through which this transcription factor produces its complex effects on neuronal plasticity and complex behavior.
N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea (ENU) mutagenesis is presented as a powerful approach to developing models for human disease. The efforts of three NIH Mutagenesis Centers established for the detection of neuroscience-related phenotypes are described. Each center has developed an extensive panel of phenotype screens that assess nervous system structure and function. In particular, these screens focus on complex behavioral traits from drug and alcohol responses to circadian rhythms to epilepsy. Each of these centers has developed a bioinformatics infrastructure to track the extensive number of transactions that are inherent in these large-scale projects. Over 100 new mouse mutant lines have been defined through the efforts of these three mutagenesis centers and are presented to the research community via the centralized Web presence of the Neuromice.org consortium (http://www.neuromice.org). This community resource provides visitors with the ability to search for specific mutant phenotypes, to view the genetic and phenotypic details of mutant mouse lines, and to order these mice for use in their own research program.
Summary: Cranial dural arteriovenous fistulas (DAVFs) may give rise to myelopathy due to spinal perimedullary venous drainage causing intramedullary venous hypertension. Such cases are uncommon but not rare, with several cases reported in the literature. We report a case of foramen magnum DAVF presenting with symptoms of tetraparesis. The unusual feature was that in this case it was due to compression of the cervicomedullary junction by a large venous pouch rather than the result of spinal perimedullary venous hypertension. Transarterial glue embolization achieved good reduction of flow in the fistula with shrinkage of the venous pouch and corresponding clinical improvement.
The mucopolysaccharidoses (MPSs) are a complex family of lysosomal storage disorders characterized by failure to degrade heparan sulfate (HS) and/or other types of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) secondary to the absence of specific lysosomal enzymes. An accompanying storage of glycosphingolipids (GSLs), most notably GM2 and GM3 gangliosides, has also been documented to occur in many types of MPS disease and is believed to be caused by secondary inhibition of GSL-degradative enzymes by intracellular GAG accumulation. We have documented the presence of secondary ganglioside accumulation in mouse models of several MPS disorders (types I, IIIA, IIIB, and VII) and report that this storage is accompanied by sequestration of free cholesterol in a manner similar to that observed in primary gangliosidoses. Using confocal microscopy, we evaluated the cellular distribution of cholesterol, GM2 and GM3 gangliosides, and HS in brains of mice with MPS IIIA disease. Unexpectedly, we found that although both gangliosides often accumulated in the same neurons, they were consistently located in separate populations of cytoplasmic vesicles. Additionally, GM3 ganglioside only partially co-localized with the primary storage material (HS), and cholesterol likewise only partially co-localized with the GM2 and GM3 gangliosides. These findings raise significant questions about the mechanism(s) responsible for secondary accumulation of storage materials in MPS disease. Furthermore, given that GSLs and cholesterol are constituents of membrane rafts believed critical in signal transduction events in neurons, their co-sequestration in individual neurons suggests the presence of defects in the composition, trafficking, and/or recycling of raft components and thus possible new mechanisms to explain neuronal dysfunction in MPS disorders.
Neurotrophin-activated receptor tyrosine kinases (Trks) regulate sensory neuron survival, differentiation, and function. To permanently mark cells that ever express TrkC-kinase, mice with lacZ and GFP reporters of Cre recombinase activity were crossed with mice having IRES-cre inserted into the kinase-containing exon of the TrkC gene. Prenatal reporter expression matched published locations of TrkC-expression. Postnatally, more trigeminal neurons and types of mystacial pad innervation expressed reporter than immunodetectable TrkC, indicating that some innervation transiently expresses TrkC-kinase. Reporter-tagged neurons include all those that immunolabel for TrkC, a majority for TrkB, and a small proportion for TrkA. TrkA neurons expressing TrkC-reporter range from small to large size and supply well-defined types of mystacial pad innervation. Virtually all small neurons and C-fiber innervation requires TrkA to develop, but TrkC-reporter is present in only a small proportion that uniquely innervates piloneural complexes of guard hairs and inner conical bodies of vibrissa follicle-sinus complexes. TrkC-reporter is expressed in nearly all presumptive Adelta innervation, which is all eliminated in TrkA knockouts and partially eliminated in TrkC knockouts. Many types of Abeta-fiber innervation express TrkC-reporter including all Merkel, spiny, and circumferentially oriented lanceolate endings, and some reticular and longitudinally oriented lanceolate endings. Only Merkel endings require TrkC to develop and survive, whereas the other endings require TrkA and/or TrkB. Thus, TrkC is required for the existence of some types of innervation that express TrkC, but may have different functions in others. Many types of nonneuronal cells affiliated with hair follicles and blood vessels also express TrkC-reporter but lack immunodetectable TrkC.

Semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO) activity in plasma is increased in diabetes, and in particular, in diabetic patients with vascular complications. It has been speculated that SSAO is involved in the development of such complications due to the production of cytotoxic compounds. In this work, we have induced diabetes in a previously described mouse-model, overexpressing SSAO in smooth muscle cells. SSAO activity was estimated as well as expression of the endogenous mouse gene and human transgene using real-time PCR. Diabetes induced an increase in SSAO activity in serum, kidney, and adipose tissue of transgenic animals. An inverse correlation between SSAO activity and mouse SSAO mRNA levels was observed in transgenic animals with diabetes. These results further support the suggestion of a negative feedback control of the SSAO gene expression. The increased SSAO activity in diabetes is most likely dependent on post-transcriptional modifications or activation of existing inactive enzyme molecules.
Lesions of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections of 192 IgG-saporin increased the locomotor response to 0.5 and 1.5 mg/kg of D-amphetamine in adult rats [A. Mattsson, S.O. Ogren, L. Olson, Facilitation of dopamine_mediated locomotor activity in adult rats following cholinergic denervation, Exp Neurol. 174 (2002) 96-108.]. In the present study, adult male rats were subjected to bilateral injections of 192 IgG-saporin either into the septum (Sp), the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (Nbm), both structures (SpNbm) or i.c.v. Locomotor activity was assessed in the home cage 23 days after surgery, and, subsequently, thrice after an intraperitoneal injection of D-amphetamine (1 mg/kg) and twice after an injection of cocaine (15 mg/kg). Analysis of AChE-stained material showed that Sp lesions induced preferentially hippocampal denervation, Nbm lesions induced preferentially cortical denervation, while both SpNbm and i.c.v. lesions deprived the hippocampus and the cortex of almost all AChE-positive reaction products. The spontaneous and drug-induced locomotor activity of all lesioned rats did not differ significantly from that of control rats, except in rats subjected to i.c.v. injections, in which the locomotor response was significantly increased after the second administration of cocaine. In addition, in Nbm and SpNbm rats, the locomotor reaction to cocaine was weaker right after the second injection. The present results do not confirm the report by Mattsson et al. on the potentiation of amphetamine-induced locomotion by i.c.v. injections of 192 IgG-saporin, but suggest that cocaine-induced locomotion can be increased by such lesions and, to some respect, attenuated by cholinergic damage in the Nbm.
A variety of lipid and lipid-derived molecules can modulate TRP cation channel activity, but the identity of the lipids that affect TRP channel function in vivo is unknown. Here, we use genetic and behavioral analysis in the nematode C. elegans to implicate a subset of 20-carbon polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) in TRPV channel-dependent olfactory and nociceptive behaviors. Olfactory and nociceptive TRPV signaling are sustained by overlapping but nonidentical sets of 20-carbon PUFAs including eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and arachidonic acid (AA). PUFAs act upstream of TRPV family channels in sensory transduction. Short-term dietary supplementation with PUFAs can rescue PUFA biosynthetic mutants, and exogenous PUFAs elicit rapid TRPV-dependent calcium transients in sensory neurons, bypassing the normal requirement for PUFA synthesis. These results suggest that a subset of PUFAs with omega-3 and omega-6 acyl groups act as endogenous modulators of TRPV signal transduction.
The proper intracellular distribution of mitochondria is assumed to be critical for normal physiology of neuronal cells, but direct evidence for this idea is lacking. Extension or movement of mitochondria into dendritic protrusions correlates with the development and morphological plasticity of spines. Molecular manipulations of dynamin-like GTPases Drp1 and OPA1 that reduce dendritic mitochondria content lead to loss of synapses and dendritic spines, whereas increasing dendritic mitochondrial content or mitochondrial activity enhances the number and plasticity of spines and synapses. Thus, the dendritic distribution of mitochondria is essential and limiting for the support of synapses. Reciprocally, synaptic activity modulates the motility and fusion/fission balance of mitochondria and controls mitochondrial distribution in dendrites.
The G(i)-linked adenosine A1 receptor has been shown to mediate anti-inflammatory actions, possibly via modulation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NFkappaB). Here we demonstrate that an adenosine A1 agonist, N(6)-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA), activated IKKalpha/beta phosphorylation through PTX-insensitive G proteins in human lymphoblastoma Reh cells. To delineate the mechanism of action, different PTX-insensitive G proteins were expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cells. Only Galpha(16) supported the CHA-induced IKK phosphorylation and NFkappaB-driven luciferase activity in time-dependent, dose-dependent, and PTX-insensitive manners. Gbetagamma subunits also modulated IKK/NFkappaB, as indicated by the stimulatory actions of Gbeta(1)gamma(2) and the abrogation of CHA-induced response by transducin. The participation of phospholipase Cbeta, protein kinase C, and calmodulin-dependent kinase II in CHA-induced IKK/NFkappaB activation were demonstrated by employing specific inhibitors and dominant-negative mutants. Inhibition of c-Src and numerous intermediates along the extracellular signal-regulated (ERK) kinase cascade including Ras, Raf-1 kinase, and MEK1/2 abolished the CHA-induced IKK/NFkappaB activation. Although c-Jun N-terminal kinase and p38 MAPK were also activated by CHA, they were not required for the IKK/NFkappaB regulation. Similar results were obtained using Reh cells. These data suggest that the G(16)-mediated activation of IKK/NFkappaB by CHA required a complex signaling network composed of multiple intermediates.
Transglutaminase 2 (TGase 2) expression is increased in inflammatory diseases. We demonstrated previously that inhibitors of TGase 2 reduce nitric oxide (NO) generation in a lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated microglial cell line. However, the precise mechanism by which TGase 2 promotes inflammation remains unclear. We found that TGase 2 activates the transcriptional activator nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB and thereby enhances LPS-induced expression of inducible nitric-oxide synthase. TGase 2 activates NF-kappaB via a novel pathway. Rather than stimulating phosphorylation and degradation of the inhibitory subunit alpha of NF-kappaB (I-kappaBalpha), TGase2 induces its polymerization. This polymerization results in dissociation of NF-kappaB and its translocation to the nucleus, where it is capable of up-regulating a host of inflammatory genes, including inducible nitric-oxide synthase and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). Indeed, TGase inhibitors prevent depletion of monomeric I-kappaBalpha in the cytosol of cells overexpressing TGase 2. In an LPS-induced rat brain injury model, TGase inhibitors significantly reduced TNF-alpha synthesis. The findings are consistent with a model in which LPS-induced NF-kappaB activation is the result of phosphorylation of I-kappaBalpha by I-kappaB kinase as well as I-kappaBalpha polymerization by TGase 2. Safe and stable TGase2 inhibitors may be effective agents in diseases associated with inflammation.
Hyperhomocysteinemia (HHCY) is a consequence of impaired methionine/cysteine metabolism and is caused by deficiency of vitamins and/or enzymes such as cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS). Although HHCY is an important and independent risk factor for cardiovascular diseases that are commonly associated with hepatic steatosis, the mechanism by which homocysteine promotes the development of fatty liver is poorly understood. CBS-deficient (CBS(-/-)) mice were previously generated by targeted deletion of the Cbs gene and exhibit pathological features similar to HHCY patients, including endothelial dysfunction and hepatic steatosis. Here we show abnormal lipid metabolism in CBS(-/-) mice. Triglyceride and nonesterified fatty acid levels were markedly elevated in CBS(-/-) mouse liver and serum. The activity of thiolase, a key enzyme in beta-oxidation of fatty acids, was significantly impaired in CBS(-/-) mouse liver. Hepatic apolipoprotein B100 levels were decreased, whereas serum apolipoprotein B100 and very low density lipoprotein levels were elevated in CBS(-/-) mice. Serum levels of cholesterol/phospholipid in high density lipoprotein fractions but not of total cholesterol/phospholipid were decreased, and the activity of lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase was severely impaired in CBS(-/-) mice. Abnormal high density lipoprotein particles with higher mobility in polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis were observed in serum obtained from CBS(-/-) mice. Moreover, serum cholesterol/triglyceride distribution in lipoprotein fractions was altered in CBS(-/-) mice. These results suggest that hepatic steatosis in CBS(-/-) mice is caused by or associated with abnormal lipid metabolism.
The inositol pyrophosphates IP7 and IP8 contain highly energetic pyrophosphate bonds. Although implicated in various biologic functions, their molecular sites of action have not been clarified. Using radiolabeled IP7, we detected phosphorylation of multiple eukaryotic proteins. We also observed phosphorylation of endogenous proteins by endogenous IP7 in yeast. Phosphorylation by IP7 is nonenzymatic and may represent a novel intracellular signaling mechanism.

Hypoglycemia was long considered to kill neurons by depriving them of glucose. We now know that hypoglycemia kills neurons actively from without, rather than by starvation from within. Hypoglycemia only causes neuronal death when the EEG becomes flat. This usually occurs after glucose levels have fallen below 1 mM (18 mg/dl) for some period, depending on body glycogen reserves. At the time that abrupt brain energy failure occurs, the excitatory amino acid aspartate is massively released into the limited brain extracellular space and floods the excitatory amino acid receptors located on neuronal dendrites. Calcium fluxes occur and membrane breaks in the cell lead rapidly to neuronal necrosis. Significant neuronal necrosis occurs after 30 min of electrocerebral silence. Other neurochemical changes include energy depletion to roughly 25% of control, phospholipase and other enzyme activation, tissue alkalosis and a tendency for all cellular redox systems to shift towards oxidation. The neurochemistry of hypoglycemia thus differs markedly from ischemia. Hypoglycemia often differs from ischemia in its neuropathologic distribution, a phenomenon applicable in forensic practice. The border-zone distribution of global ischemia is not seen, necrosis of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus can occur and a predilection for the superficial layers of the cortex is sometimes seen. Cerebellum and brainstem are universally spared in hypoglycemic brain damage. Hypoglycemia constitutes a unique metabolic brain insult.
Epidemiological and pathological studies suggest that head injury is a significant risk factor for subsequent neurodegeneration and cognitive decline in later life. The precise mechanisms for the development of post-traumatic neurodegenerative change are unclear but we hypothesize that persistence of inflammatory processes in the brain may play a key role and that some individuals are more susceptible to such changes based on their genetic make-up. In support of this hypothesis we present evidence of persistent elevated microglial activity in long-term survivors of head injury and the suggestion of an association between the extent of this activity and interleukin-1 genotype.
Axonal pathology is increasingly identified by beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) immunohistochemistry in the brains of patients who may or may not have a history of trauma. The presence of betaAPP-IR(+) has been variously interpreted as either that diffuse traumatic axonal injury (TAI) is indeed a universal finding in cases of fatal traumatic brain injury (TBI) or there are other causes of betaAPP-IR(+) axons which under certain circumstances may be sufficient to mimic TBI and therefore make the medico-legal interpretation of certain cases very difficult. To address some of the uncertainties we have undertaken a detailed analysis of the amount and distribution of betaAPP immunohistochemistry in 63 cases of fatal TBI, 17 cases of patients dying after cardiac arrest, 12 cases dying in association with status epilepticus, 3 cases of carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning, 13 cases of hypoglycaemia and in 60 controls. Three patterns of betaAPP-IR(+) were identified. First, diffuse multi-focal, second, corresponding to the outline of an infarct or haematoma, and thirdly a mixture of the two. The first pattern was seen in cases of the lesser grades of TAI, CO poisoning, and hypoglycaemia, the second pattern in cases in which there was evidence of raised intracranial pressure and the third in cases of severe TAI. It is concluded that the proper interpretation of cases requires the examination of a sufficient number of blocks ( [Formula: see text] ), processing using standardised protocols including betaAPP immunohistochemistry and in some cases the mapping of any IR(+) on anatomical line diagrams. betaAPP carried out on a small number of randomly taken blocks is likely to lead to misinterpretation of the clinico-pathological correlations and possibly to a miscarriage of justice.
The supplementary eye field (SEF) is a region within medial frontal cortex that integrates complex visuospatial information and controls eye-head gaze shifts. Here, we test if the SEF encodes desired gaze directions in a simple retinal (eye-centered) frame, such as the superior colliculus, or in some other, more complex frame. We electrically stimulated 55 SEF sites in two head-unrestrained monkeys to evoke 3D eye-head gaze shifts and then mathematically rotated these trajectories into various reference frames. Each stimulation site specified a specific spatial goal when plotted in its intrinsic frame. These intrinsic frames varied site by site, in a continuum from eye-, to head-, to space/body-centered coding schemes. This variety of coding schemes provides the SEF with a unique potential for implementing arbitrary reference frame transformations.
The requirement for transcription during long-lasting plasticity indicates that signals generated at the synapse must be transported to the nucleus. We have investigated whether the classical active nuclear import pathway mediates intracellular retrograde signal transport in Aplysia sensory neurons and rodent hippocampal neurons. We found that importins localize to distal neuronal processes, including synaptic compartments, where they are well positioned to mediate synapse to nucleus signaling. In Aplysia, stimuli known to produce long-lasting but not short-lasting facilitation triggered importin nuclear translocation. In hippocampal neurons, NMDA receptor activation but not depolarization induced importin nuclear translocation. We further showed that LTP-inducing stimuli recruited active nuclear import in hippocampal slices. Together with our finding that long-term facilitation of Aplysia sensory-motor synapses required active nuclear import, our results indicate that regulation of the active nuclear import pathway plays a critical role in transporting synaptically generated signals into the nucleus during learning-related forms of plasticity.
The response of neuronal growth cones to axon guidance cues depends on the developmental context in which these cues are encountered. We show here that the transmembrane protein semaphorin 5A (Sema5A) is a bifunctional guidance cue exerting both attractive and inhibitory effects on developing axons of the fasciculus retroflexus, a diencephalon fiber tract associated with limbic function. The thrombospondin repeats of Sema5A physically interact with the glycosaminoglycan portion of both chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) and heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs). CSPGs function as precisely localized extrinsic cues that convert Sema5A from an attractive to an inhibitory guidance cue. Therefore, glycosaminoglycan bound guidance cues provide a molecular mechanism for CSPG-mediated inhibition of axonal extension. Further, axonal HSPGs are required for Sema5A-mediated attraction, suggesting that HSPGs are components of functional Sema5A receptors. Thus, neuronal responses to Sema5A are proteoglycan dependent and interpreted according to the biological context in which this membrane bound guidance cue is presented.
The neural basis of selective spatial attention presents a significant challenge to cognitive neuroscience. Recent neuroimaging studies have suggested that regions of the parietal and temporal cortex constitute a &quot;supramodal&quot; network that mediates goal-directed attention in multiple sensory modalities. Here we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to determine which cortical subregions control strategic attention in vision and touch. Healthy observers undertook an orienting task in which a central arrow cue predicted the location of a subsequent visual or somatosensory target. To determine the attentional role of cortical subregions at different stages of processing, TMS was delivered to the right hemisphere during cue or target events. Results indicated a critical role of the inferior parietal cortex in strategic orienting to visual events, but not to somatosensory events. These findings are inconsistent with the existence of a supramodal attentional network and instead provide direct evidence for modality-specific attentional processing in parietal cortex.
Posttranslational modifications such as palmitoylation have the ability to modulate protein localization and function. The reversible addition of the fatty acid palmitate to proteins has been known to occur in neurons for a considerable amount of time and has been noticed to be of particular importance at synapses. In this issue of Neuron, Huang et al. and Fukata et al. describe their studies of palmitoyl transferases and how these enzymes specifically catalyze the modification of a number of synaptic proteins, including the postsynaptic scaffolding protein PSD-95.
Farnesol is an isoprenoid found in many aromatic plants and is also produced in humans, where it acts on numerous nuclear receptors and has received considerable attention due to its apparent anticancer properties. Although farnesol has been studied for over 30 years, its metabolism has not been well characterized. Recently, farnesol was shown to be metabolized by cytochromes P450 in rabbit; however, neither farnesol hydroxylation nor glucuronidation in humans have been reported to date. In the present paper, we show for the first time that farnesol is metabolized to farnesyl glucuronide, hydroxyfarnesol and hydroxyfarnesyl glucuronide by human tissue microsomes, and we identify the specific human UGTs (uridine diphosphoglucuronosyltransferases) involved. Farnesol metabolism was examined by a sensitive LC (liquid chromatography)-MS/MS method. Results indicate that farnesol is a good substrate for glucuronidation in human liver, kidney and intestine microsomes (values in nmol/min per mg). Initial analysis using expressed human UGTs indicated that UGTs 1A1 and 2B7 were primarily responsible for glucuronidation in vitro, with significantly lower activity for all the other UGTs tested (UGTs 1A3, 1A4, 1A6, 1A9 and 2B4). Kinetic analysis and inhibition experiments indicate that, in liver microsomes, UGT1A1 is primarily responsible for farnesol glucuronidation; however, in intestine microsomes, UGT2B7 is probably the major isoform involved, with a very-low-micromolar K(m). We also show the first direct evidence that farnesol can be metabolized to hydroxyfarnesol by human liver microsomes and that hydroxyfarnesol is metabolized further to hydroxyfarnesyl glucuronide. Thus glucuronidation may modulate the physiological and/or pharmacological properties of this potent signalling molecule.


APEX2/APE2 is a secondary mammalian apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease that associates with proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), and the progression of S phase of the cell cycle is accompanied by its expression. To determine the biologic significance of APEX2, we established APEX2-null mice. These mice were about 80% the size of their wild-type littermates and exhibited a moderate dyshematopoiesis and a relatively severe defect in lymphopoiesis. A significant accumulation of both thymocytes and mitogen-stimulated splenocytes in G(2)/M phase was seen in APEX2-null mice compared with the wild type, indicating that APEX2 is required for proper cell cycle progression of proliferating lymphocytes. Although APEX2-null mice exhibited an attenuated immune response against ovalbumin in comparison with wild-type mice, they produced both antiovalbumin immunoglobulin M (IgM) and IgG, indicating that class switch recombination can occur even in the absence of APEX2.
This study assessed the effects of the nicotinic agonist (+/-)-epibatidine (EPIB) on the C-fiber flexor reflex in the anesthetized rat. Electrical stimulation of the hindpaw produces a long latency (&gt; 150 ms) C-fiber mediated electromyographic (EMG) burst in hindlimb flexor muscles. EPIB (0.01, 0.03 micromol/kg, i.p.) significantly reduced (p &lt; 0.05) C-fiber -related EMG activity by 46 and 64%, respectively. This effect was similar to that produced by the opioid morphine (21.0 micromol/kg, i.p.) and the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (3.0 micromol/kg, i.p.). Nicotinic receptor blockade with the antagonists mecamylamine (5.0 micromol/kg, i.p.) and chlorisondamine (23.0 nmol/rat, intracerebroventricular) attenuated the effects of systemic EPIB on the C-fiber reflex. EPIB injection (0.04 nmol/rat) into the nucleus raphe magnus significantly decreased C-fiber EMG activity by 67%, suggesting a supraspinal site of action. In contrast, EPIB (0.6 nmol/rat) administered into the lumbar spinal cord significantly increased the C-fiber reflex by 117%. In summary, systemic and supraspinal EPIB exerted an inhibitory effect on central pain transmitting pathways, while a stimulatory effect is elicited in the spinal cord. The inhibitory effects are consistent with the reported analgesic properties of EPIB. The excitatory effect may be related to the reported algogenic responses when EPIB is administered intrathecally.
Stress plays an important role in the development of affective disorders. Women show a higher prevalence for these disorders than men. The course of a depression is thought to be positively influenced by social support. We have used a chronic stress model in which rats received foot-shocks daily for 3 weeks. Since rats are social animals we hypothesised that 'social support' might reduce the adverse effects of chronic stress. To test this hypothesis, male and female rats were housed individually or socially in unisex groups of four rats. The proliferation marker bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was injected 2 weeks before the sacrifice to investigate if stress and social housing influenced the survival of proliferating cells in the dentate gyrus (DG). To investigate changes in proliferation, another group of rats was sacrificed the day after the last BrdU injection. Stress significantly decreased BrdU labelling in individually housed males and not significantly in socially housed males. In individually housed females stress increased BrdU labelling, which was prevented by social housing. The increase found in females is most likely caused by differences in survival rate, since cell proliferation was not affected by stress or housing conditions. These results indicate that social support can affect neurogenesis in both female and male rats, however in a different way.

In the retina, integrins in the beta1 family have been shown to be important in many phases of neuronal development, particularly neuroblast migration and axon outgrowth. However, the functions of specific integrin heterodimers are not well defined. In this study, we investigated the functions of beta1 integrins in developing chicken retina by expression of a dominant-negative beta1A construct using a replication-competent retrovirus. Inhibition of integrins using this approach resulted in alteration of cell morphology and increased apoptosis, but did not preclude migration and axon elongation. In an attempt to identify which specific beta1 heterodimer was important, expression and function of the alpha4beta1 heterodimer were also investigated. At early developmental stages, alpha4 protein and mRNA were detected in undifferentiated neuroblasts throughout the retina. At later stages, expression was confined to retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and amacrine cells. A small molecule antagonist of alpha4 integrins was shown to inhibit neurite outgrowth on recombinant soluble vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), a known ligand of alpha4beta1. Introduction of alpha4 antagonist in vivo gave rise to increased apoptosis and led to a thinning of the retina and reduced numbers of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). We conclude that the integrin alpha4beta1 is important for survival of developing retinal neurons, including RGCs.
Preclinical data, performed in a limited number of pain models, suggest that functional blockade of metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors may be beneficial for pain management. In the present study, effects of 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP), a potent, selective mGlu5 receptor antagonist, were examined in a wide variety of rodent nociceptive and hypersensitivity models in order to fully characterize the potential analgesic profile of mGlu5 receptor blockade. Effects of 3-[(2-methyl-1,3-thiazol-4-yl)ethynyl]pyridine (MTEP), as potent and selective as MPEP at mGlu5/mGlu1 receptors but more selective than MPEP at N-methyl-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, were also evaluated in selected nociceptive and side effect models. MPEP (3-30 mg/kg, i.p.) produced a dose-dependent reversal of thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia following complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced inflammatory hypersensitivity. Additionally, MPEP (3-30 mg/kg, i.p.) decreased thermal hyperalgesia observed in carrageenan-induced inflammatory hypersensitivity without affecting paw edema, abolished acetic acid-induced writhing activity in mice, and was shown to reduce mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia observed in a model of post-operative hypersensitivity and formalin-induced spontaneous pain. Furthermore, at 30 mg/kg, i.p., MPEP significantly attenuated mechanical allodynia observed in three neuropathic pain models, i.e. spinal nerve ligation, sciatic nerve constriction and vincristine-induced neuropathic pain. MTEP (3-30 mg/kg, i.p.) also potently reduced CFA-induced thermal hyperalgesia. However, at 100 mg/kg, i.p., MPEP and MTEP produced central nerve system (CNS) side effects as measured by rotarod performance and exploratory locomotor activity. These results suggest a role for mGlu5 receptors in multiple nociceptive modalities, though CNS side effects may be a limiting factor in developing mGlu5 receptor analgesic compounds.
Mechanisms of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) maintenance have recently gained wide interest owing to their role in inherited diseases as well as in aging. Twinkle is a new mitochondrial 5'-3' DNA helicase, defects of which we have previously shown to underlie a mitochondrial disease, progressive external ophthalmoplegia with multiple mtDNA deletions. Mouse Twinkle is highly similar to the human counterpart, suggesting conserved function. Here, we have characterized the mouse Twinkle gene and expression profile and report that the expression patterns are not conserved between human and mouse, but are synchronized with the adjacent gene MrpL43, suggesting a shared promoter. To elucidate the in vivo role of Twinkle in mtDNA maintenance, we generated two transgenic mouse lines overexpressing wild-type Twinkle. We could demonstrate for the first time that increased expression of Twinkle in muscle and heart increases mtDNA copy number up to 3-fold higher than controls, more than any other factor reported to date. Additionally, we utilized cultured human cells and observed that reduced expression of Twinkle by RNA interference mediated a rapid drop in mtDNA copy number, further supporting the in vivo results. These data demonstrate that Twinkle helicase is essential for mtDNA maintenance, and that it may be a key regulator of mtDNA copy number in mammals.
Inter-molecular heterologous mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) recombination is known to occur in yeast and plants. Nevertheless, its occurrence in human cells is still controversial. To address this issue we have fused two human cytoplasmic hybrid cell lines, each containing a distinct pathogenic mtDNA mutation and specific sets of genetic markers. In this hybrid model, we found direct evidence of recombination between these two mtDNA haplotypes. Recombinant mtDNA molecules in the hybrid cells were identified using three independent experimental approaches. First, recombinant molecules containing genetic markers from both parental alleles were demonstrated with restriction fragment length polymorphism of polymerase chain reaction products, by measuring the relative frequencies of each marker. Second, fragments of recombinant mtDNA were cloned and sequenced to identify the regions involved in the recombination events. Finally, recombinant molecules were demonstrated directly by Southern blot using appropriate combinations of polymorphic restriction sites and probes. This combined approach confirmed the existence of heterogeneous species of recombinant mtDNA molecules in the hybrid cells. These findings have important implications for mtDNA-related diseases, the interpretation of human evolution and population genetics and forensic analyses based on mtDNA genotyping.
A 31-year old man sustained severe left brachial plexus traction injury. Electrical stimulation demonstrated multilevel motor root conduction block, which reversed after a 4-month period. Motor root conduction studies are useful diagnostic and prognostic adjuncts in the management of brachial plexopathy.
To test the hypothesis that growth and regeneration of the adult retina involves a mechanistic recapitulation of retinal development, the patterns of photoreceptor differentiation were investigated in the developing retina, as well as growing and regenerating adult retina, of a metamorphic vertebrate, the winter flounder. Only one opsin, of type RH2 (a &quot;green&quot; cone opsin), was expressed in premetamorphic (developing) retina, and a corresponding middle-wavelength visual pigment was observed. In premetamorphic retinas there was no evidence for any other cone opsins or pigments, rods, rod opsin expression, or rod visual pigment. In contrast, a rod opsin (RH1) and three cone opsins (SWS2, RH2, and LWS) were expressed in postmetamorphic (adult) retina, and these opsins were consistent with the observed repertoire of visual pigments. During postmetamorphic retinal growth and regeneration, cones were always produced before rods, but the different cone types were apparently produced simultaneously, suggesting that cone differentiation mechanisms might change after metamorphosis. The results support the hypothesis that photoreceptor differentiation during growth and regeneration of the adult retina involves a recapitulation of mechanisms that control the sequence of photoreceptor production during retinal development.
Flip (i) and flop (o) alternatively spliced variants of the four glutamate AMPA receptor subunits (GluR1-4) are differentially expressed in the CNS and can display distinct rates of desensitization that contribute to the heterogeneity of native AMPA receptor-dependent synaptic responses. In the present study, we initially compared the kinetics of desensitization in response to fast application of glutamate (1 mm) for the eight different homomeric recombinant human AMPA receptors (hGluR1-4i and o) heterologously expressed in mammalian cells. Consistent with previous reports on recombinant rat AMPA receptors, the time constants of desensitization between human GluR1i and GluR1o receptors were the same, whereas the flip isoforms for GluR2-4 receptors exhibited significantly slower rates of desensitization compared with the flop isoforms. To identify the molecular determinants responsible for these functional differences, the effects of exchanging amino acid residues in the flip-flop cassette of GluR2i and GluR2o were investigated. Three amino acid residues in the flip-flop region (Thr765, Pro766, and Ser775 in flip and Asn765, Ala766, and Asn775 in flop) were identified that contribute to splice-variant differences in the rate of desensitization. Recent structural data show that these three residues are located on helix J, which forms part of the intradimer interface of AMPA receptor ligand-binding cores, and that the stability of this interface may regulate desensitization. The present results suggest that these three residues may confer differences in flip and flop receptor desensitization rates by directly and/or indirectly influencing the stability of the interface between adjacent subunits.
Synaptic augmentation is a short-term component of synaptic plasticity that increases transmitter release during repetitive stimulation and decays thereafter with a time constant of approximately 7 sec. Augmentation has typically been observed under conditions where there is little or no depression because of depletion of synaptic vesicles from the readily releasable pool (RRP) of transmitter. We now study augmentation under conditions of pronounced depression at the frog neuromuscular junction to gain additional insight into mechanism. If augmentation reflects an increase in the size of the RRP of transmitter, then augmentation should not be present with depression. Our findings using four different experimental approaches suggested that augmentation was still present in the presence of pronounced depression: mathematical extraction of augmentation from the changes in transmitter release after repetitive stimulation, identification of augmentation with Ba2+, correction of the data for the measured depletion of the RRP, and identification of an augmentation component of residual Ca2+. We conclude that the augmentation machinery still acts to increase transmitter release when depression reduces the RRP sufficiently to mask obvious augmentation. The masked augmentation was found to increase transmitter release by increasing the probability of releasing individual vesicles from the depressed RRP, countering the effects of depression. Because augmentation and depression have similar time courses, either process can mask the other, depending on their relative magnitudes. Consequently, the apparent absence of one of the processes does not exclude that it is still contributing to short-term synaptic plasticity.
Considerable research has focused on issues pertaining to sensorimotor integration, but in most systems precise information remains unavailable regarding the specific pathways by which different sensory systems regulate any single central pattern-generating circuit. We address this issue by determining how two muscle stretch-sensitive neurons, the gastropyloric receptor neurons (GPRs), influence identified projection neurons that regulate the gastric mill circuit in the stomatogastric nervous system of the crab and then comparing these actions with those of the ventral cardiac neuron (VCN) mechanosensory system. Here, we show that the GPR neurons activate the gastric mill rhythm in the stomatogastric ganglion (STG) via their excitation of two identified projection neurons, modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1) and commissural projection neuron 2 (CPN2), in the commissural ganglion. Support for this conclusion comes from the ability of the modulatory proctolin neuron (MPN), a projection neuron that suppresses the gastric mill rhythm via its inhibitory actions on MCN1 and CPN2, to inhibit the GPR-elicited gastric mill rhythm. Selective elimination of MCN1 and CPN2 access to the STG also prevents GPR activation of this rhythm. The VCN neurons also elicit the gastric mill rhythm by coactivating MCN1 and CPN2, but the GPR-elicited gastric mill rhythm is distinct. These distinct rhythms are likely to result partly from different MCN1 activity levels under these two conditions and partly from the presence of additional GPR actions in the STG. These results support the hypothesis that different sensory systems differentially regulate neuronal circuit activity despite their convergent actions on a single subpopulation of projection neurons.
Inferior olivary (IO) neurons display spontaneous oscillatory activity, yet the importance of these oscillations for shaping the responses of this system to its afferents is uncertain. We used multiple electrode recording of crus 2a Purkinje cell complex spikes (CSs) in ketamine-xylazine-anesthetized rats to investigate olivocerebellar responses to activation of motor cortico-olivary pathways. Trains of electrical stimuli were applied to the motor cortex at frequencies between 4 and 30 Hz. Various frequency-response curves were observed, with the most common types being unimodal with a maximum at 9.5 +/- 2.3 Hz and bimodal with peaks at 8.9 +/- 1.0 and 15.1 +/- 1.3 Hz. To determine whether IO oscillatory properties underlie the resonance peaks in the frequency-response curves, apamin and charybdotoxin were injected into the IO. These toxins, which weaken and enhance spontaneous IO oscillations, respectively, had corresponding effects on the sharpness of resonance peaks. Next, the variation of CS entrainment patterns with frequency was investigated to characterize the nature of the IO oscillator. Low-frequency (4 Hz) stimulation was relatively ineffective in entraining CS activity. Between 4 and 30 Hz, two predominant entrainment patterns emerged. For low-frequency (4-6 Hz) and high-frequency (17-30 Hz) ranges, a 1:2 entrainment dominated, whereas in the intermediate range (6-17 Hz), 1:1 entrainment was most prevalent. These results indicate that IO neurons respond as nonlinear oscillators to afferent signals.
A major factor underlying compulsive tobacco use is nicotine-induced modulation of dopamine release in the mesolimbic reward pathway (Wise and Rompre, 1989). An established biochemical mechanism for nicotine-enhanced dopamine release is by activating presynaptic nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) (Wonnacott, 1997). Prolonged application of 10(-7) to 10(-5) m nicotine to striatal synaptosomes promoted a sustained efflux of [3H]dopamine. This nicotine effect was mediated by non-alpha7 nAChRs, because it was blocked by 5 mum mecamylamine but was resistant to 100 nm alpha-bungarotoxin (alphaBgTx). Dopamine release was diminished by omitting Na+ or by applying peptide calcium channel blockers, indicating that nAChRs trigger release by depolarizing the nerve terminals. However, because alpha7 receptors rapidly desensitize in the continuous presence of agonists, a repetitive stimulation protocol was used to evaluate the possible significance of desensitization. This protocol produced a transient increase in [3H]dopamine released by depolarization and a significant increase in the response to hypertonic solutions that measure the size of the readily releasable pool (RRP) of synaptic vesicles. The nicotine-induced increase in the size of the readily releasable pool was blocked by alphaBgTx and by the calmodulin antagonist calmidazolium, suggesting that Ca2+ entry through alpha7 nAChRs specifically enhances synaptic vesicle mobilization at dopamine terminals. Thus, nicotine enhances dopamine release by two complementary actions mediated by discrete nAChR subtypes and suggest that the alpha7 nAChR-mediated pathway is tightly and specifically coupled to refilling of the RRP of vesicles in dopamine terminals.
During aging, spinal cord motoneurons show characteristic changes including the loss of afferent boutons, a selective process that associates with gliosis and behavioral motor impairment. Evidence suggests that the major histocompatibility complex Class I (MHC I) system may be involved in synaptic plasticity of neurons during development and regeneration. In search of a mechanism governing senescent changes in synaptic connectivity, we report evidence for increased expression of MHC I and beta2 microglobulin (beta2M) in motoneurons and glial-like profiles of 30-month-old rats. The regulatory signal(s) for MHC I expression in normal neurons remains unresolved but among tentative molecules are cytokines such as interferon-gamma (INF-gamma) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha). Interestingly, aged motoneurons, overlapping with those showing increased levels of MHC I, contained increased levels of INF-gamma receptor message. INF-gamma mRNA was detected at low levels in most (8/9) of the aged spinal cords but only infrequently (2/9) in young adult spinal cords; however, the cellular localization of INF-gamma mRNA could not be determined. Our data also indicates that TNF-alpha is upregulated in the senescent spinal cord but that TNF-alpha immunoreactive protein does not associate with motoneurons. We report evidence for an increased expression of MHC I and beta2M in senescent spinal motoneurons and discuss the possibility that this regulation associates with INF-gamma or changes in neurotrophin signaling and neuron activity in senescence.
The deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) are the major output of the cerebellum, and have been proposed as a site of memory storage for certain forms of motor learning. Microelectrode and whole-cell patch recordings were performed on DCN neurones in acute slices of juvenile rat cerebellum. DCN neurones display tonic and bursting basal firing patterns. In tonically firing neurones, a stimulus consisting of EPSP bursts produced a brief increase in dendritic Ca(2+) concentration and a persistent increase in the number of spikes elicited by a depolarizing test pulse, along with a decrease in spike threshold. In intrinsically bursting DCN neurones, EPSP bursts induced an increase in the number of depolarization-evoked spikes in some neurones, but in others produced a change to a more tonic firing pattern. Application of IPSP bursts evoked a large number of rebound spikes and an associated dendritic Ca(2+) transient, which also produced a persistent increase in the number of spikes elicited by a test pulse. Intracellular perfusion of the Ca(2+) chelator BAPTA prevented the increase in intrinsic excitability. Thus, rapid changes in intrinsic excitability in the DCN may be driven by bursts of both EPSPs and IPSPs, and may result in persistent changes to both firing frequency and pattern.
The cell is the basic building block of human life. Each of us has existed as a single cell--the fertilized egg--and each of us is made up of billions of cells specialized in many different ways to form our tissues and organs. The nucleus of the cell, described as far back as 1682, is known to be the site of storage of chromosomes that carry the essential and unique DNA blueprint for life. With the recent publication of the entire human genome, our knowledge of exactly what our genes say has increased immeasurably. This, however, is only a small part of the story. In order for the chromosomal genes to function correctly, a complex cellular machinery must rewrite (or transcribe) the genetic instructions of the DNA into a temporary messenger molecule, messenger RNA (mRNA), rearrange (or splice) this message into a readable format and then produce a protein that accurately represents the DNA code. It is these protein molecules that are the functional result of the genetic information. This whole process is termed 'gene expression'. Both transcription and splicing of the mRNA message are carried out in the nucleus. These events must be performed accurately and efficiently in a minute volume already full of highly packaged DNA. An ever-increasing number of sub-nuclear structures have been described, from the nucleolus (first described in 1835) to newly discovered 'paraspeckles' and 'clastosomes'. In fact, as increasing numbers of molecular probes become available, so the complexity of nuclear structure appears to expand. The functions of some of these structures are currently unknown. Those whose functions are, at least partly, understood play roles in gene expression. Interestingly, alterations in nuclear structure are associated with human diseases such as spinal muscular atrophy and promyelocytic leukaemia, suggesting that the control of nuclear organization may be vital to health. The dynamic nature of the structure of the mammalian nucleus has come under increasing scrutiny over the past few years. This has largely been driven by advances in microscopy as well as the advent of in vivo labelling techniques for sub-nuclear structures. It is now possible, using a protein originally isolated from jellyfish, to visualize sub-nuclear structures in living cultured cells. Together with three-dimensional time-lapse microscopy and an ever-expanding range of photo-bleaching techniques, this technology allows us to ask detailed questions about movements of sub-nuclear structures themselves and of the proteins contained within them. It has recently become clear that sub-nuclear structures are capable of moving within the nucleus and of physically interacting with each other. It is also now known that there is a constant flux of molecules into and out of these mobile structures as well as exchange of molecules between them, rather like passengers travelling on the London Underground. The challenge for the future is to relate dynamic events at the microscopic and molecular levels back to the organism as a whole. Only by understanding how the information encoded on genes is accurately expressed at the right time and in the right place can we really take advantage of the knowledge currently available to us.
The microstructure of feeding in rats can be probed using a variety of protocols that employ videotape-based ratings, pellet feeders, and/or laboratory balances. A recent commercial product (BioDAQ, Research Diets, New Brunswick, NJ) uses a metal food hopper placed on a load cell to monitor daily food pellet consumption. In this system, movements of the hopper during eating and the cessation of hopper movements after eating are combined with momentary hopper weights for subsequent analyses of daily meal patterns. Our laboratory has devised an improved food cup for the BioDAQ system that is easily balanced, minimizes spillage, and is compatible with either powdered chow diets or nonpelleted soft diets (e.g., a high-fat diet). In the present paper, we describe the methods used to fabricate this food cup and present data illustrating its use in meal pattern analyses for rats fed either a ground laboratory chow or a 33% high-fat diet.
To study the role of ambient temperature and brain blood outflow in modulating physiological brain hyperthermia, temperatures in two brain structures (nucleus accumbens or NAcc and hippocampus or Hippo) and a non-locomotor head muscle (musculus temporalis) were monitored in rats exposed to three arousing stimuli (placement in the cage or environmental change, 3-min social interaction with a female rat, 3-min innocuous tail-pinch) under three conditions (intact animals at 23 degrees C or control, intact animals at 29 degrees C, animals with chronically occluded jugular veins at 23 degrees C). While each stimulus in each condition induced hyperthermia, with more rapid and stronger changes in brain structures than muscle, there were significant differences between conditions. At 29 degrees C, animal placement in the cage resulted in stronger temperature increase and larger brain-muscle differentials, while basal temperatures in Hippo and muscle (but not in NAcc) were higher than control. At 29 degrees C, hyperthermia during social interaction was smaller but more prolonged, while the response to tail-pinch was similar to that seen at normal environmental temperatures. Animals with chronically occluded jugular veins had similar basal temperatures but showed much weaker hyperthermia than intact animals during each stimulus presentation; temperature increases in brain structures, however, were much stronger than in the muscle. Our data suggest that the brain is able to decrease neural activation induced by environmental challenges under conditions of impaired blood outflow and restricted heat dissipation to the external environment.
The development of the nervous system is a dynamic process where epigenetic factors play a fundamental role. Both ground-based and space research indicate that exposure to an altered gravitational environment affects rodent neurobehavioral profile and stage of development as well as duration of exposure appear to be critical for the observed effects. The behavioral profile of adolescent (28-day-old) male and female CD-1 mice upon acute 2 g exposure was characterized and emotional/anxiety responses (plus-maze), as well as spatial learning performance (Morris water-maze), were assessed respectively 24 and 48 h after hypergravity exposure. Behavioral observation indicated a transient mild sickness associated with hypergravity, with a decrease in spontaneous activity. Rotation per se induced an increase in emotional/anxious responses and a deterioration of spatial learning acquisition, while hypergravity specifically improved flexibility of spatial orientation.
The impairments in social and vocational outcome that are common in schizophrenia are strongly related to the severity of impaired neurocognition. This observation led to the initiation of The NIMH's Measurement and Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (MATRICS) initiative, which supports the development of pharmacological agents to improve cognition in schizophrenia. MATRICS addresses barriers to drug development through a number of activities, including the development of a consensus battery for measuring cognition in schizophrenia; the development of a consensus regarding the most promising molecular targets that should be the focus of drug development; the use of a joint meeting with representatives from the industry, academia, NIMH, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to clarify guidelines for the design of clinical trials for cognition enhancing agents; and finally, to assist NIMH in developing its research agenda in this area.


Numerous studies suggest that early adverse experiences induce neurochemical, morphological, and functional changes in the hippocampus in adolescence and adulthood. The aim of this study was to identify the influence of neonatal isolation (NI) on noradrenaline (NA)-mediated intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) mobilization. To measure [Ca(2+)](i), we used the Ca(2+)-sensitive dye fura-2 and analysis by fluorescence microscopy. First, we examined the contributions of adrenergic receptor subtypes to the NA-stimulated increase in [Ca(2+)](i) in the granule cell layers of the dentate gyrus (DG) and in the pyramidal cell layers of the CA3 in the hippocampus. Second, we found that the NA-stimulated [Ca(2+)](i) increment was significantly decreased in response to NI in these hippocampal regions. In addition, we examined the influence of environmental enrichment (EE) after weaning on the decrease in the NA-stimulated [Ca(2+)](i) increment induced by NI. The administration of EE reversed the influence of NI on the NA-stimulated [Ca(2+)](i) increment in the CA3 pyramidal cell layer but not in the DG granular cell layer in the hippocampus. These findings suggest that NI and EE after weaning may modulate hippocampal function by altering adrenergic receptor-mediated signal transduction during adolescence.

Transport and translation of mRNA are tightly coupled to ensure strict temporal and spatial expression of nascent proteins. Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) has been shown to be involved in translational regulation and is found in ribonucleoprotein (RNP) granules that travel along dendrites of neurons. In this study, GFP-tagged Drosophila homologue of FMRP (dFMR) was used to visualize RNP granule movement in Drosophila S2 cells. GFP-dFMR form granules that contain both endogenous dFMR and mRNA. Live fluorescence microscopy revealed that dFMR-containing RNP granules move bidirectionally in thin processes formed by S2 cells in the presence of cytochalasin D. Knocking down the heavy chains of either kinesin-1 (kinesin heavy chain) or cytoplasmic dynein (dynein heavy chain) by RNA interference blocks the movement of the dFMR granules. In contrast, knockdown of kinesin light chain (KLC), which is typically necessary for movement of membrane organelles by kinesin-1, had no effect on the dFMR granule translocation. In immunoprecipitation assays, dFMR associates with both kinesin heavy chain and dynein heavy chain, but not KLC. Based on these findings, we conclude that dFMR-containing RNP granules are moved by both kinesin-1 and cytoplasmic dynein and that KLC is not essential and is likely missing from RNP-transporting kinesin-1.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by a progressive loss of midbrain dopamine neurons and the presence of cytoplasmic inclusions called Lewy bodies. Mutations in several genes including alpha-synuclein and parkin have been linked to familial PD. The loss of parkin's E3-ligase activity leads to dopaminergic neuronal degeneration in early-onset autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism, suggesting a key role of parkin for dopamine neuron survival. To evaluate the potential neuroprotective role of parkin in the pathogenesis of PD, we tested whether overexpression of wild-type rat parkin could protect against the toxicity of mutated human A30P alpha-synuclein in a rat lentiviral model of PD. Animals overexpressing parkin showed significant reductions in alpha-synuclein-induced neuropathology, including preservation of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cell bodies in the substantia nigra and sparing of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive nerve terminals in the striatum. The parkin-mediated neuroprotection was associated with an increase in hyperphosphorylated alpha-synuclein inclusions, suggesting a key role for parkin in the genesis of Lewy bodies. These results indicate that parkin gene therapy may represent a promising candidate treatment for PD.
Fragile X mental retardation is caused by absence of the RNA-binding protein fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), encoded by the FMR1 gene. There is increasing evidence that FMRP regulates transport and modulates translation of some mRNAs. We studied neurotransmitter-activated synaptic protein synthesis in fmr1-knockout mice. Synaptoneurosomes from knockout mice did not manifest accelerated polyribosome assembly or protein synthesis as it occurs in wild-type mice upon stimulation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors. Direct activation of protein kinase C did not compensate in the knockout mouse, indicating that the FMRP-dependent step is further along the signaling pathway. Visual cortices of young knockout mice exhibited a lower proportion of dendritic spine synapses containing polyribosomes than did the cortices of wild-type mice, corroborating this finding in vivo. This deficit in rapid neurotransmitter-controlled local translation of specific proteins may contribute to morphological and functional abnormalities observed in patients with fragile X syndrome.
Three closely related proteins transport glutamate into synaptic vesicles for release by exocytosis. Complementary patterns of expression in glutamatergic terminals have been reported for VGLUT1 and VGLUT2. VGLUT3 shows expression by many cells not considered to be glutamatergic. Here we describe the changes in VGLUT expression that occur during development. VGLUT1 expression increases gradually after birth and eventually predominates over the other isoforms in telencephalic regions. Expressed at high levels shortly after birth, VGLUT2 declines with age in multiple regions, in the cerebellum by 14-fold. In contrast, Coexpression of the two isoforms occurs transiently during development as well as permanently in a restricted subset of glutamatergic terminals in the adult. VGLUT3 is transiently expressed at high levels by select neuronal populations, including terminals in the cerebellar nuclei, scattered neurons in the cortex, and progenitor-like cells, implicating exocytotic glutamate release in morphogenesis and development. VGLUT3 also colocalizes extensively during development with the neuronal vesicular monoamine transporter VMAT2, with the vesicular acetylcholine transporter VAChT, and with the vesicular gamma-aminobutyric acid transporter VGAT. Such coexpression occurs particularly at some specific developmental stages and is restricted to certain sets of cells. In skeletal muscle, VGLUT3 localizes to granular organelles in the axon terminal as well as in the muscle sarcoplasm. The results suggest novel mechanisms and roles for regulated transmitter release.
Neurofilaments are the major components of the neuronal cytoskeleton, and accumulations of these proteins are associated with several important human diseases. Here we report the cloning and sequencing of bovine NF-M, the first NF-M cloned from a large domestic mammal. The bovine sequence proves to be generally more similar to that of human NF-M than the previously described mammalian sequences, suggesting that bovine neurofilaments are a useful model for biochemical studies of application to humans. However, we noted some unusual features within the 16 lys-ser-pro (KSP2) type phosphopeptide repeats and also note that the number of these repeats correlates well with the size of animal. We also characterized two in vitro calpain cleavage sites by direct peptide sequencing, finding that both are located in the glutamic acid rich E segment. Finally, we show biochemically that the more abundant and stable of these calpain fragments can also be detected in vivo.
BACKGROUND: The parenchyma of the brain does not contain lymphatics. Consequently, it has been assumed that arachnoid projections into the cranial venous system are responsible for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) absorption. However, recent quantitative and qualitative evidence in sheep suggest that nasal lymphatics have the major role in CSF transport. Nonetheless, the applicability of this concept to other species, especially to humans has never been clarified. The purpose of this study was to compare the CSF and nasal lymph associations in human and non-human primates with those observed in other mammalian species. METHODS: Studies were performed in sheep, pigs, rabbits, rats, mice, monkeys and humans. Immediately after sacrifice (or up to 7 hours after death in humans), yellow Microfil was injected into the CSF compartment. The heads were cut in a sagittal plane. RESULTS: In the seven species examined, Microfil was observed primarily in the subarachnoid space around the olfactory bulbs and cribriform plate. The contrast agent followed the olfactory nerves and entered extensive lymphatic networks in the submucosa associated with the olfactory and respiratory epithelium. This is the first direct evidence of the association between the CSF and nasal lymph compartments in humans. CONCLUSIONS: The fact that the pattern of Microfil distribution was similar in all species tested, suggested that CSF absorption into nasal lymphatics is a characteristic feature of all mammals including humans. It is tempting to speculate that some disorders of the CSF system (hydrocephalus and idiopathic intracranial hypertension for example) may relate either directly or indirectly to a lymphatic CSF absorption deficit.
As the secretory source of vitamins, peptides and hormones for neurons, the choroid plexus (CP) epithelium critically provides substances for brain homeostasis. This distributive process of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) volume transmission reaches many cellular targets in the CNS. In ageing and ageing-related dementias, the CP-CSF system is less able to regulate brain interstitial fluid. CP primarily generates CSF bulk flow, and so its malfunctioning exacerbates Alzheimers disease (AD). Considerable attention has been devoted to the blood-brain barrier in AD, but more insight is needed on regulatory systems at the human blood-CSF barrier in order to improve epithelial function in severe disease. Using autopsied CP specimens from AD patients, we immunocytochemically examined expression of heat shock proteins (HSP90 and GRP94), fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFr) and a fluid-regulatory protein (NaK2Cl cotransporter isoform 1 or NKCC1). CP upregulated HSP90, FGFr and NKCC1, even in end-stage AD. These CP adjustments involve growth factors and neuropeptides that help to buffer perturbations in CNS water balance and metabolism. They shed light on CP-CSF system responses to ventriculomegaly and the altered intracranial pressure that occurs in AD and normal pressure hydrocephalus. The ability of injured CP to express key regulatory proteins even at Braak stage V/VI, points to plasticity and function that may be boosted by drug treatment to expedite CSF dynamics. The enhanced expression of human CP 'homeostatic proteins' in AD dementia is discussed in relation to brain deficits and pharmacology.
ANP (atrial natriuretic peptide) is widely recognized as an important vasorelaxant, diuretic, and cardioprotective hormone. Little is known, however, about how ANP-secretory vesicles form within the atrial myocytes. Secretory vesicles were visualized by fluorescence microscope imaging in live rat atrial myocytes expressing proANP-enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP), or N-terminal-mutated fusion proteins thought to suppress the calcium-dependent aggregation of proANP. Results showed the following: (1) aggregates of proANP and coexpressed proANP-EGFP recruited peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM)-1, an abundant atrial integral vesicle membrane protein; (2) coexpressed N-terminal-mutated (Glu23,24--&gt;Gln23,24) and N-terminal-deleted proANP-EGFP inhibited recruitment of PAM-1 by up to 60%; (3) 4-phenyl-3-butenoic acid (PBA) (10 mumol/L), a pharmacological inhibitor of the lumenal peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase domain of PAM proteins, inhibited recruitment of endogenous PAM-1 and of coexpressed pro-EGFP-PAM-1; (4) PBA had no effect on exocytosis of the potassium inward rectifier KIR2.1; (5) PBA induced a deformation of the secretory vesicles but did not inhibit docking. These findings suggest that recruitment of PAM-1 to secretory vesicles depends on intact N-terminal proANP and on the lumenal domain of PAM-1. Conversely, PAM-1 participates in shaping the proANP-secretory vesicles. The full text of this article is available online at http://circres.ahajournals.org.
The serine protease thrombin is known as a blood coagulation factor. Through limited cleavage of proteinase-activated receptors it can also control growth and functions in various cell types, including neurons, astrocytes, and microglia (brain macrophages). A number of previous studies indicated that thrombin induces the release of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines from microglial cells, suggesting another important role for the protease beyond hemostasis. In the present report, we provide evidence that this effect is not mediated by any proteolytic or non-proteolytic mechanism involving thrombin proper. Inhibition of the enzymatic thrombin activity did not affect the microglial release response. Instead the cyto-/chemokine-inducing activity solely resided in a high molecular weight protein fraction that could be isolated in trace amounts even from apparently homogenous alpha- and gamma-thrombin preparations. High molecular weight material contained thrombin-derived peptides as revealed by mass spectrometry but was devoid of thrombin-like enzymatic activity. Separated from the high molecular weight fraction by fast protein liquid chromatography, enzymatically intact alpha- and gamma-thrombin failed to trigger any release. Our findings may force a revision of the notion that thrombin itself is a direct proinflammatory release signal for microglia. In addition, they could be relevant for the study of other cellular activities and their assignment to this protease.
Extracellular zinc promotes cell proliferation and its deficiency leads to impairment of this process, which is particularly important in epithelial cells. We have recently characterized a zinc-sensing receptor (ZnR) linking extracellular zinc to intracellular release of calcium. In the present study, we addressed the role of extracellular zinc, acting via the ZnR, in regulating the MAP kinase pathway and Na+/H+ exchange in colonocytes. We demonstrate that Ca2+ release, mediated by the ZnR, induces phosphorylation of ERK1/2, which is highly metal-specific, mediated by physiological concentrations of extracellular Zn2+ but not by Cd2+, Fe2+, Ni2+, or Mn2+. Desensitization of the ZnR by Zn2+, is followed by approximately 90% inhibition of the Zn2+ -dependent ERK1/2 phosphorylation, indicating that the ZnR is a principal link between extracellular Zn2+ and ERK1/2 activation. Application of both the IP3 pathway and PI 3-kinase antagonists largely inhibited Zn2+ -dependent ERK1/2 phosphorylation. The physiological significance of the Zn2+ -dependent activation of ERK1/2 was addressed by monitoring Na+/H+ exchanger activity in HT29 cells and in native colon epithelium. Preincubation of the cells with zinc was followed by robust activation of Na+/H+ exchange, which was eliminated by cariporide (0.5 microm); indicating that zinc enhances the activity of NHE1. Activation of NHE1 by zinc was totally blocked by the ERK1/2 inhibitor, U0126. Prolonged acidification, in contrast, stimulates NHE1 by a distinct pathway that is not affected by extracellular Zn2+ or inhibitors of the MAP kinase pathway. Desensitization of ZnR activity eliminates the Zn2+ -dependent, but not the prolonged acidification-dependent activation of NHE1, indicating that Zn2+ -dependent activation of H+ extrusion is specifically mediated by the ZnR. Our results support a role for extracellular zinc, acting through the ZnR, in regulating multiple signaling pathways that affect pH homeostasis in colonocytes. Furthermore activation of both, ERK and NHE1, by extracellular zinc may provide the mechanism linking zinc to enhanced cell proliferation.
The effect of lipopolysaccharide inhalation upon lung anandamide levels, anandamide synthetic enzymes and fatty acid amide hydrolase has been investigated. Lipopolysaccharide exposure produced a dramatic extravasation of neutrophils and release of tumour necrosis factor alpha into the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, which was not accompanied by epithelial cell injury. The treatment, however, did not change significantly the levels of anandamide and the related compound palmitoylethanolamide in the cell-free fraction of the BAL fluid. The activities of the anandamide synthetic enzymes N-acyltransferase and N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine phospholipase D and the activity of fatty acid amide hydrolase in lung membrane fractions did not change significantly following the exposure to lipopolysaccharide. The non-selective fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitor phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride was a less potent inhibitor of lung fatty acid amide hydrolase than expected from the literature, and a dose of 30 mg/kg i.p. of this compound, which produced a complete inhibition of brain anandamide metabolism, only partially inhibited the lung metabolic activity.
Addictive drugs have been hypothesized to access the same neurophysiological mechanisms as natural learning systems. These natural learning systems can be modeled through temporal-difference reinforcement learning (TDRL), which requires a reward-error signal that has been hypothesized to be carried by dopamine. TDRL learns to predict reward by driving that reward-error signal to zero. By adding a noncompensable drug-induced dopamine increase to a TDRL model, a computational model of addiction is constructed that over-selects actions leading to drug receipt. The model provides an explanation for important aspects of the addiction literature and provides a theoretic view-point with which to address other aspects.

To what extent do we learn from the positive versus negative outcomes of our decisions? The neuromodulator dopamine plays a key role in these reinforcement learning processes. Patients with Parkinson's disease, who have depleted dopamine in the basal ganglia, are impaired in tasks that require learning from trial and error. Here, we show, using two cognitive procedural learning tasks, that Parkinson's patients off medication are better at learning to avoid choices that lead to negative outcomes than they are at learning from positive outcomes. Dopamine medication reverses this bias, making patients more sensitive to positive than negative outcomes. This pattern was predicted by our biologically based computational model of basal ganglia-dopamine interactions in cognition, which has separate pathways for &quot;Go&quot; and &quot;NoGo&quot; responses that are differentially modulated by positive and negative reinforcement.

In the dentate gyrus (DG) of the adult mouse hippocampus, a substantial number of new cells are generated daily, but only a subset of these survive and differentiate into mature neurons, whereas the majority undergo programmed cell death (PCD). However, neither the intracellular machinery required for adult stem cell-derived neuronal death nor the biological implications of the significant loss of these newly generated cells have been examined. Several markers for apoptosis failed to reveal cell death in Bax-deficient mice, and this, together with a progressive increase in neuron number in the DG of the Bax knock-out, indicates that Bax is critical for the PCD of adult-generated hippocampal neurons. Whereas the proliferation of neural progenitor cells was not altered in the Bax-knock-out, there was an accumulation of doublecortin, calretinin+, and neuronal-specific nuclear protein+ postmitotic neurons, suggesting that Bax-mediated PCD of adult-generated neurons takes place during an early phase of differentiation. The absence of PCD in the adult also influenced the migration and maturation of adult-generated DG neurons. These results suggest that PCD in the adult brain plays a significant role in the regulation of multiple aspects of adult neurogenesis.
The detailed functional organization of the macaque second somatosensory cortex (SII) is not well understood. Here we report the results of a study of the functional organization of the SII hand region that combines microelectrode mapping using hand-held stimuli with single-unit recordings using a motorized, computer-controlled tactile oriented bar. The data indicate that the SII hand region extends approximately 10 mm in the anteroposterior (AP) dimension, primarily within the upper bank of the lateral sulcus. Furthermore, we find evidence that this region consists of multiple functional fields, with a central field containing neurons that are driven well by cutaneous stimuli, flanked by an anterior field and a posterior field that each contain neurons that are driven well by proprioceptive stimuli and less well by cutaneous stimuli. The anterior field extends approximately 4-5 mm AP, the central field extends approximately 3-4 mm, and the posterior field extends approximately 3 mm. Data from the motorized stimulator indicate that neurons in the central field are more responsive to oriented bars, more frequently exhibit orientation tuning, and have larger receptive fields than neurons in the anterior and posterior fields. We speculate that the three putative fields play different functional roles in tactile perception; the anterior and posterior fields process information that involves both proprioceptive and cutaneous input such as sensorimotor integration or stereognosis, whereas the central field processes primarily cutaneous information.
How and when sensory hair cells acquire the remarkable ability to detect and transmit mechanical information carried by sound and head movements has not been illuminated. Previously, we defined the onset of mechanotransduction in embryonic hair cells of mouse vestibular organs to be at approximately embryonic day 16 (E16). Here we examine the functional maturation of hair cells in intact sensory epithelia excised from the inner ears of embryonic mice. Hair cells were studied at stages between E14 and postnatal day 2 using the whole-cell, tight-seal recording technique. We tracked the developmental acquisition of four voltage-dependent conductances. We found a delayed rectifier potassium conductance that appeared as early as E14 and grew in amplitude over the subsequent prenatal week. Interestingly, we also found a low-voltage-activated potassium conductance present at E18, approximately 1 week earlier than reported previously. An inward rectifier conductance appeared at approximately E15 and doubled in size over the next few days. We also noted transient expression of a voltage-gated sodium conductance that peaked between E16 and E18 and then declined to near zero at birth. We propose that hair cells undergo a stereotyped developmental pattern of ion channel acquisition and that the precise pattern may underlie other developmental processes such as synaptogenesis and functional differentiation into type I and type II hair cells. In addition, we find that the developmental acquisition of basolateral conductances shapes the hair cell receptor potential and therefore comprises an important step in the signal cascade from mechanotransduction to neurotransmission.
We describe a homeostatic mechanism that limits NMDA receptor currents in response to early light activation of a developing visual pathway. During the second postnatal week of rodent retinocollicular development, the Ca2+-activated phosphatase calcineurin (CaN) mediates a rapid, activity-induced shortening in the decay time of NMDA receptor (NMDAR) currents. We show that protein kinase A acts in opposition to CaN to maintain NMDAR currents with long decay times. The CaN-mediated change is coincident with the initial expression of the NMDAR subunit NR2A. Using NR2A knock-out mice and dialyzing neurons with a constitutively active CaN, we demonstrate that NR2A subunits are necessary for the effect of CaN on NMDAR current kinetics. In wild-type mice, Ser900 of NR2A, previously implicated in CaN-mediated glycine-independent desensitization, becomes chronically dephosphorylated by postnatal day 11 as NMDAR current decay times become faster. Pharmacologically disrupting early photoreceptor-driven activity in the retina eliminates the dephosphorylation of NR2A and prevents the shortening in NMDAR current decay time. These data suggest that the developmental onset of retinal activity increases CaN-mediated dephosphorylation of NR2A subunits newly incorporated into synaptic NMDARs of the superior colliculus, thereby providing a mechanism for the early and rapid reduction of NMDAR current decay time in visual neurons.
During early postnatal development, midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons display anomalous firing patterns and amphetamine response. Spontaneous miniature hyperpolarizations (SMHs) are observed in DA neurons during the same period but not in adults. These hyperpolarizations have been shown to be dependent on the release of Ca2+ from internal stores and the subsequent activation of Ca2+-sensitive K+ channels. However, the triggering mechanism and the functional significance of SMHs remain poorly understood. To address these issues, using brain slices, we recorded spontaneous miniature outward currents (SMOCs) in DA neurons of neonatal rats. Two types of SMOCs were identified based on the peak amplitude. Both types were suppressed by intracellular dialysis of ruthenium red, a ryanodine receptor (RyR) antagonist, yet none of the known Ca2+-releasing messengers were involved. T-type Ca2+ channel blockers (Ni2+ and mibefradil) inhibited large-amplitude SMOCs without affecting the small-amplitude ones. The voltage dependence of SMOCs displayed a peak of approximately -50 mV, consistent with the involvement of low-threshold T-type Ca2+ channels. Blockade of SMOCs with cyclopiazonic acid or ryanodine converted the irregular firing of DA neurons in neonatal rats into an adult-like pacemaker pattern. This effect was reversed by the injection of artificial currents mimicking SMOCs. Finally, amphetamine inhibited SMOCs and transformed the irregular firing pattern into a more regular one. These data demonstrate that Ca2+ influx through T-type Ca2+ channels, followed by Ca2+-induced Ca2+ release via RyRs, contributes to the generation of SMOCs. We propose that SMOCs-SMHs may underlie the anomalous firing and amphetamine response of DA neurons during the postnatal developmental period.
Under certain conditions, regenerative voltage spikes can be initiated locally in the dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurons. These are interesting events that could potentially provide neurons with additional computational abilities. Using whole-cell dendritic recordings from the distal apical trunk and proximal tuft regions and realistic computer modeling, we have determined that highly synchronized and moderately clustered inputs are required for dendritic spike initiation: approximately 50 synaptic inputs spread over 100 mum of the apical trunk/tuft need to be activated within 3 msec. Dendritic spikes are characterized by a more depolarized voltage threshold than at the soma [-48 +/- 1 mV (n = 30) vs -56 +/- 1 mV (n = 7), respectively] and are mainly generated and shaped by dendritic Na+ and K+ currents. The relative contribution of AMPA and NMDA currents is also important in determining the actual spatiotemporal requirements for dendritic spike initiation. Once initiated, dendritic spikes can easily reach the soma, but their propagation is only moderately strong, so that it can be modulated by physiologically relevant factors such as changes in the V(m) and the ionic composition of the extracellular solution. With effective spike propagation, an extremely short-latency neuronal output is produced for greatly reduced input levels. Therefore, dendritic spikes function as efficient detectors of specific input patterns, ensuring that the neuronal response to high levels of input synchrony is a precisely timed action potential output.
Using a GO-NOGO response inhibition task in which working memory (WM) demands can be varied, we demonstrate that the compromised abilities of cocaine users to exert control over strong prepotent urges are associated with reduced activity in anterior cingulate and right prefrontal cortices, two regions thought to be critical for implementing cognitive control. Furthermore, unlike drug-naive controls, and opposite to the anterior cingulate pattern, cocaine users showed an over-reliance on the left cerebellum, a compensatory pattern previously seen in alcohol addiction. The results indicate that cocaine users find it difficult to inhibit their own actions, particularly when WM demands, which have been shown previously to increase during cue-induced craving for the drug, are increased. The results reveal a neuroanatomical basis for this dysexecutive component to addiction, supporting the suggested importance cognitive functions may play in prolonging abuse or predisposing users toward relapse.
To enable vital observation of glia at the neuromuscular junction, transgenic mice were generated that express proteins of the green fluorescent protein family under control of transcriptional regulatory sequences of the human S100B gene. Terminal Schwann cells were imaged repetitively in living animals of one of the transgenic lines to show that, except for extension and retraction of short processes, the glial coverings of the adult neuromuscular synapse are stable. In other lines, subsets of Schwann cells were labeled. The distribution of label suggests that Schwann cells at individual synapses are clonally related, a finding with implications for how these cells might be sorted during postnatal development. Other labeling patterns, some present in unique lines, included astrocytes, microglia, and subsets of cerebellar Bergmann glia, spinal motor neurons, macrophages, and dendritic cells. We show that lines with labeled macrophages can be used to follow the accumulation of these cells at sites of injury.
Understanding how the human visual system recognizes objects is one of the key challenges in neuroscience. Inspired by a large body of physiological evidence, a general class of recognition models has emerged, which is based on a hierarchical organization of visual processing, with succeeding stages being sensitive to image features of increasing complexity. However, these models appear to be incompatible with some well-known psychophysical results. Prominent among these are experiments investigating recognition impairments caused by vertical inversion of images, especially those of faces. It has been reported that faces that differ 'featurally' are much easier to distinguish when inverted than those that differ 'configurally'; a finding that is difficult to reconcile with the physiological models. Here, we show that after controlling for subjects' expectations, there is no difference between 'featurally' and 'configurally' transformed faces in terms of inversion effect. This result reinforces the plausibility of simple hierarchical models of object representation and recognition in the cortex.
Brain lateralization is common among vertebrates. However, despite its implications for higher-order cognitive functions, almost no empirical evidence has been provided to show that it may confer any advantage to the functioning of the brain. Here, we show in the domestic chick (Gallus gallus domesticus) that cerebral lateralization is associated with an enhanced ability to perform two tasks simultaneously: finding food and being vigilant for predators. This finding suggests that cerebral lateralization enhances brain efficiency in cognitive tasks that demand the simultaneous but different use of both hemispheres.
Gene expression analysis implicates an increasing number of novel genes in the brain as potential targets for the treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders. Frequently, these genes are ubiquitously expressed in the brain and, thus, may contribute to a pathophysiological state through actions in several brain nuclei. Current strategies employing genetically modified animals for in vivo validation of such targets are time-consuming and often limited by developmental adaptations. Somatic gene manipulation using viral-mediated RNA interference (RNAi) has emerged recently, although restricting the target validation to specific brain nuclei. We investigated whether nonviral infusion of short interfering RNA (siRNA) into the ventricular system would enable a sequence-specific gene knockdown. The temporality and extent of siRNA-induced down-regulation were analyzed by targeting a transgene, EGFP, in mice overexpressing EGFP. Extensive knockdown of EGFP was observed, especially in regions adjacent or dorsoventrally and mediolaterally distant to the infusion site (dorsal third ventricle), with lesser knockdown in more distal regions. We challenged our RNAi approach to generate a specific knockdown of an endogenous gene, encoding the dopamine transporter (DAT) in regions (ventral midbrain) far distal to the infusion site. DAT-siRNA infusion in adult mice produced a significant down-regulation of DAT mRNA and protein in the brain and also elicited a temporal hyperlocomotor response similar to that (but delayed) obtained upon infusion of GBR-12909, a pharmacologically selective DAT inhibitor. Application of this nonviral RNAi approach may accelerate target validation for neuropsychiatric disorders that involve a complex interplay of gene(s) from various brain regions.
alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) receptors mediate excitatory synaptic transmission and are dynamically regulated during synaptic plasticity in the CNS. The membrane trafficking of AMPA receptors to synapses is critical for the regulation of the efficacy of excitatory synaptic transmission. Direct imaging of AMPA receptors in various cell compartments is important to dissecting the regulation of distinct steps in receptor membrane trafficking. In this study, we have developed an approach for the imaging of receptor trafficking with subunits tagged with a 13-aa alpha-bungarotoxin (BTX)-binding site (BBS). The small polypeptide neurotoxin BTX has been used for decades to study the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Similar high-affinity ligands are rarely available for most receptors. Engineering the BBS tag into receptor subunits allowed the high-affinity binding of fluorescent, radioactive, and biotinylated BTX to the tagged receptor subunits. By using this approach, the total receptor expression, surface expression, internalization, and insertion of receptors into the plasma membrane could be visualized and quantified in fixed or live cells including cultured neurons. The BBS tag is a flexible approach for labeling membrane proteins and studying their dynamic trafficking.
This study investigated the capacity of erythropoietin (EPO) to protect fear conditioning performances against functional inactivation of the amygdala. We infused an excitotoxic dose of glutamate in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) of adult rats in order to block the output projections to brainstem areas controlling the expression of conditioned fear responses. Subsequently, animals with excitotoxic lesions in the LA displayed altered short and long-term fear conditioned responses, but the integrity of their general emotional reactivity was preserved, as indicated by their open-field behavior. EPO infused immediately after glutamate succeeded to protect the conditioned fear performances of rats. This effect was reliably represented on both short, and long-term memory tests of conditioned fear. This and other studies have supported the potent neuroprotective activity of EPO, discriminable both morphologically, and behaviorally.
We have demonstrated that oxidative stress is involved, at least in part, in beta-amyloid protein (Abeta)-induced neurotoxicity in vivo [Eur. J. Neurosci. 1999;11:83-90; Neuroscience 2003;119:399-419]. However, mechanistic links between oxidative stress and memory loss in response to Abeta remain elusive. In the present study, we examined whether oxidative stress contributes to the memory deficits induced by intracerebroventricular injection of Abeta (1-42) in mice. Abeta (1-42)-induced memory impairments were observed, as measured by the water maze and passive avoidance tests, although these impairments were not found in Abeta (40-1)-treated mice. Treatment with antioxidant alpha-tocopherol significantly prevented memory impairment induced by Abeta (1-42). Increased activities of the cytosolic Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD) and mitochondrial Mn-superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD) were observed in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of Abeta (1-42)-treated animals, as compared with Abeta (40-1)-treated mice. The induction of Cu,Zn-SOD was more pronounced than that of Mn-SOD after Abeta (1-42) insult. However, the concomitant induction of glutathione peroxidase (GPX) in response to significant increases in SOD activity was not seen in animals treated with Abeta (1-42). Furthermore, glutathione reductase (GRX) activity was only increased at 2h after Abeta (1-42) injection. Production of malondialdehyde (lipid peroxidation) and protein carbonyl (protein oxidation) remained elevated at 10 days post-Abeta (1-42), but the antioxidant alpha-tocopherol significantly prevented these oxidative stresses. Therefore, our results suggest that the oxidative stress contributes to the Abeta (1-42)-induced learning and memory deficits in mice.
In the face of contradictory findings on the role of visual cortex contributions to spatial behavior, the present study evaluated the ability of rats with primary visual cortex (Area 17) lesions to learn spatial problems in a swimming pool. Because the solution to any spatial learning problem consists of acquiring at least two primary elements of a task, task procedures and spatial learning, the study, in addition to assessing spatial ability on a place task, used two training/testing methods to identify the nature of the spatial impairment associated with visual cortex lesions. Non-spatial training consisted of learning to find a platform in the dark and spatial training consisted of a series of matching-to-place problems. The results confirmed that although rats with visual cortex lesions were impaired on place learning, the deficit was partially ameliorated by non-spatial training given following the lesion, and completely ameliorated by non-spatial training given before the lesion. Nevertheless, all visual cortex groups failed to show a quadrant preference on a probe trial and displayed a profound impairment in matching-to-place learning. This definitive demonstration that appropriate testing methods can reveal a failure in spatial behavior following visual cortex lesions is consistent with the idea that primary visual cortex is required in spatial navigation.
The endo-sarcoplasmic reticulum of striated muscle cells consists of distinct functional domains that are extremely well organized both in terms of functional specialisation and of spatial organisation. Here we shall review recent evidence on the potential involvement of recently identified novel proteins and of cytoskeletal components in the structural and functional organization of the sarcoplasmic reticulum with respect to the surface membrane/T-tubule system and the contractile apparatus.

L7/Pcp-2 is a GoLoco domain protein encoded by a Purkinje cell dendritic mRNA. Although biochemical interactions of GoLoco proteins with Galpha(o) and Galpha(i) are well documented, little is known about effector function modulation resulting from these interactions. The P-type Ca2+ channels might be physiological effectors of L7 because (1) they are the major voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels (VDCC) that modulate Purkinje cell output and (2) they are regulated by G(i/o) proteins. As a first step towards validating this hypothesis and to further understand the possible physiological effect of L7 protein and its two isoforms, we have coexpressed Ca(v)2.1 channels and kappa-opioid receptors (KORs) with varying amounts of L7A or L7B in Xenopus oocytes and measured ionic currents by two-electrode voltage clamping. Without receptor activation L7 did not alter the Ca2+ channel activity. With tonic and weak activation of the receptors, however, the Ca2+ channels were inhibited by 40-50%. This inhibition was enhanced by low, but dampened by high, expression levels of L7A and L7B and differences were observed between the two isoforms. The enhancing effect of L7 was occluded by overexpression of Gbetagamma, whereas the disinhibition was antagonized by overexpression of Galpha(o). We propose that L7 differentially affects the Galpha and Gbetagamma arms of receptor-induced G(i/o) signaling in a concentration-dependent manner, through which it increases the dynamic range of regulation of P/Q-type Ca2+ channels by G(i/o) protein-coupled receptors. This provides a framework for designing further experiments to determine how dendritic local fluctuations in L7 protein levels might influence signal processing in Purkinje cells.
Oct-3/4 (Oct-3/Oct-4/POU5F1) is a critical regulator of embryonic stem (ES) cell differentiation, though its role in tissue stem cells that persist in differentiated tissues has not been shown. Here, we show that Oct-3/4 is expressed in neurospheres (NS) composed of neural stem cells and neural progenitor cells and that up- or down-regulation of Oct-3/4 by using adenovirus vectors influences cell fate. Oct-3/4 down-regulation accelerates neuronal differentiation of progenitor cells while its sustained expression prevents neuronal differentiation. Transplantation of neurospheres into the adult rat brain shows that down-regulation of Oct-3/4 promotes differentiation of NS cells in vivo. Our findings indicate that Oct-3/4 is an essential regulator of NS cell differentiation and suggest that the modulation of Oct-3/4 could be a useful tool in clinical application of NS cells.
The favorable prognosis of regeneration in the peripheral nervous system after axonal lesions is generally regarded as dependent on the Schwann cell basal lamina. Laminins, a heterotrimeric group of basal lamina molecules, have been suggested to be among the factors playing this supportive role. For neurons to utilize laminin as a substrate for growth, an expression of laminin binding receptors, integrins, is necessary. In this study, we have examined the expression of laminin binding integrin subunits in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons after transection to either their peripherally projecting axons, as in the sciatic nerve, followed by regeneration, or the centrally projecting axons in dorsal roots, followed by no or weak regenerative activity. In uninjured DRG, immunohistochemical staining revealed a few neurons expressing integrin subunit alpha6, whereas integrin subunits alpha7 and foremost beta1 were expressed in a majority of neurons. After an injury to the sciatic nerve, mRNAs encoding all three integrins were up-regulated in DRG neurons. By anterograde tracing, immunoreactivity for all studied integrins was also found in association with growing axons after a sciatic nerve crush lesion in vivo. In contrast, mRNA levels remained constant in DRG neurons after a dorsal root injury. Together with previous findings, this suggests that integrin subunits alpha6, alpha7, and beta1 have an important role in the regenerative response following nerve injury and that the lack of regenerative capacity following dorsal root injury could in part be explained by the absence of response in integrin regulation.
The alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors (AMPARs) mediate rapid responses at most central excitatory synapses, including those in the olfactory bulb (OB). These receptors are composed of the glutamate subunits GluR1-4, which each has two splice variant (flip/flop) forms. We recently showed that AMPARs on OB neurons are kinetically and pharmacologically diverse. Here, we explored whether this functional heterogeneity reflects a diverse expression of AMPAR subunits and/or splice variants. Total RNA from rat OBs was amplified by RT-PCR. Digestion of the panGluR PCR product with subunit-specific restriction enzymes revealed that the OB expresses mRNAs for GluR1-4 but in different relative amounts i.e., GluR2 (61 +/- 2.4%), GluR1 (31 +/- 3.5%), GluR4 (6.3 +/- 1.4%), GluR3 (1.4 +/- 0.7%). Furthermore, GluR2 and GluR4 transcripts were composed of similar amounts of flip and flop, whereas GluR1 and GluR3 transcripts consisted mostly of flip. If similar to other brain regions, this heterogeneity in patterns of expression may facilitate information processing.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine 3 (5HT3) receptor is a serotonin-gated ion channel implicated in reflex regulation of autonomic functions within the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). To determine the relevant sites for 5-HT3 receptor mediated transmission in this region, we used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to examine the subcellular distribution of the 5HT3 receptor subunit A (5HT3A) in relation to the serotonin transporter (SERT) in the intermediate medial NTS (mNTS) of rat brain. The 5HT3A immunolabeling was detected in many axonal as well as somatodendritic and glial profiles. The axonal profiles included small axons and axon terminals in which the 5HT3A immunoreactivity was localized to membranes of synaptic vesicles and extrasynaptic plasma membranes. In dendrites and glia, the 5HT3A immunoreactivity was located on the plasma membranes or in association with membranous cytoplasmic organelles. The dendritic plasmalemmal 5HT3A labeling was prominent within and near excitatory-type synapses from terminals including those that resemble vagal afferents. The 5HT3A-labeled glial processes apposed 5HT3A-immunoreactive axonal and dendritic profiles, some of which also contained SERT. Terminals containing 5-HT3A and/or SERT were among those providing synaptic input to 5HT3A-labeled dendrites. Thus, 5HT3A has a subcellular distribution consistent with the involvement of 5-HT3 receptors in modulation of both presynaptic release and postsynaptic responses of mNTS neurons, some of which are serotonergic. The results further suggest that the neuronal as well as glial 5HT3 receptors can be activated by release of serotonin from presynaptic terminals or by diffusion facilitated by SERT distribution at a distant from the synapse.
The human neuroblastoma cell line, SH-SY5Y, was used to examine the effects of morphine and the endogenous opioid peptides, endomorphin-1 (EM-1) and endomorphin-2 (EM-2), on mu opioid receptor (MOR) internalization and down-regulation. Treatment for 24 h with EM-1, EM-2 or morphine at 100 nM, 1 microM and 10 microM resulted in a dose-dependent down-regulation of mu receptors. Exposure of cells to 10 microM EM-1 for 2.5, 5 and 24 h resulted in a time-dependent down-regulation of mu receptors. Down-regulation of mu receptors by morphine and EM-1 was blocked by treatment with hypertonic sucrose, consistent with an endocytosis-dependent mechanism. Sensitive cell-surface binding studies with a radiolabeled mu antagonist revealed that morphine was able to induce internalization of mu receptors naturally expressed in SH-SY5Y cells. EM-1 produced a more rapid internalization of mu receptors than morphine, but hypertonic sucrose blocked the internalization induced by each of these agonists. This study demonstrates that, like morphine, the endomorphins down-regulate mu opioid receptors in a dose- and time-dependent manner. This study also demonstrates that morphine, as well as EM-1, can induce rapid, endocytosis-dependent internalization of mu opioid receptors in SH-SY5Y cells. These results may help elucidate the ability of mu agonists to regulate the number and responsiveness of their receptors.
The antipsychotic drug quetiapine increases the firing rate of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area of the rat. In the present study we used an in vitro midbrain slice preparation and found that 3 microM quetiapine increases the firing rate of dopamine neuron in both structures by approximately 30%. The magnitude of the increase was not correlated with the basal firing rate of the dopamine neurons. In addition, quetiapine was not able to antagonize the inhibition of the firing evoked by the dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole. Only with a very high concentration (30 microM), quetiapine was able to counteract the amphetamine-induced inhibition of the firing of the ventral tegmental area neurons; this effect was less pronounced in substantia nigra neurons. These findings indicate that the increase in firing rate induced by quetiapine cannot solely be mediated through an interaction with the dopamine D2-like autoreceptor present on the dopamine neurons.
Effects of common monoterpenoid alcohols and ketones were investigated on recombinant human gamma-aminobutyric acid A (GABAA; alpha1beta2gamma2s) and glycine (alpha1 homomers) receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes. GABA currents were enhanced by coapplications of 10-300 microM: (+)-menthol&gt;(-)-menthol&gt;(-)-borneol&gt;(-)-menthone=camphor enantiomers&gt;carvone enantiomers, with menthol acting stereoselectively. By contrast, thujone diastereomers inhibited GABAA receptor currents while glycine currents were only markedly potentiated by menthol. Positive modulation by (+)-menthol was explored given its pronounced effects (e.g., at 100 microM, GABA and glycine EC20 responses increased by 496+/-113% and 135+/-56%, respectively). (+)-Menthol, 100 microM, reduced EC50 values for GABA and glycine from 82.8+/-9.9 to 25.0+/-1.8 microM, and from 98.7+/-8.6 to 75.7+/-9.4 microM respectively, with negligible effects on maximal currents. This study reveals a novel neuroactive role for menthol as a stereoselective modulator of inhibitory ligand-gated channels.
Alzheimer's disease is a major illness of dementia characterized by the presence of amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and extensive neuronal apoptosis. However, the mechanism behind neuronal apoptosis in the Alzheimer's-diseased brain is poorly understood. This study underlines the importance of neutral sphingomyelinase in fibrillar Abeta peptide-induced apoptosis and cell death in human primary neurons. Abeta1-42 peptides induced the activation of sphingomyelinases and the production of ceramide in neurons. Interestingly, neutral (N-SMase), but not acidic (A-SMase), sphingomyelinase was involved in Abeta1-42-mediated neuronal apoptosis and cell death. Abeta1-42-induced production of ceramide was redox-sensitive, as reactive oxygen species were involved in the activation of N-SMase but not A-SMase. Abeta1-42 peptides induced the NADPH oxidase-mediated production of superoxide radicals in neurons that was involved in the activation of N-SMase, but not A-SMase, via hydrogen peroxide. Consistently, superoxide radicals generated by hypoxanthine and xanthine oxidase also induced the activation of N-SMase, but not A-SMase, through a catalase-sensitive pathway. Furthermore, antisense knockdown of p22phox, a subunit of NADPH oxidase, inhibited Abeta1-42-induced neuronal apoptosis and cell death. These studies suggest that fibrillar Abeta1-42 peptides induce neuronal apoptosis through the NADPH oxidase-superoxide-hydrogen peroxide-NS-Mase-ceramide pathway.
Injections of muscimol into the nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh) induce large increases in food intake in satiated rats and also activate neurons in a number of feeding-related brain regions, including NPY-containing neurons in the arcuate hypothalamic nucleus and cells in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. This suggests that the NPY system may participate in the expression of AcbSh-mediated feeding behavior. Therefore, we examined the effects of intraventricular administration of the Y1 receptor antagonist 1229U91 or the Y5 receptor antagonist L-152,804 on AcbSh-mediated food intake. Intra-AcbSh muscimol elicited a large increase in food intake which was potently suppressed by blocking either central Y1 or Y5 receptors. Our results suggest that the AcbSh influences food intake, in part, through the release of NPY.
Neurotrophin alterations have been associated with normal aging and age-related neurodegenerative disease, as well as cognitive status. Estrogen influences expression of mRNA and protein of neurotrophins and their receptors, and affects cognitive performance in young ovariectomized (Ovx) rats. The current investigation evaluated whether estrogen or estrogen plus progesterone affects neurotrophin protein levels in cognitive brain regions in the aged Ovx rat. While estrogen treatment increased BDNF, NGF, and NT3 levels in entorhinal cortex, progesterone abated the effects of estrogen resulting in neurotrophin levels comparable to aged Ovx rats not given hormone. Our findings suggest that the aged female brain is responsive to estrogen in cognitive brain regions, and that progesterone can reverse these estrogen effects.
Uncontrollable, but not controllable, stress produces a persistent potentiation of morphine-induced nucleus accumbens dopamine (DA) efflux and morphine-induced medial prefrontal cortex serotonin (5-HT) efflux. Here we investigate medial prefrontal cortex 5-HT mediation of this potentiation. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received bilateral medial prefrontal cortex microinjections of the neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytriptamine (5,7-DHT, 8 microg/microl/side), which selectively depleted medial prefrontal cortex 5-HT, or vehicle (Sham), and cannula implantation in the nucleus accumbens shell. After 2 weeks, rats received either uncontrollable stress or no stress. Microdialysis and morphine (3 mg/kg) treatment were performed the following day. Morphine produced an enhanced increase in DA in the Stress-Sham group that was completely blocked by 5,7-DHT lesions, suggesting that 5-HT in the medial prefrontal cortex mediates this potentiation.

Genomic instability is a highly pleiotropic phenotype, which may reflect a variety of underlying mechanisms. Destabilization has been shown in some cases to involve mutational alteration or inactivation of trans-acting cellular factors, for example, p53 or mismatch repair functions. However, aspects of instability are not well explained by mutational inactivation of trans-acting factors, and other epigenetic and cis-acting mechanisms have recently been proposed. The trans and cis models result in divergent predictions for the distribution of instability-associated genetic alterations within the genome, and for the inheritance of genomic instability among sibling sub-clones of unstable parents. These predictions have been tested in this study primarily by tracking the karyotypic distribution of chromosomal rearrangements in clones and sub-clones exhibiting radiation-induced genomic instability; inheritance of mutator phenotypes was also analyzed. The results indicate that genomic instability is unevenly transmitted to sibling sub-clones, that chromosomal rearrangements within unstable clones are non-randomly distributed throughout the karyotype, and that the majority of chromosomal rearrangements associated with instability affect trisomic chromosomal segments. Observations of instability in trisomic regions suggests that in addition to promoting further alterations in chromosomal number, aneuploidy can affect the recovery of structural rearrangements. In summary, these findings cannot be fully explained by invoking a homogeneously distributed factor acting in trans, but do provide support for previous suggestions that genomic instability may in part be driven by a cis-acting mechanism.
The major adverse consequences of radiation exposures are attributed to DNA damage in irradiated cells that has not been correctly restored by metabolic repair processes. However, the dogma that genetic alterations are restricted to directly irradiated cells has been challenged by observations in which effects of ionizing radiation arise in non-irradiated cells. These, so called, untargeted effects are demonstrated in cells that are the descendants of irradiated cells either directly or via media transfer (radiation-induced genomic instability) or in cells that have communicated with irradiated cells (radiation-induced bystander effects). Radiation-induced genomic instability is characterized by a number of delayed responses including chromosomal abnormalities, gene mutations and cell death. Bystander effects include increases or decreases in damage-inducible and stress-related proteins, increases or decreases in reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, cell death or cell proliferation, cell differentiation, radioadaptation, induction of mutations and chromosome aberrations and chromosomal instability. The phenotypic expression of untargeted effects and the potential consequences of these effects in tissues reflect a balance between the type of bystander signals produced and the responses of cell populations to such signals, both of which may be significantly influenced by cell type and genotype. Thus, in addition to targeted effects of damage induced directly in cells by irradiation, a variety of untargeted effects may also make important short-term and long-term contributions to determining overall outcome after radiation exposures.
The plasticity of synapses within neural circuits is regulated by activity, but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Using the dye FM1-43 to directly image presynaptic function, we found that large numbers of presynaptic terminals in hippocampal cultures have a low release probability. While these terminals were not readily modifiable, a transient but not permanent long-term reduction of network activity or Ca2+ influx could increase their modifiability. This modulation of plasticity was mediated by Ca2+ flux through NMDA and voltage-gated calcium channels and was lost within 48 hr. A more permanent enhancement of synaptic plasticity was achieved by selectively reducing the Ca2+ flux associated with uncorrelated activity via adjustment of the voltage-dependent Mg2+ block of the NMDAR. Upregulation of NR2B-containing NMDARs induced by this treatment is an important but not sole contributor to the enhancement of plasticity. Thus, quantity and quality of activity have differential effects on the intrinsic plasticity of neurons.
Activity-induced modification of neuronal connections is essential for the development of the nervous system and may also underlie learning and memory functions of mature brain. Previous studies have shown an increase in dendritic spine density and/or enlargement of spines after the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP). Using two-photon time-lapse imaging of dendritic spines in acute hippocampal slices from neonatal rats, we found that the induction of long-term depression (LTD) by low-frequency stimulation is accompanied by a marked shrinkage of spines, which can be reversed by subsequent high-frequency stimulation that induces LTP. The spine shrinkage requires activation of NMDA receptors and calcineurin, similar to that for LTD. However, spine shrinkage is mediated by cofilin, but not by protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), which is essential for LTD, suggesting that different downstream pathways are involved in spine shrinkage and LTD. This activity-induced spine shrinkage may contribute to activity-dependent elimination of synaptic connections.
Olfaction is typically described as behaviorally slow, suggesting neural processes on the order of hundreds of milliseconds to seconds as candidate mechanisms in the creation of olfactory percepts. Whereas a recent study challenged this view in suggesting that a single sniff was sufficient for optimal olfactory discrimination, a study by Abraham et al. in this issue of Neuron sets out to negate the challenge by demonstrating increased processing time for discrimination of similar versus dissimilar stimuli. Here we reconcile both studies, which in our view together support the notion of a speed-accuracy tradeoff in olfactory discriminations that are made within about 200 ms. These findings are discussed in light of the challenges related to defining olfactory perceptual similarity in nonhuman animals.

Limb-girdle muscular dystrophies, inherited muscle disorders characterized by progressive weakness and muscle wasting, can be classified into different types, according to their genetic inheritance, distribution of weakness, and molecular defect. The most common clinical forms are autosomal recessive and with proximal involvement, and are classified as limb-girdle muscular dystrophies 2A-2J, with clinical phenotypes ranging from severe progressive muscular dystrophy to mild late-onset forms. Advances have also been made in autosomal dominant limb-girdle dystrophies and the so-called limb-girdle muscular dystrophies 1A-1F. The recent advances in molecular pathogenetic mechanisms of limb-girdle muscular dystrophies have made an impact on the prognosis of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy patients and might be useful not only for prenatal diagnosis, in the family, but may also be of relevance for their treatment.

Paraganglioma is a rare benign tumor arising from the sympathetic nervous system. Here we describe an exceptional case of a paraganglioma located in the nasopharynx with an extension through the clivus up to the dura. Atypically, no contact with any major vessels was found. A radical resection of the mass was performed by an anterior transmaxillary approach through a Le Fort I osteotomy. One year follow up reveals no signs of local or distant recurrence. No cosmetic changes can be observed after the surgery and nasal and masticatory functions are unmodified. We review the clinical presentation, workup of paraganglioma, as well as the surgical approaches to the clivus.




Neurogenesis occurs in two germinal centres of the adult brain and persists with increasing age, although at a reduced level. This observation, that the mature brain can support neurogenesis, has given rise to the hope that neural stem cells could be used to repair the brain by repopulating regions suffering from neuronal loss as a result of injury or disease. The aging brain is vulnerable to mild cognitive impairment, increasing incidence of stroke, and a variety of neurodegenerative diseases. However, most studies to date have focused on the young adult brain, and relatively little information is available about the regulation of neurogenesis in the aged brain or the potential of using neural stem cells to repair the aged brain. This review summarizes the current state of knowledge on neurogenesis in the young adult brain and discusses the information available on age-related changes in neurogenesis. Possible therapeutic strategies using neural stem cells for repair of the aging brain are considered.
Most mammalian cells when placed in culture will undergo a limited number of cell divisions before entering an unresponsive non-proliferating state termed senescence. However, several pathways that are activated singly or in concert can allow cells to bypass senescence at least for limited periods. These include the telomerase pathway required to maintain telomere ends, the p53 and Rb pathways required to direct senescence in response to DNA damage, telomere shortening and mitogenic signals, and the insulin-like growth factor--Akt pathway that may regulate lifespan and cell proliferation. In this review, we summarize recent findings related to these pathways in embryonic stem (ES) cells and suggest that ES cells are immortal because these pathways are tightly regulated.

Joubert syndrome (JS) is an autosomal recessive disorder marked by agenesis of the cerebellar vermis, ataxia, hypotonia, oculomotor apraxia, neonatal breathing abnormalities, and mental retardation. Despite the fact that this condition was described &gt;30 years ago, the molecular basis has remained poorly understood. Here, we identify two frameshift mutations and one missense mutation in the AHI1 gene in three consanguineous families with JS, some with cortical polymicrogyria. AHI1, encoding the Jouberin protein, is an alternatively spliced signaling molecule that contains seven Trp-Asp (WD) repeats, an SH3 domain, and numerous SH3-binding sites. The gene is expressed strongly in embryonic hindbrain and forebrain, and our data suggest that AHI1 is required for both cerebellar and cortical development in humans. The recently described mutations in NPHP1, encoding a protein containing an SH3 domain, in a subset of patients with JS plus nephronophthisis, suggest a shared pathway.

The use of illicit and licit drugs during pregnancy is a major public health concern because of potential adverse effects on the fetus and the risk to maternal health. Because the placenta is the primary link between the mother and the conceptus and is essential for the growth and survival of the fetus, abnormalities in placental formation and function resulting from drug use could have a major influence on pregnancy outcome. At present, little information is available on the impact of abused drugs on placental biology alone or in combination with other &quot;host&quot; factors (eg, stress, infections). This prompted the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) to convene a meeting of experts in placental biology to review cutting-edge research with the mission to translate existing information to new clinical and research initiatives in the drug abuse field. This report summarizes the presentations and research recommendations resulting from the workshop discussions.

Bovine adrenal glomerulosa (AZG) cells were shown to express bTREK-1 background K(+) channels that set the resting membrane potential and couple angiotensin II (ANG II) receptor activation to membrane depolarization and aldosterone secretion. Northern blot and in situ hybridization studies demonstrated that bTREK-1 mRNA is uniformly distributed in the bovine adrenal cortex, including zona fasciculata and zona glomerulosa, but is absent from the medulla. TASK-3 mRNA, which codes for the predominant background K(+) channel in rat AZG cells, is undetectable in the bovine adrenal cortex. In whole cell voltage clamp recordings, bovine AZG cells express a rapidly inactivating voltage-gated K(+) current and a noninactivating background K(+) current with properties that collectively identify it as bTREK-1. The outwardly rectifying K(+) current was activated by intracellular acidification, ATP, and superfusion of bTREK-1 openers, including arachidonic acid (AA) and cinnamyl 1-3,4-dihydroxy-alpha-cyanocinnamate (CDC). Bovine chromaffin cells did not express this current. In voltage and current clamp recordings, ANG II (10 nM) selectively inhibited the noninactivating K(+) current by 82.1 +/- 6.1% and depolarized AZG cells by 31.6 +/- 2.3 mV. CDC and AA overwhelmed ANG II-mediated inhibition of bTREK-1 and restored the resting membrane potential to its control value even in the continued presence of ANG II. Vasopressin (50 nM), which also physiologically stimulates aldosterone secretion, inhibited the background K(+) current by 73.8 +/- 9.4%. In contrast to its potent inhibition of bTREK-1, ANG II failed to alter the T-type Ca(2+) current measured over a wide range of test potentials by using pipette solutions of identical nucleotide and Ca(2+)-buffering compositions. ANG II also failed to alter the voltage dependence of T channel activation under these same conditions. Overall, these results identify bTREK-1 K(+) channels as a pivotal control point where ANG II receptor activation is transduced to depolarization-dependent Ca(2+) entry and aldosterone secretion.
The present study examines the extent of spinal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) absorption in healthy individuals in relation to physical activity, CSF production, intracranial pressure (ICP), and spinal CSF movement. Thirty-four healthy individuals aged 21-35 yr were examined by lumbar puncture and radionuclide cisternography with repeated imaging. ICP was registered before and after CSF drainage, and CSF production was calculated. Spinal CSF absorption was calculated as reduction in spinal radionuclide activity. The radionuclide activity in the spinal subarachnoidal space was gradually decreased by 20 +/- 13% (mean +/- SD) during 1 h. The reduction was higher in active than in resting individuals (27 +/- 12% vs. 13 +/- 9%). The mean ICP in 19 of the individuals was 13.6 +/- 3.1 cm H(2)O. B-waves were found in 79% of the individuals, with a mean frequency of 0.6 +/- 0.3 min(-1). The mean CSF production rate was 0.34 +/- 0.13 ml/min. There were no correlations between radionuclide reduction, spinal movement of the radionuclide, and CSF production rate. The spinal radionuclide reduction found in this study indicates a spinal CSF absorption of 0.11-0.23 ml/min, more pronounced in active than in resting individuals.
Female Japanese macaques (Macaca fuscata) in certain populations are unusual in that they exhibit male-typical patterns of mounting behavior and sexual-partner preference. The goal of this study was to determine whether female Japanese macaques, from one such population, employ male-typical behavioral tactics to disrupt existing homosexual consortships, as well as to acquire and retain same-sex sexual partners. &quot;Harassment&quot; of homosexual consortships occurred when a sexually motivated, third-party male or female interrupted a consorting female couple by displacing or aggressing them. Sexual harassment was a male-typical strategy for disrupting existing homosexual consortships, but was rarely performed by females. &quot;Intrusions&quot; occurred when a male or female competitor attempted to acquire exclusive access to a female engaged in a homosexual consortship by targeting that female as the focus of competition and her partner as his/her competitor. &quot;Sexual coercion&quot; occurred when one individual alternately sexually solicited and aggressed another individual as part of the same behavioral sequence during an intrusion. Males employed consortship intrusions and sexual coercion when they attempted to acquire female sexual partners that were already engaged in homosexual consortships, but females rarely did so. However, females did employ male-typical patterns of aggressive competition and sexual coercion to retain same-sex sexual partners when confronted with male competitors' attempts to usurp those partners. These results indicate that female sexual activity during homosexual consortships is not uniformly &quot;masculine&quot; in expression, but rather is a mixture of male- and female-typical behaviors.



Diagnosis communication is a mainstay of the patient-physician relationship and in ALS represents the beginning of the treatment. In Europe, the diagnosis is now communicated to most patients, but with some differences from north to south. Communication is the basis of the patient's autonomy. When adequately informed, patients are able to consider their preferences about life-extending interventions. However, this discussion is sometimes entertained too late. Both the style and the context of this discussion have profound impact on patient satisfaction. The content of the communication should include all relevant information about the disease and should be performed honestly while preserving hope. Collusion with relatives can create difficulties in the relationship with a patient and isolate them from their family. Diagnostic communication is an ongoing process and should form part of every follow-up visit. Communication with the dying patient is often reinforced by non-verbal messages, acknowledgements of patients' emotions, and by listening. Written material may increase satisfaction of patients and their relatives, but should never substitute for face-to-face discussion.
With the advent of soft ionization methods such as MALDI and ESI, mass spectrometry has become the most important technique for the analysis of proteins and peptides. ESI-MS is often preceded by separation of the peptide sample by reversed-phase liquid chromatography (LC). Acetonitrile (ACN) is the most commonly employed organic solvent in LC-ESI-MS analysis of peptides. In this report, we demonstrate that the use of methanol (MeOH) as the organic modifier improves the detection limits for analysis of peptide mixtures such as those found in tryptic digests of proteins. A nanoLC-ESI-quadrupole ion trap instrument (LCQ Deca, ThermoFinnigan) was used to analyze peptide standards, protein digests of known concentrations, and tryptic digests of 2-DGE-separated proteins. MeOH displayed excellent chromatographic performance (separation and sensitivity), and shorter gradient times were possible for chromatographic separation with MeOH versus ACN. Sensitivity levels of a few hundred attomoles were achieved with MeOH; those levels could not be achieved with ACN. In addition, MeOH-based nanoLC-MS/MS yielded superior results for the analysis of digests of 2-DGE-separated proteins. For the 14 protein spots analyzed, the success rate of protein identification with MeOH-based nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS was 100%, with multiple proteins identified in several of the spots. In contrast, ACN-based procedure failed to identify any proteins in 21% of the spots and overall identified 33% fewer proteins than the MeOH-based procedure. In summary, higher sensitivity and shorter gradient times make MeOH an excellent organic modifier for the use in nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS analysis of peptides.
Toothed whales (order Cetacea: suborder Odontoceti) are highly encephalized, possessing brains that are significantly larger than expected for their body sizes. In particular, the odontocete superfamily Delphinoidea (dolphins, porpoises, belugas, and narwhals) comprises numerous species with encephalization levels second only to modern humans and greater than all other mammals. Odontocetes have also demonstrated behavioral faculties previously only ascribed to humans and, to some extent, other great apes. How did the large brains of odontocetes evolve? To begin to investigate this question, we quantified and averaged estimates of brain and body size for 36 fossil cetacean species using computed tomography and analyzed these data along with those for modern odontocetes. We provide the first description and statistical tests of the pattern of change in brain size relative to body size in cetaceans over 47 million years. We show that brain size increased significantly in two critical phases in the evolution of odontocetes. The first increase occurred with the origin of odontocetes from the ancestral group Archaeoceti near the Eocene-Oligocene boundary and was accompanied by a decrease in body size. The second occurred in the origin of Delphinoidea only by 15 million years ago.
This article presents the first series of MRI-based anatomically labeled sectioned images of the brain of the killer whale (Orcinus orca). Magnetic resonance images of the brain of an adult killer whale were acquired in the coronal and axial planes. The gross morphology of the killer whale brain is comparable in some respects to that of other odontocete brains, including the unusual spatial arrangement of midbrain structures. There are also intriguing differences. Cerebral hemispheres appear extremely convoluted and, in contrast to smaller cetacean species, the killer whale brain possesses an exceptional degree of cortical elaboration in the insular cortex, temporal operculum, and the cortical limbic lobe. The functional and evolutionary implications of these features are discussed.
The consequences of eliminating the process of programmed cell death during the development of the nervous system is examined by reviewing studies in the genetic model organisms Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, Danio rerio and Mus musculus, where mutations of cell death genes have eliminated or reduced programmed cell death in the nervous system. In many cases, genetic elimination of cell death leads to embryonic mortality or gross anatomical malformations; however, there are cases where animals develop normally but with excess neurons and glia in the nervous system. Undead cells either differentiate and function as working neurons, in some instances being of smaller size, or fail to differentiate and lack normal connections with their targets. Changes in motor control and sensory processing are generally not observed, except for during the most complex of behaviors. Examination of organisms where death genes have been genetically eliminated reveals that programmed cell death may play an important role in sculpting gross brain structure during early development of the neural tube. In contrast, the consequences of preventing neuronal cell death at later developmental stages (e.g. during vertebrate synapse formation) are just beginning to be understood.
Rehabilitation aims to lessen the physical and cognitive impairments and disabilities of patients with stroke, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord or brain injury, and other neurologic diseases. Conventional approaches beyond compensatory adjustments to disability may be augmented by applying some of the myriad experimental results about mechanisms of intrinsic biological changes after injury and the effects of extrinsic manipulations on spared neuronal assemblies. The organization and inherent adaptability of the anatomical nodes within distributed pathways of the central nervous system offer a flexible substrate for treatment strategies that drive activity-dependent plasticity. Opportunities for a new generation of approaches are manifested by rodent and non-human primate studies that reveal morphologic and physiologic adaptations induced by injury, by learning-associated practice, by the effects of pharmacologic neuromodulators, by the behavioral and molecular bases for enhancing activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, and by cell replacement, gene therapy, and regenerative biologic strategies. Techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging and transcranial magnetic stimulation will help determine the most optimal physiologic effects of interventions in patients as the cortical representations for skilled movements and cognitive processes are modified by the combination of conventional and biologic therapies. As clinicians digest the finer details of the neurobiology of rehabilitation, they will translate laboratory data into controlled clinical trials. By determining how much they can influence neural reorganization, clinicians will extend the opportunities for neurorestoration.
We are studying brain and stem cell plasticity. How do brain, mind, and cell change with environmental alteration? Combining molecular biology, cell culture, single cell electrophysiology, synaptic physiology, and whole animal experimentation, we have found that experience alters function.
This article considers the development of violence with particular reference to family factors in violence such as the quality of the parent-child relationship. In taking a developmental approach to violence, a link is established between the maltreatment of children in an attachment context and the risk of violence via the child's capacity to envision mental states in the other. Evidence from epidemiology and neuroscience is brought to bear on this link. Finally, some studies of prevention of violence that are likely to enhance attachment and mentalizing are considered.
Owing to improving preventative, diagnostic, and therapeutic measures for cardiovascular disease and a variety of cancers, the average ages of North Americans and Europeans continue to rise. Regrettably, accompanying this increase in life span, there has been an increase in the number of individuals afflicted with age-related neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and stroke. Although different cell types and brain areas are vulnerable among these, each disorder likely develops from activation of a common final cascade of biochemical and cellular events that eventually lead to neuronal dysfunction and death. In this regard, different triggers, including oxidative damage to DNA, the overactivation of glutamate receptors, and disruption of cellular calcium homeostasis, albeit initiated by different genetic and/or environmental factors, can instigate a cascade of intracellular events that induce apoptosis. To forestall the neurodegenerative process, we have chosen specific targets to inhibit that are at pivotal rate-limiting steps within the pathological cascade. Such targets include TNF-alpha, p53, and GLP-1 receptor. The cytokine TNF-alpha is elevated in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, stroke, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Its synthesis can be reduced via posttranscriptional mechanisms with novel analogues of the classic drug, thalidomide. The intracellular protein and transcription factor, p53, is activated by the Alzheimer's disease toxic peptide, Abeta, as well as by excess glutamate and hypoxia to trigger neural cell death. It is inactivated by novel tetrahydrobenzothiazole and -oxazole analogues to rescue cells from lethal insults. Stimulation of the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) in brain is associated with neurotrophic functions that, additionally, can protect cells against excess glutamate and other toxic insults.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) is believed to play an important role in the regulation of behavioral responses to stress. CRH(1) receptor antagonists may reduce stress responsivity. Stress increases CRH in the amygdala, important in memory consolidation. We hypothesized that infusion of a CRH(1) antagonist into the amygdala following social defeat would prevent the development of generalized fear responses. Acute social defeat in mice increases defense towards intruders, even nonaggressive intruders, placed within their home cage. We infused the CRH(1) antagonist antalarmin (0.25 microg/125 nl) bilaterally into the amygdala of mice immediately after defeat and measured their response to a nonaggressive intruder stimulus mouse placed within their home cage 24 h after defeat. Defeated mice that received vehicle displayed high levels of crouch defensive posture and numerous flights from intruders, relative to nondefeated mice that received vehicle. Defeated mice that received antalarmin into the amygdala exhibited significantly less defensive posture than did vehicle-treated defeated mice. Display of defensive posture in antalarmin-treated mice approached that of vehicle-treated nondefeated mice. These findings support a role for CRH in the amygdala to promote consolidation of emotional memory and indicate that antagonism of CRH(1) receptors in the amygdala may prevent the development of exaggerated fear responses in stressed mice.
Repeated restraint stress in rodents impairs spatial memory in a Y-maze test and induces hippocampal neuronal changes that last up to 5 d after the stressor ends. Our goal was to implement a Barnes maze spatial memory test in mice that could be used to validate our findings of social stress induced Y-maze impairment. We measured performance of mice in 5- and 9-day test paradigms previously used in rats and mice, respectively. Selecting features from each paradigm, we implemented a 5-d test (pre-training, training (4 trials/d/3 d) and probe testing for assessment of spatial memory in mice. Stress consisted of placing each test mouse in a stainless steel perforated box (25.5 cm x 21.5 cm x 16.5 cm) within an aggressor's home cage for 6 h/d for 21 d; direct agonistic encounters occurred randomly throughout stress periods. Barnes maze pre-training (habituation) was on day 21 of the stress exposures. In a preliminary experiment, mice that habituated following their last stressor performed poorly relative to unstressed and to those not habituated prior to the last stressor, as demonstrated by a greater latency to escape and more errors. We conclude that acute stress in a chronic stress paradigm may impair spatial memory acquisition.
Multiple reports document hypothalamic-pituitary-axis (HPA) hyperactivity in depressed patients. Measurement of cortisol levels after ingestion of fenfluramine, a specific serotonin releaser/uptake inhibitor agent, provides an index of HPA activity. To our knowledge, this is the first study of the effect of a number of previous depressive episodes on cortisol responses to fenfluramine administration. Thirty-one unipolar depressed patients and 23 healthy volunteers entered the study. Demographic and clinical parameters were assessed and recorded. Response to fenfluramine administration was measured by the difference between maximum hourly plasma cortisol measurements after fenfluramine administration and baseline levels measured before fenfluramine administration. The number of previous major depressive episodes was a predictor of cortisol response to fenfluramine administration in depressed subjects. Higher cortisol responses were associated with more prior episodes of major depression. The relationship of cortisol to the number of previous depressive episodes remained significant after controlling for age. Our finding highlights the importance of possible cumulative effects of repeated episodes of major depression. Prevention and early recognition of depressive episodes may prevent these cumulative adverse effects.
The adaptive response to stress is characterized by activation of neural and neuroendocrine cascades mediated mainly by the noradrenergic/sympathetic and limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) systems, respectively. Chronic psychosocial stress has long been associated with the origin and development of depression, where increased levels of cortisol have been observed in both conditions. In this regard, increased levels of cortisol could be directly involved in the mood changes observed in depression, and direct connections between these and alterations of the serotonergic neurotransmission have been also proposed. Therefore, we investigated the potential link between alterations of the limbic-HPA system with the serotonergic hypothesis of depression at both the molecular and clinical levels. Our findings support the notion that chronic psychosocial stress may lead to depression in certain individuals depending on the psychobiological background and their particular psychological resources. Therefore, certain interventions aimed at normalization of the HPA system could potentially prevent the development of depression in chronically stressed subjects. This would be possible through either pharmacological interventions or psychotherapeutic strategies, such as cognitive therapy, aimed at improving resilience and controllability in stressful situations.
Police trainees who were ready to graduate from the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center (FLETC) volunteered to participate in an exercise designed to evaluate their survivability. In a highly stressful interactive scenario, which included a hostage situation, performance was evaluated for a range of responses, including: shooting judgment and accuracy, communications, and coping with a weapon malfunction. Nineteen percent of subjects shot the hostage, a failure rate that falls in the reported range of friendly fire casualties in military combat. The Spielberger Trait Anger Scale showed an association with shot placement and performance during the gunfight as well as with overall performance scores.
A model for personality dysfunction posits an interaction between inherited susceptibility and environmental factors such as childhood trauma. Core biological vulnerabilities in personality include dimensions of affective instability, impulsive aggression, and cognition/perceptual domains. For the dimension of impulsive aggression, often seen in borderline personality disorder (BPD), the underlying neurobiology involves deficits in central serotonin function and alterations in specific brain regions in the cingulate and the medial and orbital prefrontal cortex. The role of trauma in the development of personality disorder and especially for BPD remains unclear. Although recent studies suggest that BPD is not a trauma-spectrum disorder and that it is biologically distinct from posttraumatic stress disorder, high rates of childhood abuse and neglect do exist for individuals with personality dysfunction. Personality symptom clusters seem to be unrelated to specific abuses, but they may relate to more enduring aspects of interpersonal and family environments in childhood. Whereas twin and family studies indicate a partially heritable basis for impulsive aggression, studies of serotonin-related genes to date suggest only modest contributions to behavior. Gene-environment interactions involving childhood maltreatment are demonstrated in recent studies on antisocial behaviors and aggressive rhesus monkeys and highlight the need for further research in this important area.
Chemokines are a family of proteins that have pleiotropic biological effects. They are well known to regulate the recruitment and trafficking of leukocytes to sites of inflammation. Chemokines are grouped into four classes based on the positions of key cysteine residues: C, CC, CXC, and CX3C. Stromal cell-derived factor-1 (SDF-1), the ligand of the CXCR4 receptor, is a CXC chemokine and is a highly conserved gene. Ovarian cancer typically disseminates widely in the abdomen, a characteristic that limits curative therapy. The mechanisms that promote ovarian cancer proliferation are incompletely understood. We studied a human ovarian adenocarcinoma cell line (OC 314) and investigated the role of CXCR4 activation by SDF-1 in human ovarian cancer. We demonstrate that CXCR4 and SDF-1 mRNA are expressed in OC 314. We show that SDF-1alpha induces proliferation in ovarian cancer cells in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, we demonstrate that the SDF-1-dependent proliferation correlates to the phosphorylation and activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK)1/2, which in turn are correlated to epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor transactivation. In fact, AG1478, a specific inhibitor of the EGF receptor kinase, blocked both SDF-1alpha-dependent proliferation and ERK1/2 activation.



Stroke is the leading cause of long-term disability worldwide and a condition for which there is no universally accepted treatment. The development of new effective therapeutic strategies relies on a better understanding of the mechanisms underlying recovery of function. Noninvasive techniques to study brain function, including functional magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, transcranial magnetic stimulation, electroencephalography, and magnetoencephalography, led to recent studies that identified some of these operating mechanisms, resulting in the formulation of novel approaches to motor rehabilitation.
Human saliva performs a wide variety of biological functions that are critical for the maintenance of the oral health. Various functions include lubrication, buffering, antimicrobial protection, and the maintenance of mucosal integrity. In addition, whole saliva may be analysed for the diagnosis of human systemic diseases, since it can be readily collected and contains identifiable serum constituents. By using proteomic approach, we have established a reference proteome map of human whole saliva allowing for the resolution of greater than 200 protein spots in a single two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel. Fifty-four protein spots, comprised of 26 different proteins, were identifies using N-terminal sequencing, mass spectrometry, and/or computer matching with protein database. Ten proteins, whose levels were significantly different when bleeding had occurred in the oral cavity, were discussed in this study. These 10 proteins include alpha-1-antrypsin, apolipoprotein A-I, cystatin A, SA, SA-III, and SN, enolase I, hemoglobin beta-chain, thioredoxin peroxiredoxin B, as well as a prolactin-inducible protein. The proteomic approach identifies candidates from human whole saliva that may prove to be of diagnostic and therapeutic significance.



The aim of this article is to review neurodevelopmental treatment (NDT) literature and existing stroke NDT nursing research, as well as explore issues related to professional collaboration in stroke rehabilitation and implications for neuroscience nursing practice. NDT or the Bobath approach is used to encourage stroke patients to use the affected side of their body in order to promote and relearn normal movement and to reduce muscle spasticity. Neuroscience nurses have an important role in facilitating stroke patients to practise transferring out of bed and performing activities of daily living outside of physiotherapy and occupational therapy sessions. Neuroscience nurses also care for stroke patients over a 24-hour perio. Therefore, it is important that nurses understand physiotherapy and occupational therapy strategies in stroke rehabilitation.
Craniopharyngiomas account for approximately nine per cent of pediatric brain tumours and one to two per cent of adult brain tumours. Though considered benign, the compressive nature of these relentless tumours can produce catastrophic sequelae. This case study pays tribute to a 33-year-old woman who faced numerous surgeries, adjuvant therapy, and many of the complications associated with a craniopharyngioma. The interdisciplinary neuroscience team, along with colleagues from neuroradiology, ophthalmology, and endocrinology, joined together to care for Kerry and her family to meet their complex health and psychosocial needs. However, it was Kerry who taught us about perseverance, strength, and the power of an unconquerable human spirit.
Two types of behavioral measure are primarily used to examine impulsivity in humans and animals: Go/No-go tasks to assess inhibition and relative preference tasks to assess delay aversion. Several examples of each type of task are described so that common cognitive processes and variables affecting performance can be identified. Data suggest that smokers are more impulsive on each of these impulsivity measures than nonsmokers. Several models can be proposed to account for this group difference: (a) the differences predate and, possibly, are causally related to the initiation of cigarette smoking; (b) higher levels of impulsivity are associated with continued smoking, either through an association with heightened positive subjective effects of nicotine or heightened negative effects of nicotine abstinence (withdrawal); (c) nicotine causes neuroadaptations that result in elevated impulsivity in smokers. Studies relating to each of these models are reviewed, and it is concluded that all three models may contribute to the observed higher levels of impulsivity in smokers. However, pertinent studies are limited and additional systematic research is needed.
Rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) were presented with 7 daily sessions of tone-alone training after conditioning. Before the beginning of each of the first 4 extinction sessions, an artificial tear solution or tetracaine hydrochloride was administered to the cornea of rabbits in the control group (n = 6) and experimental group (n = 7), respectively. There were no between-group differences in the percentage of conditioned responses between both groups. However, the amplitude of the conditioned response was notably reduced in the tetracaine group (M = 0.40, SEM +/- 0.216) relative to the control group (M = 1.32, SEM +/- 0.639) early in extinction. Results seem to suggest that although motor output has been found to play an important role in extinction, corneal sensory feedback is not necessary.
Rats were trained on a set of visual discrimination problems (A+B-, C+D-, E+F-). The choice stimuli were then recombined to create novel combination tests (A+D-, C+F-, E+B-). Rats with damage to the hippocampus showed perfect transfer on these tests, always choosing A, C, and E, but were not able to learn the spatial location of the platform, indicating that damage to the hippocampus was functional. These results question the generality of H. Eichenbaum, P. Mathews, and N. J. Cohen's (1989) findings and the theoretical claim that choice behavior with novel combinations is based on inferential-like hippocampus-dependent processes (H. Eichenbaum, 1992). They are consistent with the view that simple associative processes guide choice behavior in animals with hippocampal damage that are confronted with novel combinations.
Rats protect food by dodging horizontally away from a conspecific. Females and males use different movement and stepping patterns to execute a dodge. An unresolved question is whether exposure to ovarian steroids in females is necessary for the development of the female-typical pattern. Females ovariectomized neonatally and prior to puberty use a combination of male and female tactics. Pregnant females, however, use a female-typical pattern of dodging, suggesting that the patterns used by prepubertal ovariectomized females are not due to their increase in body mass. Thus, the contribution of ovarian steroids to the development of female-typical patterns of behavior needs to be studied further at both a behavioral and neural level with regard to the organization of movement.
Light regulates sleep timing through circadian entrapment and by eliciting acute changes in behavior. These behaviors are mediated by the subcortical visual system, retinorecipient nuclei distinct from the geniculocortical system. To test the hypothesis that early visual experience shapes light regulation of behavior, the authors recorded sleep in albino rats reared in continuous dark, continuous light, or a 12-hr light-dark cycle. Dark rearing strengthened and light rearing weakened acute responses to light, including light modulation of REM sleep, a marker for pretectal function in albino rats. However, neither dark nor light rearing altered daily amounts of wakefulness, non-REM sleep, or REM sleep. Thus, light and dark rearing might differentially affect the balance between acute and circadian responses to light that, in concert, govern sleep timing.
Homeostatic regulation is a defining characteristic of sleep but has rarely been examined in infants. This study presents an automated method of sleep deprivation in which 5-day-old rats were shocked whenever the nuchal muscle became atonic. The intensity of shock was always set at the minimal level required to maintain arousal. Deprived pups exhibited rapid increases in sleep pressure, as evidenced by increased attempts to enter sleep and subsequent increases in sensory threshold; this increased sensory threshold was not due to sensory adaptation of peripheral receptors. In addition, myoclonic twitching was suppressed during the 30-min deprivation period, leading to rebound twitching during recovery sleep. These results provide the earliest demonstration of the homeostatic regulation of sleep in an altricial mammal.
Cingulothalamic neurons develop topographic patterns of cue-elicited neuronal activity during discrimination learning. These patterns are context-related and are degraded by hippocampal lesions, suggesting that hippocampal modulation of cingulothalamic activity results in the expression of the patterns, which could promote the retrieval of context-appropriate responses and memories. This hypothesis was tested by training rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) with fornix lesions concurrently on two discrimination tasks (approach and avoidance) in different contexts. Because the same conditioned stimuli were used for both tasks, contextual information was critical for overcoming intertask interference during concurrent task acquisition. The lesions degraded the topographic patterns and significantly impaired concurrent learning, suggesting that hippocampal-cingulothalamic interactions and the resulting topographic patterns are critical for processing contextual information needed to defeat interference.
The present study aimed to assess the effects of aging and awareness on conditional discrimination learning within an eyeblink conditioning procedure by using a consecutive age-groups design (20-35 years, 36-50 years, 51-65 years, 66-80 years). Increasing age was associated with a decline in overall eyeblink conditioned response (CR) frequency and a deficit in conditional discrimination learning in the 2 older groups. Awareness of stimulus contingencies affected discrimination performance but not overall CR rates in younger subjects. Older subjects did not achieve eyeblink conditional discrimination learning, regardless of awareness. Discrimination performance correlated with measures of declarative memory. The pattern of results is discussed with respect to the involvement of hippocampal-cerebellar interactions and awareness in the mediation of age-related conditioning changes.
This study reports the effects of the antioxidant sodium benzoate (SB) on iminodipropionitrile (IDPN)-induced excitation with choreiform and circling (ECC) syndrome in adult female Wistar rats. Rats in four different groups (n=8) received i.p. injections of SB (0, 50, 100 and 200 mg/kg) daily for 10 days. IDPN (100 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered daily 30 min before SB for the first 8 days. Two additional groups served as control (vehicle) and SB alone (200 mg/kg) groups. The animals were observed daily for neurobehavioral abnormalities, including dyskinetic head movements, circling, tail hanging, righting reflex and contact inhibition of the righting reflex, characterized as the ECC syndrome. In the IDPN-alone treated group, the onset of ECC syndrome occurred on day 9 (2 out of 8 rats), whereas none of the animals treated with IDPN plus SB (100 or 200 mg/kg) showed any signs of ECC syndrome on that day. All the animals in the IDPN-alone group developed severe dyskinesia on day 11. Treatment of rats with SB significantly and dose-dependently attenuated IDPN-induced behavioral deficits.
Somatostatin is produced in enteroendocrine D cells and intrinsic neurons of the stomach, intestines and pancreas. Its physiologic actions are mediated primarily by somatostatin receptors type 2 and 5, and include the inhibition of secretion of most endocrine and exocrine factors. Diseases directly attributable to somatostatin excess or deficiency are rare, although there is a complex pathogenic relationship between persistent Helicobacter pylori infection and reduced somatostatin in chronic gastritis. Abundant somatostatin receptors on many neoplastic and inflammatory cells are the basis for sensitive in vivo imaging with radiolabeled somatostatin analogs and provide a therapeutic target. Current indications for somatostatin therapy include hormone-expressing neuroendocrine tumors, intractable diarrhea and variceal bleeding secondary to portal hypertension. Exciting advances are being made in the development of high-affinity nonpeptide analogs with receptor-subtype selectivity and increased bioavailability. Somatostatin analogs coupled to high-energy radionuclides show promise as novel cytotoxic agents for certain metastatic tumors.
Most gut peptides exert their effects through G protein-coupled receptors, a family of about 700 membrane proteins, 87 of which are presently known to have peptide ligands. Three additional gut peptide receptors are not G protein-coupled receptors but regulate intracellular cyclic GMP accumulation. The aim of this review is to illustrate how the sequencing of the human genome and other recent advances in genomics has contributed to our understanding of the role of peptides and their receptors in gastrointestinal function. Recent discoveries include the identification of receptors for the peptides motilin and neuromedin U, and new physiological ligands for the PTH2 receptor, the CRF(2) receptor and the growth hormone secretagogue receptor. Knockout mice lacking specific peptide receptors or their ligands provide informative animal models in which to determine the functions of the numerous peptide-receptor systems in the gut and to predict which of them may be the most fruitful for drug development. Some peptide-receptor signalling systems may be more important in disease states than they are in normal physiology. For example, substance P, galanin, bradykinin and opioids play important roles in visceral pain and inflammation. Other peptides may have developmental roles: for example, disruption of endothelin-3 signalling prevents the normal development of the enteric nervous system and contributes to the pathogenesis of Hirschsprung disease.
Considerable evidence has accumulated describing a complex interaction between the dopaminergic and glutamatergic pathways. Efforts to describe the mechanisms underlying this complex interaction have implicated a functional interaction between dopamine and glutamate receptors. Classically, the interaction between D(1) and NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors has been proposed to involve the activation of second-messenger signalling cascades after receptor stimulation. However, in recent years, another paradigm has emerged which involves the direct interaction between D(1) and NMDA receptors. The physical association between D(1) and NMDA receptors is unique in that two different regions of the D(1) C-terminus are able to couple specifically and physically with two different NMDA subunits. The selective modulation of multiple NMDA receptor-mediated functions by direct interactions with D(1) receptors may form a new avenue to identify specific targets for therapeutics to modulate NMDA receptor-governed synaptic plasticity, neuronal development and disease states.
The distribution of proteins to the correct domains of neurons is crucial for neuronal functioning. Here I discuss possible mechanisms underlying sorting to the axonal plasma membrane which differ with respect to the steps providing selectivity for axonal vs. somatodendritic cargo. Selectivity can be executed at one or more than one step, including sorting into distinct carriers in the Golgi, preferential transport along axonal microtubules, fusion with the plasma membrane, and importantly retrieval by endocytosis. A protein might in fact be sorted multiple times at different places to achieve axonal localization.


A series of original computational models written in NEURON of increasing physiological and morphological complexity were developed to determine the dominant causes of epileptiform behavior. Current injections to a model hippocampal pyramidal neuron consisting of three compartments produced the sustained depolarizations (SD) and simple paroxysmal depolarizing shifts (PDS) characteristic of ictal and interictal behavior in a cell, respectively. Our results indicate that SDs are the result of the semi-saturation of Na+, Ca2+ and K+ active channels, particularly the CaN, with regular Na+/K+ spikes riding atop a saturated depolarization; PDS rides on a similar semi-saturated depolarization whose shape depends more heavily on interactions between low-threshold voltage-gated Ca2+ channels (CaT) and Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channels. Our results reflect and predict recent physiological data, and we report here a cellular basis of epilepsy whose mechanisms reside mainly in the membrane channels, and not in specific morphology or network interactions, advancing a possible resolution to the cellular/network debate over the etiology of epileptiform activity.

Isolated conjugate gaze palsy following unilateral frontal lobe surgery is uncommon. When it does occur, usually it recovers within hours. We report a case of isolated conjugate gaze palsy which persisted for four weeks post-operatively before recovery commenced.
Anatomical variations of neural structures in the cervical spine are rare and are not necessarily visible on pre-operative imaging. The authors report an unusual arrangement of neural structures identified during cervical foraminotomy. Anatomical variations of the cervical nerve roots are reviewed and their importance in neurosurgical practice is discussed.
This retrospective study analyses the outcome of posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysms treated surgically. Thirteen consecutive ruptured and unruptured PICA aneurysm patients from January 1998 to January 2004 were reviewed retrospectively. The mean age was 49.1 +/- 7.4 years. Three were unruptured aneurysms and ten presented with acute subarachnoid haemorrahge. Surgery was performed immediately after completed 4 vessel angiograms using the far lateral approach. Eight were fusiform while five were saccular aneurysms. The saccular aneurysms were clipped. Treatment of the fusiform aneurysms included 3 trappings and three proximal clippings. One patient refused surgery and had endovascular occlusion of a giant PICA aneurysm. Eight out of ten (80%) operated patients needed CSF shunting for hydrocephalus. All check angiograms during follow up demonstrated adequate exclusion of the aneurysms from the circulation. None developed the PICA syndrome clinically or showed infarction on brain scans. All good grade patients recovered without neurological deficits. Our experience showed that early surgery for ruptured PICA aneurysm carries a good prognosis with low morbidity. In aneurysms that cannot be clipped, sacrifice of the PICA without revascularisation procedures in proximally located PICA aneurysms may still be feasible if the occlusion is done distal to the perforators.
Advancing age is known to be a determinant of outcome in head injury. We have sought to discover whether there has been any change in the outcome of elderly patients with severe head injury in Newcastle, where these patients have continued to be treated with maximum intervention. A review of prospectively collected data from the Newcastle Head Injury Database for the period 1990 to 2000 was carried out. All patients aged 70 years and above who had sustained a severe head injury (Glasgow Coma Score of 8 or less from the outset) were included. The Glasgow Outcome Score (GOS) was determined at 6 months. Seventy-one patients were identified. Fifty-seven (80%) died and 2 (3%) were in a vegetative state, 11 (16%) had severe disability, 1 (1%) had moderate disability and no patients made a good recovery. The natural history of this condition remains unchanged and due consideration should be given to this when evaluating interventions for elderly patients with a severe head injury.

Chronic haloperidol treatment has been associated with an increased incidence of glucose intolerance and type-II diabetes mellitus. We studied the effects of haloperidol on native ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels in mouse pancreatic beta cells and on cloned Kir6.2/SUR1 channels expressed in HEK293 cells. The inhibitory effect of haloperidol on the K(ATP) channel was not mediated via the D2 receptor signaling pathway, as both D2 agonists and antagonists blocked the channel. K(ATP) currents were studied using the patch-clamp technique in whole-cell and outside-out patch configurations. Addition of haloperidol to the extracellular solution inhibited the K(ATP) conductance immediately, in a reversible and voltage-independent manner. Haloperidol did not block the channel when applied intracellularly in whole-cell recordings. Haloperidol blocked cloned Kir6.2/SUR1 and Kir6.2DeltaC36 K(ATP) channels expressed in HEK cells. This suggests that the drug interacts with the Kir6.2 subunit of the channel. The IC(50) for inhibition of the K(ATP) current by haloperidol was 1.6 microM in 2 mM extracellular K(+) concentration ([K(+)](o)) and increased to 23.9 microM in 150 mM [K(+)](o). The Hill coefficient was close to unity, suggesting that the binding of a single molecule of haloperidol is sufficient to close the channel. Haloperidol block of K(ATP) channels may contribute to the side effects of this drug when used therapeutically.


Multiple system atrophy (MSA) has varying clinical (MSA-P versus MSA-C) and pathological [striatonigral degeneration (SND) versus olivopontocerebellar atrophy (OPCA)] phenotypes. To investigate the spectrum of clinicopathological correlations, we performed a semi-quantitative pathological analysis of 100 MSA cases with well-characterized clinical phenotypes. In 24 areas, chosen from both the striatonigral (StrN) and olivopontocerebellar (OPC) regions, the severity of neuronal cell loss and gliosis as well as the frequency of glial (oligodendroglial) cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs) and neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions (NCIs) were determined. Clinical information was abstracted from the patients' medical records, and the severity of bradykinesia in the first year of disease onset and in the final stages of disease was graded retrospectively. The degree of levodopa responsiveness and the presence or absence of cerebellar ataxia and autonomic symptoms were also recorded. We report that 34% of the cases were SND- and 17% were OPCA-predominant, while the remainder (49%) had equivalent SND and OPCA pathology. We found a significant correlation between the frequency of GCIs and the severity of neuronal cell loss, and between these pathological changes and disease duration. Our data also suggest that GCIs may have more influence on the OPC than on the StrN pathology. Moreover, we raise the possibility that a rapid process of neuronal cell loss, which is independent of the accumulation of GCIs, occurs in the StrN region in MSA. There was no difference in the frequency of NCIs in the putamen, pontine nucleus and inferior olivary nucleus between the SND and OPCA subtypes of MSA, confirming that this pathological abnormality is not associated with a particular subtype of the disease. In the current large post-mortem series, 10% of the cases had associated Lewy body pathology, suggesting that this is not a primary process in MSA. As might be expected, there was a significant difference in the severity of bradykinesia and the presence of cerebellar signs between the pathological phenotypes: the SND phenotype demonstrates the most severe bradykinesia and the OPCA phenotype the more frequent occurrence of cerebellar signs, confirming that the clinical phenotype is dependent on the distribution of pathology within the basal ganglia and cerebellum. Putaminal involvement correlated with a poor levodopa response in MSA. Our finding that relatively mild involvement of the substantia nigra is associated clinically with manifest parkinsonism, while more advanced cerebellar pathology is required for ataxia, may explain why the parkinsonian presentation is predominant over ataxia in MSA.
The molecular basis of idiopathic generalized epilepsy remains poorly understood. Absence epilepsy with 3 Hz spike-wave EEG is one of the most common human epilepsies, and is associated with significant morbidity. Several spontaneously occurring genetic mouse models of absence epilepsy are caused by dysfunction of the P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channel CaV2.1. Such mice exhibit a primary generalized spike-wave EEG, with frequencies in the range of 5-7 Hz, often associated with ataxia, evidence of cerebellar degeneration and abnormal posturing. Previously, we identified a single case of severe primary generalized epilepsy with ataxia associated with CaV2.1 dysfunction, suggesting a possible link between this channel and human absence epilepsy. We now report a family in which absence epilepsy segregates in an autosomal dominant fashion through three generations. Five members exhibit a combination of absence epilepsy (with 3 Hz spike-wave) and cerebellar ataxia. In patients with the absence epilepsy/ataxia phenotype, genetic marker analysis was consistent with linkage to the CACNA1A gene on chromosome 19, which encodes the main pore-forming alpha1A subunit of CaV2.1 channels (CaV2.1alpha1). DNA sequence analysis identified a novel point mutation resulting in a radical amino acid substitution (E147K) in CaV2.1alpha1, which segregated with the epilepsy/ataxia phenotype. Functional expression studies using human CACNA1A cDNA demonstrated that the E147K mutation results in impairment of calcium channel function. Impaired function of the brain calcium channel CaV2.1 may have a central role in the pathogenesis of certain cases of primary generalized epilepsy, particularly when associated with ataxia, which may be wrongly ascribed to anticonvulsant medication.
Cortical areas participating in the preparation of voluntary movements have been studied extensively. There is emerging evidence that subcortical structures, particularly the basal ganglia, also contribute to movement preparation. The thalamus is connected to both the basal ganglia and the cerebellar pathways, but its role in movement preparation has not been studied extensively in humans. We studied seven patients who underwent deep brain stimulation (DBS) electrode implantation in the thalamus for treatment of tremor (six patients) and myoclonus-dystonia (one patient). We recorded from the DBS contacts and scalp simultaneously, while patients performed self-paced wrist extension movements. Post-surgical MRI was used for precise localization of the DBS contacts in six patients. Back-averaging of the scalp recordings showed a slow negative movement-related potential (MRP) in all patients (onset 1846 +/- 189 ms prior to electromyography onset), whereas DBS electrode recordings showed pre-movement MRP in five out of seven patients. The thalamic MRP preceded both contralateral and ipsilateral wrist movements. There was no significant difference between the onset time of thalamic MRP (-2116 +/- 607 ms) and cortical MRP. Neither the scalp nor the thalamus showed pre-movement potentials with passive wrist extensions in two patients. In four patients with postoperative MRI who had thalamic MRP, the maximum amplitude or phase reversal occurred at contacts located in the ventral lateral nucleus. Frequency analysis was performed in the five patients with thalamic MRP. The medial frontocentral scalp contacts and the thalamic contacts with maximum MRP amplitude showed two discrete frequency bands in the alpha (mean peak 9 Hz) and beta (mean peak 17 Hz) range. Both frequency bands showed pre-movement event-related desynchronization (ERD). In the grand average, alpha and beta ERD in the scalp and beta ERD in the thalamus began 2.5-2.8 s prior to the onset of movement. However, the thalamic alpha ERD began considerably later, at 1.2 s before EMG onset. The beta band showed cortico-thalamic coherence from the beginning of the baseline period until approximately 0.5 s before the onset of movement. There was no cortico-thalamic coherence in the alpha band. Our findings suggest that the cerebellar thalamus is involved early in the process of movement preparation. Different cortico-subcortical circuits may mediate alpha and beta oscillations. During movement preparation, the motor thalamus and the supplementary motor area predominantly interact in the beta band.
Autism is currently viewed as a largely genetically determined neurodevelopmental disorder, although its underlying biological causes remain to be established. In this review, we examine the available neuropathological literature on autism and discuss the findings that have emerged. Classic neuropathological observations are rather consistent with respect to the limbic system (nine of 14 studied cases showed increased cell packing density and smaller neuronal size), the cerebellum (21 of 29 studied cases showed a decreased number of Purkinje cells, and in all of five cases that were examined for age-related morphological alterations, these changes were found in cerebellar nuclei and inferior olive) and the cerebral cortex (&gt;50% of the studied cases showed features of cortical dysgenesis). However, all reported studies had to contend with the problem of small sample sizes, the use of quantification techniques not free of bias and assumptions, and high percentages of autistic subjects with comorbid mental retardation (at least 70%) or epilepsy (at least 40%). Furthermore, data from the limbic system and on age-related changes lack replication by independent groups. It is anticipated that future neuropathological studies hold great promise, especially as new techniques such as design-based stereology and gene expression are increasingly implemented and combined, larger samples are analysed, and younger subjects free of comorbidities are investigated.
Past functional MRI (FMRI) studies of autism have reported reduced activation in response to the faces of strangers primarily in the 'fusiform face area' (FFA). An alternative and potentially stronger test of FFA function in autism is one that attempts to affect levels of FFA activity using factors believed to modulate function in this brain region, such as face familiarity and the perception of face identity. The current study presented personally meaningful faces, such as mother and co-worker, as well as stranger faces in a rapid event-related FMRI design. Seven autistic and nine normal control adults participated and pressed a button in response to all female faces. A deconvolution analysis revealed significant FFA activity in response to familiar and stranger faces in both autism and normal control groups. Individuals with autism also showed greater fusiform activity in response to familiar faces than stranger faces, as well as the prototypical right hemisphere dominance in response to both types of faces. Normal subjects showed additional activation to familiar faces in the posterior cingulate, amygdala and medial frontal lobes, including the anterior cingulate. Subjects with autism showed a similar, but more limited, network in response to familiar faces. This network included the amygdala and implies that this structure, involved in multiple socio-emotional functions, can be responsive in autism in the presence of stimuli that represent high reward value, such as mother's face. Furthermore, the presence of a distinct network to process familiar faces in autism, one that included limbic structures and was not found in response to the faces of strangers, suggests socio-emotional processing in autism. A potentially noteworthy trend, however, was evidence for a reduction in medial frontal lobe function in the autism group. The main finding of FFA activity in autism stands in contrast to most past FMRI studies of face processing in this disorder. This positive result may reflect the use of personally significant faces that enhanced attention and motivation in the autistic participants. Furthermore, given the proposed role of the FFA in establishing person identity, the use of almost a dozen different personally familiar faces for each participant (totalling 32 non-repeating faces) may have additionally maximized FFA involvement. Therefore, dysfunction in the FFA found in other studies of autism may reflect defects in systems that modulate the FFA, rather than the FFA itself.
We investigated whether there was mental effort in response to verbal commands in a 16-year old girl with autism, a high degree of non-compliance with commands and symptoms of autonomic dysfunction by monitoring the brainstem autonomic tone during an attempt to perform isometric exercise. An index of cardiac vagal tone (CVT), cardiac sensitivity to baroreflex (CSB), heart rate (HR) and mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) were measured simultaneously. Physical non-compliance with our commands meant there was no force applied by the patient during the attempted exercise, but CVT and CSB were both reduced and sustained at very low levels throughout the attempt, while MAP and HR were increased concurrently to higher levels in the same period. This vagal withdrawal to allow concurrent increases in HR and MAP is an arousal response appropriate for isometric exercise, which is a sign of a positive mental effort to comply with our commands. These results demonstrate discordant mental and physical efforts in our patient. In this particular case, the physical inabilities in some instances could have been mislabelled as mental non-compliance due to autism. It would be worthwhile to investigate the prevalence of discordant mental and physical efforts in autism.
Identifiable mixed electrical and chemical synapses on Mauthner cells, the club endings, have historically provided a window for the study of electrical transmission in vertebrates because of their accessibility for both physiological and ultrastructural characterization. Recent data show that electrical transmission at these terminals is mediated by connexin35 (Cx35), the fish ortholog of the mammalian neuronal gap junction protein, connexin36 (Cx36). While electrical synapses are still perceived by many as passive intercellular channels that lack modifiability, a wealth of experimental evidence shows that electrical synapses at club endings are very plastic and subject to dynamic regulatory control by several mechanisms. The widespread distribution of connexin35 and connexin36 and the ubiquity of some of the proposed regulatory elements suggest that other electrical synapses may be similarly regulated.
The neural correlates of source judgment errors for confusable and nonconfusable source-item pairings were investigated. At study, subjects were presented with a series of lists of word pairs. Word pairs belonging to the same list were formed by pairing one of two associated words with different associates of an unstudied theme word (e.g., ship-frost, captain-chilly, ship-freeze, captain-frigid, etc., in one list; wife-pane, husband-glass, wife-curtain, husband-sill, etc., in another list). At test, subjects discriminated 'Old pairs' (e.g., ship-frost) from 'Intra' rearranged pairs (e.g., ship-chilly), 'Inter' rearranged pairs (e.g., ship-pane), and 'Old-New' pairs (e.g., ship-bulb). Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded for each class of test item. Similar proportions of 'yes' responses to Old and Intra rearranged pairs were observed, but the false alarm rate for Inter rearranged pairs was markedly lower. ERPs elicited by correctly classified Old pairs and false alarms to Intra rearranged pairs were indistinguishable and exhibited 'left parietal' and 'right frontal' effects, characteristic of recollection-based recognition. ERPs for false alarms to Inter rearranged pairs did not show these effects. It is concluded that source judgment errors for confusable source-item pairings are mediated by the same processes that support correct source judgments. Such errors reflect recollection of gist information which is nondiagnostic with respect to source.
Impaired deficit awareness is common following traumatic brain injury (TBI) and is a major obstacle to rehabilitation. We have previously confirmed the presence of impaired error awareness in TBI using a highly discriminating go/no-go procedure. In the present study, we extend this work to try to identify more closely the nature of the error awareness deficit using measures of electrodermal activity (EDA). Sixteen participants with TBI and sixteen age-, sex-, and education-matched controls performed the Sustained Attention to Response Task (SART), while EDA was recorded. TBI detected significantly fewer errors compared to controls. EDA was significantly attenuated for TBI participants even to errors of which they were aware; error detection rates and EDA amplitude were also correlated. These findings suggest that poor insight following TBI may result, in part, from impaired error processing abilities.

In blood vessels, the ability to control vascular tone depends on extracellular calcium entry and the release of calcium from inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R)-gated stores located in both the endothelial and smooth muscle cells of the vascular wall. Therefore, we examined mRNA expression and protein distribution of IP3R subtypes in intact aorta, basilar and mesenteric arteries of the rat. IP3R1 mRNA was predominantly expressed in all three arteries. Immunohistochemistry showed that IP3R1 was present in both the muscle and endothelial cell layers, while IP3R2 and IP3R3 were largely restricted to the endothelium. Weak expression of IP3R2 was observed in the smooth muscle of the basilar artery. Co-localisation studies of IP3R subtypes with known cellular elements showed no association of any of the three subtypes with the endothelial cell plasma membrane, but a close association between the subtypes and actin filaments was observed in all cell layers. IP3R2 was found to be present near the endothelial cell nucleus. We are the first to demonstrate differential IP3R subtype distribution between the cell layers of the intact vascular wall and hypothesise that this may underlie the diversity of IP3R-dependent responses, such as vasoconstriction, vasodilation and vasomotion, displayed by arteries.
1. The cellular prion protein (PrPC) is expressed widely in neural and nonneural tissues at the highest level in neurons in the central nervous system (CNS). 2. Recent studies indicated that transgenic mice with the cytoplasmic accumulation of PrPC exhibited extensive neurodegeneration in the cerebellum, although the underlying mechanism remains unknown. To identify the genes whose expression is controlled by over-expression of PrPC in human cells, we have established a stable PrPC-expressing HEK293 cell line designated P1 by the site-specific recombination technique. 3. Microarray analysis identified 33 genes expressed differentially between P1 and the parent PrPC-non-expressing cell line among 12,814 genes examined. They included 18 genes involved in neuronal and glial functions, 5 related to production of extracellular matrix proteins, and 2 located in the complement cascade. 4. Northern blot analysis verified marked upregulation in P1 of the brain-specific protein phosphatase 2A beta subunit (PPP2R2B), a causative gene of spinocerebellar ataxia 12, and the cerebellar degeneration-related autoantigen (CDR34) gene associated with development of paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. 5. These results indicate that accumulation of PrPC in the cell caused aberrant regulation of a battery of the genes important for specific neuronal function. This represents a possible mechanism underlying PrPC-mediated selective neurodegeneration.
A number of candidate Egr-1 neuronal target genes have been identified including the synapsin I gene. Previous studies have shown that over-expression of Egr-1 in cells transfected with an Egr-1 expression vector is sufficient to activate reporter genes linked to regions of the synapsin I promoter, but any effect on the expression of synapsin I within its genomic context has not been demonstrated. We tested our hypothesis that modulation of synapsin I expression by Egr-1 requires the presence of elevated cAMP which would normally be present during periods of neuronal plasticity. Both the adenyl cyclase activator, forskolin (frsk), and the cAMP analogue, Sp-Adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate triethylammonium salt (Sp-cAMPS), enhanced the ability of Egr-1 to transactivate a CAT reporter plasmid containing multiple copies of the Egr-1 binding site (EBS). Furthermore, Egr-1 alone had minimal effects on synapsin I expression whereas forskolin treatment of PC12 cells profoundly affected the ability of Egr-1 to regulate synapsin I expression. These results suggest that Egr-1 transactivation during neuronal plasticity may rely on a permissive effect of cAMP.
Klotho mutant mouse (kl-/-), a mouse model for human aging, exhibits various phenotypes in a wide range of organs including arteriosclerosis, neural degeneration, skin and gonadal atrophy, pulmonary emphysema, calcification of soft tissues, and cognition impairment. Klotho mRNA, however, is expressed only in brain, kidney, reproductive organs, pituitary gland, and parathyroid gland. Therefore it remains to be elucidated how lack of Klotho protein in these limited organs leads to the variety of phenotypes. To shed light on mechanisms by which Klotho protein acts on distant targets, we examined localization of Klotho protein in brain, kidney, and reproductive organs, and analyzed brain and kidney in kl-/- mice searching for changes in target regions in these organs. In brain, Klotho proteins were localized at choroid plexus, where the proteins were dominantly localized at the apical plasma membrane of ependymal cells. In kl-/- brain, reduction of synapses was evident in hippocampus, suggesting a role of Klotho as a humoral factor in cerebrospinal fluid. Klotho proteins in kidney localized at distal renal tubules. Interestingly, in kl-/-mice, type IIa Na/phosphate (Pi) cotransporters, which function at the proximal renal tubules in reabsorption of phosphate ions, were translocated. This suggests that Klotho protein in kidney is implicated in calcium homeostasis which regulates localization of type IIa Na/Pi cotransporters via parathyroid hormone (PTH). Klotho proteins in reproductive organs were expressed only in mature germ cells, although in kl-/- mice germ cell maturation was arrested at earlier stages. Thus, Klotho proteins not only function as a humoral factor, but also are implicated in hormonal regulation, which may explain why mutation of klotho gene results in a variety of phenotypes.
Robustness and reproducibility of sequential spatio-temporal responses is an essential feature of many neural circuits in sensory and motor systems of animals. The most common mathematical images of dynamical regimes in neural systems are fixed points, limit cycles, chaotic attractors, and continuous attractors (attractive manifolds of neutrally stable fixed points). These are not suitable for the description of reproducible transient sequential neural dynamics. In this paper we present the concept of a stable heteroclinic sequence (SHS), which is not an attractor. SHS opens the way for understanding and modeling of transient sequential activity in neural circuits. We show that this new mathematical object can be used to describe robust and reproducible sequential neural dynamics. Using the framework of a generalized high-dimensional Lotka-Volterra model, that describes the dynamics of firing rates in an inhibitory network, we present analytical results on the existence of the SHS in the phase space of the network. With the help of numerical simulations we confirm its robustness in presence of noise in spite of the transient nature of the corresponding trajectories. Finally, by referring to several recent neurobiological experiments, we discuss possible applications of this new concept to several problems in neuroscience.
Twenty nine ADHD adolescents and 29 age, IQ and gender matched normal comparison subjects completed 6 paper pencil tasks of mental script generation. Each task required the subject to generate 10 chronologically ordered and necessary actions toward a goal. There were 3 levels of structure of the tasks (highly structured, moderately structured, unstructured) and each of these levels comprised a familiar and an unfamiliar script. The ADHD group made more sequencing errors on all the scripts, significantly so on the highly structured unfamiliar and on the moderately structured unfamiliar script tasks. The two groups were similar however with regard to the semantic structure (content) of the scripts and the total number of actions generated. Errors of omission, commission and perseveration were similar for the two groups. The results are interpreted as supportive of Barkley's (1997) frontal lobe dysfunction model of ADHD.


We report on the utility of using a rapid, easy-to-use, visually based semi-quantitative neuroimaging atrophy rating scale in individuals with traumatic brain injury (TBI) and normal control subjects. Magnetic resonance (MR) scans were rated using a standardized semi-quantitative MR rating method. A four-point scale was used to rate each scan for atrophy in frontal, temporal, and parietal areas. Seventy-five TBI subjects (50 males, 25 females) and 75 age- and gender-matched control subjects were compared for atrophy ratings. Clinical atrophy ratings were also compared to a quantitative measure of atrophy, the ventricle-to-brain ratio, and with the TBI subjects' scores on standard neuropsychological tests. TBI patients had significantly higher clinical atrophy ratings in frontal and temporal lobe areas compared to controls. The clinical atrophy ratings significantly correlated with the ventricle-to-brain ratio, a quantitative measure of atrophy in the same TBI subjects. Higher clinical ratings of frontal and temporal atrophy correlated with deficits in memory and executive function. These findings indicate that clinical ratings of trauma-induced atrophy can be reliably performed and are associated with neuropsychological outcome and quantitative measures of cerebral atrophy.

Much of our behavior is guided by rules, or prescribed guides for action. In this review, I consider the current state of knowledge of how rules are learned, stored in the brain, and retrieved and used as the need arises. The focus is primarily on studies in humans, but the review is informed by relevant studies in nonhuman primates. Ventrolateral prefrontal cortex (VLPFC) has been implicated in rule learning, retrieval from long-term memory, and on-line maintenance during task preparation. Interactions between VLPFC and temporal cortex are required for rule retrieval in nonhuman primates, and brain imaging findings in humans suggest that rule knowledge is stored in the posterior middle temporal gyrus. Dorsolateral PFC appears to be more closely related to rule-based response selection than to rule retrieval. An important task for the future is to explain how PFC, basal ganglia, and temporal, parietal, and motor cortices interact to produce rule-guided behavior.
We investigate the hypothesis that those subregions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) found to support proactive interference resolution may also support delay-spanning distractor interference resolution. Ten subjects performed delayed-recognition tasks requiring working memory for faces or shoes during functional MRI scanning. During the 15-sec delay interval, task-irrelevant distractors were presented. These distractors were either all faces or all shoes and were thus either congruent or incongruent with the domain of items in the working memory task. Delayed-recognition performance was slower and less accurate during congruent than during incongruent trials. Our fMRI analyses revealed significant delay interval activity for face and shoe working memory tasks within both dorsal and ventral PFC. However, only ventral PFC activity was modulated by distractor category, with greater activity for congruent than for incongruent trials. Importantly, this congruency effect was only present for correct trials. In addition to PFC, activity within the fusiform face area was investigated. During face distraction, activity was greater for face relative to shoe working memory. As in ventrolateral PFC, this congruency effect was only present for correct trials. These results suggest that the ventrolateral PFC and fusiform face area may work together to support delay-spanning interference resolution.
Grammatical-specific language impairment (G-SLI) in children, arguably, provides evidence for the existence of a specialised grammatical sub-system in the brain, necessary for normal language development. Some researchers challenge this, claiming that domain-general, low-level auditory deficits, particular to rapid processing, cause phonological deficits and thereby SLI. We investigate this possibility by testing the auditory discrimination abilities of G-SLI children for speech and non-speech sounds, at varying presentation rates, and controlling for the effects of age and language on performance. For non-speech formant transitions, 69% of the G-SLI children showed normal auditory processing, whereas for the same acoustic information in speech, only 31% did so. For rapidly presented tones, 46% of the G-SLI children performed normally. Auditory performance with speech and non-speech sounds differentiated the G-SLI children from their age-matched controls, whereas speed of processing did not. The G-SLI children evinced no relationship between their auditory and phonological/grammatical abilities. We found no consistent evidence that a deficit in processing rapid acoustic information causes or maintains G-SLI. The findings, from at least those G-SLI children who do not exhibit any auditory deficits, provide further evidence supporting the existence of a primary domain-specific deficit underlying G-SLI.
Subjects in a darkroom saw an array of five phosphorescent objects on a circular table and, after a short delay, indicated which object had been moved. During the delay the subject, the table or a phosphorescent landmark external to the array was moved (a rotation about the centre of the table) either alone or together. The subject then had to indicate which one of the five objects had been moved. A fully factorial design was used to detect the use of three types of representations of object location: (i) visual snapshots; (ii) egocentric representations updated by self-motion; and (iii) representations relative to the external cue. Improved performance was seen whenever the test array was oriented consistently with any of these stored representations. The influence of representations (i) and (ii) replicates previous work. The influence of representation (iii) is a novel finding which implies that allocentric representations play a role in spatial memory, even over short distances and times. The effect of the external cue was greater when initially experienced as stable. Females out-performed males except when the array was consistent with self-motion but not visual snapshots. These results enable a simple egocentric model of spatial memory to be extended to address large-scale navigation, including the effects of allocentric knowledge, landmark stability and gender.
Exogenous serotonin elicits several behaviors in Procambarus clarkii, including a flexed, elevated posture, reduced locomotion, and changes in aggressive behavior. We conducted experiments to determine if several serotonin agonists mimicked the behavioral effects of serotonin in two crayfish species, P. clarkii and Orconectes rusticus. Drugs tested were 1-(3-Chlorophenyl)-piperazine dihydrochloride (mCPP), Oxymetazoline, 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine (DOI), CGS-12066A, and (+/-)-8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-dipropylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT). In P. clarkii, mCPP most closely mimicked the effects of serotonin, significantly increasing the performance of the flexed, elevated posture and reducing locomotion; 8-OH-DPAT significantly reduced locomotion as well. Both of these drugs produced significant increases in elevated posture and decreases in locomotion in O. rusticus, and in this species, the drugs at test concentrations were more effective in eliciting these effects than serotonin. The effects of the drugs on behaviors performed during fighting bouts were variable. In both species, only 8-OH-DPAT significantly reduced several agonistic behaviors, and no agonist or 5-HT itself produced significant increases in agonistic behavior.
Recent theoretical and empirical work in cognitive science and neuroscience is brought into contact with the concept of the flow experience. After a brief exposition of brain function, the explicit-implicit distinction is applied to the effortless information processing that is so characteristic of the flow state. The explicit system is associated with the higher cognitive functions of the frontal lobe and medial temporal lobe structures and has evolved to increase cognitive flexibility. In contrast, the implicit system is associated with the skill-based knowledge supported primarily by the basal ganglia and has the advantage of being more efficient. From the analysis of this flexibility/efficiency trade-off emerges a thesis that identifies the flow state as a period during which a highly practiced skill that is represented in the implicit system's knowledge base is implemented without interference from the explicit system. It is proposed that a necessary prerequisite to the experience of flow is a state of transient hypofrontality that enables the temporary suppression of the analytical and meta-conscious capacities of the explicit system. Examining sensory-motor integration skills that seem to typify flow such as athletic performance, writing, and free-jazz improvisation, the new framework clarifies how this concept relates to creativity and opens new avenues of research.

The early discontinuation of the Women's Health Initiative trial evaluating the effects of estrogen plus progestin due to concerns about the risk-benefit ratio of this steroid combination therapy emphasizes the need to examine alternative methods of estrogen replacement. One such alternative is isoflavone consumption of soy-derived dietary phytoestrogens that have received prevalent usage due to their ability to decrease age related disease (cardiovascular and osteoporosis), hormone-dependent cancers (breast and prostate), and peri- and postmenopausal symptoms. Differences in dietary phytoestrogen consumption result in large variations in somatic phytoestrogen content. These molecules affect estrogen and estrogen receptor function in several ways, including having both agonist and antagonist effects on estrogen receptors, as well as functioning like natural selective estrogen receptor modulators. Similar to estrogens, dietary phytoestrogens appear to affect certain aspects of vascular, neuroendocrine, and cognitive function. This article reviews health effects of estrogen, isoflavones and their hormonal mechanism of action, brain penetration by isoflavones, heath effects of isoflavones, and effects of isoflavones on vascular, neuroendocrine, and cognitive function. Because of their diverse health effects and widespread availability in soy foods, dietary phytoestrogens merit continued research into their effects on human health and cognitive function.
This review outlines recent findings from human neuroimaging concerning the role of a highly interconnected network of brain areas including orbital and medial prefrontal cortex, amygdala, striatum and dopaminergic mid-brain in reward processing. Distinct reward-related functions can be attributed to different components of this network. Orbitofrontal cortex is involved in coding stimulus reward value and in concert with the amygdala and ventral striatum is implicated in representing predicted future reward. Such representations can be used to guide action selection for reward, a process that depends, at least in part, on orbital and medial prefrontal cortex as well as dorsal striatum.
Brain imaging experiments identify plausible circuits involved in the genesis of the cardinal symptoms of Parkinson's disease. Akinesia is linked to hypoactivation of the supplementary motor area secondary to insufficient thalamocortical facilitation. Overactivation in other areas such as the lateral premotor and parietal cortex probably represents a compensatory mechanism. Bradykinesia is associated with abnormal functioning within intrinsic basal ganglia circuitry for scaling movements to appropriate magnitude. Parkinson's disease tremor is localized to pontine- and mesencephalic-cerebellar-thalamic circuits, with abnormalities of both dopamine and serotonin neurotransmission. There is a need to understand the anatomic intersections where information is shared across these circuits.
The study of plasticity in the central nervous system is a major and very dynamic neuroscience research field with enormous clinical potential. Considerable advances in this field have been made during the past 10 years. It now appears that most circuits in the brain and spinal cord show plasticity and that they can be modified by experience. Knowledge of the mechanisms of plasticity in the nervous system is therefore essential for the understanding of how the nervous system is wired during development and how it adapts in response to changes in the body and environment. Recent findings indicate that functional sensorimotor modules probe the sensory signals from the body that are generated as a consequence of module specific activity and use this sensory feedback to calibrate the strength in its input-output connections. This experience-dependent signal adapts the circuitry in the sensorimotor module to the body anatomy and biomechanics.
The firing of neostriatal spiny neurons in response to an excitatory input is modulated and sculpted by a variety of factors. Neostriatal interneurons are phenotypically diverse and have properties that enable them to specifically, but differentially, influence the activity of spiny neurons. Each of the three types of GABAergic interneurons produces a strong inhibitory postsynaptic potential in spiny neurons, the function of which is probably to influence the precise timing of action potential firing in either individual or ensembles of spiny neurons. By contrast, the role of cholinergic interneurons is to modulate the sub- and supra-threshold responses of spiny neurons to cortical and/or thalamic excitation, particularly in reward-related activities. Both classes of interneurons are important sites of action of neuromodulators in neostriatum, and act in different but complementary ways to modify the activity of the spiny projection neurons.
Rhythmically active neuronal networks give rise to rhythmic motor activities but also to seemingly non-rhythmic behaviors such as sleep, arousal, addiction, memory and cognition. Many of these networks contain pacemaker neurons. The ability of these neurons to generate bursts of activity intrinsically lies in voltage- and time-dependent ion fluxes resulting from a dynamic interplay among ion channels, second messenger pathways and intracellular Ca2+ concentrations, and is influenced by neuromodulators and synaptic inputs. This complex intrinsic and extrinsic modulation of pacemaker activity exerts a dynamic effect on network activity. The nonlinearity of bursting activity might enable pacemaker neurons to facilitate the onset of excitatory states or to synchronize neuronal ensembles--an interactive process that is intimately regulated by synaptic and modulatory processes.
Fluorescent lifetime imaging microscopy is a powerful tool to enhance the contrast in images of biological samples and to investigate the local environment of a fluorochrome. FLIM allows the detection of protein-protein interactions and their biochemical state by the quantitative detection of Frster resonance energy transfer (FRET) between molecules in living cells or tissues. The availability of different spectral variants of the visible fluorescent proteins (VFPs) allows the investigation of molecular activities and protein-protein interactions in living cells by FRET as measured by FLIM.

The precise lineage between neural stem cells and mature astrocytes remains poorly defined. To examine astrocyte development, we have characterized glial precursors from neural tissue derived from early embryonic ages. We show that CD44 identifies an astrocyte-restricted precursor cell (ARP) that is committed to generating astrocytes in vitro and in vivo in both rodent and human tissue. CD44+ cells arise later in development than neuronal-restricted precursors (NRPs) or tripotential glial-restricted precursors (GRPs). ARPs are distinguished from GRP and NRP cells by their antigenic profile and differentiation ability. ARPs can be generated from GRP cells in mass or clonal cultures and in vivo after transplantation, suggesting a sequential differentiation of neuroepithelial stem cells (NEPs) to GRPs to ARPs and then to astrocytes. The properties of ARPs are different from other astrocyte precursors described previously in their expression of CD44 and S-100beta and absence of other lineage markers. Using a CD44 misexpression transgenic mouse model (CNP-CD44 mouse), we show that CD44 overexpression in vivo and in vitro decreases the number of mature glia and increases the number of O4+/GFAP+ cells tenfold. Misexpression of CD44 in culture inhibits oligodendrocytes and arrests cells at the precursor state. In summary, our data provide strong evidence for the existence of a CD44+ ARP in the developing nervous system.
Inner ear sensory hair cells (HCs), supporting cells (SCs), and sensory neurons (SNs) are hypothesized to develop from common progenitors in the early embryonic otocyst. Because little is known about the molecular signals that control this lineage specification, we derived a model system of early otic development: conditionally immortalized otocyst (IMO) cell lines from the embryonic day 9.5 Immortomouse. This age is the earliest stage at which the otocyst can easily be separated from surrounding mesenchymal, nervous system, and epithelial cells. At 9.5 days post coitum, there are still pluripotent cells in the otocyst, allowing for the eventual identification of both SN and HC precursors--and possibly an elusive inner ear stem cell. Cell lines derived from primitive precursor cells can also be used as blank canvases for transfections of genes that can affect lineage decisions as the cells differentiate. It is important, therefore, to characterize the &quot;baseline state&quot; of these cell lines in as much detail as possible. We characterized seven representative &quot;precursor-like&quot; IMO cell populations and the uncloned IMO cells, before cell sorting, at the molecular level by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and immunocytochemistry (IHC), and one line (IMO-2B1) in detail by real-time quantitative PCR and IHC. Many of the phenotypic markers characteristic of differentiated HCs or SCs were detected in IMO-2B1 proliferating cells, as well as during differentiation for up to 30 days in culture. These IMO cell lines represent a unique model system for studying early stages of inner ear development and determining the consequences of affecting key molecular events in their differentiation.
Preterm infants are at increased risk for cognitive disorders, including impairments in recognition memory. This study evaluated the effects of extreme prematurity on the neural pathway for auditory recognition memory using event-related potentials (ERPs), a neurophysiological technique widely used in cognitive neuroscience. ERPs were recorded at term postmenstrual age in 35 preterm infants born at less than 32 weeks' gestation (22 males, 13 females; mean birthweight ([BW] 1154g, SD 374g) with normal brain ultrasounds, compared with 40 healthy, term newborns (1 to 3 days of age; 20 males, 20 females; BW 3672g, SD 420g). Because infants must be able to detect and discriminate sounds before recognizing them, two paradigms were used to assess these functions. The first evaluated the detection and discrimination of speech sounds. The second tested recognition of the mother's voice compared with a stranger's. Results showed significantly different patterns of speech sound discrimination in preterm infants compared with term infants. No evidence of maternal voice recognition was elicited from the preterm infants. No specific patterns of auditory detection or discrimination were associated with patterns of recognition memory, suggesting that the function of multiple neural pathways may have been altered in this group of preterm infants. These results provide a functional corroboration of magnetic resonance imaging studies showing effects of prematurity on early brain development, even among preterm infants with normal cranial ultrasonography.
We show that alpha3 integrin mutation disrupts distinct aspects of neuronal migration and placement in the cerebral cortex. The preplate develops normally in alpha3 integrin mutant mice. However, time lapse imaging of migrating neurons in embryonic cortical slices indicates retarded radial and tangential migration of neurons, but not ventricular zone-directed migration. Examination of the actin cytoskeleton of alpha3 integrin mutant cortical cells reveals aberrant actin cytoskeletal dynamics at the leading edges. Deficits are also evident in the ability of developing neurons to probe their cellular environment with filopodial and lamellipodial activity. Calbindin or calretinin positive upper layer neurons as well as the deep layer neurons of alpha3 integrin mutant mice expressing EGFP were misplaced. These results suggest that alpha3beta1 integrin deficiency impairs distinct patterns of neuronal migration and placement through dysregulated actin dynamics and defective ability to search and respond to migration modulating cues in the developing cortex.

Early diagnosis of Alzheimer s disease (AD) is relevant in order to initiate symptomatic treatment with antidementia drugs. This will be of greater significance if the drugs aimed at slowing down the degenerative process (secondary prevention) prove to affect AD pathology and are clinically effective, such as -secretase inhibitors. However, there is currently no clinical assessment to differentiate the patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who will progress to AD from those with a benign form of memory impairment that is part of the normal aging process. Thus, there is great clinical need for diagnostic and predictive biomarkers, as well as biomarkers for classification purposes, to identify incipient AD in MCI subjects. The most promising cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker candidates are total tau protein (T-tau), phosphorylated tau protein (P-tau), and the 42-andno acid form offi-amyloid (A42), which may, if used in the right clinical context, prove to have sufficient diagnostic accuracy and predictive power to resolve this diagnostic challenge.
The possibility of regenerating tissues would provide an effective therapeutic tool for the treatment of many pathological conditions, including neurological diseases, spinal cord injuries, cardiopathies, diabetes, hematological illnesses and genetic disorders. While stem cells may have the potential of regenerating a variety of tissues, as indicated by a number of groundbreaking but preliminary reports, ethical issues and safety considerations seem to preclude the use of human embryonic stem cells in the clinical setting. Adult stem cells might circumvent the issues posed by embryonic stem cells, although the potential plasticity of adult stem cells is under scrutiny because of many conflicting and contradictory reports in the field of stem cell research. Indeed, many aspects of the biology of stem cells are still not known. In this respect, stem cell biologists have to address several pressing issues. A better understanding of stem cell biology would almost certainly allow for the establishment of efficient and reliable cell transplantation experimental programs in the clinic.

We present here the first known case of an unobtainable radial nerve F-wave in a case of radial nerve conduction block. This case further demonstrates that F-waves are used not only to rule out neuropathy or radiculopathy, but also to detect conduction block.
Rapid response to danger holds an evolutionary advantage. In this positron emission tomography study, phobics were exposed to masked visual stimuli with timings that either allowed awareness or not of either phobic, fear-relevant (e.g., spiders to snake phobics), or neutral images. When the timing did not permit awareness, the amygdala responded to both phobic and fear-relevant stimuli. With time for more elaborate processing, phobic stimuli resulted in an addition of an affective processing network to the amygdala activity, whereas no activity was found in response to fear-relevant stimuli. Also, right prefrontal areas appeared deactivated, comparing aware phobic and fear-relevant conditions. Thus, a shift from top-down control to an affectively driven system optimized for speed was observed in phobic relative to fear-relevant aware processing.
Progesterone (P) and its ring A-reduced metabolites regulate sexual behavior in ovariectomized, estrogen-primed female rats when they are administered intracerebrally and systemically. The present study tested the hypothesis that the MAPK pathway participates in P facilitation and sequential inhibition of sexual behavior. The role of MAPK in lordosis facilitation by two ring A-reduced metabolites of P, 5alpha-dihydroprogesterone (5alpha-DHP) and 5alpha,3alpha-pregnanolone (5alpha,3alpha-Pgl), was also assessed. In Experiment 1, the MAPK inhibitor PD98059 was infused intracerebroventricularly before progestin administration. Lordosis behavior induced by P, 5alpha-DHP, and 5alpha,3alpha-Pgl was abolished 2 h after progestin administration by PD98059. P and 5alpha,3alpha-Pgl facilitation of proceptive behaviors was also decreased by the MAPK inhibitor. Experiment 2 examined the effects of MAPK inhibition on P sequential inhibition. Estrogen-primed females received intracerebroventricular infusions of PD98059 or vehicle 30 min before systemic administration of P and were tested for lordosis 4 h later. Animals received a second injection of P 24 h later and were retested for lordosis. The MAPK inhibitor blocked both lordosis facilitation and sequential inhibition produced by systemic administration of P. Because cGMP can also facilitate lordosis behavior, and cGMP-dependent protein kinase can activate MAPK, experiment 3 determined whether interference with MAPK would affect cGMP enhancement of lordosis. The icv infusion of PD98059 significantly inhibited lordosis behavior induced by 8-bromo-cGMP, a cell-permeable cGMP analog, at both 2 and 4 h. These data support the hypothesis that the MAPK pathway is involved in lordosis regulation by P and some of its ring A-reduced metabolites as well as by the second messenger, cGMP.

Prolonged seizures in immature rats result in minimal behavioral consequences when the animals are studied later in life. Likewise, early-onset seizures are associated with minimal morphological changes. However, it is known that seizures early in life result in changes in the brain that make it more vulnerable to subsequent seizure-induced injury (the so-called two-hit hypothesis). Whether this heightened vulnerability occurs immediately after the first seizure is not known. In this study, immature rats were exposed to status epilepticus (SE) followed by a series of 25 flurothyl-induced seizures, SE alone, 25 flurothyl-induced seizures alone, or no seizures. Rats exposed to SE and flurothyl seizures performed significantly poorer in the water maze 2 weeks following the last seizure compared with the other groups. No histological lesions were seen in any of the four groups. This study suggests that SE renders the immature brain vulnerable to further seizure-induced injury and this enhanced vulnerability occurs very quickly after the SE.
The therapy of headache attributed to spontaneous low CSF pressure (previously defined as spontaneous intracranial hypotension) is still a matter of debate. Epidural blood patch is considered the most effective treatment. However, pharmacological strategies may be considered before blood patch. We report three patients with headache attributed to spontaneous low CSF pressure that were successfully treated with oral prednisone. Additional studies may be useful to prove the effectiveness of corticosteroids in this syndrome.
Faces are multi-dimensional stimuli bearing important social signals, such as gaze direction and emotion expression. To test whether perception of these two facial attributes recruits distinct cortical areas within the right hemisphere, we used single-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in healthy volunteers while they performed two different tasks on the same face stimuli. In each task, two successive faces were presented with varying eye-gaze directions and emotional expressions, separated by a short interval of random duration. TMS was applied over either the right somatosensory cortex or the right superior lateral temporal cortex, 100 or 200 ms after presentation of the second face stimulus. Participants performed a speeded matching task on the second face during one of two possible conditions, requiring judgements about either gaze direction or emotion expression (same/different as the first face). Our results reveal a significant task-stimulation site interaction, indicating a selective TMS-related interference following stimulations of somatosensory cortex during the emotional expression task. Conversely, TMS of the superior lateral temporal cortex selectively interfered with the gaze direction task. We also found that the interference effect was specific to the stimulus content in each condition, affecting judgements of gaze shifts (not static eye positions) with TMS over the right superior temporal cortex, and judgements of fearful expressions (not happy expressions) with TMS over the right somatosensory cortex. These results provide for the first time a double dissociation in normal subjects during social face recognition, due to transient disruption of non-overlapping brain regions. The present study supports a critical role of the somatosensory and superior lateral temporal regions in the perception of fear expression and gaze shift in seen faces, respectively.
Unilateral damage to cortical areas in the frontal cortex produces sensorimotor deficits on the side contralateral to the lesion. Although there are anecdotal reports of bilateral deficits after stroke in humans and in experimental animals, little is known of the effects of unilateral lesions on the same side of the body. The objective of the present study was to make a systematic examination of the motor skills of the ipsilateral forelimb after frontal cortex lesions to either the motor cortex by devascularization of the surface blood vessels (pial stroke), or to the lateral cortex by electrocoagulation of the distal branches of the middle cerebral artery (MCA stroke). Plastic processes in the intact hemisphere were documented using Golgi-Cox dendritic analysis and by intracortical microstimulation analysis. Although tests of reflexive responses in forelimb placing identified a contralateral motor impairment following both cortical lesions, quantitative and qualitative measures of skilled reaching identified a severe ipsilateral impairment from which recovery was substantial but incomplete. Golgi-impregnated pyramidal cells in the forelimb area showed an increase in dendritic length and branching. Electrophysiological mapping showed normal size forelimb representations in the lesioned rats relative to control animals. The finding of an enduring ipsilateral impairment in skilled movement is consistent with a large but more anecdotal literature in rats, nonhuman primates and humans, and suggests that plastic changes in the intact hemisphere are related to that hemisphere's contribution to skilled movement.
Altered hippocampal function and brain serotonin activity are implicated in the development and symptoms of schizophrenia. We have previously shown that lesions of the median raphe nucleus, but not the dorsal raphe nucleus, produced a marked enhancement of locomotor hyperactivity induced by phencyclidine and disruption of prepulse inhibition. The dorsal and ventral hippocampus receive serotonin projections predominantly from the median raphe nucleus and dorsal raphe nucleus, respectively. Therefore, we investigated the effect of local lesions of serotonin projections into the dorsal and ventral hippocampus on psychotomimetic drug-induced locomotor hyperactivity and prepulse inhibition. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anaesthetized with pentobarbitone and stereotaxically microinjected with 5 microg of the serotonergic neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine into either the dorsal or the ventral hippocampus. Two weeks after surgery, dorsal hippocampus-lesioned rats showed a 100% enhancement of the locomotor hyperactivity caused by phencyclidine treatment and a slight but significant reduction of the effect of amphetamine. Prepulse inhibition was significantly disrupted in lesioned rats and serotonin levels in the dorsal hippocampus were reduced by 80%. Rats with lesions of the ventral hippocampus showed 85% depletion of serotonin and partial disruption of prepulse inhibition, but no significant changes in the effect of phencyclidine or amphetamine. These results suggest that serotonin projections from the median raphe nucleus to the dorsal hippocampus play an important role in locomotor hyperactivity and prepulse inhibition in rats, animal models of aspects of schizophrenia. This suggests that these serotonin projections may be involved in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia symptomology.
The present study was designed to analyse whether continuous overexpression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in the striatum by a recombinant lentiviral vector can provide improved cell survival and additional long-term functional benefits after transplantation of fetal ventral mesencephalic cells in Parkinsonian rats. A four-site intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesion resulted in an 80-90% depletion of nigral dopamine cells and striatal fiber innervation, leading to stable motor impairments. Histological analysis performed at 4 weeks after grafting into the GDNF-overexpressing striatum revealed a twofold increase in the number of surviving tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive cells, as compared with grafts placed in control (green fluorescent protein-overexpressing) animals. However, in animals that were allowed to survive for 6 months, the numbers of surviving TH-positive cells in the grafts were equal in both groups, suggesting that the cells initially protected at 4 weeks failed to survive despite the continued presence of GDNF. Although cell survival was similar in both grafted groups, the TH-positive fiber innervation density was lower in the GDNF-treated grafted animals (30% of normal) compared with animals with control grafts (55% of normal). The vesicular monoamine transporter-2-positive fiber density in the striatum, by contrast, was equal in both groups, suggesting that long-term GDNF overexpression induced a selective down-regulation of TH in the grafted dopamine neurons. Behavioral analysis in the long-term grafted animals showed that the control grafted animals improved their performance in spontaneous motor behaviors to approximately 50% of normal, whereas the GDNF treatment did not provide any additional recovery.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with complex symptoms dominated by progressive motor dysfunction. Skeletal muscle atrophy is common in HD patients. Because the HD mutation is expressed in skeletal muscle as well as brain, we wondered whether the muscle changes arise from primary pathology. We used R6/2 transgenic mice for our studies. Unlike denervation atrophy, skeletal muscle atrophy in R6/2 mice occurs uniformly. Paradoxically however, skeletal muscles show age-dependent denervation-like abnormalities, including supersensitivity to acetylcholine, decreased sensitivity to mu-conotoxin, and anode-break action potentials. Morphological abnormalities of neuromuscular junctions are also present, particularly in older R6/2 mice. Severely affected R6/2 mice show a progressive increase in the number of motor endplates that fail to respond to nerve stimulation. Surprisingly, there was no constitutive sprouting of motor neurons in R6/2 muscles, even in severely atrophic muscles that showed other denervation-like characteristics. In fact, there was an age-dependent loss of regenerative capacity of motor neurons in R6/2 mice. Because muscle fibers appear to be released from the activity-dependent cues that regulate membrane properties and muscle size, and motor axons and nerve terminals become impaired in their capacity to release neurotransmitter and to respond to stimuli that normally evoke sprouting and adaptive reinnervation, we speculate that in these mice there is a progressive dissociation of trophic signalling between motor neurons and skeletal muscle. However, irrespective of the cause, the abnormalities at neuromuscular junctions we report here are likely to contribute to the pathological phenotype in R6/2 mice, particularly in late stages of the disease.
To determine whether the basal forebrain-hippocampal cholinergic system supports sexually dimorphic functionality, male and female Long-Evans rats were given either selective medial septum/vertical limb of the diagonal band (MS/VDB) cholinergic lesions using the neurotoxin 192 IgG-saporin or a control surgery and then postoperatively tested in a set of standard spatial learning tasks in the Morris water maze. Lesions were highly specific and effective as confirmed by both choline acetyltransferase/parvalbumin immunostaining and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. Female controls performed worse than male controls in place learning and MS/VDB lesions failed to impair spatial learning in male rats, both consistent with previous findings. In female rats, MS/VDB cholinergic lesions facilitated spatial reference learning. A subsequent test of learning strategy in the water maze revealed a female bias for a response, relative to a spatial, strategy; MS/VDB cholinergic lesions enhanced the use of a spatial strategy in both sexes, but only significantly so in males. Together, these results indicate a sexually dimorphic function associated with MS/VDB-hippocampal cholinergic inputs. In female rats, these neurons appear to support sex-specific spatial learning processes.
The effect of five peptides derived from the C-terminal portion of rat pro-VGF (VGF(577-617), VGF(588-617), VGF(599-617), VGF(556-576) and VGF(588-597)) on penile erection was studied after injection into the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus of male rats. VGF(577-617), VGF(588-617), VGF(599-617) and, to a lower extent, VGF(588-597) (0.1-2 microg) induced penile erection episodes in a dose-dependent manner when injected into the paraventricular nucleus, while VGF(556-576) was ineffective. VGF(588-617)-induced penile erection was reduced by nitro(omega)-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME; 20 microg), by morphine (5 microg) and by muscimol (1 microg), but not by dizocilpine [(+)MK-801; 1 microg], nor by cis-flupenthixol (10 microg) given into the paraventricular nucleus 10 min before the VGF peptide. d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8-vasotocin (1 microg) effectively reduced VGF(588-617)-induced penile erection when given into the lateral ventricles but not when injected into the paraventricular nucleus. Immunocytochemistry with antibodies specific for the C-terminal nonapeptide sequence of pro-VGF (VGF(609-617)) revealed numerous neuronal fibres and terminals within the paraventricular nucleus, including its parvocellular components. Here, many immunostained neuronal terminals impinged on parvocellular oxytocinergic neurons. The present results show for the first time that certain pro-VGF C-terminus-derived peptides promote penile erection when injected into the paraventricular nucleus and suggest that, within this nucleus, these or closely related pro-VGF-derived peptides may be released to influence sexual function by activating paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons mediating penile erection.
We show that activation of GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) promotes induction of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR)-dependent long-term depression (LTD) of glutamatergic synapses in the newborn rat hippocampal area CA1 in a developmentally restricted manner. In the newborn rat hippocampus two mechanistically different types of LTD of glutamatergic synapses could be induced under similar experimental conditions. The form of the LTD induced depended on the stimulation protocol and on the age of the animal. Low-frequency stimulation (1 Hz) with 100 stimuli induced a robust homosynaptic, reversible LTD at postnatal days 2-8 (P2-P8) but not at P14. This LTD was blocked by the NMDAR antagonist AP5 or by the GABA(A)R antagonist picrotoxin. Use of a low-chloride solution in the patch pipette resulting in E(GABA-A) &lt; -70 mV blocked the NMDAR-dependent LTD, whereas clamping the cell to -40 mV during induction rescued it. In addition, it was possible to induce LTD at P14 with 100 stimuli if the cells were clamped to -40 mV during induction. Low-frequency stimulation with 900 stimuli induced a robust homosynaptic, reversible LTD both at P2-P8 and at P14. However, neither AP5 nor picrotoxin affected the LTD induced by 900 pulses at P2-P8. Instead, the 900 stimuli-induced LTD was blocked by the metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists when co-applied with AP5. We suggest that during the first postnatal week postsynaptic depolarization provided by the activation of GABA(A)Rs shifts the threshold for the LTD induction, making the synapses more prone to activity-induced plasticity. From the second postnatal week onwards, when the GABA(A) responses are already hyperpolarizing, different mechanisms for LTD induction prevail.
Luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) is a physiological modulator of neuronal excitability in bullfrog sympathetic ganglia (BFSG). Actions of LHRH involve suppression of the noninactivating, voltage-dependent M-type K+ channel conductance (gM). We found, using whole-cell recordings from these neurons, that LHRH-induced suppression of gM was attenuated by the phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor U73122 (10 microM) but not by the inactive isomer U73343 (10 microM). Buffering internal Ca2+ to 117 nM with intracellular 20 mM BAPTA + 8 mM Ca2+ or to &lt; 10 nM with intracellular 20 mM BAPTA + 0.4 mM Ca2+ did not attenuate LHRH-induced gM suppression. Suppression of gM by LHRH was not antagonized by the inositol 1,4,5 trisphosphate (InsP3) receptor antagonist heparin (approximately 300 microM). Preventing phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2) synthesis by blocking phosphatidylinositol-4-kinase with wortmannin (10 microM) or with the nonhydrolysable ATP analogue AMP-PNP (3 mM) prolonged recovery of LHRH-induced gM suppression. This effect was not produced by blocking phosphatidyl inositol-3-kinase with LY294002 (10 microM). Rundown of gM was attenuated when cells were dialysed with 240 microM di-octanoyl PIP2 or 240 microM di-octanoyl phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP3) but not with 240 microM di-octanoyl phosphatidylcholine. LHRH-induced gM suppression was competitively antagonized by dialysis with 240 microM di-octanoyl PIP2, but not with di-octanoyl phosphatidylcholine. These results would be expected if LHRH-induced gM suppression reflects a PLC-mediated decrease in plasma membrane PIP2 levels.
Fast excitatory transmission in the nervous system is mostly mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors whose subunit composition governs physiological characteristics such as ligand affinity and ion conductance properties. Here, we report that AMPA receptors at inner hair cell (IHC) synapses lack the GluR2 subunit and are transiently Ca2+-permeable before hearing onset as evidenced using agonist-induced Co2+ accumulation, Western blots and GluR2 confocal microscopy in the rat cochlea. AMPA (100 microM) induced Co2+ accumulation in primary auditory neurons until postnatal day (PND) 10. This accumulation was concentration-dependent, strengthened by cyclothiazide (50 microM) and blocked by GYKI 52466 (80 microM) and Joro spider toxin (1 microM). It was unaffected by D-AP5 (50 microM), and it could not be elicited by 56 mM K+ or 1 mM NMDA + 10 microM glycine. Western blots showed that GluR1 immunoreactivity, present in homogenates of immature cochleas, had disappeared by PND12. GluR2 immunoreactivity was not detected until PND10 and GluR3 and GluR4 immunoreactivities were detected at all the ages examined. Confocal microscopy confirmed that the GluR2 immunofluorescence was not located postsynaptically to IHCs before PND10. In conclusion, AMPA receptors on maturing primary auditory neurons differ from those on adult neurons. They are probably composed of GluR1, GluR3 and GluR4 subunits and have a high Ca2+ permeability. The postsynaptic expression of GluR2 subunits may be continuously regulated by the presynaptic activity allowing for variations in the Ca2+ permeability and physiological properties of the receptor.
Whereas small-fibre sensory neuropathies might ultimately lead to cell death and loss of sensation, they first progress through a phase, which might last for years, characterized by the presence of analgesia-resistant neuropathic dysesthesias and pain. Much previous research has addressed these two phases as separate phenomena mediated by presumably discrete biochemical mechanisms. We hypothesized that activity in signalling pathways that ultimately lead to apoptosis plays a critical role in the generation of neuropathic pain, before death of sensory neurons becomes apparent. We have tested the hypothesis that activator and effector caspases, defining components of programmed cell death (apoptosis) signalling pathways, also contribute to pain-related behaviour in animals with small-fibre peripheral neuropathies and that the death receptor ligand, tumour necrosis factor-alpha, and its downstream second messenger, ceramide, also produce pain-related behaviour via this mechanism. In two models of painful peripheral neuropathy, HIV/AIDS therapy (induced by the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dideoxycytidine), and cancer chemotherapy (induced by vincristine) peripheral neuropathy, and for pain-related behaviour induced by tumour necrosis factor-alpha and its second messenger, ceramide, inhibition of both activator (1, 2, 8 and 9) and effector (3) caspases attenuates neuropathic pain-related behaviour, although has no effect in streptozotocin-diabetic neuropathy and control rats. We conclude that during a latent phase, before apoptotic cell death is manifest, the caspase signalling pathway can contribute to pain in small-fibre peripheral neuropathies, and that inflammatory/immune mediators also activate these pathways. This suggests that these pathways are potential targets for novel pharmacological agents for the treatment of inflammatory as well as neuropathic pain.
To investigate the intracellular signal transduction pathways involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms of neuropathic pain after partial nerve injury, we examined the activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) in the chronic constriction injury (CCI) model. The CCI induced an increase in the phosphorylation of ERK in predominantly injured medium-sized and large-sized DRG neurons and in satellite glial cells. Treatment with the MAPK kinase 1/2 inhibitor, U0126, suppressed CCI-induced mechanical allodynia and partially reversed the increase in neuropeptide Y (NPY) expression in damaged DRG neurons. In contrast, the CCI induced the activation of p38, mainly in uninjured small-to-medium-diameter DRG neurons and in satellite glial cells. The p38 inhibitor, SB203580, reversed the CCI-induced heat hyperalgesia and also the increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in intact DRG neurons. On the other hand, the nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced increase in BDNF expression in small-to-medium-diameter neurons was reversed by SB203580, whereas the anti-NGF-induced increase in NPY in medium-sized and large-sized neurons was partially blocked by U0126. Taken together, our results demonstrate that the activation of ERK and p38 and also the changes in NPY and BDNF expression may occur in different populations of DRG neurons after CCI, partially through alterations in the target-derived NGF. These changes in injured and intact primary afferents are likely to have a substantial role in pathological states, and MAPK pathways in nociceptors may be potential targets for the development of novel analgesics.
Neuronal loss has been observed in post mortem brains of patients with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Experimental evidence has implicated HIV-1-derived envelope glycoprotein 120 (gp120) in the neuronal cell death observed in these patients. However, the intrinsic mechanisms by which gp120 causes neurotoxicity are still unknown. We have recently shown that the neurotoxic effect of gp120 in vitro is reduced by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We therefore tested the hypothesis that low levels of BDNF render neurons more sensitive to gp120. Gp120 was injected acutely into the striatum of BDNF heterozygous mice and wild-type littermates. BDNF heterozygous mice exhibited more apoptotic neurons in the striatum than wild-type mice, suggesting that BDNF is neuroprotective also in vivo. Because several neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by lack of trophic support, we tested the hypothesis that gp120 may cause apoptosis by reducing BDNF expression. Gp120 was injected acutely in the rat striatum and BDNF levels determined by a two-site immunoassay at various times after the injection. Gp120 elicited a dramatic decrease in BDNF protein levels by 24 h. Reduced BDNF levels were still present at 4 days. Cellular localization of BDNF immunoreactivity revealed that gp120 decreases BDNF immunoreactivity mainly in neuronal processes. This effect of gp120 precedes the peak of caspase-3 activation and neuronal cell death. We propose that one of the mechanisms whereby gp120 causes neurotoxicity is a reduction of the neurotrophic factor environment crucial for cell survival.
We have examined the hypothesis that differences in nerve growth factor (NGF) uptake and transport determine vulnerability to age-related neurodegeneration. Neurons projecting to cerebral blood vessels (CV) in aged rats are more vulnerable to age-related degeneration than those projecting to the iris. Uptake of NGF was therefore examined in sympathetic neurons projecting from the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) to CV and iris in young and old rats by treating the peripheral processes of these neurons with different doses of I125-NGF. Total uptake of I125-NGF was reduced in old CV-projecting, but not iris-projecting, neurons. Numbers of radiolabelled neurons projecting to each target were counted in sectioned ganglia. The data showed age-related reductions in numbers of labelled neurons projecting to CV, but no change in numbers of neurons projecting to the iris. Calculation of uptake of I125-NGF per neuron unexpectedly showed no major age-related differences in either of the two neuron populations. However, uptake per neuron was considerably lower for young and old CV-projecting, compared to iris-projecting, SCG neurons. We hypothesized that variations in NGF uptake might affect neuronal survival in old age. Counts of SCG neurons using a physical disector following retrograde tracing with Fluorogold confirmed the selective vulnerability of CV-projecting neurons by showing a significant 37% loss of these neurons in the period between 15 and 24 months. In contrast, there was no significant loss of iris-projecting neurons. We conclude that vulnerability to, or protection from, age-related neurodegeneration and neuronal cell death are associated with life-long low, or high, levels of NGF uptake, respectively.
This study describes cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and substance P (SP) in patients with a recent suicide attempt and during antidepressant treatment. Seven out of 13 patients received antidepressants. The patients were examined on three separate occasions, i.e. at pre-treatment, followed by every 3 or 4 months. Antidepressant treatment seemed to affect the levels of CSF NPY, which decreased significantly between the second and last lumbar puncture despite no significant changes of clinical scores. When the whole group was taken into consideration, both CSF NPY and SP decreased significantly. At pre-treatment, Brief Scale of Anxiety scores were significantly and negatively correlated to CSF SP and tended to be negatively correlated to CSF NPY. There were also significant positive correlations between CSF NPY and SP during the entire study in the whole group, possibly reflecting an inter-relationship between these neuropeptides.
We have reviewed two areas of research on stress, memory, and synaptic plasticity which may be relevant toward understanding the neurobiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). First, we have presented the view that the hippocampus (HC) and prefrontal cortex (PFC) function jointly as a memory system which enables multitask processing (working memory) and consolidation of contextual information. The amygdala, by contrast, is necessary for the consolidation of emotional memories. Cognitive and neurophysiological studies have shown that HC-PFC processing is impaired, and amygdaloid processing is enhanced, by stress and in anxiety and mood disorders, including MDD. Second, we have reviewed research on the behavioral and neurophysiological actions of tianeptine, an antidepressant that is known to block the adverse effects of chronic stress on hippocampal morphology. Recent work has shown that acute tianeptine enhances cognitive and electrophysiological measures of HC-PFC functioning without interfering with the emotion-induced enhancement of amygdaloid functioning in rodents. We conclude with a synthesis of the preclinical and clinical literature on stress, memory, and tianeptine with the proposal that tianeptine should enhance HC-PFC memory-related processing in people under stress.

We investigated the effects of 0.35-mM acetaminophen and its vehicle on isolated, perfused guinea pig hearts made hypoxic and subsequently reoxygenated. Hearts were allowed 30 min postinstrumentation to reach baseline, steady-state values, and then were exposed to 6 min of hypoxia (5% O(2), 5% CO(2), balance N(2)) followed by 36 min of reoxygenation (95% O(2), 5% CO(2)). We recorded hemodynamic, metabolic, and mechanical data in addition to assessing ultrastructure and the capacity of coronary venous effluent to reduce reactive oxygen species. We found that acetaminophen-treated hearts retained a greater fraction of mechanical function during hypoxia and reoxygenation. For example, the average percentage change from baseline of left ventricular developed pressure in acetaminophen- and vehicle-treated hearts at 6 min reoxygenation was 9 +/- 2% and -8 +/- 5% (P &lt; 0.05), respectively. In addition, electron micrographs revealed greater preservation of myofibrillar ultrastructure in acetaminophen-treated hearts. Biochemical analyses revealed the potential of coronary effluent from acetaminophen-treated hearts to significantly neutralize peroxynitrite-dependent chemiluminescence in all recorded time periods. During early reoxygenation, the percentage inhibition of peroxynitrite-mediated chemiluminescence was 56 +/- 10% in vehicle-treated hearts and 99 +/- 1% in acetaminophen-treated hearts (P &lt; 0.05). We conclude that acetaminophen has previously unreported cardioprotective properties in the nonischemic, hypoxic, and reoxygenated myocardium mediated through the reduction of reactive oxygen species.
Electrical stimulation over the cerebellum is known to transiently suppress the contralateral motor cortex in humans. However, projections from the cerebellar nuclei to the primary motor cortex are disynaptic excitatory pathways through the ventral thalamus. In the present investigation we studied facilitatory effects on the motor cortical excitability elicited by electrical stimulation over the cerebellum by recording surface electromyographic (EMG) responses from the first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle in nine normal volunteers. For primary motor cortical activation magnetic stimuli were given over the contralateral hand motor area with a figure-of-eight shaped coil with a current to preferentially elicit I3-waves (test stimulus). For cerebellar stimulation high-voltage electric stimuli were given with an anode on the ipsilateral mastoid process and a cathode over the contralateral process as previously described (conditioning stimulus). The effect of conditioning-test interstimulus intervals was investigated. Anodal cerebellar stimuli increased the size of EMG responses to magnetic cortical stimulation at an interstimulus interval of 3 ms. Reversing the current of conditioning stimulus abolished the facilitation. The same (anodal) conditioning stimuli did not affect electrically evoked cortical responses. Based on the effective polarity of the conditioning stimulus and the time course of facilitation we consider that this effect is due to motor cortical facilitation elicited by activation of the excitatory dentatothalamocortical pathway at the deep cerebellar nuclei or superior cerebellar peduncle. We conclude that the motor cortical facilitation is evoked by cerebellar stimulation in humans.
Neural connections between the cervical and lumbosacral spinal cord may assist in arm and leg coordination during locomotion. Currently the extent to which arm activity can modulate reflex excitability of leg muscles is not fully understood. We showed recently that rhythmic arm movement significantly suppresses soleus H-reflex amplitude probably via modification of presynaptic inhibition of the IA afferent pathway. Further, during walking reflexes evoked in leg muscles by stimulation of a cutaneous nerve at the wrist (superficial radial nerve; SR) are phase and task dependent. However, during walking both the arms and legs are rhythmically active thus it is difficult to identify the locus of such modulation. Here we examined the influence of SR nerve stimulation on transmission through the soleus H-reflex pathway in the leg during static contractions and during rhythmic arm movements. Nerve stimulation was delivered with the right shoulder in flexion or extension. H-reflexes were evoked alone (unconditioned) or with cutaneous conditioning via stimulation of the SR nerve (also delivered alone without H-reflex in separate trials). SR nerve stimulation significantly facilitated H-reflex amplitude during static contractions with the arm extended and countered the suppression of reflex amplitude induced by arm cycling. The results demonstrate that cutaneous feedback from the hand on to the soleus H-reflex pathway in the legs is not suppressed during rhythmic arm movement. This contrasts with the observation that rhythmic arm movement suppresses facilitation of soleus H-reflex when cutaneous nerves innervating the leg are stimulated. In conjunction with other data taken during walking, this suggests that the modulation of transmission through pathways from the SR nerve to the lumbosacral spinal cord is partly determined by rhythmic activity of both the arms and legs.
The subiculum receives a direct projection from the perirhinal cortex, a cortical area whose neurons are responsive to the novelty or familiarity of objects encountered in the environment. We made recordings of subicular neuronal activity while male adult Wistar rats conducted object exploration tasks, which have been previously shown to cause changes in the exploratory behaviour of rats and which are dependent upon the integrity of structures within the hippocampal formation. In the current study, the exploratory behaviour of the rats was also modified in a manner consistent with them perceiving the novelty and familiarity of the objects used as part of the apparatus. Subicular cell firing, however, appeared to correlate best not with object novelty or familiarity, but with the concurrent location and speed of the rats within the task environment. These findings are discussed in light of previously reported 'object-responsive' subicular firing correlates.
Stimulating sensory afferents can increase corticospinal excitability. Intensive use of a particular part of the body can also induce reorganization of neural circuits (use-dependent plasticity) in the central nervous system (CNS). What happens in the CNS when the nerve stimulation is applied in concert with the use of particular muscle groups? The purpose of this study was to investigate short-term effects of electrical stimulation of the common peroneal (CP) nerve during walking on motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) in the ankle flexors and extensors in healthy subjects. Since the stimulation was applied during the swing phase of the step cycle when the ankle flexors are active, this is referred to as functional electrical stimulation (FES). The following questions were addressed: (1) can FES during walking increase corticospinal excitability more effectively than passively received repetitive nerve stimulation and (2) does walking itself improve the descending connection. FES was delivered using a foot drop stimulator that activates ankle dorsiflexors during the swing phase of the step cycle. MEPs in the tibialis anterior (TA) and soleus muscles were measured before, between, and after periods of walking with or without FES, using transcranial magnetic stimulation. After 30 min of walking with FES, the half-maximum peak-to-peak MEP (MEP(h)) in the TA increased in amplitude and this facilitatory effect lasted for at least 30 min. In contrast, walking had no effects on the TA MEP(h) without FES. The increase in the TA MEP(h) with FES (approximately 40%) was similar to that with repetitive CP nerve stimulation at rest. The soleus MEP(h) was also increased after walking with FES, but not without FES, which differs from the previous observation with CP nerve stimulation at rest. With FES, the TA silent period at MEP(h) was unchanged or slightly decreased, while it increased after walking without FES. Increased cortical excitability accompanied by unchanged cortical inhibition (no changes in the silent period with FES) suggests that FES did not simply increase general excitability of the cortex, but had specific effects on particular cortical neurons.
There is a growing body of evidence suggesting that iron chelation may be a useful therapy in the treatment of Parkinson's Disease (PD). Experiments were designed to test the impact of dietary iron availability on the pathogenic process and functional outcome in a mouse model of PD. Mice were fed diets containing low (4 ppm) or adequate (48 ppm) amounts of iron for 6 weeks before the administration of MPTP, a mitochondrial toxin that damages nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons and induces Parkinson-like symptoms. Low dietary iron increased serum total iron binding capacity (P &lt; 0.001). Consistent with neuronal protection, iron restriction increased sphingomyelin C16:0 and decreased ceramide C16:0. However, there was a 35% decrease in striatal dopamine (DA) in iron-restricted mice. Motor behavior was also impaired in these animals. In vitro studies suggested that severe iron restriction could lead to p53-mediated neuronal apoptosis. Administration of MPTP reduced striatal DA (P &lt; 0.01) and impaired motor behavior in iron-adequate mice. However, in iron-restricted mice, striatal dopamine levels and motor behavior were unchanged compared to saline-treated mice. Thus, while reduced iron may provide protection against PD-inducing insults such as MPTP, the role of iron in the synthesis of DA and neuronal survival should be considered, particularly in the development of iron-chelating agents to be used chronically in the clinical setting.
Estrogen attenuates the loss of dopamine from striatum and dopamine neurons from the substantia nigra (SNc) in animal models of Parkinson's disease. Interestingly, estrogen receptors (ERalpha and ERbeta) are thought to be sparse or absent in mouse striatum and SNc. Since ERalpha is markedly induced in rodent cortex after ischemic injury, the present studies evaluated changes in ERs after acute treatment with the dopamine neurotoxin MPTP. Mice were injected daily with estradiol, injected with MPTP on day 6, and brains collected on day 9 or 13. Immunocytochemistry was then used to assess tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in striatum and investigate the localization of ERalpha and ERbeta in the striatum and SNc. In addition, cryostat sections were hybridized with a riboprobe complementary to ERalpha or ERbeta mRNA. Evaluation of TH immunoreactivity revealed a dense network of fibers in the striatum of vehicle-treated animals, while a near complete loss of terminals was seen after MPTP treatment. When, however, mice were pretreated with estradiol, the MPTP-induced loss of TH was attenuated. Evaluation of ERalpha and ERbeta in the SNc and striatum demonstrated a sparse localization of both ERs in vehicle-treated mice, a pattern that did not change in animals treated with vehicle/MPTP or estradiol/MPTP. These data demonstrate that ERs are sparse in the mouse striatum and SNc and show that this pattern does not change after MPTP intoxication. This observation and the finding that estrogen affords some protection against MPTP suggest that estrogen may act via nuclear receptor independent mechanisms to protect dopamine neurons from toxins such as MPTP.
Previous fMRI observations have suggested increased task-related activation of the ipsilateral cerebral motor cortex in patients recovering from stroke. This is generally taken to infer an increased output from this area, although the functional relevance of this has been questioned. Here, we use directed EEG coherence to reveal whether there is increased informational flow from the ipsilateral motor cortex following motor stroke, and through correlation with degree of recovery, establish that this pattern of activity is associated with limited functional improvement. Unrecovered (n = 14), recovered (n = 11) patients and healthy subjects (n = 16) performed an isometric grip task with either hand that corresponded to 25% of individual maximum force, while EEG was recorded. For unrecovered stroke patients, most task-related information flow between the sensorimotor cortices in the low beta band of the EEG came from the ipsilateral (undamaged) hemisphere during grip with the affected hand. This was not the case when they gripped with their unaffected hand, when cortical activity was driven from the contralateral sensorimotor cortex. The latter pattern was also seen in recovered patients and controls. These findings suggest a functional role for the ipsilateral hemisphere in organizing movement of the impaired limb following stroke, but only in those patients that do not make a good functional recovery. Patients making a fuller recovery organize movement-related cortical activity from the hemisphere contralateral to movement.
The release of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by neutrophils, which infiltrate the region of damage following spinal cord injury (SCI), was investigated to determine if such release is significant following spinal cord injury. The relationship of extracellular levels of hydroxyl radicals and hydrogen peroxide obtained by microdialysis sampling and oxidized protein levels in tissue to neutrophil infiltration following spinal cord injury was examined. Neither of the reactive oxygen species were elevated in the site of spinal cord injury relative to their concentrations in normal tissue at a time (24 h) when the numbers of neutrophils were maximum in the site of injury. Surprisingly, ablation with a neutrophil antiserum actually increased the level of oxidized proteins in Western blots. Thus, our findings are (1) that neutrophils, which infiltrate the site of damage following a spinal cord injury, do not release detectable quantities of reactive oxygen species; and (2) that the presence of neutrophils reduces the concentrations of oxidized proteins in the site of spinal cord injury. Therefore, release of reactive oxygen species by neutrophils does not contribute significantly to secondary damage following spinal cord injury. Reduced levels of oxidized proteins in the presence of neutrophils may reflect removal of damaged tissue by neutrophils.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) acts through the neurotrophin receptor TrkB and promotes survival and differentiation of dopaminergic ventral mesencephalic neurons. To further evaluate the role of TrkB in the nigrostriatal pathway, we studied neurotrophin levels, dopamine metabolism, and morphology of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra (SN-DA) in young adult hypomorphic trkB mice (trkBfbz/fbz), which express only approximately 25% of wild type levels of TrkB. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunostaining revealed altered morphology of SN-DA neurons in trkBfbz/fbz when compared to wild type mice, in particular a significant enlargement of nuclear size. Cell counts revealed a pronounced loss of SN-DA neurons in these mice. Measurement of monoamine levels by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) showed that dopamine (DA) levels in the target field (striatum) were significantly elevated in trkBfbz/fbz compared to trkB+/fbz and wild type mice (P &lt; 0.05), without altering DA turnover. Likewise, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for neurotrophic factors measurement showed that BDNF levels were increased in the striatum (P &lt; 0.01) and frontal cortex (P &lt; 0.005) of trkBfbz/fbz mice, but not in the SN when compared to trkB+/fbz and wild type mice. These data suggest that elevated neurotransmitter and neurotrophic factor levels might be a compensatory mechanism following dopaminergic cell loss in the SN. Thus, TrkB-activation seems essential for the maintenance of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system.
Transplantation of stem cells and immature cells has been reported to ameliorate tissue damage, induce axonal regeneration, and improve locomotion following spinal cord injury. However, unless these cells are pushed down a neuronal lineage, the majority of cells become glia, suggesting that the alterations observed may be potentially glially mediated. Transplantation of glial-restricted precursor (GRP) cells--a precursor cell population restricted to oligodendrocyte and astrocyte lineages--offers a novel way to examine the effects of glial cells on injury processes and repair. This study examines the survival and differentiation of GRP cells, and their ability to modulate the development of the lesion when transplanted immediately after a moderate contusion injury of the rat spinal cord. GRP cells isolated from a transgenic rat that ubiquitously expresses heat-stable human placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP) were used to unambiguously detect transplanted GRP cells. Following transplantation, some GRP cells differentiated into oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, retaining their differentiation potential after injury. Transplanted GRP cells altered the lesion environment, reducing astrocytic scarring and the expression of inhibitory proteoglycans. Transplanted GRP cells did not induce long-distance regeneration from corticospinal tract (CST) and raphe-spinal axons when compared to control animals. However, GRP cell transplants did alter the morphology of CST axons toward that of growth cones, and CST fibers were found within GRP cell transplants, suggesting that GRP cells may be able to support axonal growth in vivo after injury.
The transection of the axon of central neurons has dramatic consequences on the damaged cells and nerves. Injury activates molecular programs leading to a complex repertoire of responses that, depending on the cellular context, include activation of sprouting, axonal degeneration, and cell death. Although the cellular mechanisms started at the time of lesion are likely to shape the changes affecting injured cells, the acute physiological reaction to trauma of mammalian central neurons is not completely understood yet. To characterize the physiology of the acute response to axonal transection, we have developed a model of in vitro axotomy of neurons cultured from the rodent cortex. Imaging showed that axotomy caused an increase of calcium in the soma and axon. Propagation of the response to the soma required the activation of voltage-dependent sodium channels, since it was blocked by tetrodotoxin. The electrophysiological response to axotomy was recorded in patched neurons kept in the current clamp configuration: injury was followed by vigorous spiking activity that caused a sodium load and the activation of transient calcium currents that were opened by each action potential. The decrease of the electrochemical gradient of sodium caused inversion of the Na-Ca exchanger that provided an additional mean of entry for calcium. Finally, we determined that inhibition of the physiological response to axotomy hindered the regeneration of a new neurite. These data provide elements of the framework required to link the axotomy itself to the downstream molecular machinery that contributes to the determination of the long-term fate of injured neurons and axons.

The concept of the placebo effect has received a considerable attention over the past several decades. The placebo effect has been observed in different psychiatric disorders, including post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a chronic and severe disorder precipitated by exposure to a psychologically distressing event. The placebo response rates in patients with PTSD range from 19% to 62%. A considerable number of research publications suggest that endogenous opioids are involved in the mechanisms of the placebo effect. Endogenous opioid peptides play an important role in stress response and in the pathophysiology of PTSD. Therefore, endogenous opioids may be involved in the neurobiology of the placebo effect in PTSD. Possibly, the endogenous opioid system mediates the effect of placebo on all 3 PTSD symptom clusters (re-experiencing symptoms, avoidance and numbing, and physiologic arousal). The placebo effect-related activation of the endogenous opioid system may result in an improvement in intrusive symptomatology and symptoms of increased arousal because the administration of exogenous opioids improve these symptoms. The placebo effect-related activation of the endogenous opioid system may have a mood-enhancing effect, and, consequently, diminish avoidance and numbing. Multiple neurotransmitter and neuroendocrine pathways may be involved in the mechanisms of the placebo effect in PTSD. Further studies of the neurobiology of the placebo effect on patients with PTSD and other psychiatric disorders may produce interesting and important results.
Current experimental gene therapy approaches for Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) include the use of viral vectors expressing antiapoptosis genes, neurotrophic factors and dopaminergic system enzymes. However, since increasing evidence favors a role for alpha-synuclein accumulation in the pathogenesis of these disorders, an alternative therapy might require the transfer of genes that might block alpha-synuclein accumulation. beta-Synuclein, the nonamyloidogenic homologue of alpha-synuclein, has recently been identified as a potential candidate. Thus, in vivo transfer of genes encoding beta-synuclein might provide a novel approach to the development of experimental treatments for PD and DLB. To assess this possibility and to better understand the mechanisms involved, a lentiviral vector expressing human (h) beta-synuclein (lenti-beta-synuclein) was tested in a transgenic (tg) mouse model of halpha-synuclein aggregation. This study showed that unilateral intracerebral injection of lenti-beta-synuclein reduced the formation of halpha-synuclein inclusions and the accumulation of halpha-synuclein in synapses and ameliorated the neurodegenerative alterations in the tg mice. Both in vivo and in vitro coimmunoprecipitation and immunoblot experiments show that the mechanisms of beta-synuclein neuroprotection involve binding of this molecule to halpha-synuclein and Akt, resulting in the decreased aggregation and accumulation of halpha-synuclein in the synaptic membrane. Together, these data further support a role for beta-synuclein in regulating the conformational state of alpha-synuclein and suggest that this gene transfer approach might have potential for the development of alternative therapies for PD and DLB.
Changes in the membrane properties of reactive astrocytes in gliotic cortex induced by a stab wound were studied in brain slices of 21-28-day-old rats, using the patch-clamp technique and were correlated with changes in resting extracellular K+ concentration ([K+]e) measured in vivo using K+-selective microelectrodes. Based on K+ current expression, three types of astrocytes were identified in gliotic cortex: A1 astrocytes expressing a time- and voltage-independent K+ current component and additional inwardly rectifying K+ currents (K(IR)); A2 astrocytes expressing a time- and voltage-independent K+ current component and additional delayed outwardly rectifying K+ currents (K(DR)); and complex astrocytes expressing K(DR), K(IR), and A-type K+ (K(A)) currents and Na+ currents (I(Na)). Nestin/bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-negative A1 astrocytes were found further than approximately 100 microm from the stab wound and showed an upregulation of K(IR) currents within the first day post-injury (PI), correlating with an increased resting [K+]e. Their number declined from 62% of total astrocytes in control rats to 41% in rats at 7 days PI. Nestin/BrdU-positive A2 astrocytes were found only within a distance of approximately 100 microm from the stab wound and, in comparison to those in control rats, showed an upregulation of K(DR) currents. Their number increased from 8% of the total number of astrocytes in control rats to 39% 7 days PI. Both A1 and A2 astrocytes showed hypertrophied processes and increased GFAP staining, but an examination of cell morphology revealed greater changes in the surface/volume ratio in A2 astrocytes than in A1 astrocytes. Complex astrocytes did not display a hypertophied morphology; K(IR) currents in these cells were upregulated within 1 day PI, while the K(DR), K(A), and I(Na) currents were increased only 6 h PI. We conclude that two electrophysiologically, immunohistochemically, and morphologically distinct types of hypertrophied astrocytes are present at the site of a stab wound, depending on the distance from the lesion, and may have different functions in ionic homeostasis and/or regeneration.
Sound localization performance is degraded at low stimulus intensities in humans, and while the sound localization ability of humans and macaque monkeys appears similar, the effects of intensity have yet to be described in the macaque. We therefore defined the ability of four macaque monkeys to localize broadband noise stimuli at four different absolute intensities and six different starting locations in azimuth. Results indicate that performance was poorest at the lowest intensity tested (25 dB SPL), intermediate at 35 dB SPL, and equivalent at 55 and 75 dB SPL. Localization performance was best at 0 degree (directly in front of the animal) and was systematically degraded at more peripheral locations (+/-30 degrees and 90 degrees) and worst at a location directly behind the animal. Reaction times showed the same trends, with reaction times increasing with decreasing stimulus intensity, even under conditions where the monkey discriminated the location change with the same performance. These results indicate that sound level as well as position profoundly influences sound localization ability.
The main ascending, excitatory pathway from the cochlea undergoes synaptic interruption in the dorsal and ventral cochlear nuclei. The dorsal cochlear nucleus also forms a feed-forward circuit, which receives cochlear input and projects to the ventral cochlear nucleus by a tuberculo-ventral tract. This circuit may provide an inhibitory fringe (side bands) surrounding the center bands of the main ascending pathway. Biotinylated dextran injections into the dorsal cochlear nucleus anterogradely labeled the tuberculo-ventral tract and its endings in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus but also retrogradely filled cochlear nerve fibers and their terminals in the same regions. To distinguish tuberculo-ventral from cochlear nerve terminals, we used electron microscopy of the immunolabeled endings. Images were digitized and filter-enhanced, and the sizes and shapes of synaptic vesicles were used to construct quantitative profiles of the terminal types. The cochlear nerve endbulbs mapped to the same iso-frequency band of the injection site (main band). Flanking the main band were smaller labeled endings. About 45% of labeled terminals were pleomorphic and equally represented in the main band and side bands. Therefore, if there is an inhibitory fringe in the main projection pathway, it was not selective for tuberculo-ventral tract endings. Surprisingly, an excitatory category of round vesicles of intermediate size was labeled in the main band but not in the side bands. These intermediate endings may balance the feed-forward inhibition from the tuberculo-ventral tract. The quantitative method devised for classification of ending types by their vesicle profiles should be a generally useful tool for analysis.
The use of penetrating, silicon-substrate (i.e., &quot;thin-film&quot;) probes within a cross-section of a sensory nerve offers the possibility of assessing the pattern and extent of fiber excitation within the nerve. We used acute cat preparations to assess the feasibility of this technique for recordings within the auditory nerve trunk. Four probe configurations fabricated by the University of Michigan Center for Neural Communication Technology were evaluated using acoustic and electric stimuli. Our main concerns were the nature of the recorded potentials and the degree of spatial selectivity provided by these probes. We also made some basic assessments of electrode-tissue compatibility. The recorded potentials were characterized as field potentials with varying degrees of spatial selectivity. In some cases, responses to pure tones demonstrated good spatial selectivity, with unique responses recorded by different electrode sites. When electrode sites were positioned at different longitudinal positions along the nerve trunk, responses with latencies characteristic of each site were recorded. These results indicate that thin-film electrodes are capable of providing spatially specific response information from sensory nerves. However, in the case of feline auditory nerves, place-specific responses were inconsistently observed, making it difficult to use this technique to obtain detailed cochleotopic maps of neural excitation. More productive results may be possible from other peripheral nerves with less complex spatial arrangements of fibers.
Two forms of hepatitis C virus (HCV) core protein, p23 and p21, are produced from a precursor polyprotein. Production of p21 by cleavage at the c-terminus of p23 is considered essential for viral assembly and replication. In the present experiment, an in vitro translation and transcription assays were used to examine cleavage of p21 from p23 among 19 clones isolated from patients with chronic hepatitis, including 10 infected with genotype 1, and nine infected with genotype 2. Significantly greater p21 to p23 ratios were observed among genotype 1 clones, compared to genotype 2 clones. A comparison of the amino acid sequences of these clones revealed greater production of p21 core protein among clones which contained alanine, rather than valine, at amino acid residue 189. An exploration of Hepatitis Virus Database revealed that efficient p21 production related alanine at amino acid position 189 was observed in most clones of genotype 1 and in rare clones of genotype 2. These data suggest that the efficiency of core protein production differs among genotypes depending on differences in the c-terminus amino acid sequences of their core region. This may explain differences in some of the clinical characteristics of various genotypes or clones.
The expression of the P2X(3) nucleotide receptor in embryonic day 14-18, postnatal day 1-14 and adult mouse sensory ganglia was examined using immunohistochemistry. Nearly all sensory neurons in dorsal root ganglia, trigeminal ganglia and nodose ganglia in embryos at embryonic day 14 expressed P2X(3) receptors, but after birth there was a gradual decline to about 50% of neurons showing positive immunostaining for P2X(3). In embryos there were only small neurons, while from postnatal day 7 both large and small neurons were present. Isolectin B(4) (IB(4))-positive neurons in dorsal, trigeminal and nodose ganglia did not appear until birth, but the numbers increased to about 50% by postnatal day 14 when a high proportion of IB(4)-positive neurons were also positively labelled for the P2X(3) receptor. About 10% of neurons in dorsal, trigeminal and nodose ganglia were positive for calcitonin gene-related peptide in embryos, nearly all of which stained for P2X(3) receptors. This increased postnatally to about 35-40% in adults, although only a few colocalised with P2X(3) receptors. Neurofilament 200 was expressed in about 50% of neurons in trigeminal ganglia in the embryo, and this level persisted postnatally. All neurofilament 200-positive neurons stained for P2X(3) in embryonic dorsal root ganglia, trigeminal ganglia and nodose ganglia, but by adulthood this was significantly reduced. The neurons that were positive for calbindin in embryonic dorsal, trigeminal and nodose ganglia showed colocalisation with P2X(3) receptors, but few showed colocalisation postnatally.
Levels of testosterone (T) (total and free), androstenedione (A4), dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate (DHEAS), sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), and estradiol (E2) were measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA) in 156 normal pregnancies (77 male and 79 female fetuses). Samples were obtained from amniotic fluid, 2nd and 3rd trimester maternal serum, and umbilical cord serum at birth. During the critical period of brain differentiation, at the beginning of the second trimester of pregnancy, sex differences in T and A4 were found in amniotic fluid and not in maternal serum. This finding adds to the fact that mostly low and nonsignificant correlations were found for the different androgenic hormones between levels assessed in amniotic fluid and maternal plasma at this particular and very sensitive period of fetal brain development. On the other hand, high correlations were found for the same hormones between the samples of maternal serum in the 2nd and the 3rd trimester. Our data show that, of all available sources, amniotic fluid seems to be the best candidate to investigate the effects of early fetal androgen exposure.
The olfactory signals used by goldfish for sexual and aggressive communication have been studied extensively, but little work has addressed the role of other sensory modalities in social communication in this species. We therefore investigated the role that visual stimuli play in sex discrimination and the ability of androgens, which masculinize courtship behavior, to affect behavioral responses toward female visual stimuli. We found that males selectively orient toward female visual stimuli during the breeding season but not outside it, whereas prostaglandin F2-alpha (PGF2alpha)-injected females do not differentially approach male and female visual stimuli, even during the breeding season. Implanting adult females with testosterone (T) and 11-ketotestosterone (KT), however, induced orientation responses toward female visual stimuli similar to those observed in males. These results indicate that visual sexual stimuli are likely important for reproductive signaling in goldfish, potentially helping males identify ovulating females from a distance in a shoal of fish, and that androgens can influence mechanisms associated with orientation responses toward such stimuli.

The two subtypes of mammalian muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChR) are generated by the substitution of the epsilon (adult) subunit for the gamma (fetal) subunit within the AChR pentamer. Null mutations of the adult AChR epsilon-subunit gene are the most common cause of the AChR deficiency syndrome. This is a disorder of neuromuscular transmission characterized by non-progressive fatigable muscle weakness present throughout life. In contrast with the human disorder, mice with AChR epsilon-subunit null mutations die between 10 and 14 weeks of age. We generated transgenic mice that constitutively express the human AChR gamma-subunit in an AChR epsilon-subunit 'knock-out' background. These mice, in which neuromuscular transmission is mediated by fetal AChR, live well into adult life but show striking similarities to human AChR deficiency syndrome. They display fatigable muscle weakness, reduced miniature endplate potentials and endplate potentials, reduced motor endplate AChR number and altered endplate morphology. Our results illustrate how species differences in the control of ion-channel gene expression may affect disease phenotype, demonstrate that expression of adult AChR subtype is not essential for long-term survival, and suggest that in patients with AChR deficiency syndrome, up-regulation of the gamma-subunit could be a beneficial therapeutic strategy.
Investigations into the neurobiology, and biophysical and pharmacological properties of nicotinic receptors, also known as nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), have led to an improved understanding of their role in a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders. There is a growing body of evidence linking alterations in nicotinic receptor number and/or function to conditions such as schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, anxiety disorders, mood disorders, and attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder. The implications of nicotine receptor modulation upon the clinical expression and progression of these disorders is currently under investigation, utilizing techniques that include psychopharmacological, cognitive, electrophysiological and neuroimaging analysis. This review attempts to outline evidence pertaining to the role of the nicotinic receptor system in various neuropsychiatric disorders in the context of understanding appropriate targets for therapeutic drug development.




Chicken riboflavin carrier protein (RCP; 219 AA) harbours four linear epitopes, constituted by the peptide residues 3-23, 64-83, 130-147 and 200-219. Antibodies to these sequences bioneutralize maternal RCP and provide protection from pregnancy in rodents. In order to overcome the major histocompatibility complex-dependent variability in immune response often encountered with use of single peptides for vaccination in genetically outbred populations, we have assembled a novel synthetic gene, incorporating in tandem the nucleotide sequences coding for all the four neutralizing epitopes of chicken RCP and expressed in Escherichia coli. The gene product, mini-RCP has been characterized for its immunogenic properties and contraceptive potential in rodents. Immunization of rabbits and rats led to generation of antibodies against individual peptide components, as determined by enzyme-linked-immunosorbent assay (ELISA). However, immunized rats carried pregnancy to term and delivered healthy offsprings. Antisera from these rats exhibited decreased affinity of binding to the native protein. These findings suggest that the prospects of covalently-linked epitope peptides need to be cautiously evaluated during the design and development of peptide-based vaccines.
The aims of this work were to characterize the electrophysiologic response obtained by measurement of the auditory steady-state response (ASSR) in patients with a cochlear implant (MXM Digisonic) and to study the relationship between the subjective thresholds of the implantees and those estimated using electrical auditory steady-state response (ASSR)-based objective audiometry. Five subjects were examined with the use of four carrier frequencies--600, 1000, 2000 and 3500 Hz--modulated at frequencies between 70 and 85Hz, a particular frequency of modulation being represented at a specific electrode (for each carrier frequency) as a particular pulse-width modulation frequency. The protocol consisted of testing output and thresholds for different overall pulse durations for several stimulus (pulse) intensities, rendering multiple threshold measures (in duration) for each subject tested. The non-linearity of response growth, as a function of duration, provided the basis for teasing apart physiologic response and electrical artefact in the suprathreshold recorded responses. Thresholds estimated with use of the electrical ASSR demonstrated reasonably good agreement with the subjective thresholds. The results obtained thus demonstrated the efficacy of the approach and are encouraging for further advances in cochlear implant applications.

Dysfunction of the serotonin (5-HT1A) receptor (5-HTR1A) has been implicated in mood disorders, anxiety disorders, psychosis and the action of antidepressants. A common C(-1018)G [C(-1019)G] functional polymorphism in the promoter region of the human 5-HT1A receptor gene has been reported, which may be useful in identifying psychopathology associated with altered function of the human 5-HT1A receptor. We studied the relationship of this polymorphism to psychopathology and 5-HT1A binding in prefrontal cortex. The 5-HT1A receptor genotype for the C(-1019)G polymorphism was typed in 696 unrelated psychiatric subjects, 107 unrelated healthy volunteers, and in post-mortem brain samples from 241 cases. 5-HT1A receptor binding was assayed in post-mortem prefrontal cortex using [3H]8-OH-DPAT, and specific binding determined by 1 microM 5-HT. An association of genotype distribution and allele frequency of the 5-HTR1A C(-1019)G locus was observed in schizophrenia (chi2=9.51, d.f.=2, p=0.009; chi2=9.52, d.f.=1, p=0.002; Armitage's trend test: chi2=9.07, d.f.=1, p=0.003), in substance use disorder (chi2=8.41, d.f.=2, p=0.015; chi2=8.35, d.f.=1, p=0.004; Armitage's trend test: chi2=6.27, d.f.=1, p=0.0012), and in panic attack (chi2=6.31, d.f.=2, p=0.043; chi2=6.14, d.f.=1, p=0.013; Armitage's trend test: chi2=6.27, d.f.=1, p=0.012). An association of the 5-HTR1A C(-1019)G locus with schizophrenia, substance use disorder, and panic attack was suggested by our results. In post-mortem brain samples, 5-HT1A receptor binding in prefrontal cortex and suicide were not associated with genotype. The relationship does not appear to be explained by binding differences, although we cannot rule out altered receptor affinity and transduction.
Antidepressants, such as serotonin or noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (e.g. fluoxetine, nefadozone) or 5-HT1A agonists (flibanserin), desensitize the 5-HT1A autoreceptor, which may contribute to their clinical efficacy. The 5-HT1A receptor gene is repressed by NUDR/DEAF-1 in raphe cells at the C-, but not at the G-allele of the C(-1019)G polymorphism that is associated with major depression and suicide. Depressed patients (n=118) were treated with antidepressants including fluoxetine or nefadozone combined with pindolol or flibanserin alone. The severity of depression was assesssed using the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression. Although patients had similar severity initially, those with the homozygous G(-1019) genotype responded significantly less to flibanserin (p=0.039) and in pooled antidepressant treatment groups (p=0.0497) and were approximately twice as likely to be non-responders as those with the C(-1019)C genotype. These results implicate the C(-1019)G 5-HT1A gene polymorphism as a potential marker for antidepressant response, suggesting a role for repression of the 5-HT1A gene.

The field of semiotics, established by Charles S. Peirce, is characterised by its recognition of non-linguistic signs and embedment in a communicative interaction; for this reason, it is especially well suited for a semiotic investigation of intersubjective processes. In this paper, the authors show how these intersubjective processes can be understood in semiotic terms within the transference-countertransference setting. Based on a case vignette, the relationship between the 'real object' (e.g. an unconscious fantasy) and the sign (e.g. a particular facial expression) is first demonstrated. In this mediation between sign and referent, an important role is played by the 'immediate object', by which Peirce understood the mental concept of a sign. However, a further component of the Peircian sign is responsible for the emergence of the countertransference, namely, the 'interpretant'. The core of Peircian semiotics, namely the concept of an (infinite) process of signification, sheds light in semiotic terms on the dialectical movement between transference-signs and countertransference-signs, the interpretation and encounter between two subjects. The paper concludes with a discussion of both the interdisciplinary applicability of Peircian semiotics, for example in the context of the neurosciences, and the differences between the Peircian epistemological position and psychoanalytical conceptions of the objective cognition of mental processes.
This paper examines some of the mechanisms through which interpretation aimed primarily at increasing conscious awareness can nonetheless produce unconscious changes, the latter being deemed the basic aim of psychoanalysis. The concept of valency or motivational weight of the interpretation is proposed to assess which forces of the various motivational systems the interpretation mobilizes (hetero/self-preservation, sensual/sexual, attachment, narcissistic, psychobiological regulation etc.), on which of the above-mentioned systems interpretation relies, and which would oppose therapeutic intervention and why. Certain conditions are also analyzed that could explain the so-called 'change through the analytic relationship', pointing out that, despite the major differences between this form of change and change through interpretation, both of them would share certain mechanisms. This conclusion leads to the need to qualify the idea that interpretation would be exclusively aimed at declarative memory, with no effects upon procedural memory. The paper examines the potential consequences for therapeutic techniques derived from recent findings in neuroscience on so-called labile state memory, and proposes the coupling of experiences as one of the analytical instruments used for therapeutic change. A clinical vignette is included to illustrate some of the theoretical and technical aspects considered.
The aim of this study was to investigate how dichotomising three-graded ADL Staircase data affects the possibility of detecting changes in ADL dependence between different assessment occasions. An authentic two-occasion data set was used as a basis for a simulation experiment. In all, we used four different data treatment principles, all utilising the matched pairing of the data. The first principle utilised a sum score technique, and the second within-person comparisons by means of item-by-item analysis of improvement or deterioration. The third principle used ADL ranks, a novel approach, while the fourth used within-item ranks. Independently of the data treatment principle used, the statistical power of all tests was reduced by 13-24% after dichotomisation, compared to when the three-graded scale was utilised. The results indicate that dichotomising ADL Staircase data results in information loss, and hence in reduced ability to detect changes. The need to consider the purpose of the ADL assessment before reducing the number of scale steps is highlighted. The knowledge generated in this study is useful for practitioners and researchers, aiming at evaluating rehabilitation interventions.
There are two main animal model systems currently used to study MS: experimental autoimmune/allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) and experimental viral infection, including the Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV). Both models have led to a greater understanding of MS and the development of clinical therapies. These systems have allowed in-depth study of the immune system and inflammatory mechanisms potentially involved in MS pathophysiology. Analysing therapeutic successes and failures with both models may also help the development of more directed, positive treatments for MS that have fewer negative effects.



Directional properties of the sound transformation at the ear of four intact echolocating bats, Eptesicus fuscus, were investigated via measurements of the head-related transfer function (HRTF). Contributions of external ear structures to directional features of the transfer functions were examined by remeasuring the HRTF in the absence of the pinna and tragus. The investigation mainly focused on the interactions between the spatial and the spectral features in the bat HRTF. The pinna provides gain and shapes these features over a large frequency band (20-90 kHz), and the tragus contributes gain and directionality at the high frequencies (60 to 90 kHz). Analysis of the spatial and spectral characteristics of the bat HRTF reveals that both interaural level differences (ILD) and monaural spectral features are subject to changes in sound source azimuth and elevation. Consequently, localization cues for horizontal and vertical components of the sound source location interact. Availability of multiple cues about sound source azimuth and elevation should enhance information to support reliable sound localization. These findings stress the importance of the acoustic information received at the two ears for sound localization of sonar target position in both azimuth and elevation.
The tripeptide thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) and/or related analogues have shown neuroprotective activity across multiple animal trauma models as well as in a small clinical trial of spinal cord injury. The metabolic product of TRH (cyclo-his-pro) retains physiological activity. We have developed a number of novel cyclic dipeptides that are structurally similar to cyclo-his-pro, and have examined their neuroprotective activity across multiple in vitro models of neuronal injury and after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rodents. Four such compounds were found to reduce cell death after trophic withdrawal or traumatic injury in primary neuronal cultures; two also protected against glutamate or beta-amyloid neurotoxicity. All compounds significantly improved motor and cognitive recovery after controlled cortical impact injury in mice, and markedly reduced lesion volumes as shown by high field magnetic resonance imaging. Further, compound 35b, which is being developed for clinical trials, also showed considerable neuroprotection after fluid percussion induced TBI in rats, and improved cognitive function after daily administration in chronically brain injured rats. At a mechanistic level, the drugs attenuate both apoptotic and necrotic cell death in primary neuronal cultures, markedly reduce intracellular calcium accumulation after injury, and limit changes in mitochondrial membrane potential and associated cytochrome c release. In addition, microarray studies show that 35b reduces transcriptional changes after injury for a number of genes (and proteins) that may be associated with secondary injury, including cell cycle genes, aquaporins and cathepsins. It also upregulates brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), heat shock proteins (HSP) and hypoxia inducible factor (HIF). Thus, these novel dipeptides have multipotential actions that make them candidates for the treatment of both acute and chronic neurodegeneration.

Our goal is to develop therapeutic agents that prevent age-associated neurodegenerative disease such as Alzheimer's. To achieve this goal, we are building on extensive knowledge regarding mechanisms of estrogen action in brain and the epidemiological human data indicating that estrogen/hormone therapy reduces the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease when administered at the time of the menopause and continued over several to many years. The mechanisms of estrogen action in neurons provides a systematic mechanistic rationale for determining why estrogen therapy is efficacious for prevention of Alzheimer's disease and why it is not efficacious for long-term treatment of the disease. Our preclinical research plan is a hybrid of both discovery and translational research to develop a brain selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM). We have termed such molecules NeuroSERMs to denote their preferential selectivity for activating estrogen mechanisms in brain. Our strategy to develop NeuroSERMs is threefold: (1) determine the target of estrogen action in brain, specifically the estrogen receptor in hippocampal and cortical neurons required for the neurotrophic and neuroprotective actions of estrogen; (2) develop NeuroSERM candidate molecules using three in silico discovery and design strategies and (3) determine the neurotrophic and neuroprotective efficacy of candidate molecules using neuronal responses predictive of clinical efficacy. Using an academic translational research model, a team of scientists with expertise in molecular biology, computational chemistry, synthetic chemistry, proteomics, neurobiology and mitochondrial function have been assembled along with state of the art technologies required to develop candidate NeuroSERM molecules.


One of the most important goals of neuroscience is to establish precise structure-function relationships in the brain. Since the 19th century, a major scientific endeavour has been to associate structurally distinct cortical regions with specific cognitive functions. This was traditionally accomplished by correlating microstructurally defined areas with lesion sites found in patients with specific neuropsychological symptoms. Modern neuroimaging techniques with high spatial resolution have promised an alternative approach, enabling non-invasive measurements of regionally specific changes of brain activity that are correlated with certain components of a cognitive process. Reviewing classic approaches towards brain structure-function relationships that are based on correlational approaches, this article argues that these approaches are not sufficient to provide an understanding of the operational principles of a dynamic system such as the brain but must be complemented by models based on general system theory. These models reflect the connectional structure of the system under investigation and emphasize context-dependent couplings between the system elements in terms of effective connectivity. The usefulness of system models whose parameters are fitted to measured functional imaging data for testing hypotheses about structure-function relationships in the brain and their potential for clinical applications is demonstrated by several empirical examples.
The remarkable resilience of cognitive functions to focal brain damage suggests that multiple degenerate neuronal systems can sustain the same function either via similar mechanisms or by implementing different cognitive strategies. In degenerate functional neuroanatomy, multiple degenerate neuronal systems might be present in a single brain where they are either co-activated or remain latent during task performance. In degeneracy over subjects, a particular function may be sustained by only one neuronal system within a subject, but by different systems over subjects. Degeneracy over subjects might have arisen from (ab)normal variation in neurodevelopmental trajectories or long-term plastic changes following structural lesions. We discuss how degenerate neuronal systems can be revealed using (1) intersubject variability, (2) multiple lesion studies and (3) an iterative approach integrating information from lesion and functional imaging studies.


Non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice develop diabetes mediated by pathogenic T-helper type 1 (Th1) cells. V alpha 14 Natural killer (NKT) cells are a unique lymphocyte subtype implicated in the regulation of autoimmunity and a good source of protective Th2 cytokines. We recently developed a Th2-skewing NKT cell ligand, OCH. OCH, a sphingosine truncated derivative of alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GC), stimulates NKT cells to selectively produce Th2 cytokines. Here we show that OCH prevented the development of diabetes and insulitis in NOD mice. The suppression of insulitis by OCH was more profound compared to alpha-GC. Infiltration of T cells, B cells and macrophages into islets is inhibited in OCH-treated NOD mice. OCH-mediated suppression of diabetes is associated with Th2 bias of anti-islet antigen response and increased IL-10 producing cells among islet-infiltrating leukocytes. Considering the non-polymorphic and well conserved features of the CD1d molecule in mice and humans, these findings not only support the proposed role of NKT cells in the regulation of self-tolerance but also highlight the potential use of OCH for therapeutic intervention in type I diabetes.
A gene-expression microarray datum is modeled as an exponential expression signal (log-normal distribution) and additive noise. Variance-stabilizing transformation based on this model is useful for improving the uniformity of variance, which is often assumed for conventional statistical analysis methods. However, the existing method of estimating transformation parameters may not be perfect because of poor management of outliers. By employing an information normalization technique, we have developed an improved parameter estimation method, which enables statistically more straightforward outlier exclusion and works well even in the case of small sample size. Validation of this method with experimental data has suggested that it is superior to the conventional method.
The surface micromechanical properties of ultrahigh-molecular-weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) are critical in determining the wear, deformation, and fracture in the surface region. These properties have not been accessible to simple mechanical testing on a spatial scale relevant to these mechanical processes until recently. The structural factors associated with surface mechanical properties (crosslinking, oxidation state, local orientation of polymer, crystallinity, etc.) can be highly variable and localized and may vary on micron spatial scales or smaller. Furthermore, time/frequency-dependent behavior of the surface may have an important role in the overall surface mechanical behavior. Recent work has shown the utility of depth sensing microindentation/nanoindentation testing to interrogate local surface mechanical properties. The goal of the present study was to measure the effect of loading rate on the depth-sensing microindentation testing of UHMWPE. Three different UHMWPE materials (Hylamer, a large crystal material; GUR 1020, a standard medical-grade material; and Marathon, a crosslinked material) were tested using a microindentation method at loading rates ranging from 0.01 to 1 Hz. Similarly, a gamma-irradiated in air and 15-year shelf-aged tibial component was tested through its cross-section to assess the variations in mechanical properties with location and to compare the micromechanical profile with the oxidation profile. It was found that rate of testing affected the microhardness of each material, however, only GUR 1020 and Hylamer showed rate-dependent behavior for modulus and energy dissipation factor. Micromechanical profiles through oxidized regions of the tibial component showed a high correlation with the oxidation profile. Increases in modulus, hardness, and energy dissipation factor were seen with increasing oxidation and each property was loading-rate dependent. These results show that depth-sensing microindentation/nanoindentation testing on the micron scale provides highly consistent and reproducible measurements of surface mechanical properties. This scale of testing minimizes the potential variations caused by local heterogeneity in crystallinity, surface orientation, and other submicron structural features.
The Drosophila tumor suppressor protein Scribble is required for epithelial polarity, neuroblast polarity, neuroblast spindle asymmetry and limiting cell proliferation. It is a member of the newly described LAP protein family, containing 16 leucine rich repeats (LRRs), four PDZ domains and an extensive carboxyl-terminal (CT) domain. LRR and PDZ domains mediate protein-protein interactions, but little is know about their function within LAP family proteins. We have determined the role of the LRR, PDZ and CT domains for Scribble localization in neuroblasts and epithelia, and for Scribble function in neuroblasts. We found that the LRR and PDZ domains are both required for proper targeting of Scribble to septate junctions in epithelia; that the LRR domain is necessary and sufficient for cortical localization in mitotic neuroblasts, and that the PDZ2 domain is required for efficient cortical and apical localization of Scribble in neuroblasts. In addition, we show that the LRR domain is sufficient to target Miranda protein to the neuroblast cortex, but that LRR+PDZ will exclude Miranda from the cortex. Our results highlight the importance of both LRR and PDZ domains for the proper localization and function of Scribble in neuroblasts.
The distribution of galanin mRNA-expressing cells and galanin-immunoreactive (IR) cell bodies and processes was studied in the brain of mice overexpressing galanin under the PDGF-B promoter (GalOE mice) and of wild type (WT) mice, both in colchicine-treated and non-treated animals. In this abstract, we only describe the results in GalOE mouse. A widespread ectopic expression of galanin (both mRNA and peptide) was found, that is a situation when neither transcript nor peptide could be seen in WT mice, not even after colchicine treatment. However, in some regions, such as claustrum, basolateral amygdala, thalamus, CA1 pyramidal cells, and Purkinje cells only galanin mRNA could be detected. In the forebrain galanin was seen in the mitral cells of the olfactory bulb, throughout the cortex, in the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus, claustrum, granular and pyramidal cell layers of the hippocampus, subiculum and presubiculum. In the thalamus, the anterodorsal, mediodorsal, intermediodorsal and mediodorsal lateral nuclei, the reuniens and reticular nuclei showed ectopic expression of galanin. Within the hypothalamus, neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus contained galanin. In the mesencephalon, the geniculate nucleus, nucleus ruber, the mesencephalic trigeminal and reticulotegmental nuclei ectopically expressed galanin. In the cerebellum, galanin was observed in the Purkinje cells and in the lateral and interposed cerebellar nuclei. In the pons, sensory and motor nuclei of the trigeminal nerve, the laterodorsal and dorsal tegmental nuclei, the pontine, reticulotegmental and gigantocellular reticular nuclei expressed galanin. Within the medulla oblongata, labeled cells were detected in the facial, ambiguus, prepositus, lateral paragigantocellular and lateral reticular nuclei, and spinal trigeminal nucleus. High densities of galanin-IR fibers were found in the axonal terminals of the lateral olfactory tract, the hippocampal and presumably the cerebellar mossy fibers system, in several thalamic and hypothalamic regions and the lower brain stem. Possible functional consequences of galanin overexpression are discussed.
Motor tics are characterized by abrupt onset of brief, unsustained focal movements that are usually preceded by a premonitory sensation and are suppressible. Psychogenic tics (pseudotics) are rarely described. It may not be easy to distinguish organic from functional tics because they can coexist. Using a case illustration, the value of a &quot;staged&quot; placebo test in aiding the diagnosis of psychogenic tics is described. In addition, a concise summary of the clinical phenomenology of tics and the diagnosis and management of psychogenic movement disorders is provided.
A number of studies have focused on quality of life in children with spina bifida, concentrating for the most part on younger children. We assessed health-related quality of life and disability in adolescents with spina bifida and correlated these with the clinical and neurophysiologic picture. Twelve consecutive spina bifida cases were evaluated through a multiperspective protocol by means of (1) clinical and neurophysiologic assessment, (2) a self-administered questionnaire for general health--Short Form-36 (SF-36)--and (3) standardized disability measurements (Functional Independence Measure, Barthel Index, Deambulation Index). Relationships between disability measurement, the adolescents' perspective, and conventional clinical and neurophysiologic assessment were evaluated. The Functional Independence Measure is strongly related to the clinical measurement of muscle strength (P &lt; .03, r &gt; .6). The Barthel Index and Deambulation Index are related to clinical measurement of muscle strength (P &lt; .03, r &gt; .6), as well as to electromyographic findings in the proximal muscles of inferior limbs (P &lt; .05, r &gt; .6). Although the function of lower limb muscles, especially the proximal muscles, is closely related to impairment of physical aspects of quality of life, it is only partially related to the mental aspects (P &lt; .03, r &gt; .6). The findings at clinical examination, especially proximal deficit of inferior limbs, were usually related to higher disability and lower physical aspects of quality of life. The multiperspective evaluation of adolescents with spina bifida shows a high correlation between conventional neurologic-neurophysiologic measurements and the adolescents' own perspective of their quality of life. Our data demonstrated that the conventional clinical and neurophysiologic measurements are useful not only because they provide a measure of lower limb impairment but also because they appear to be related to physical aspects of the adolescent's quality of life.


The unity of psychology as a science is to be found in its definition as the science of mental life, and its explanation of individual behavior in terms of mental states. This disciplinary focus will help negotiate psychology's relations with other disciplines, such as neuroscience and cognitive science. The unity within psychology between science and practice is to be found in a focus on scientific evidence as the source of the status, autonomy, and privileges of professional practitioners. Psychology should avoid the temptations of reductionism, and assert (and enjoy) its twin status as both a biological science and a social science.
While dopaminergic mechanisms in amphetamine-taking behavior have been extensively studied, the contribution of the endogenous opioid system is less clear. We assessed the effects of an opioid antagonist, naltrexone (50 mg), on the subjective response to an oral dose of dexamphetamine (30 mg) in 12 healthy volunteers in a double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Volunteers received a total of 4 combinations of the study preparation (placebo-naltrexone, placebo-amphetamine) over 4 occasions with 1-week intervals. The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of pretreatment with naltrexone on the subjective response to amphetamine. This was measured using a Visual Analog Scale, assessing the subjective effects over 7 hours. The secondary objective was to measure the effects of naltrexone on behavioral and physiologic responses to amphetamine. This was measured by blood pressure, heart rate, skin conductance, and speed of reading at the end of each session. Amphetamine produced significant effects on subjective arousal when compared to placebo after 1 hour (P &lt; 0.001) and continued to be evident until 7 hours. Pretreatment with naltrexone significantly attenuated the subjective effects of amphetamine (P &lt; 0.05), and this effect was time-dependent with a reduction from the 3-hour time point. Naltrexone did not influence the behavioral and physiologic effects of amphetamine in this sample. The results provide preliminary evidence that naltrexone may reduce the reinforcing effects of amphetamine via modulation of the opioid system. The potential of naltrexone as an adjunct pharmaceutical for the treatment of amphetamine dependence is promising and needs to be investigated further.
Identification and control of factors that are associated with placebo and drug response in acute mania may influence the design and analysis of future trials in this condition. We analyzed pooled data from 2 multicenter, placebo-controlled, randomized trials of divalproex sodium for the treatment of acute manic episodes, using linear and logistic regression to search for common and treatment-specific predictors of response. In both treatment groups, patients with greater numbers of prior hospitalizations, more severe baseline symptoms, or younger age at onset of illness were found to be significantly less likely to respond. The effect sizes associated with these factors were of comparable magnitude to the effect size associated with divalproex treatment. Stratification on the basis of these prognostic factors may improve the power of future trials for the treatment of acute mania and may help explain patient response to treatment.
An explication of the neural substrates for social perception is an important component in the emerging field of social cognitive neuroscience and is relevant to the field of cognitive neuroscience as a whole. Prior studies from our laboratory have demonstrated that passive viewing of biological motion (Pelphrey, Mitchell, et al., 2003; Puce et al., 1998) activates the posterior superior temporal sulcus (STS ) region. Furthermore, recent evidence has shown that the perceived context of observed gaze shifts (Pelphrey, Singerman, et al., 2003; Pelphrey et al., 2004) modulates STS activity. Here, using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging at 4 T, we investigated brain activity in response to passive viewing of goal- and nongoal-directed reaching-to-grasp movements. Participants viewed an animated character making reaching-to-grasp movements either toward (correct) or away (incorrect) from a blinking dial. Both conditions evoked significant posterior STS activity that was strongly right lateralized. By examining the time course of the blood oxygenation level-dependent response from areas of activation, we observed a functional dissociation. Incorrect trials evoked significantly greater activity in the STS than did correct trials, while an area posterior and inferior to the STS (likely corresponding to the MT/ V5 complex) responded equally to correct and incorrect movements. Parietal cortical regions, including the superior parietal lobule and the anterior intraparietal sulcus, also responded equally to correct and incorrect movements, but showed evidence for differential responding based on the hand and arm (left or right) of the animated character used to make the reaching-to-grasp movement. The results of this study further suggest that a region of the right posterior STS is involved in analyzing the intentions of other people's actions and that activity in this region is sensitive to the context of observed biological motions.
Previous functional imaging experiments in humans showed activation increases in the posterior superior temporal gyrus and sulcus during observation of geometrical shapes whose movements appear intentional or goal-directed. We modeled a chase scenario between two objects, in which the chasing object used different strategies to reach the target object: The chaser either followed the target's path or appeared to predict its end position. Activation in the superior temporal gyrus of human observers was greater when the chaser adopted a predict rather than a follow strategy. Attending to the chaser's strategy induced slightly greater activation in the left superior temporal gyrus than attending to the outcome of the chase. These data implicate the superior temporal gyrus in the identification of objects displaying complex goal-directed motion.
The amniote hippocampal formation plays an evolutionarily-conserved role in the neural representation of environmental space. However, species differences in spatial ecology nurture the expectation of species differences in how hippocampal neurons represent space. To determine the spatial response properties of homing pigeon ( Columba livia) HFneurons, we recorded from isolated units in birds freely navigating a radial arena in search of food present at four goal locations. Fifty of 76 neurons displayed firing rate variations that could be placed into three response categories. Location cells ( n=25) displayed higher firing rates at restricted locations in the arena space, often in proximity to goal locations. Path cells ( n=13) displayed higher firing rates as a pigeon moved between a subset of goal locations. Arena-off cells ( n=12) were more active when a pigeon was in a baseline holding space compared to inside the arena. Overall, reliability and coherence scores of the recorded neurons were lower compared to rat place cells. The differences in the spatial response profiles of pigeon hippocampal formation neurons, when compared to rats, provide a departure point for better understanding the relationship between spatial behavior and how hippocampal formation neurons participate in the representation of space.
An outstanding challenge in olfactory neurobiology is to explain how glomerular networks encode information about stimulus mixtures, which are typical of natural olfactory stimuli. In the moth Manduca sexta, a species-specific blend of two sex-pheromone components is required for reproductive signaling. Each component stimulates a different population of olfactory receptor cells that in turn target two identified glomeruli in the macroglomerular complex of the male's antennal lobe. Using intracellular recording and staining, we examined how responses of projection neurons innervating these glomeruli are modulated by changes in the level and ratio of the two essential components in stimulus blends. Compared to projection neurons specific for one component, projection neurons that integrated information about the blend (received excitatory input from one component and inhibitory input from the other) showed enhanced ability to track a train of stimulus pulses. The precision of stimulus-pulse tracking was furthermore optimized at a synthetic blend ratio that mimics the physiological response to an extract of the female's pheromone gland. Optimal responsiveness of a projection neuron to repetitive stimulus pulses therefore appears to depend not only on stimulus intensity but also on the relative strength of the two opposing synaptic inputs that are integrated by macroglomerular complex projection neurons.
Several developments in endovascular technology have greatly expanded the application of these techniques to treat extra- and intracranial cerebrovascular diseases. This review explores the indications, techniques, and clinical results for endovascular treatment of ischemic stroke and intracranial stenoses, aneurysms, and arteriovenous malformations.
Removal of a vestibular organ (unilateral labyrinthectomy, UL) in the lamprey results in a loss of equilibrium, so that the animal rolls (rotates around its longitudinal axis) when swimming. Owing to vestibular compensation, UL animals gradually restore postural equilibrium and, in a few weeks, swim without rolling. Important elements of the postural network in the lamprey are the reticulospinal (RS) neurons, which are driven by vestibular input and transmit commands for postural corrections to the spinal cord. As shown previously, a loss of equilibrium after UL is associated with disappearance of vestibular responses in the contralateral group of RS neurons. Are these responses restored in animals after compensation? To answer this question, we recorded vestibular responses in RS neurons (elicited by rotation of the compensated animal in the roll plane) by means of chronically implanted electrodes. We found that the responses re-appeared in the compensated animals. This result supports the hypothesis that the loss of equilibrium after UL was caused by asymmetry in supraspinal motor commands, and the recovery of postural control in compensated animals was due to a restoration of symmetry.
It is widely appreciated that the selection and modulation of locomotor circuits are dependent on the actions of higher-order projection neurons. In the leech, Hirudo medicinalis, locomotion is modulated by a number of cephalic projection neurons that descend from the subesophageal ganglion in the head. Specifically, descending brain interneuron Tr2 functions as a command-like neuron that can terminate or sometimes trigger fictive swimming. In this study, we demonstrate that Tr2 is dye coupled to the dopaminergic neural network distributed in the head brain. These findings represent the first anatomical evidence in support of dopamine (DA) playing a role in the modulation of locomotion in the leech. In addition, we have determined that bath application of DA to the brain and entire nerve cord reliably and rapidly terminates swimming in all preparations exhibiting fictive swimming. By contrast, DA application to nerve cords expressing ongoing fictive crawling does not inhibit this motor rhythm. Furthermore, we show that Tr2 receives rhythmic feedback from the crawl central pattern generator. For example, Tr2 receives inhibitory post-synaptic potentials during the elongation phase of each crawl cycle. When crawling is not expressed, spontaneous inhibitory post-synaptic potentials in Tr2 correlate in time with spontaneous excitatory post-synaptic potentials in the CV motor neuron, a circular muscle excitor that bursts during the elongation phase of crawling. Our data are consistent with the idea that DA biases the nervous system to produce locomotion in the form of crawling.
One component of successful social interactions is joint attention. It is now well established that when a gaze shift is observed, the observer's attention rapidly and automatically orients to the same location in space. It is also established that such attention shifts via gaze are relatively transient and do not evoke subsequent inhibition processes. In contrast to this conventional view, the authors conducted a series of studies that showed that these properties of gaze attention shift are not necessarily the case in all situations. The article demonstrates (a) gaze cuing over longer intervals than previously observed, (b) that these longer term effects can be inhibitory, and (c) that the longer term gaze cuing effects do not appear to be contingent on retrieval associated with a particular face identity.

The borderline condition between normal aging and dementia should be detected to predict further deterioration. The authors cross-sectionally analyzed neuropsychological data, memory complaints, and social activities for community-dwelling older adults. The rate of decline from Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) 0.5 to dementia during a 3-year interval was also analyzed. Short-term memory rather than long-term memory was found to be sensitive in distinguishing those with CDR 0 from those with CDR 0.5. Relatives' observations of memory decline rather than subjective memory complaints were significantly different. Participants with CDR 0.5 reported fewer problems with social activities than did their relatives. Ten of the 29 CDR 0.5 participants (34.5%) showed cognitive decline, the decliners showing lower scores on short-term memory and orientation at the baseline condition. The neuropsychological data showed CDR 0.5 to be similar to very mild Alzheimer's disease. It would be better if subjective complaints were excluded from the criteria of the borderline condition.


The dopamine D3 receptor (D3R), intensively studied in neuroscience, also plays an important role in the regulation of renal and cardiovascular function. In contrast to functional findings, less information is available on its localization in the kidney. Neither RT-PCR studies nor radioligand binding assays are suitable to selectively determine the distribution of renal D3R at the level of cellular or even subcellular structures. We studied the renal D3R distribution in Sprague-Dawley rats by a polyclonal antiserum directed against an epitope in the third intracytoplasmic loop. D3R immunoreactivity was detected by indirect immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy. D3R staining was confined to the renal cortex and occurred in proximal convoluted tubules near or in direct connection with the urinary pole of the glomeruli. The fluorescent spots were restricted to the subapical portion of the proximal tubular cells. Double staining with the F-actin marker phalloidin revealed a localization of the D3R below the brush border region. However, staining by anti-beta1/beta2-adaptins, recognizing clathrin-coated compartments, did not correspond to the distribution of the D3R signal. This is the first description of a D3R accumulation in a cytoplasmic pool in the kidney, probably corresponding to a recycling mechanism or storage compartment.
Natural, everyday sensorimotor behaviors, such as rising from sitting, typically have an intrinsic organization of several levels of analysis. Taking this intrinsic organization as key to understanding neural dynamics is neither a top-down nor a bottom-up approach, but rather a meshing of multiple centers and levels of analysis. Motor control requires body dynamics that are consistent with physical dynamics, besides the more microscopic levels of neural dynamics. The dynamics of separate movements have been investigated as if the ends can be capped off, separated from the rest of the individual's life. Is this dynamically correct? Even chaotic behavior is deterministic. However, the mathematics of nonlinear oscillations is not all of dynamics. This paper relates Bloch's dynamical theorem to the modular, conditional approach to sensorimotor and other neural functioning. Bloch's dynamical theorem lays a foundation for the piecewise study of structurally accurate dynamics in theoretical neurobiology. Piecewise studies can be used as a modeling option complementary to the methods of nonlinear oscillator dynamics. By applying Bloch's theorem, dynamics of movements analyzed piecewise can be extended into a smooth flow on any manifold, either as a whole or conditionally. Conditional dynamics makes dynamical modeling options explicit, often depending on what variables the organism can control, and allows one to take different modeling options at different junctures in analyzing the same phenomenon. For example, this approach allows the study of complex motor control problems to be reduced to modular constructions using singularities and flow lines. Dynamical contingencies are expressed using the mathematics of ordered structures. This paper presents Bloch's dynamical theorem and its relevance to model construction in theoretical neurobiology. Specific examples, integrated into physiological and behavioral context, are cited from the literature.
The development of relational databases has significantly improved the performance of storage, search, and retrieval functions and has made it possible for applications that perform real-time data acquisition and analysis to interact with these types of databases. The purpose of this research was to develop a user interface for interaction between a data acquisition and analysis application and a relational database using the Oracle9i system. The overall system was designed to have an indexing capability that threads into the data acquisition and analysis programs. Tables were designed and relations within the database for indexing the files and information contained within the files were established. The system provides retrieval capabilities over a broad range of media, including analog, event, and video data types. The system's ability to interact with a data capturing program at the time of the experiment to create both multimedia files as well as the meta-data entries in the relational database avoids manual entries in the database and ensures data integrity and completeness for further interaction with the data by analysis applications.
Rodents typically demonstrate strain-specific susceptibilities to induced autoimmune models such as experimental arthritis and encephalomyelitis. A common feature of the local pathology of these diseases is an extensive infiltration of activated macrophages (MPhi). Different functional activation states can be induced in MPhi during innate immune activation, and it is this differential activation that might be important in susceptibility/resistance to induction or perpetuation of autoimmunity. In this study, we present an extensive, comparative analysis of the activation phenotypes of MPhi derived from autoimmune-susceptible and autoimmune-resistant rat strains to describe a cellular phenotype that defines the disease phenotype. We included investigation of receptor function, intracellular signaling pathways, cytokines, and other soluble mediators released after activation of cells using a panel of stimuli embracing many activation routes. We report that activation of MPhi from the autoimmune-susceptible strain was associated with alternative activation indicated by induction of arginase activity, a lower production of classical proinflammatory mediators, and a high production of interleukin (IL)-23, and MPhi from the autoimmune-resistant strains were associated with a higher production of proinflammatory mediators, a classical activation phenotype, and preferential induction of IL-12. These MPhi phenotypes thus reflect disparate, genetic cellular programs that define autoimmune susceptibility.
Congenital colobomata of the eye are important causes of childhood visual impairment and blindness. Ocular coloboma can be seen in isolation and in an impressive number of multisystem syndromes, where the eye phenotype is often seen in association with severe neurological or craniofacial anomalies or other systemic developmental defects. Several studies have shown that, in addition to inheritance, environmental influences may be causative factors. Through work to identify genes underlying inherited coloboma, significant inroads are being made into understanding the molecular events controlling closure of the optic fissure. In general, severity of disease can be linked to the temporal expression of the gene, but this is modified by factors such as tissue specificity of gene expression and genetic redundancy.
In the past 2 years, extraordinary developments in RNA interference (RNAi)-based methodologies have seen small interfering RNAs (siRNA) become the method of choice for researchers wishing to target specific genes for silencing. In this review, an historic overview of the biochemistry of the RNAi pathway is described together with the latest advances in the RNAi field. Particular emphasis is given to strategies by which siRNAs are used to study mammalian gene function. In this regard, the use of plasmid-based and viral vector-based systems to mediate long-term RNAi in vitro and in vivo are described. However, recent work has shown that non-specific silencing effects and activation of the interferon response may occur following the use of some siRNA and delivery vector combinations. Future goals must therefore be to understand the mechanisms by which siRNA delivery leads to unwanted gene silencing effects in cells and, in this way, RNAi technology can reach its tremendous potential as a scientific tool and ultimately be used for therapeutic purposes.
In Experiment 1, 15 skilled and 15 less skilled participants performed 1-handed catching in 4 conditions. For both groups, catching performance deteriorated significantly when no visual information was available for 40 ms between 20-ms visual samples (20/40) and continued to decline with subsequent increases in the duration between visual samples (i.e., 20/80 and 20/120). In Experiment 2, 50 participants performed a pretest and a posttest in a 20/80 condition, separated by 4 blocks of practice (N=80). Participants who practiced with intermittent vision (20/40, 20/80, and 20/120) exhibited a significant improvement between pretest and posttest. Although general practice with intermittent vision enabled some adaptation, posttest performance did not equal performance in the 1st block of continuous vision.
Franz Mechsner (2004) suggests that movements are exclusively controlled with respect to the effects that they cause in the external world and that motor control can be reduced to prediction of movement effects. Although predictive mechanisms certainly deserve a lot more attention than they have received in the past, the author argues here that prediction and control must necessarily work together to build a flexible and effective motor system.
Changes in the metabolism of tryptophan, other amino acids, and steroid hormones have been implicated in aggression. We compared tryptophan, competing long amino acids (CAAs), and cortisol in serum (S) and CSF in 22 violent offenders and 15 healthy controls. Offenders had significantly increased S-L-tryptophan, S-free tryptophan, S-CAAs, S-cortisol and CSF-cortisol, indicating abnormal neurophysiological processes. Larger studies on the interplay between violence, serotonin precursors, and stress hormones need to integrate personality traits, life situations, and physiological adaptation.
Several serine proteases and protease inhibitors have been identified in the crustacean olfactory organ, which is comprised of the lateral flagellum of the antennule and its aesthetascs sensilla that house olfactory receptor neurons and their supporting cells. The function of these proteases in the olfactory organ is unknown, but may include a role in perireception (e.g., odor activation or inactivation) or in the development or survival of olfactory receptor neurons. To examine directly the function of proteases in the olfactory organ of the Caribbean spiny lobster Panulirus argus, we used different tissue fractions from the lateral flagellum in an enzyme activity assay with a variety of protease substrates and inhibitors. Trypsin-like serine protease activity occurs throughout the lateral flagellum but is enriched in the cell membranes from aesthetascs. Cysteine- and metalloprotease activities also occur in olfactory tissue, but are more abundant in tissue fractions other than aesthetascs. To assess the contribution of one of the olfactory serine proteases--CUB-serine protease (Csp)--Csp was immunoprecipitated using an antibody; results with the remaining fraction suggest that Csp accounts for at least 40% of the total serine protease activity in the olfactory organ. The amount of total serine protease activity follows a developmental axis in the lateral flagellum. Total protease activity is lowest in the proximal zone, which lacks aesthetascs, and the proliferation zone, where olfactory receptor neurons and associated cells are born, and highest in aesthetascs of the distally-located senescence zone, which has the oldest olfactory tissue.
We recently showed that pharmacological blockade of nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) peptide (NOP) receptors located in the substantia nigra stimulates the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway and motor behavior (Marti et al. J. Neurosci. 2004, 24, 6659-6666). To investigate whether such motor-stimulating action was dependent on functional dopaminergic transmission, the selective NOP receptor peptide antagonist [Nphe1,Arg14,Lys15]N/OFQ-NH2 (UFP-101) was microinjected into the substantia nigra reticulata of rats made cataleptic by systemic haloperidol administration. UFP-101 reduced haloperidol-induced akinesia as measured by immobility time in the bar test. UFP-101 also induced contralateral turning in cataleptic rats. To investigate the mechanisms involved in the anti-akinetic action of UFP-101, nigral glutamate release was monitored by microdialysis technique. The anti-akinetic action of UFP-101 correlated with normalization of nigral glutamate release, previously elevated by haloperidol injection. We conclude that endogenous N/OFQ in the substantia nigra sustains akinesia generated by impaired DA transmission and subthalamic nucleus overactivation. NOP receptor antagonists may be beneficial in the symptomatic therapy of parkinsonism, via normalization of subthalamonigral glutamatergic transmission.
Although primary afferent neurons express receptors for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), understanding of the cellular effects of these receptors is limited. We determined that CGRP receptors regulate gene transcription in primary afferent neurons through a cyclic AMP (cAMP)-dependent pathway. CGRP increased cAMP in neonatal dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in a concentration-dependent manner that was blocked by the receptor antagonist CGRP(8-37). The response to CGRP also occurred in adult DRG cells. In contrast, CGRP did not alter the concentration of free intracellular calcium in neonatal or adult DRG neurons. Immunohistochemical data showed that one downstream effect of the cAMP signaling pathway was phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding (CREB) protein, suggesting that CGRP regulates gene expression. This interpretation was supported by evidence that CGRP increased CRE-dependent gene transcription in neurons transiently transfected with a CRE-luciferase DNA reporter construct. The effect of CGRP on gene transcription was inhibited by H89, myristoylated-protein kinase A inhibitor(14-22)-amide and U0126, indicating that protein kinase A and mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular receptor kinase kinase are enzymes that mediate effects of CGRP on gene transcription. Therefore, CGRP receptors may regulate expression of proteins by primary afferent neurons during development and in response to tissue-damaging stimuli.
In this work, we investigated the involvement of calpains in the neurotoxicity induced by short-term exposure to kainate (KA) in non-desensitizing conditions of AMPA receptor activation (cyclothiazide present, CTZ), in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. The calpain inhibitor MDL28170 had a protective effect in cultures treated with KA plus CTZ (p &lt; 0.01), preventing the decrease in MTT reduction caused by exposure to KA (p &lt; 0.001). Caspase inhibition by ZVAD-fmk was not neuroprotective against the toxic effect of KA. At 1 h after treatment, we could already observe significantly increased calpain activity, which was prevented by MDL 28170 and NBQX. Western blot analysis of calpain substrates, GluR1, neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) and nonerythroid spectrin (fodrin), showed a time-dependent and MDL 28170-sensitive proteolysis of these proteins. This effect was due to calpains, but not caspases, since ZVAD-fmk was ineffective in preventing proteolytic events. Breakdown products of fodrin (BDPs) were detected as early as 15 min after exposure to KA. Overall, these results show early activation of calpains following activation of AMPA receptors as well as compromise of neuronal survival, likely due to proteolytic events that affect proteins involved in neuronal signaling.
Degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra is associated with one of the most prominent human neurological disorders, Parkinson's disease. It is therefore of high interest to identify molecules with trophic effects on this neuronal population. We show here that the neuregulin receptor ErbB4 is differentially expressed in mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, found in the substantia nigra and in a subregion of the ventral tegmentum but not in the retrorubral field. Early developmental onset and continued expression of ErbB4 into the adult and the presence of two high affinity ligands, neuregulin-1 and betacellulin, in the basal ganglia, suggested that these molecules might participate in the differentiation and/or maintenance of the nigrostriatal system. In order to address this hypothesis, we used a loxP flanked ErbB4 allele in combination with a nestin-Cre transgene and generated brain-specific ErbB4 null mice. These mutant animals survived into adulthood. The distribution of dopaminergic cell bodies in the midbrain, the expression of numerous genes specific to mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, and the axonal projection to the basal ganglia all appeared normal. Finally, an assessment of their motor function revealed no behavioral deficits. The apparent lack of any mutant phenotype suggests the presence of a strong compensatory mechanism.


When released in the brain through giving birth or mating, the neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin are involved in promoting parent-offspring and monogamous bonds in animals such as sheep and voles. Bonds are only formed in species where receptors for these neuropeptides are highly expressed in dopamine-producing reward centres. In humans, dysfunctions in these same systems can be associated with autism and, when we see people we love, these systems become activated.
We examined the extent to which basal levels of corticosterone, which vary in a circadian fashion, influence the pattern of Fos protein expression in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), the hippocampal formation and three different functional cortical areas. Basal and poststress (1 h of restraint) Fos expression, as determined by immunohistochemistry, was examined in male rats with either no previous surgical manipulation or in rats 5 days after: (i) sham adrenalectomy; (ii) adrenalectomy with no corticosterone replacement; or (iii) adrenalectomy with corticosterone (25 microg/ml) in the drinking water replacement. In adrenal-intact rats, restraint produced similar patterns of Fos expression in the PVN, cortical areas and hippocampus (CA1-CA3), with peak levels of expression attained 60-90 min after restraint onset. Surprisingly, in the dentate gyrus, there was a dissociation between the two blades in the pattern of Fos expression after restraint. In the inner blade (suprapyramidal), there was a delayed induction that occurred between 60 and 90 min after restraint onset and, in the outer blade (infrapyramidal), there was a steady decline in Fos expression after restraint. Adrenalectomy had an effect on Fos expression only in the PVN and dentate gyrus, and the nature of the effect was quite different for both brain regions. In the PVN, adrenalectomy had no effect on Fos expression in unstressed rats, but resulted in an enhanced number of Fos positive cells after restraint. In the dentate gyrus, adrenalectomy resulted in an overall reduction of Fos positive cells in both blades, and this reduction was present in unstressed and stressed rats. Corticosterone replacement normalized the adrenalectomy effect on Fos expression in both brain regions. Thus, Fos expression in the rat brain displays specific patterns of dependency on the permissive effects of glucorticoids, and this dependency varies between brain regions.
There are discrepant findings regarding the risk of HIV-associated dementia (HAD) relating to apolipoprotein E4, suggesting other factors may modulate risk. Furthermore, evidence suggests a changing phenotype of HAD in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), prompting a need to determine if new disease markers have emerged. In this analysis, APOE genotype was determined for 182 participants enrolled in the Hawaii Aging with HIV Cohort. After controlling for age and diabetes status, an independent risk of HAD relating to E4 was seen in older participants [OR=2.898 (1.031-8.244)] but not in younger participants [OR=0.373 (0.054-1.581)]. Several proposed mechanisms may underlie this association. Consideration of non-traditional risk factors for HAD in older HIV patients may yield new markers of disease in the era of HAART.
Nervous system disease in HIV infection is associated with toxic damage induced by effects from proinflammatory responses and oxidative stress, and such effects may be more prominent among opioid abusers. In these studies, the effects of activating retinoid receptor (retinoic acid receptor (RAR) and retinoid X receptor (RXR)) and peroxisome proliferator activated receptor (PPAR) gamma, which belong to the steroid-lipid nuclear receptor family, on tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha production and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) gene expression by stimulated U937 and SVG cells, respectively, were examined. Also studied were the effects of morphine on these responses. These studies showed that, in stimulated cells, the observed responses were suppressed by activation of the nuclear receptors as compared to non-stimulated control cells. Moreover, in phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated U937 cells, morphine reversed the TNF-alpha suppression that was induced by LG101305 and ciglitazone. Preliminary data in SVG cells suggest a tendency for morphine to have a similar effect on LG101305-exposed SVG cells stimulated with a combination of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and interferon-gamma, whereas this effect was not induced when these cells were incubated with ciglitazone. Therefore, specific nuclear receptor activation may be potentially beneficial in the treatment of neurological disease associated with HIV infection and may show specific interactions with opioids. The mechanisms that underlie these effects require further study.
Several advances have led to improvements in the care and prognosis of HIV+ individuals. The first is an understanding of the direct relationship between HIV replication and subsequent immunological and clinical progression, reinforcing the need to completely suppress HIV replication to control disease progression. The second is the wider availability of HAART which can provide effective suppression of HIV. The third major change is the ability to monitor HAART through the reliable and widespread measurement of plasma HIV RNA levels, which has become a routine part of clinical care. Since the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in the 1990s, there have been significant declines in the incidence rates of opportunistic infections in developed countries. HAART has clearly improved survival for individuals with HIV/AIDS, and has reduced the incidence of HIV-associated dementia (HIV-D) by 40-50% (Brodt et al., 2002). The prevalence of sensory neuropathies in advanced HIV/AIDS now exceeds 20% (Schifitto et al., 2002), and may rise further with prolonged exposure to neurotoxic HAART. HIV-D and HIV-related sensory neuropathies (HIV-SN) have a combined prevalence of about 30-50% in advanced HIV disease, suggesting that HAART does not provide complete protection against neurological damage (Bouwman et al., 1998). HIV-associated dementia (HIV-D) remains a common cause of dementia worldwide, and with HIV-related sensory neuropathies (HIV-SN) represents the commonest neurological disorders associated with AIDS. Furthermore, the temporal progression of HIV-D appears to have been altered by HAART, with most patients now showing an attenuated form of dementia, which with treatment is slowly progressive or static (Dougherty et al., 2002). This overview will review some of the outstanding questions relating to HIV-dementia, including: (a) are there differing phenotypes or temporal patterns of progression in HIV-dementia? (b) what determines these temporal patterns? and (c), what has been the impact of therapy on HIV dementia?
The standard therapy for episodes of severe acute inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system is high dose intravenous corticosteroids. A small proportion of patients fail to improve with this regime and their prognosis can become grave. A recent sham controlled double blind crossover trial in this group of patients demonstrated a significant benefit from plasma exchange. We report six patients with severe acute steroid-insensitive inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system treated with plasma exchange. We observed a clear improvement in five of these six patients. Whilst complications of plasma exchange occurred these did not outweigh the benefits. Our study supports the use of plasma exchange in severe acute steroid-insensitive inflammatory disease of the central nervous system.



Autosomal recessive spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) shows substantial phenotypic variability, presenting at a variety of ages from infancy to adult life. Diagnostic difficulties may arise because SMA sometimes produces a dystrophic or myopathic phenotype rather than classical neurogenic abnormalities. Two brothers are described who illustrate this principle and highlight the increasing importance of molecular genetics in investigating patients with neuromuscular diseases. The findings are discussed in the light of recent observations in a mouse model of SMA.


Effects of the CB2-selective cannabinoid agonist AM1241 on activity evoked in spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons by transcutaneous electrical stimulation were evaluated in urethane-anesthetized rats. Recordings were obtained in both the absence and the presence of carrageenan inflammation. AM1241, administered intravenously or locally in the paw, suppressed activity evoked by transcutaneous electrical stimulation during the development of inflammation. Decreases in WDR responses resulted from a suppression of C-fiber-mediated activity and windup. Abeta- and Adelta-fiber-mediated responses were not reliably altered. The AM1241-induced suppression of electrically evoked responses was blocked by the CB2 antagonist SR144528 but not by the CB1 antagonist SR141716A. AM1241 (33 microg/kg intraplantar [i.p.l.]), administered to the carrageenan-injected paw, suppressed activity evoked in WDR neurons relative to groups receiving vehicle in the same paw or AM1241 in the opposite (noninflamed) paw. The electrophysiological effects of AM1241 (330 microg/kg intravenous [i.v.]) were greater in rats receiving i.p.l. carrageenan compared with noninflamed rats receiving an i.p.l. injection of vehicle. AM1241 failed to alter the activity of purely nonnociceptive neurons recorded in the lumbar dorsal horn. Additionally, AM1241 (330 microg/kg i.v. and i.p.l.; 33 microg/kg i.p.l.) reduced the diameter of the carrageenan-injected paw. The AM1241-induced decrease in peripheral edema was blocked by the CB2 but not by the CB1 antagonist. These data demonstrate that activation of cannabinoid CB2 receptors is sufficient to suppress neuronal activity at central levels of processing in the spinal dorsal horn. Our findings are consistent with the ability of AM1241 to normalize nociceptive thresholds and produce antinociception in inflammatory pain states.
Neuropathic pain that results from injury to the peripheral or CNS responds poorly to opioid analgesics. Y1 and Y2 receptors for neuropeptide Y (NPY) may, however, serve as targets for analgesics that retain their effectiveness in neuropathic pain states. In substantia gelatinosa neurons in spinal cord slices from adult rats, we find that NPY acts via presynaptic Y2 receptors to attenuate excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and predominantly on presynaptic Y1 receptors to attenuate glycinergic and GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs). Because NPY attenuates the frequency of TTX-resistant miniature EPSCs and IPSCs, perturbation of the neurotransmitter release process contributes to its actions at both excitatory and inhibitory synapses. These effects, which are reminiscent of those produced by analgesic opioids, provide a cellular basis for previously documented spinal analgesic actions mediated via Y1 and Y2 receptors in neuropathic pain paradigms. They also underline the importance of suppression of inhibition in spinal analgesic mechanisms.
We examined effects of eye position on auditory cortical responses in macaques. Laminar current-source density (CSD) and multiunit activity (MUA) profiles were sampled with linear array multielectrodes. Eye position significantly modulated auditory-evoked CSD amplitude in 24/29 penetrations (83%), across A1 and belt regions; 4/24 cases also showed significant MUA AM. Eye-position effects occurred mainly in the supragranular laminae and lagged the co-located auditory response by, on average, 38 ms. Effects in A1 and belt regions were indistinguishable in amplitude, laminar profile, and latency. The timing and laminar profile of the eye-position effects suggest that they are not combined with auditory signals at a subcortical stage of the lemniscal auditory pathways and simply &quot;fed-forward&quot; into cortex. Rather, these effects may be conveyed to auditory cortex by feedback projections from parietal or frontal cortices, or alternatively, they may be conveyed by nonclassical feedforward projections through auditory koniocellular (calbindin positive) neurons.
We quantitatively studied the ontogeny of oculomotor behavior in larval fish as a foundation for studies linking oculomotor structure and function with genetics. Horizontal optokinetic and vestibuloocular reflexes (OKR and VOR, respectively) were measured in three different species (goldfish, zebrafish, and medaka) during the first month after hatching. For all sizes of medaka, and most zebrafish, Bode plots of OKR (0.065-3.0 Hz, +/-10 degrees/s) revealed that eye velocity closely followed stimulus velocity (gain &gt; 0.8) at low frequency but dropped sharply above 1 Hz (gain &lt; 0.3 at 3 Hz). Goldfish showed increased gain proportional to size across frequencies. Linearity testing with steps and sinusoids showed excellent visual performance (gain &gt; 0.8) in medaka almost from hatching; but zebrafish and goldfish exhibited progressive improvement, with only the largest equaling medaka performance. Monocular visual stimulation in zebrafish and goldfish produced gains of 0.5 versus &lt;0.1 for the eye viewing a moving versus stationary stimulus pattern but 0.25 versus &lt;0.1 in medaka. Angular VOR appeared much later than OKR, initially at only high accelerations (&gt;200 degrees /s at 0.5 Hz), first in medaka followed by larger (8.11 mm) zebrafish; but it was virtually nonexistent in goldfish. Velocity storage was not observed except for an eye velocity build-up in the largest medaka. In summary, a robust OKR was achieved shortly after hatching in all three species. In contrast, larval fish seem to be unique among vertebrates tested in their lack of significant angular VOR at stages where active movement is required for feeding and survival.
Epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulates proliferation, process outgrowth, and survival in the CNS. Understanding the actions of EGF necessitates characterizing its distribution in brain tissue following drug delivery or release from cellular sources. We used the integrative optical imaging (IOI) method to measure diffusion of fluorescently labeled EGF (6,600 Mr; 4 microg/ml) in the presence of excess unlabeled EGF (90 microg/ml) to compete off specific receptor binding and reveal the &quot;true&quot; EGF diffusion coefficient following injection in rat brain slices (400 microm). The effective diffusion coefficient was 5.18 +/- 0.16 x 10(-7) (SE) cm2/s (n = 22) in rat somatosensory cortex and the free diffusion coefficient, determined in dilute agarose gel, was 16.6 +/- 0.12 x 10(-7) cm2/s (n = 27). Tortuosity (lambda), a parameter representing the hindrance imposed on EGF by the convoluted brain extracellular space (ECS), was 1.8, the lowest yet measured by IOI for a protein in brain. Control experiments with fluorescent dextran of similar molecular weight and tetramethylammonium confirmed EGF did not affect local ECS structure. We conclude that transport of smaller growth factors such as EGF through brain ECS is less hindered than that of larger proteins (&gt;10,000 Mr, e.g., nerve growth factor) where typically lambda &gt; 2.1. Modeling was used to predict that low lambda will allow EGF sources in the brain to be further from target cells and still elicit a biological response. High lambda values for larger growth factors imply more constrained local biological effects than with smaller proteins such as EGF.
High pressure (&gt;1.0 MPa) induces the high-pressure neurological syndrome (HPNS) characterized by increased excitability of the CNS and cognitive impairments involving memory disorders. The perforant-path transfer of cortical information to the hippocampal formation is important for memory acquisition. High pressure may alter information transfer in this connection. We used rat corticohippocampal slices for studying the effect of pressure on the transfer function between synaptic inputs from the medial perforant path (MPP) and spike generation by granule cells (GC) of the dentate gyrus. High pressure (10.1 MPa) reduced single MPP field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) amplitude and slope by nearly 50%. Field antidromic action potentials (AAPs) elicited by stimulation of GC axons, and population spike (PS) generation by the pressure-depressed MPP fEPSP were not significantly altered at hyperbaric conditions. Nevertheless the relationship PS/fEPSP increased at high pressure, indicating dendritic hyperexcitability in the GC. PSs elicited by paired-pulse MPP fEPSPs at 10- to 200-ms interstimulus intervals and PS generated by trains of five fEPSPs at 25 Hz were also not affected in spite of severe pressure-induced synaptic depression. Similarly, trains of AAPs at 25-50 Hz were not significantly changed. Trains of fEPSPs at higher frequency (50 Hz), however, induced additional spikes at high pressure, indicating pressure disruption of the regular low-pass filter properties of the DG. Such effect was closely mimicked by partial blockade of GABAA inhibition. High pressure depresses synaptic activity while increases excitability in the neuronal dendrites but not in the axons. This mechanism, allowing neuronal communication at low input signals, may partially cope with pressure effects at the low frequency range (&lt;25 Hz) but losses reliability at higher frequencies (&gt;50 Hz).
Despite the discovery of ion channels that are activated by protons, we still know relatively little about the signaling of acid pain. We used a novel technique, iontophoresis of protons, to investigate acid-induced pain in human volunteers. We found that transdermal iontophoresis of protons consistently caused moderate pain that was dose-dependent. A marked desensitization occurred with persistent stimulation, with a time constant of approximately 3 min. Recovery from desensitization occurred slowly, over many hours. Acid-induced pain was significantly augmented in skin sensitized by acute topical application of capsaicin. However, skin desensitized by repeated capsaicin application showed no significant reduction in acid-induced pain, suggesting that both capsaicin-sensitive and insensitive sensory neurons contribute to acid pain. Furthermore, topical application of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) significantly attenuated acid-evoked pain but did not affect the heat pain threshold, suggesting a specific interaction between NSAIDs and peripheral acid sensors. Subcutaneous injection of amiloride (1 mm) also significantly inhibited the pain induced by iontophoresis of acid, suggesting an involvement of acid-sensing ion channel (ASIC) receptors. Conversely, iontophoresis of acid over a wide range of skin temperatures from 4 to 40 degrees C produced only minor changes in the induced pain. Together these data suggest a prominent role for ASIC channels and only a minor role for transient receptor potential vanilloid receptor-1 as mediators of cutaneous acid-induced pain.
The neural circuitry that increases attention to goal-relevant stimuli when we are in danger of becoming distracted is a matter of active debate. To address several long-standing controversies, we asked participants to identify a letter presented either visually or auditorily while we varied the amount of cross-modal distraction from an irrelevant letter in the opposite modality. Functional magnetic resonance imaging revealed three novel results. First, activity in sensory cortices that processed the relevant letter increased as the irrelevant letter became more distracting, consistent with a selective increase of attention to the relevant letter. In line with this view, an across-subjects correlation indicated that the larger the increase of activity in sensory cortices that processed the relevant letter, the less behavioral interference there was from the irrelevant letter. Second, regions of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) involved in orienting attention to the relevant letter also participated in increasing attention to the relevant letter when conflicting stimuli were present. Third, we observed a novel pattern of regional specialization within the cognitive division of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) for focusing attention on the relevant letter (dorsal ACC) versus detecting conflict from the irrelevant letter (rostral ACC). These findings indicate novel roles for sensory cortices, the DLPFC, and the ACC in increasing attention to goal-relevant stimulus representations when distracting stimuli conflict with behavioral objectives. Furthermore, they potentially resolve a long-standing controversy regarding the key contribution of the ACC to cognitive control.
ATP is an important cell-to-cell signaling molecule mediating the interactions between astrocytes and neurons in the CNS. In the hippocampal slices, ATP suppresses excitatory transmission mostly through activation of adenosine A1 receptors, because the ectoenzyme activity for the extracellular breakdown of ATP to adenosine is high in slice preparations in contrast to culture environments. Because the hippocampus is also rich in the expression of P2 receptors activated specifically by ATP, we examined whether ATP modulates neuronal excitability in the acute slice preparations independently of adenosine receptors. Although ATP decreased the frequency of spontaneously occurring EPSCs in the CA3 pyramidal neurons through activation of adenosine A1 receptors, ATP concurrently increased the frequency of IPSCs in a manner dependent on action potential generation. This effect was mediated by P2Y1 receptors because (1) 2-methylthio-ATP (2meSATP) was the most potent agonist, (2) 2'-deoxy-N6-methyladenosine-3',5'-bisphosphate diammonium (MRS2179) abolished this effect, and (3) this increase in IPSC frequency was not observed in the transgenic mice lacking P2Y1 receptor proteins. Application of 2meSATP elicited MRS2179-sensitive time- and voltage-dependent inward currents in the interneurons, which depolarized the cell to firing threshold. Also, it increased [Ca2+]i in both astrocytes and interneurons, but, unlike the former effect, the latter was entirely dependent on Ca2+ entry. Thus, in hippocampal slices, in addition to activating A1 receptors of the excitatory terminals after being converted to adenosine, ATP activates P2Y1 receptors in the interneurons, which is linked to activation of unidentified excitatory conductance, through mechanisms distinct from those in the astrocytes.
Mutations of the gene coding for PAK3 (p21-activated kinase 3) are associated with X-linked, nonsyndromic forms of mental retardation (MRX) in which the only distinctive clinical feature is the cognitive deficit. The mechanisms through which PAK3 mutation produces the mental handicap remain unclear, although an involvement in the mechanisms that regulate the formation or plasticity of synaptic networks has been proposed. Here we show, using a transient transfection approach, that antisense and small interfering RNA-mediated suppression of PAK3 or expression of a dominant-negative PAK3 carrying the human MRX30 mutation in rat hippocampal organotypic slice cultures results in the formation of abnormally elongated dendritic spines and filopodia-like protrusions and a decrease in mature spine synapses. Ultrastructural analysis of the changes induced by expression of PAK3 carrying the MRX30 mutation reveals that many elongated spines fail to express postsynaptic densities or contact presynaptic terminals. These defects are associated with a reduced spontaneous activity, altered expression of AMPA-type glutamate receptors, and defective long-term potentiation. Together, these data identify PAK3 as a key regulator of synapse formation and plasticity in the hippocampus and support interpretations that these defects might contribute to the cognitive deficits underlying this form of mental retardation.
Intrathecal baclofen (ITB) therapy has evolved into a standard treatment for severe spasticity. After this therapy had been provided for 10 years, a retrospective chart review on 50 patients, representing a total 2,922 patient months of ITB service, was done. These patients suffered severe spasticity from a number of disease processes including multiple sclerosis, cerebral palsy, and brain injury. The average dosage for the total group was 463 micrograms per day (microg/day), and 32% used a simple infusion mode. Pump refills occurred every 3 months for 58% of the group. Three evolving trends in ITB therapy were identified from clinical trial to current management: (a) higher catheter tip placement, (b) use of more complex infusion modes, and (c) a decreased complication rate.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disorder affecting more than 1.2 million people in the United States. Genetic and environmental toxins are believed to be risk factors in acquiring the disease. PD is characterized by tremors, rigidity, bradykinesia, poor gait, and postural instability. These cardinal symptoms improve with medication such a levo-dopa (L-dopa). However, over time, as the disease progresses, the patient becomes refractory to medication, or medication produces debilitating side effects. When this occurs or when there are worsening of symptoms, neurosurgical treatment is recommended, particularly deep brain stimulating (DBS) electrodes implanted in the subcortical subthalamic nucleus (STN). Over the last 5 years STN DBS has gained acceptance and become the neurosurgical treatment of choice for PD. To achieve maximum beneficial effects with minimum adverse effects from the surgery, the expertise of an integrated team of physicians and nurses is essential. A clear understanding of the different aspects of the procedure, including the risks and benefits of the treatment, assists neuroscience nurses in communicating with the PD patient, and providing the most appropriate, knowledge-based pre- and postoperative care.
Human fetal neural stem cells (hNSCs) can be expanded in vitro by mitogens or growth factors, such as basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), and/or leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF). Their effects on proliferation rate and differentiation pattern of hNSCs, however, have not been fully characterized. In this study, we cultured hNSCs in seven regimens, including bFGF, EGF, and LIF, either alone or in combinations. Cells were maintained as neurospheres in treatment media for various periods, up to six passages. A combination of bFGF, EGF, and LIF expanded hNSCs more efficiently than any other treatment as determined by counting total cell numbers using a trypan blue exclusion assay, a WST-1 cell viability assay, and a bromodeoxyuridine incorporation flow cytometric analysis. Differentiation patterns of hNSCs expanded under different conditions were also analyzed. We reported previously that hNSCs primed in vitro with a combination of bFGF, heparin, and laminin (FHL) induced neuronal differentiation toward a cholinergic phenotype. In this study, we show that the FHL priming increases neuronal differentiation while decreasing astroglial generation in all treatment groups as determined by immunostaining. However, cells proliferated under different growth factor conditions do vary in their phenotypic differentiation patterns. Particularly, significant generation of cholinergic cells was observed only in hNSCs expanded with EGF/bFGF or EGF/bFGF/LIF, but not with other treatment regimens, even when they are exposed to the same priming procedure. Our results indicate that hNSCs are highly plastic, with their proliferation and differentiation potential dependent on different growth factor treatments.
Astrocytes and oligodendrocytes in rat and mouse spinal cord slices, characterized by passive membrane currents during de- and hyperpolarizing stimulation pulses, express a high resting K+ conductance. In contrast to the case for astrocytes, a depolarizing prepulse in oligodendrocytes produces a significant shift of reversal potential (Vrev) to positive values, arising from the larger accumulation of K+ in the vicinity of the oligodendrocyte membrane. As a result, oligodendrocytes express large tail currents (Itail) after a depolarizing prepulse due to the shift of K+ into the cell. In the present study, we used a mathematical model to calculate the volume of the extracellular space (ECS) in the vicinity of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes (ESVv), defined as the volume available for K+ accumulation during membrane depolarization. A mathematical analysis of membrane currents revealed no differences between glial cells from mouse (n = 59) or rat (n = 60) spinal cord slices. We found that the Vrev of a cell after a depolarizing pulse increases with increasing Itail, expressed as the ratio of the integral inward current (Qin) after the depolarizing pulse to the total integral outward current (Qout) during the pulse. In astrocytes with small Itail and Vrev ranging from -50 to -70 mV, the Qin was only 3-19% of Qout, whereas, in oligodendrocytes with large Itail and Vrev between -20 and 0 mV, Qin/Qout was 30-75%. On the other hand, ESVv decreased with increasing values of Vrev. In astrocytes, ESVv ranged from 2 to 50 microm3, and, in oligodendrocytes, it ranged from 0.1 to 2.0 microm3. Cell swelling evoked by the application of hypotonic solution shifted Vrev to more positive values by 17.2 +/- 1.8 mV and was accompanied by a decrease in ESVv of 3.6 +/- 1.3 microm3. Our mathematical analysis reveals a 10-100 times smaller region of the extracellular space available for K+ accumulation during cell depolarization in the vicinity of oligodendrocytes than in the vicinity of astrocytes. The presence of such privileged regions around cells in the CNS may affect the accumulation and diffusion of other neuroactive substances and alter communication between cells in the CNS.
The adenosine system has important neuromodulatory and neuroprotective functions in the brain. Several lines of evidence suggest that ageing is associated with major alterations in the adenosine system, which may be partially responsible for changes in sleep, mood, and cognition. In the present study, we examined adenosine A1 receptor density in the rat brain by means of quantitative autoradiography to obtain a detailed anatomical overview of the changes during ageing. A1 receptor binding was assessed in young, old, and senescent animals of 3, 24, and 30 months old, respectively. There was a clear age-dependent reduction in adenosine A1 receptors in most of the brain areas examined, but the magnitude of this reduction varied greatly among regions. Also, whereas some regions displayed a gradual decline in A1 binding sites across the three age classes, other regions showed a particularly strong decrease between the ages of 24 and 30 months. For example, whereas the hippocampus and thalamus showed a gradual decline in A1 binding, some cortical and septal regions showed a more abrupt decline after the age of 24 months. Since particularly in rats many studies have used animals at the age of 24 months or even less, the ageing-related decline in adenosine A1 signaling might have been underestimated.


The concept of musical genius used to frame a discussion of the &quot;art&quot; practiced by neurosurgeons is the focus of the 2004 Presidential Address to the American Association of Neurological Surgeons (AANS). The musical genius, in contrast to the musically talented individual, is profiled and placed in the pantheon of those who have demonstrated extraordinary creativity. Observations and speculations about the specialization and elaboration of brain structures in musicians evolve into a discussion of artificial intelligence as a foil to what constitutes the essence of humanity. Taking an inductive approach, the author juxtaposes the conclusion about &quot;music, musicians, and the brain&quot; with the theme of the 2004 annual meeting of the AANS, &quot;Advancing Patient Care Through Technology and Creativity,&quot; to elaborate on the characteristics of the consummate neurosurgeon. (Note: Musical vignettes used in the address can be found in the accompanying article posted on Neurosurgical Focus http://www.aans.org/education/journal/neurosurgical).

Recent experimental data have shown that levels of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) increase after traumatic brain injury (TBI), degrading components of the basal lamina disrupting the blood-brain barrier. However, the post-traumatic secretion patterns of MMP-9 in humans are unknown. We measured the concentration of MMP-9 in plasma after TBI at the same time as the concentration of interleukin-6 (IL-6) in serum. Levels of MMP-9 and IL-6 in systemic arterial and jugular venous blood from seven patients with TBI were measured on days 0 and 1 post-injury. All patients underwent hypothermia at 32-35 degrees C as soon as possible after admission. Before induction of hypothermia, levels of MMP-9 in arterial and internal jugular venous blood exceeded the normal range. Higher MMP-9 levels were detected in internal jugular venous blood than in arterial blood. After hypothermia had been induced, MMP-9 levels in arterial blood and internal jugular venous blood decreased significantly, to within the normal range. In addition to these changes, a significant correlation was seen between levels of MMP-9 and IL-6 in internal jugular venous blood during the investigation period. These results indicate that MMP-9 is elevated in patients with acute TBI, and may play an important role in traumatic brain damage. The elevation of MMP-9 is associated with inflammatory events following TBI. Hypothermic intervention may suppress the elevation of MMP-9 with suppression of the inflammatory response, affording neuroprotection in TBI.
Our intent in this introduction to the special issue on Emotions, Personality, and Health is to alert readers to the logic underlying the editors' choices of topics for the issue and to provide a brief summary of its contents. We discuss how the 10 articles fit together to provide a mosaic of diverse approaches to the study of emotion. Collectively, these articles show ways that emotion research may be integrated with personality theory to inform us about the psychological dimensions of health and illness.
Carbamazepine (CBZ) is one of the most widely prescribed anticonvulsants despite a high incidence of idiosyncratic side effects. Metabolism of CBZ is complex, and of the more than 30 metabolites identified, one of the most abundant is CBZ N-glucuronide. To date the uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isoform responsible for the N-glucuronidation of CBZ has not been identified. We have developed a sensitive liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry assay to quantify CBZ glucuronidation, and we report that CBZ is specifically glucuronidated by human UGT2B7. Kinetics of CBZ glucuronidation in human liver, kidney, and intestine microsomes were consistent with those of recombinant UGT2B7, which displayed a Km value of 214 microM and Vmax value of 0.79 pmol/mg/min. In addition to revealing the isoform responsible for CBZ glucuronidation, this is the first example of primary amine glucuronidation by UGT2B7.
The GABA(A) receptors show a large degree of structural heterogeneity, with seven different subunit families, and 16 different subtypes in mammalian species. The alpha family is the largest, with six different subtypes. The alpha1 and alpha6 subtypes are among the most diverse within this family and confer distinct pharmacological properties to recombinant and neuronal receptors. To determine whether different single channel and macroscopic kinetic properties were also associated with these subtypes, the alpha1 or alpha6 subunit was expressed in mammalian cells along with beta3 and gamma2L subunits and the kinetic properties examined with outside-out patch recordings. The alpha1 beta3 gamma2L receptors responded to GABA with long-duration openings organized into multi-opening bursts. In contrast, channel openings of the alpha6 beta3 gamma2L receptors were predominately short in duration and occurred as isolated, single openings. The subunit subtype also affected the deactivation rate of the receptor, which was almost 2-fold slower for alpha6 beta3 gamma2L, compared with the alpha1 beta3 gamma2L isoform. Onset of fast desensitization did not differ between the isoforms. To determine the structural domains responsible for these differences in kinetic properties, we constructed six chimeric subunits, combining different regions of the alpha1 and alpha6 subunits. The properties of the chimeric subunits indicated that structures within the third transmembrane domain (TM3) and the TM3-TM4 intracellular loop conferred differences in single channel gating kinetics that subsequently affected the deactivation rate and GABA EC50. The effect of agonist concentration on the rise time of the current showed that the extracellular N-terminal domain was largely responsible for binding characteristics, while the transmembrane domains determined the activation rate at saturating GABA concentrations. This suggests that subunit structures outside of the agonist binding and pore-lining domains are responsible for the kinetic differences conferred by the alpha1 and alpha6 subtypes. Structural heterogeneity within these transmembrane and intracellular regions can therefore influence the characteristics of the postsynaptic response of GABA(A) receptors with different subunit composition.

The study purpose was to assess inter- and intra-individual variability in neurobehavioral function near the circadian nadir during sleep deprivation and conduct exploratory factor analyses to assess relationships among alertness and performance measures during sleep deprivation. Twenty-five healthy individuals (16 females) aged 18-25 years participated. Participants were sleep deprived for two nights under controlled laboratory conditions using a modified constant routine procedure. A comprehensive battery of neurobehavioral performance tests, subjective sleepiness (SSS), and objective alertness (MWT) were assessed. Seventeen of the 22 neurobehavioral measures were impaired by sleep deprivation (all P &lt; 0.01). The use of multiple neurobehavioral performance measures revealed impairments for all individuals during sleep deprivation. However, sleep deprivation effects were task dependent within and between individuals. Gender contributed minimally to inter-individual variability in performance. Exploratory factor analysis reduced the 22 measures to seven independent factors. Our findings indicate that no individual was especially vulnerable or resistant to the performance impairing effects of sleep deprivation. Instead, inter- and intra-individual variability in performance during sleep deprivation was task dependent. The finding that subjective sleepiness and objective alertness were not related to any performance measure during sleep deprivation suggests that these measures may assess independent brain functions.
Research during the last decades has greatly increased our understanding of brain plasticity, i.e. how neuronal circuits can be modified by experience, learning and in response to brain lesions. Currently available neuroimaging techniques that make it possible to study the function of the human brain in vivo have had an important impact. Cross-modal plasticity during development is demonstrated by cortical reorganization in blind or deaf children. Early musical training has lasting effects in shaping the brain. Albeit the plasticity is largest during childhood, the adult brain retains a capacity for functional and structural reorganization that earlier has been underestimated. Recent research on Huntington's disease has revealed the possibility of environmental interaction even with dominant genes. Scientifically based training methods are now being applied in rehabilitation of patients after stroke and trauma, and in the sensory retraining techniques currently applied in the treatment of focal hand dystonia as well as in sensory re-education after nerve repair in hand surgery. There is evidence that frequent participation in challenging and stimulating activities is associated with reduced cognitive decline during aging. The current concept of brain plasticity has wide implication for areas outside neuroscience and for all human life.
The capacity of minocycline to alleviate disease for several neurological disorders in animals is increasingly being recognised. Indeed, that one drug alone can attenuate the severity of disease in stroke, multiple sclerosis, spinal-cord injury, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is astounding. In this review, we describe the evidence for the efficacy of minocycline in several animal models of neurological disease, discuss the mechanisms by which minocycline affects a range of neurological diseases with diverse causes, and introduce the emerging investigation of minocycline in clinical neurology. The encouraging results of minocycline in experimental neurology bode well for its therapeutic use in human neurological diseases.
Corticobasal degeneration is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that typically presents with asymmetrical parkinsonism and cognitive dysfunction. Recent molecular advances have given some clues to the pathogenesis of the disease. Clinical diagnosis is complicated by both the variability of presentation of true corticobasal degeneration, for example as a dementing illness, and the syndromes that look like it but are caused by other neurodegenerative diseases. Although definitive diagnosis of corticobasal degeneration can only be made at post-mortem examination, recent advances in imaging can assist the clinician with diagnosis. Treatment options remain limited and mostly address symptoms.

Although ischemic stroke has higher incidence and severity in aged than in young humans, the age factor is generally neglected in ischemia animal models. This study was aimed at comparing age-dependent effects at early stages of transient global cerebral ischemia (TGCI) in rats. TGCI was induced in two groups of rats (3-6 and 20-24 months old, respectively) by exposure to 15% oxygen and 15 min occlusion of the two common carotid arteries. Brains were analysed in vivo by MRI-apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and T2 maps--at 1-3 h post-TGCI and in vitro by histochemical examination of triphenyltetrazolium chloride (TTC)-stained slices. At 1-3 h post-TGCI, a higher incidence of lesions was found in aged than in young rats especially in the hippocampus and cortex (occipital plus parietal) but not in the thalamus. The lesioned regions showed lower ADC values in aged than in younger rats. The most substantial ADC decreases were associated with enhanced spin-spin relaxation and lower TTC staining. The different responses of the two age groups support the use of aged animals for investigations on different ischemia models. Our model of brain ischemia appears appropriate for further studies including drug effects.
In this overview we examine the basic principles of properties of electroencephalogram and magnetoencephalogram and the corresponding models of sources and of the volume conductor. In particular we show how the dipolar model is anchored in neurophysiological findings and how the different conductivities of the brain and the tissue surrounding it can be estimated. Using these basic models as tools we show how the functional localization of the neural sources of rhythmic activities (alpha and mu rhythms and sleep spindles) and of epileptiform activities can be estimated and integrated with structural data of the brain obtained with MRI.
The cerebral cortex is the main target of analysis in many functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies. Since only about 20% of the voxels of a typical fMRI data set lie within the cortex, statistical analysis can be restricted to the subset of the voxels obtained after cortex segmentation. While such restriction does not influence conventional univariate statistical tests, it may have a substantial effect on the performance of multivariate methods. Here, we describe a novel approach for data-driven analysis of single-subject fMRI time series that combines techniques for the segmentation and reconstruction of the cortical surface of the brain and the spatial independent component analysis (sICA) of the functional time courses (TCs). We use the mesh of the white matter/gray matter boundary, automatically reconstructed from high-spatial-resolution anatomical MR images, to limit the sICA decomposition of a coregistered functional time series to those voxels which are within a specified region with respect to the cortical sheet (cortex-based ICA, or cbICA). We illustrate our analysis method in the context of fMRI blocked and event-related experimental designs and in an fMRI experiment with perceptually ambiguous stimulation, in which an a priori specification of the stimulation protocol is not possible. A comparison between cbICA and conventional hypothesis-driven statistical methods shows that cortical surface maps and component TCs blindly obtained with cbICA reliably reflect task-related spatiotemporal activation patterns. Furthermore, the advantages of using cbICA when the specification of a temporal model of the expected hemodynamic response is not straightforward are illustrated and discussed. A comparison between cbICA and anatomically unconstrained ICA reveals that--beside reducing computational demand--the cortex-based approach improves the fitting of the ICA model in the gray matter voxels, the separation of cortical components and the estimation of their TCs, particularly in the case of fMRI data sets with a complex spatiotemporal statistical structure.
Different brain imaging devices are presently available to provide images of the human functional cortical activity, based on hemodynamic, metabolic or electromagnetic measurements. However, static images of brain regions activated during particular tasks do not convey the information of how these regions are interconnected. The concept of brain connectivity plays a central role in the neuroscience, and different definitions of connectivity, functional and effective, have been adopted in literature. While the functional connectivity is defined as the temporal coherence among the activities of different brain areas, the effective connectivity is defined as the simplest brain circuit that would produce the same temporal relationship as observed experimentally among cortical sites. The structural equation modeling (SEM) is the most used method to estimate effective connectivity in neuroscience, and its typical application is on data related to brain hemodynamic behavior tested by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), whereas the directed transfer function (DTF) method is a frequency-domain approach based on both a multivariate autoregressive (MVAR) modeling of time series and on the concept of Granger causality. This study presents advanced methods for the estimation of cortical connectivity by applying SEM and DTF on the cortical signals estimated from high-resolution electroencephalography (EEG) recordings, since these signals exhibit a higher spatial resolution than conventional cerebral electromagnetic measures. To estimate correctly the cortical signals, we used a subject's multicompartment head model (scalp, skull, dura mater, cortex) constructed from individual MRI, a distributed source model and a regularized linear inverse source estimates of cortical current density. Before the application of SEM and DTF methodology to the cortical waveforms estimated from high-resolution EEG data, we performed a simulation study, in which different main factors (signal-to-noise ratio, SNR, and simulated cortical activity duration, LENGTH) were systematically manipulated in the generation of test signals, and the errors in the estimated connectivity were evaluated by the analysis of variance (ANOVA). The statistical analysis returned that during simulations, both SEM and DTF estimators were able to correctly estimate the imposed connectivity patterns under reasonable operative conditions, that is, when data exhibit an SNR of at least 3 and a LENGTH of at least 75 s of nonconsecutive EEG recordings at 64 Hz of sampling rate. Hence, effective and functional connectivity patterns of cortical activity can be effectively estimated under general conditions met in any practical EEG recordings, by combining high-resolution EEG techniques and linear inverse estimation with SEM or DTF methods. We conclude that the estimation of cortical connectivity can be performed not only with hemodynamic measurements, but also with EEG signals treated with advanced computational techniques.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the nonhuman primate promises to provide a much desired link between brain research in humans and the large body of systems neuroscience work in animals. We present here a novel high field, large-bore, vertical MR system (7 T/60 cm, 300 MHz), which was optimized for neuroscientific research in macaque monkeys. A strong magnetic field was applied to increase sensitivity and spatial resolution for both MRI and spectroscopy. Anatomical imaging with voxel sizes as small as 75x150x300 microm3 and with high contrast-to-noise ratios permitted the visualization of the characteristic lamination of some neocortical areas, e.g., Baillarger lines. Relaxation times were determined for different structures: at 7 T, T1 was 2.01/1.84/1.54 s in GM/GM-V1/WM, T2 was 59.1/54.4 ms in GM/WM and T2* was 29 ms. At 4.7 T, T1 was 25% shorter, T2 and T2* 18% longer compared to 7T. Spatiotemporally resolved blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal changes yielded robust activations and deactivations (negative BOLD), with average amplitudes of 4.1% and -2.4%, respectively. Finally, the first high-resolution (500 microm in-plane) images of cerebral blood flow in the anesthetized monkey are presented. On functional activation we observed flow increases of up to 38% (59 to 81 ml/100 g/min) in the primary visual cortex, V1. Compared to BOLD maps, functional CBF maps were found to be localized entirely within the gray matter, providing unequivocal evidence for high spatial specificity. The exquisite sensitivity of the system and the increased specificity of the hemodynamic signals promise further insights into the relationship of the latter to the underlying physiological activity.

A critical question in visual working or short-term memory (VSTM) research is whether the ability to remember briefly presented visual stimuli can be increased. Here we test whether VSTM for locations and shapes is improved by training that allows one to utilize another memory system, visual longterm memory (VLTM). Training was done by repeatedly presenting a subset of memory displays, creating long-term memory traces for these displays. Surprisingly, VSTM performance for repeated displays was not higher than for nonrepeated ones, even though participants recognized repeated displays on a forced-choice test given at the end of the experiment. We suggest that the fidelity of information held by VLTM is inferior to that of information held by VSTM and thus provides no additional benefit over what is extracted on the fly by VSTM.
Despite enormous strides in our understanding of human disease, the precise mechanisms of hepatic encephalopathy (HE), a potential long-term complication of liver failure, are still unclear. Brain serotonin, a neurotransmitter with widespread distribution in the CNS, plays a role in the regulation of a wide range of physiological behaviors and functions. In addition, it has been implicated in the pathogenesis of several pathological processes, including HE. This work reviews the relationship between brain serotonergic dysfunction and hepatic encephalopathy in cirrhotic patients and experimental animals. The existing changes in the synthesis, metabolism, storage, and release of neuronal serotonin in HE point to a serotonergic synaptic deficit in this condition. Given the established role of the brain serotonergic system in the regulation of sleep, circadian rhythmicity, and locomotion, selective alterations of this system could be an important part of the neurophysiological background responsible for the behavioral changes in rats with portacaval anastomosis and may contribute to the pathogenesis of HE in cirrhotic patients. The findings that serotoninergic turnover is exquisitely and selectively sensitive to the degree of porto-systemic shunting and hyperammonemia suggest a role for serotonin in early neuropsychiatric symptoms of HE. Pharmacological manipulation of the brain serotonergic system may be beneficial in the prevention and treatment of HE in cirrhotic patients.
Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a neuropsychiatric disorder associated with either acute or chronic liver failure. More than two decades ago, the role of altered GABAergic neurotransmission was proposed following evidence of &quot;increased GABAergic tone&quot; in HE. Increased GABAergic tone was based on several observations: (i) Similarity of visual evoked response potential patterns between rabbits with galactosamine-induced fulminant hepatic failure and animals treated with various allosteric agonists of the GABA receptor complex (GRC). (ii) Spontaneous activities of isolated Purkinje neurons from rabbits with galactosamine-induced fulminant hepatic failure are more depressed by GRC modulator compounds compared to normal animals. (iii) Flumazenil, a high selective benzodiazepine antagonist at the GRC, ameliorates behavioral symptoms and EEG activity in some HE patients. Pathophysiological mechanisms put forward to explain increased GABAergic tone in HE include (1) increase in brain GABA content due to increased brain GABA uptake through altered permeability of the blood brain barrier, (2) alteration of the integrity of constituents of the GRC, and (3) increase of endogenous GRC modulators such as benzodiazepines (and more recently neurosteroids) with potent agonist properties at the GRC. Studies performed subsequently excluded alterations of either GABA content or GRC integrity in favor of increased brain concentrations of endogenous agonists. While the role of endogenous benzodiazepines remains controversial, the presence of neurosteroids with GABA agonist properties affords a plausible explanation for increased GABAergic tone in HE.
There is no &quot;gold standard&quot; for diagnosing hepatic encephalopathy in patients with cirrhosis. In consequence, the presence of this condition, unless floridly overt, is often missed. As a result, the majority of patients are denied the benefits of treatment. There are a number of individual techniques, which access different aspects of cerebral function that can be used, singly or in combination, to provide diagnostic information in this condition, including mental state assessment, psychometric testing, electroencephalography, sensory and cognitive evoked potentials, and neuroimaging. These have been variously applied to the study of hepatic encephalopathy but fundamental differences in the essential aims of the studies, as well as differences in the patient populations and the acquisition and analysis of the data, have made comparisons difficult. Thus, there is no clear consensus as to the sensitivity, specificity, or validity of these tests when used alone or in combination. There are, however, a number of additional methods that could be used to analyze the electrophysiological data, and a number of alternative evoked potentials that could be measured to provide better diagnostic information. In addition, there are a number of techniques, such as critical flicker frequency and smooth pursuit eye movements, which have not yet been applied systematically in this condition and which may provide useful diagnostic information. Clearly the methods for assessing hepatic encephalopathy need to be reviewed, newer methods for analyzing the electrophysiological data and newer techniques for assessing alternative aspects of cerebral function need to be explored for their diagnostic utility. This process should aim at developing a multidimensional diagnostic tool.
It has been suggested that alterations of GABAergic neurotransmission are implicated in the pathophysiology of hepatic encephalopathy (HE). Increased concentrations of endogenous benzodiazepines with positive allosteric modulatory properties at the GABA-A receptor complex were proposed as a pathophysiological mechanism to explain increased GABAergic tone in HE. However, results of controlled trials with benzodiazepine receptor antagonists have yielded equivocal results and increases in benzodiazepine levels in body fluids of cirrhotic patients were suggested to be largely accounted for by previous pharmaceutical benzodiazepine intake. In the present study the issue of benzodiazepine receptor ligands in brains of cirrhotic patients, and their contribution to alterations of GABA-A receptor complex in HE are addressed. &quot;Benzodiazepine-like&quot; ligands were present in trace amounts in autopsied brain tissue from control subjects (0.2 +/- 0.2 ng/g tissue), and from cirrhotic patients not previously exposed to benzodiazepine medication (0.8 +/- 0.4 ng/g tissue). In contrast, these ligands accumulate in brain extracts from cirrhotic patients previously exposed to benzodiazepines by up to 200-fold (161.5 +/- 93.2 DE ng/g tissue). Brain extracts from cirrhotic patients increased the binding of the GABA-A receptor agonist [3H]muscimol. This increase was minimal with brain extracts from controls (6.8 +/- 2.8%), but was significant with brain extracts from cirrhotic patients without (29.4 +/- 2.7%), or with (55.1 +/- 7.6%) previous exposure to benzodiazepines. Addition of flumazenil, a selective benzodiazepine receptor antagonist did not significantly modify the increase of [3H]muscimol binding by brain extracts from patients without prior exposure to benzodiazepines and only partially inhibited the increase of [3H]muscimol binding in presence of brain extracts from cirrhotic patients previously exposed to benzodiazepines. These findings suggest the presence of nonbenzodiazepine substances (possibly neurosteroids) with positive allosteric modulatory properties at the GABA-A receptor complex in brain in hepatic encephalopathy.
With the increased life expectancy in western industrialized countries, the incidence and prevalence of brain diseases dramatically increased. Stroke and a wide spectrum of neuropsychiatric illnesses such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, traumatic head injury, and schizophrenia all lead to severe disability. However, targeted effective therapies for treatment of these diseases are lacking. Even more frustrating is the fact that we do not yet clearly understand the basic mechanisms underlying the disease processes in these conditions. We propose a hypothesis of loss of neuronal function via a final common deleterious pathway in this clinically very heterogeneous disease group. This review presents a novel neuroprotective concept for treatment of brain disease: Erythropoietin (EPO). EPO is a natural body-own-protein hormone that has been used for treatment of anemia for more than a decade. The neuroprotective approach using EPO in brain disease represents a totally new frontier. The &quot;Gttingen EPO-stroke trial&quot; represents the first effective use in man of a neuroprotective therapy in an acute brain disease while the experimental EPO therapy to combat cognitive decline in patients with schizophrenia will be introduced as an example of a neuroprotective strategy for a chronic brain disease.
Hypoglycemia was long considered to kill neurons by depriving them of glucose. We now know that hypoglycemia kills neurons actively rather than by starvation from within. Hypoglycemia only causes neuronal death when the EEG becomes flat. This usually occurs after glucose levels have fallen below 1 mM (18 mg/dL) for some period. At that time abrupt energy failure occurs, the excitatory amino acid aspartate is massively released into the limited brain extracellular space and floods the excitatory amino acid receptors located on neuronal dendrites. Calcium fluxes occur and membrane breaks in the cell lead rapidly to neuronal necrosis. Significant neuronal necrosis occurs after 30 min of electrocerebral silence. Other neurochemical changes include energy depletion to roughly 25% of control, phospholipase and other enzyme activation, tissue alkalosis, and a tendency for all cellular redox systems to shift towards oxidation. Hypoglycemia often differs from ischemia in its neuropathologic distribution, in that necrosis of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus can occur and a predilection for the superficial layers of the cortex is sometimes seen. Cerebellum and brainstem are universally spared in hypoglycaemic brain damage. Hypoglycemia constitutes a unique metabolic brain insult.
This article presents a method for identification and localization of cell surface and intracellular sialoglycoconjugates of peripheral blood cells. To reveal cell surface conjugates, a sample of peripheral blood was incubated with lectin after centrifugation and rinsing. For intracellular localization in leukocytes, RBCs were lysed and the membranes were permeabilized prior to cytochemical reaction. Fluorescein isothiocyanate conjugated lectins were used for visualization in fluorescence microscope. All lectins bound specifically to the surface of erythrocytes. Confocal microscopy showed surface and intracellular labeling of permeabilized leukocytes. A part of the signal in eosinophils originated from binding of anionic fluorophore to cationic granular proteins.
In response to acute damage, Mller glia in the chicken retina have been shown to be a source of proliferating progenitor-like cells. The secreted factors and signaling pathways that regulate this process remain unknown. The purpose of this study was to test whether secreted factors, which are known to promote glial differentiation during development, regulate the ability of Mller glia to proliferate and become retinal progenitors in response to acute damage in mature retina. We made intraocular injections of BMP4, BMP7, EGF, NGF, BDNF, or CNTF before or after a single, toxic dose of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and assayed for proliferating progenitor-like cells within the retina. We found that injections of BMP4, BMP7, or CNTF, but not EGF, NGF, or BDNF, before NMDA treatment reduced the number of Mller glia that proliferated and gave rise to progenitor-like cells. CNTF and BMP4, but not NGF or BDNF, greatly reduced the number of cells destroyed by toxin treatment indicating that these factors protect retinal neurons from a severe excitotoxic insult. Injections of CNTF 5 days before NMDA treatment prevented neurotoxin-induced cell death and Mller glial proliferation, while injections of BMP4 had no protective effect. In addition, CNTF injected after NMDA treatment suppressed glial proliferation, while BMP4 did not. We conclude that BMP4 and CNTF, when applied before a toxic insult, act as neuroprotective agents and likely suppress the proliferative response of Mller glia to retinal damage by attenuating the retinal damage; protecting bipolar and amacrine neurons from NMDA-induced cell death. When applied after a toxic insult, CNTF suppressed glial proliferation independent of levels of retinal damage.
A number of pathological missense mutations of L1CAM have been shown to disrupt L1-L1 homophilic binding and/or affect surface expression. To investigate whether these mutations disrupt L1-mediated neurite outgrowth, cerebellar neurons from L1 knockout mice are transfected with WT human L1 or L1 mutant constructs, and grown on an L1 substrate. Various parameters of neurite growth are quantified. Most L1 mutations do not affect neurite length significantly but several mutations cause a significant decrease in branching. Comparison of these data with data on L1 expression levels and homophilic binding strength show that changes in neurite growth cannot be simply explained by reductions in either of these parameters. Our results suggest that a coreceptor is involved in L1-mediated neurite outgrowth. Some pathological mutations have little effect on L1 mediated neurite growth, so it is unlikely that a failure of L1-mediated neurite outgrowth is the principle cause of brain defects in patients with L1 mutations.
Classic cadherins are synaptic adhesion proteins that have been implicated in synapse formation and targeting. Brief inactivation of classic cadherin function in young neurons appears to abrogate synapse formation when examined acutely. It remains unknown if such abrogation is unique to young neurons, whether it occurs by stalling neuronal maturation or by directly interfering with the process of synapse assembly, or whether synapse targeting is altered. Here we asked if sustained pan-cadherin blockade would prevent or alter the progression of axonal and dendritic outgrowth, synaptogenesis, or the stereotypic distribution of excitatory and inhibitory synapses on cultured hippocampal neurons. While pre- and postsynaptic cadherins are required for synapse assembly in young neurons, we find that in neurons older than 10 days, classic cadherins are entirely dispensable for joining and aligning presynaptic vesicle clusters with molecular markers of the postsynaptic density. Furthermore, we find that the proportion and relative distributions of excitatory and inhibitory terminals on single neurons are not altered. However, synapses that form on neurons in which cadherin function is blocked are smaller; they exhibit decreased synaptic vesicle recycling and a decreased frequency of spontaneous EPSCs. Moreover, they fail to acquire resistance to F-actin depolymerization, a hallmark of mature, stable contacts. These data provide new evidence that cadherins are required to promote synapse stabilization and structural and functional maturation, but dispensable for the correct subcellular distribution of excitatory and inhibitory synapses.
We have shown previously that components of the extracellular matrix (ECM) modulate neuronal development. Here, we searched for additional ECM elements that might play roles in retinal histogenesis and identified a secreted glycoprotein that is heavily expressed in the retina. This molecule, named by others Wnt Inhibitory Factor-1 (WIF-1), is expressed during and after the period of rod photoreceptor morphogenesis in the mouse. We show that a potential WIF-1 ligand, Wnt4, as well as a potential Wnt4 receptor, fzd4, and a potential Wnt4 coreceptor, LRP6, are expressed in the region of, and at the time of, rod photoreceptor genesis. WIF-1 and Wnt4 are coexpressed during retinal development and bind to each other; therefore, they are likely to interact during rod production. WIF-1 protein inhibits rod production, and anti-WIF-1 antibodies increase rod production; in contrast, Wnt4 promotes rod production. Together, these data suggest that WIF-1 and Wnt4, both components of the ECM, regulate mammalian photoreceptor development.
We have evaluated the spatial and temporal expression patterns of three protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTPs), receptor PTPalpha (RPTPalpha), striatal enriched phosphatase (STEP), and leucocyte common antigen-related phosphatase (LAR), in the retina and optic nerve (ON) of adult rats in which the crushed ON was either regenerating after retinal ganglion cell (RGC) stimulation with intravitreal peripheral nerve (PN) grafting or lens injury (LI), or not regenerating (no treatment). In intact adult rats, all three PTPs were expressed by RGCs and ON glia. In both the regenerating and non-regenerating models, a postlesion rise in RPTPalpha, STEP, and LAR expression occurred in the RGC somata and in the ON. However, for RPTPalpha and LAR in the RGCs, and for RPTPalpha, STEP, and LAR in the ON, this postlesion increase was attenuated in the regenerating versus the non-regenerating models. ON PTP expression changes were localized to glia in the proximal and distal stumps, and to macrophages and extracellular matrix of the glial scar at the lesion site. Interestingly, neither RPTPalpha, STEP, nor LAR localized to intact or regenerating axons. One explanation of these findings is that RPTPalpha and LAR may modulate RGC survival, and that RPTPalpha, STEP, and LAR may modulate axon growth.
The somatodendritic subthreshold A-type K+ current (ISA) in nerve cells is a critical component of the ensemble of voltage-gated ionic currents that determine somatodendritic signal integration. The underlying K+ channel belongs to the Shal subfamily of voltage-gated K+ channels. Most Shal channels across the animal kingdom share a high degree of structural conservation, operate in the subthreshold range of membrane potentials, and exhibit relatively fast inactivation and recovery from inactivation. Mammalian Shal K+ channels (Kv4) undergo preferential closed-state inactivation with features that are generally inconsistent with the classical mechanisms of inactivation typical of Shaker K+ channels. Here, we review (1) the physiological and genetic properties of ISA, 2 the molecular mechanisms of Kv4 inactivation and its remodeling by a family of soluble calcium-binding proteins (KChIPs) and a membrane-bound dipeptidase-like protein (DPPX), and (3) the modulation of Kv4 channels by protein phosphorylation.
This review briefly summarizes the development of the receptor concept, the identification of receptors based first on biological response data and subsequently on radioligand binding properties, and the biological and physiological understandings that these approaches have made possible. The development of receptor characterization began with receptors that ultimately were discovered to mediate response by coupling to G-binding proteins, also known as G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Consequently, many if not all of the examples in this overview will describe studies characterizing GPCRs in general, and adrenergic receptors in particular. The purpose of this review, however, is not a detailed chronological account of a huge literature, but rather an overview of the fundamental questions posed and answered by these studies.
The Bacillus subtilis protein DivIVA controls both the positioning of the vegetative cell division site and the polar attachment of the chromosome during sporulation. In vegetative growth DivIVA attracts the bipartite cell division inhibitor MinCD away from the cell centre and towards the cell pole. This process ensures the inactivation of old polar division sites and leaves the cell centre free for the assembly of a new cell division complex. During sporulation MinCD and DivIVA levels fall, but DivIVA remains at the cell poles and becomes involved in the migration of the chromosomes to the pole. In order to investigate polar targeting of DivIVA, we undertook a mutational analysis of the 164-amino-acid protein. These studies identified one mutant (divIVA(R18C)) that could not localize to the cell pole but which retained the ability to support both vegetative growth and 50% sporulation efficiency. Further analysis revealed that, in the absence of polar targeting, DivIVA(R18C) localized to the nucleoid during vegetative growth in a Spo0J/Soj-dependent manner and required Spo0J/Soj and MinD to orientate the chromosomes correctly during sporulation. We demonstrate that polar targeting of DivIVA(R18C) is not essential during vegetative growth because the mutant can recognize the cell division site and influences the localization of MinD. Similarly we show that DivIVA(R18C) can function during sporulation because it can support the Spo0J/Soj orientation of the chromosome. In addition, we establish that both residues 18 and 19 constitute a DivIVA polar targeting determinant.

Dopamine D2 receptor interactions with arrestins and arrestin-dependent internalization have been characterized using heterologously expressed D2 receptor and arrestins. The purpose of this study was to investigate D2 receptor interaction with endogenous arrestins. Arrestin2 and arrestin3 in striatal homogenates bound to the third cytoplasmic loop of the D2 receptor, and purified arrestin2 and arrestin3 bound to the second and third loops and C terminus of the D2 receptor, in a glutathione S-transferase pull-down assay. In NS20Y neuroblastoma cells expressing an enhanced green-fluorescent protein-tagged D2 receptor (D2-EGFP), 2-h D2 agonist stimulation enhanced the colocalization of D2-EGFP with endogenous arrestin2 and arrestin3. These results suggest that the D2 receptor has the intrinsic ability to bind both nonvisual arrestins. Agonist treatment of D2-EGFP NS20Y cells induced D2 receptor internalization (36-46%) that was maximal within 20 min, but that was prevented by small interfering RNA-induced depletion of arrestin2 and arrestin3. In neostriatal neurons, 2-h agonist treatment selectively increased the colocalization of the endogenous D2 receptor with arrestin2, whereas receptor colocalization with arrestin3 was reduced. Agonist stimulation caused translocation of arrestin2, but not arrestin3, to the membrane in neurons and selectively enhanced the coimmunoprecipitation of the D2 receptor and arrestin2. All three measures of receptor/arrestin interaction (colocalization, translocation, and coprecipitation) demonstrated selective agonist-induced interaction between the D2 receptor and arrestin2 in neurons.
Disrupted in Schizophrenia 1 (DISC1) was identified as a potential susceptibility gene for schizophrenia due to its disruption by a balanced t(1;11) (q42;q14) translocation, which has been shown to cosegregate with major psychiatric disease in a large Scottish family. We have recently presented evidence that DISC1 exists in a neurodevelopmentally regulated protein complex with Nudel. In this study, we report the protein expression profile of DISC1 in the adult and developing mouse brain utilizing immunohistochemistry and quantitative Western blot. In the adult mouse brain, DISC1 is expressed in neurons within various brain areas including the olfactory bulb, cortex, hippocampus, hypothalamus, cerebellum and brain stem. During development, DISC1 protein is detected at all stages, from E10 to 6 months old, with two significant peaks of protein expression of a DISC1 isoform at E13.5 and P35. Interestingly, these time points correspond to critical stages during mouse development, the active neurogenesis period in the developing brain and the period of puberty. Together, these results suggest that DISC1 may play a critical role in brain development, consistent with the neurodevelopmental hypothesis of the etiology of schizophrenia.
The opioid transmitters enkephalin and dynorphin are known to regulate pallidal output and consequently cortical excitability. Indeed, abnormal basal ganglia opioid transmission has been reported in several involuntary movement disorders, including levodopa-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease (PD), tardive dyskinesias/dystonia, Huntington's disease, and Tourette's syndrome. Moreover, a previous 11C-diprenorphine PET study investigating levodopa-induced dyskinesias found reduced opioid receptor availability in PD with but not without dyskinesias. We wished to investigate if a similar alteration in basal ganglia opioid binding was present in DYT1 primary torsion dystonia (PTD). Regional cerebral 11C-diprenorphine binding was investigated in 7 manifesting carriers of the DYT1 gene and 15 age-matched normal controls using a region-of-interest (ROI) approach and statistical parametric mapping (SPM). No difference in regional mean 11C-diprenorphine binding was found between DYT1-PTD and controls, and no correlation between the severity of dystonia and opioid binding was seen. We conclude that aberrant opioid transmission is unlikely to be present in DYT1-PTD and altered opioid transmission is not a common mechanism underlying all disorders of involuntary movement.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a neurological condition with significant impact on sleep and quality of life (QoL). This double-blind, randomized, 12-week, multinational study compared the efficacy and safety of ropinirole and placebo in RLS. In total, 267 outpatients with moderate-to-severe RLS were randomly assigned to ropinirole (0.25-4.0 mg/day) or placebo, 1 to 3 hours before bedtime. The primary endpoint was the change in International Restless Legs Scale (IRLS) score at week 12. Key secondary endpoints were the percentage of patients showing significant improvement on the Clinical Global Impression-Improvement (CGI-I) scale at week 12 and changes in IRLS and CGI-I scale scores at week 1. Other measures included the Medical Outcomes Study sleep scale and Restless Legs Syndrome Quality of Life questionnaire. Improvements were significantly greater for ropinirole than placebo for change in IRLS score at week 12 (-11.2 [SE 0.76] vs. -8.7 [0.75], respectively; adjusted treatment difference -2.5 [95% confidence interval [CI], -4.6, -0.4], P = 0.0197); all key secondary endpoints; sleep and QoL parameters. Adverse events were typical for dopamine agonists; disease augmentation, although not directly assessed, was not reported during treatment. Ropinirole improves symptoms, associated sleep disturbance, and QoL of RLS patients and is generally well tolerated.
Insulin-IGF receptor (InR) signaling has a conserved role in regulating lifespan, but little is known about the genetic control of declining organ function. Here, we describe progressive changes of heart function in aging fruit flies: from one to seven weeks of a fly's age, the resting heart rate decreases and the rate of stress-induced heart failure increases. These age-related changes are minimized or absent in long-lived flies when systemic levels of insulin-like peptides are reduced and by mutations of the only receptor, InR, or its substrate, chico. Moreover, interfering with InR signaling exclusively in the heart, by overexpressing the phosphatase dPTEN or the forkhead transcription factor dFOXO, prevents the decline in cardiac performance with age. Thus, insulin-IGF signaling influences age-dependent organ physiology and senescence directly and autonomously, in addition to its systemic effect on lifespan. The aging fly heart is a model for studying the genetics of age-sensitive organ-specific pathology.
Although thrombolytic effects of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) are beneficial, its neurotoxicity is problematic. Here, we report that tPA potentiates apoptosis in ischemic human brain endothelium and in mouse cortical neurons treated with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) by shifting the apoptotic pathways from caspase-9 to caspase-8, which directly activates caspase-3 without amplification through the Bid-mediated mitochondrial pathway. In vivo, tPA-induced cerebral ischemic injury in mice was reduced by intracerebroventricular administration of caspase-8 inhibitor, but not by caspase-9 inhibitor, in contrast to controls in which caspase-9 inhibitor, but not caspase-8 inhibitor, was protective. Activated protein C (APC), a serine protease with anticoagulant, anti-inflammatory and antiapoptotic activities, which is neuroprotective during transient ischemia and promotes activation of antiapoptotic mechanisms in brain cells by acting directly on endothelium and neurons, blocked tPA vascular and neuronal toxicities in vitro and in vivo. APC inhibited tPA-induced caspase-8 activation of caspase-3 in endothelium and caspase-3-dependent nuclear translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor in NMDA-treated neurons and reduced tPA-mediated cerebral ischemic injury in mice. Data suggest that tPA shifts the apoptotic signal in stressed brain cells from the intrinsic to the extrinsic pathway which requires caspase-8. APC blocks tPA's neurovascular toxicity and may add substantially to the effectiveness of tPA therapy for stroke.

Neural progenitor proliferation, differentiation and migration are continually active in the rostral migratory stream of the adult brain. Here, we show that the receptor tyrosine kinase ErbB4 is expressed prominently by the neuroblasts present in the subventricular zone and the rostral migratory stream. The neuregulins (NRG1-NRG3), which have been identified as ErbB4 ligands, are detected either in the stream or in adjacent regions. Mice deficient in ErbB4 expressed under the control of either the nestin or the hGFAP promoter have altered neuroblast chain organization and migration and deficits in the placement and differentiation of olfactory interneurons. These findings suggest that ErbB4 activation helps to regulate the organization of neural chains that form the rostral migratory stream and influences the differentiation of olfactory interneuronal precursors.
Par-3/Baz, Par-6, and aPKC are evolutionarily conserved regulators of cell polarity, and overexpression experiments implicate them as axon determinants in vertebrate hippocampal neurons. Here we examined their mutant and overexpression phenotypes in Drosophila melanogaster. We found that mutants neurons had normal axon and dendrite morphology and remodeled axons correctly in metamorphosis, and that overexpression did not affect axon or dendrite specification. Baz/Par-6/aPKC are therefore not essential for axon specification in Drosophila.
The transcription factor Math1 (encoded by the gene Atoh1, also called Math1) is required for the formation of mechanosensory hair cells in the inner ear; however, its specific molecular role is unknown. Here we show that absence of Math1 in mice results in a complete disruption of formation of the sensory epithelium of the cochlea, including the development of both hair cells and associated supporting cells. In addition, ectopic expression of Math1 in nonsensory regions of the cochlea is sufficient to induce the formation of sensory clusters that contain both hair cells and supporting cells. The formation of these clusters is dependent on inhibitory interactions mediated, most probably, through the Notch pathway, and on inductive interactions that recruit cells to develop as supporting cells through a pathway independent of Math1. These results show that Math1 functions in the developing cochlea to initiate both inductive and inhibitory signals that regulate the overall formation of the sensory epithelia.
The visual system adjusts its sensitivity to a wide range of light intensities. We report here that mutation of the zebrafish sdy gene, which encodes tyrosinase, slows down the onset of adaptation to bright light. When fish larvae were challenged with periods of darkness during the day, the sdy mutants required nearly an hour to recover optokinetic behavior after return to bright light, whereas wild types recovered within minutes. This behavioral deficit was phenocopied in fully pigmented fish by inhibiting tyrosinase and thus does not depend on the absence of melanin pigment in sdy. Electroretinograms showed that the dark-adapted retinal network recovers sensitivity to a pulse of light more slowly in sdy mutants than in wild types. This failure is localized in the retinal neural network, postsynaptic to photoreceptors. We propose that retinal pigment epithelium (which normally expresses tyrosinase) secretes a modulatory factor, possibly L-DOPA, which regulates light adaptation in the retinal circuitry.
Modulating protein-protein interactions involved in disease pathways is an attractive strategy for developing drugs, but remains a challenge to achieve. One approach is to target certain domains within proteins that mediate these interactions. One example of such a domain is the PDZ domain, which is involved in interactions between many different proteins in a variety of cellular contexts. Because PDZ domains have well-defined binding sites, they are promising targets for drug discovery. However, there is still much to learn about the function of these domains before drugs targeting PDZ interactions can become a reality.
Changes in gene expression are required for long-lasting synaptic plasticity and long-term memory in both invertebrates and vertebrates. Regulation of local protein synthesis allows synapses to control synaptic strength independently of messenger RNA synthesis in the cell body. Recent reports indicate that several biochemical signalling cascades couple neurotransmitter and neurotrophin receptors to translational regulatory factors in protein synthesis-dependent forms of synaptic plasticity and memory. In this review, we highlight these translational regulatory mechanisms and the signalling pathways that govern the expression of synaptic plasticity in response to specific types of neuronal stimulation.
Voltage-activated cation channels have pores that are selective for K(+), Na(+) or Ca(2+). Neurons use these channels to generate and propagate action potentials, release neurotransmitters at synaptic terminals and integrate incoming signals in dendrites. Recent X-ray and electron microscopy studies of an archaebacterial voltage-activated K(+) (Kv) channel have provided the first atomic resolution images of the voltage-sensing domains in Kv channels. Although these structures are consistent with previous biophysical analyses of eukaryotic channels, they also contain surprises, which have provoked new ideas about the structure and movements of these proteins during gating. This review summarizes our current understanding of these intriguing membrane proteins and highlights the open questions.

The article portrays the field of &quot;neurophilosophy&quot; as the transdisciplinary reflection on questions of the brain and consciousness. Its central issues and basic assumptions are reviewed which belong in particular to the fields of neuroontology, neuroepistemology, neuroanthropology, and neuroethics. The article outlines the opportunities and limitations of this research.
In this paper, we present our theoretical investigations of the technique of feedback error learning (FEL) from the viewpoint of adaptive control. We first discuss the relationship between FEL and nonlinear adaptive control with adaptive feedback linearization, and show that FEL can be interpreted as a form of nonlinear adaptive control. Second, we present a Lyapunov analysis suggesting that the condition of strictly positive realness (SPR) associated with the tracking error dynamics is a sufficient condition for asymptotic stability of the closed-loop dynamics. Specifically, for a class of second order SISO systems, we show that this condition reduces to K2D &gt; K(P) where K(P) and K(D) are positive position and velocity feedback gains, respectively. Moreover, we provide a 'passivity'-based stability analysis which suggests that SPR of the tracking error dynamics is a necessary and sufficient condition for asymptotic hyperstability. Thus, the condition K2D &gt; K(P) mentioned above is not only a sufficient but also necessary condition to guarantee asymptotic hyperstability of FEL, i.e. the tracking error is bounded and asymptotically converges to zero. As a further point, we explore the adaptive control and FEL framework for feedforward control formulations, and derive an additional sufficient condition for asymptotic stability in the sense of Lyapunov. Finally, we present numerical simulations to illustrate the stability properties of FEL obtained from our mathematical analysis.
How can a brain maintain stable memories and behaviors when its underlying electrical and chemical structures are constantly changing? We investigate this stability problem thinking that the state variables (e.g. voltages, ionic currents, etc.) are governed by a complex system that itself is closely regulated. Regulation of the network is through its operating environment, which is described by parameters. We study a standard neural network model, but one whose parameters are governed by a mnemonic landscape function. Parameter configurations are attracted to local maxima of this landscape, which represent memorized parameter configurations. The operating environment changes slowly (relative to the state variables) guided by the mnemonic landscape function, and this provides a quasi-static operating environment for the network. We describe shaping the mnemonic landscape, how it acts as a probability density function to guide slow parameter dynamics, and how the parameters shape the network output. Simulations of memory registration, activity patterns, and sequential recall are described.
The new scientific knowledge about the behaviour of the newborn and their interactions as a developing factor, as well as the new neurosciences findings about the initial brain formation, gave us several elements for a new vision and reflection about the perinatal routines in hospitals. This study raises questions about the first experiences of the rooming in newborns during the specific act of bath, as the only determining factor in altering both behaviour and physiology. Through the monitoring of the heart rate frequency and observing the changes in the states of consciousness level, this article shows how the type of bath that the newborn is subjected to influences his/her organisation. The study showed significant results in the parameters observed during the electric shower bath, leading to unbalance of the subsystems where the individuals organise themselves; such findings made us classify this procedure as very stressing to the baby. To the contrary the bath in the &quot;Tummy Tub&quot; presented insignificant changes, showing a relaxed baby with normal bath behaviours and physiological status; thus this procedure appears to contribute to an energetic and interactive balance of the baby's various systems. The aggressive approach (electric shower) does not allow the newborn auto-regulation to occur and to get proper stimulation and learn basic interactive responses which would facilitate his /her healthy early infancy development.
To relate levels of beta-amyloid42 (Abeta42) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and brain in early Alzheimer's disease, we repeatedly measured CSF Abeta42 levels in transgenic mice carrying Swedish amyloid precursor protein and presenilin-1 mutations, at ages before and after amyloid deposition. Hippocampal Abeta42 levels were measured at the endpoints. In APPswe/PS1(A246E) mice, CSF Abeta42 levels significantly increased between 5 and 7 months of age but did not change between 8 and 13 months despite a rapid increase in brain Abeta42. Furthermore, a decline in CSF Abeta42 levels was observed between 6 and 9 months in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice with faster pathology. Interestingly, the initial CSF Abeta42 concentrations correlated more strongly with brain Abeta42 levels than the endpoint CSF Abeta42. Our results suggest that the levels of CSF Abeta42 initially reflect the rate of Abeta42 production, but after reaching a critical concentration stay in equilibrium, until plaque formation leads to decreased CSF Abeta42 levels.
The worldwide proliferation of mobile phones raises the question of the effects of 900-MHz electromagnetic fields (EMF) on the brain. Using a head-only exposure device in the rat, we showed that a 15-min exposure to 900-MHz pulsed microwaves at a high brain-averaged power of 6 W/kg induced a strong glial reaction in the brain. This effect, which suggests neuronal damage, was particularly pronounced in the striatum. Moreover, we observed significant and immediate effects on the Kd and Bmax values of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and GABA(A) receptors as well as on dopamine transporters. Decrease of the amount of NMDA receptors at the postsynaptic membrane is also reported. Although we showed that the rat general locomotor behavior was not significantly altered on the short term, our results provide the first evidence for rapid cellular and molecular alterations in the rat brain after an acute exposure to high power GSM (Global System for Mobile communication) 900-MHz microwaves.
The mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) has been largely used to study neurodegenerative disorders in which bioenergetic defects are implicated. In the present study, we analyzed the molecular pathways involved in FK506 neuroprotection against cell death induced by 3-NP, using cultured cortical neurons. 3-NP induced cytochrome c release and increased caspases -2, -3, -8, and -9-like activities, although, calpain activity was not significantly affected. FK506 decreased cytochrome c release and caspase-3-like activity induced by 3-NP, without changing the activities of other caspases. FK-506 also decreased the number of apoptotic neurons, determined by Hoechst. Under these conditions, FK506 alone significantly reduced calcineurin activity by about 50%. Our results also showed a decrease in mitochondrial Bax and an increase in mitochondrial Bcl-2 levels upon exposure to FK506 and 3-NP. However, no significant changes occurred in total Bcl-2 and Bax levels. Altogether, the results suggest that FK506 neuroprotection against 3-NP-induced apoptosis is associated with the redistribution of Bcl-2 and Bax in the mitochondrial membrane.
Thiamine (Vitamin B1) deficiency (TD) leads to memory deficits and neurological disease in animals and humans. The thiamine-dependent enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle are reduced following TD and in the brains of patients that died from multiple neurodegenerative diseases. Whether reductions in thiamine or thiamine-dependent enzymes leads to changes in all TCA cycle enzymes has never been tested. In the current studies, the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC) and all of enzymes of the TCA cycle were measured in the brains of TD mice. Non-thiamine-dependent enzymes such as succinate dehydrogenase (SDH), succinate thiokinase (STH) and malate dehydrogenase (MDH) were altered as much or more than thiamine-dependent enzymes such as the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) (-21.5%) and PDHC (-10.5%). Succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) activity decreased by 27% and succinate thiokinase (STH) decreased by 24%. The reductions in these other enzymes may result from oxidative stress because of TD or because these other enzymes of the TCA cycle are part of a metabolon that respond as a group of enzymes. The results suggest that other TCA cycle enzymes should be measured in brains from patients that died from neurological disease in which thiamine-dependent enzymes are known to be reduced. The diminished activities of multiple TCA cycle enzymes may be important in our understanding of how metabolic lesions alter brain function in neurodegenerative disorders.
The acute effect of hyperosmotic ethanol on gap junction permeability was examined in astroglial cells in primary culture from five different brain regions. Gap junction permeability was analyzed by measuring dye spreading from cell to cell with the low molecular weight dye Lucifer Yellow. Ethanol concentrations 25-300 mM significantly decreased dye spreading in cultures from the cerebral cortex in a dose-dependent but time-independent manner for up to 60 min. Besides cerebral cortex, exposure to 150 mM ethanol decreased dye spreading in astroglial cultures from the hippocampus and from the brain stem, while cultures from the olfactory bulb and from the hypothalamus were not significantly affected. The ethanol-induced decrease in dye spreading in cultures from the cerebral cortex was not mediated through changes in cell volume, osmolarity, protein kinase C (PKC) phosphorylation, intracellular pH, or intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)). The decrease in dye spreading was abolished upon incubation in sodium-reduced buffer, and after blockage of the Na(+)/K(+)/2Cl(-) cotransporter with furosemide. The results presented here indicate that ethanol-mediated decrease in dye spreading is directly or indirectly dependent on sodium.
Myelination of the frontal and temporal lobes occurs at a similar time period as symptom onset in schizophrenia. To assess this potential relationship, we compared myelination and oligodendrocyte numbers in the hippocampal formation of controls and matched subjects with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The levels and distribution of the myelin marker myelin basic protein (MBP) and the oligodendrocyte marker adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) were measured using immunocytochemistry. MBP immunoreactivity (IR) was increased in several hippocampal subregions of control females versus control males. Female subjects with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder exhibited decreased myelination in the hippocampal formation while male subjects with bipolar disorder showed increased MBP levels in the superior medullary lamina. In contrast, the number of APC immunoreactive cells did not differ in any disorder or region. Our results demonstrate an interaction between gender, mental illness, and myelination, and may be related to cognitive deficits seen in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
Ameliorating effects of ginseng were observed on neuronal cell death associated with ischemia or glutamate toxicity. Ginseng saponins are transformed by intestinal microflora and the transformants would be absorbed from intestine. In the present study, we have investigated the effects of transformed ginsenoside Rg3, Rh2 and compound K on the modulation of NMDA receptor and GABAA receptor binding in rat brain. The NMDA receptor binding was analyzed by quantitative autoradiography using [3H]MK-801 binding, and GABAA receptor bindings were analyzed by using [3H]muscimol and [3H]flunitrazepam binding in rat brain slices. Ginsenoside Rg3, Rh2 and compound K were infused (10 microg/10 microl/h) into rat brain lateral ventricle for 7 days, through pre-implanted cannula by osmotic minipumps (Alzet, model 2ML). The levels of [3H]MK-801 binding were highly decreased in almost all regions of frontal cortex and hippocampus by ginsenoside Rh2 and compound K. The levels of [3H]muscimol binding were elevated in part of frontal cortex and granule layer of cerebellum by the treatment of ginsenoside Rh2 and compound K. However, the [3H]flunitrazepam binding was not modulated by any tested ginsenosides. Ginsenoside Rh2 and compound K induced the downregulation of the [3H]MK-801 binding as well as upregulation of the and [3H]muscimol binding in a region-specific manner after prolonged infusion into lateral ventricle. However, ginsenoside Rg3 did not show the significant changes of ligand bindings. In addition, ginsenoside Rh2 decreased the expression of nNOS in the hippocampus although Rg3 decreased the expression in the cortex. These results suggest that biotransformed ginsenoside Rh2 and compound K could play an important role in the biological activities in the central nervous systems and neurodegenerative disease.
Endogenous prostaglandins regulate smooth muscle activity; prostaglandins and cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors influence gastrointestinal motility in inflammatory states such as postoperative ileus in animal models. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of two COX-2 inhibitors on gastric emptying and intestinal transit in healthy humans. In a double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study, 66 healthy volunteers were randomized to one of two commercially available oral COX-2 inhibitors (celecoxib and rofecoxib), cisapride (positive control), or placebo. Following 7 days on therapy, study participants underwent a test of gastric emptying and small bowel transit of liquids and solids using scintigraphy. Data were analysed using Kruskal-Wallis (ANOVA on ranks)and Mann-Whitney rank sum tests. There were significant group effects on transit of solids: gastric emptying (ANOVA, P = 0.005) and small bowel transit (ANOVA, P = 0.056). However, neither COX-2 inhibitor significantly accelerated the liquid or solid gastric emptying or small bowel transit compared with placebo. The positive control, cisapride, accelerated gastric emptying of solids (post-lag slope of gastric emptying, P &lt; 0.05), and small bowel transit of solids (t10%, P = 0.016). At maximum clinically approved dosages, celecoxib and rofecoxib have no significant effects on gastric emptying or small intestinal transit in healthy humans. Cisapride accelerates gastric emptying and small bowel transit in healthy humans.
Haptoglobin is a polymorphic protein that is well known for its hemoglobin (Hb)-binding property. The protein shows gross differences in molecular size among genotypes, resulting in different degrees of diffusion in central nervous system tissue. Since the breakdown of erythrocytes in the intracerebral fluid results in Hb-mediated free OH radical formation, lipid peroxidation, and increased neuronal excitability, a differential diffusion of haptoglobin phenotypes in the intracerebral fluid might result in a different degree of protection from oxidative damage. We have studied two samples of children with idiopathic generalized epilepsy from two different Italian populations. In both samples the haptoglobin *1/*1 genotype is much less represented in epileptic children than in controls. These observations suggest that subjects carrying the Hp*1/*1 genotype, that has the lowest molecular size and diffuses more readily in the interstitial cerebral fluid, are more protected against idiopathic generalized epilepsy than those with other haptoglobin genotypes.
Six participants with chronic aphasia secondary to first-ever ischemic stroke within the middle cerebral artery (MCA) distribution of the left hemisphere and six neurologically intact controls of similar age were given a running recognition memory task for words while the magnetic flux normal to the scalp surface was measured with a whole-head neuromagnetometer. This task had been previously shown to be valid for the localization and lateralization of brain activity specific to receptive language function. As expected, patients exhibited relatively decreased activation in areas known to be involved in receptive language function, including superior temporal gyrus (STG) in the left hemisphere, as well as increased activation of areas outside of the left STG that might potentially support language function. Decreased activation within left STG was associated with a reduction in receptive language in patients, as was increased activation outside of left STG. Results support hypotheses suggesting that peri-lesional areas outside premorbid language areas may assume receptive language function after aphasia secondary to stroke, but that better recovery occurs when putative premorbid language areas are able to normalize.
Structured event complexes (SECs) are stored representations of sequential event knowledge, and represent sequences of activities that have been described elsewhere as scripts or schemas. Previous studies have shown that the prefrontal cortex is involved in temporal sequencing. The present study investigates the involvement of the prefrontal cortex in temporal order and membership judgments of script and category items by using functional magnetic resonance imaging. In this experiment, stimuli were either script events or category items. In experimental trials, subjects classified stimuli according to temporal order or membership category. Results show that the script order task and the chronological order task (relative to their respective memberships tasks) were associated with different patterns of PFC activation. Both order tasks activated the middle frontal gyrus bilaterally; however, script order tasks showed additional activation in right inferior frontal gyrus, and the chronological order tasks in left inferior frontal gyrus. These results suggest that while the middle frontal gyri are activated bilaterally in both script and chronological temporal ordering tasks, there are different, though largely overlapping, neural substrates for script and chronological representations during temporal ordering.

The NINDS Stroke Progress Review Group recommended a shift in emphasis from a purely neurocentric view of cell death towards a more integrative approach whereby responses in all brain cells and matrix are considered. The neurovascular unit (fundamentally comprising endothelium, astrocyte, and neuron) provides a conceptual framework where cell-cell and cell-matrix signaling underlies the overall tissue response to stroke and its treatments. Here, we briefly review recent data on extracellular proteolytic dysfunction in the neurovascular unit after a stroke. The breakdown of neurovascular matrix initiates blood-brain barrier disruption with edema and/or hemorrhage. Endothelial dysfunction amplifies inflammatory responses. Perturbation of cell-matrix homeostasis triggers multiple cell death pathways. Interactions between the major classes of extracellular proteases from the plasminogen and matrix metalloprotease families may underlie processes responsible for some of the hemorrhagic complications of thrombolytic stroke therapy. Targeting the proteolytic imbalance within the neurovascular unit may provide new approaches for improving the safety and efficacy of thrombolytic reperfusion therapy for stroke.
We report clinical findings, risk factors and neurological and cognitive long-term outcome in three Italian children aged 7, 8 and 5, respectively, who experienced cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVST). All children presented with headache, associated to nausea, vomiting and papilloedema. None suffered from epileptic seizures. In two of them a paresis of the sixth cranial nerve with diplopia was found. Diagnosis was confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging angiography (angio MRI) in all cases. In all patients plasma levels of protein C, protein S, antithrombin III (AT III), antiphospholipid antibodies (ApA) and homocysteine were detected. Furthermore, factor V Leiden mutation, prothrombin mutation G20210A and MTHFR mutation were searched for. A Protein C reduction was detected in all patients at onset; this finding, however, was not confirmed at follow-up in all of them. At one-year follow-up, neurological examination was normal in all children and neuropsychological assessment, aimed at excluding linguistic and non-linguistic cognitive deficits, revealed normal performances in two of them. In the third child, cognitive assessment confirmed a previously diagnosed developmental dyslexia.
Caveolin-3 deficiency is a rare, autosomal dominant, muscle disorder caused by caveolin-3 gene (CAV3) mutations and consists of four clinical phenotypes: limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 1C (LGMD-1C), rippling muscle disease, distal myopathy, and familial hyperCKemia. So far, only 13 mutations have been reported. We here report two novel heterozygous mutations, 96C&gt;G (N32K) and 128T&gt;A (V43E), in the CAV3 gene in two unrelated Japanese families with LGMD-1C. Both probands presented with elevated serum CK level with calf muscle hypertrophy in their childhood but without apparent muscle weakness. However, their mothers showed mild limb-girdle weakness in addition to high CK level. Caveolin-3 was deficient and caveolae were lacking in muscles from both patients. Our data confirm that caveolin-3 deficiency causes LGMD-1C and expand the variability in CAV3 gene mutations.
GADD34 is a growth arrest and DNA damage inducible gene up-regulated in response to DNA damage, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. It is thought that GADD34 may play a crucial role in cell survival in ischaemia. GADD34 expression was assessed immunohistochemically in post-mortem human hippocampal tissue obtained from patients surviving for defined periods (0-24 h; 24 h-7 days) after a cardiac arrest and in age-matched control subjects. In control brain, cytoplasm staining in GADD34 immunopositive cells was faint but present throughout the hippocampus and cortex. There was minimal change in GADD34 expression in the group surviving 0-24 h after cardiac arrest. However GADD34 immunostaining was markedly increased in selectively vulnerable regions in the 24 h-7 day survival group. Increased GADD34 staining was present in ischaemic neurones and in some morphologically normal neurones after cardiac arrest. Extensive ischaemic damage was found to correlate with elevated GADD34 immunostaining in the CA1 layer of the hippocampus (**P &lt; 0.0016). In addition, GADD34 was found to colocalize with proliferating cell nuclear antigen in some neurones. The up-regulation of GADD34 in response to global ischaemia in the human brain plus its influence on protein synthesis and DNA repair suggests that this protein may have the potential to influence cell survival.

Neurocysticercosis (NCC) is the most common of the parasitic diseases affecting the CNS, with protean clinical manifestations. Stroke as a complication of NCC occurs in a very small percentage of cases, mostly involving small perforating vessels while major intracranial vessel involvement is extremely rare. The present report involves two autopsied cases of chronic cysticercal basal arachnoiditis causing large arterial territory infarcts and, in the second case, a hypothalamic mass. They were diagnosed and managed, clinically and by neuroimaging, as stroke and neurotuberculosis, respectively. The diagnosis was established only at autopsy, which revealed NCC causing basal arachnoiditis, major vessel vasculitis and infarcts. Histologically, case 1 showed degenerating racemose cysticercal cyst within the thick basal exudate. In the second case, remnants of the degenerated cysticercal cyst in the form of hooklets and calcareous corpuscles were identified within the giant cell inciting a granulomatous response to form a hypothalamic mass lesion mimicking tuberculoma. The present case report highlights the importance of considering the non-tuberculous etiologies of chronic basal arachnoiditis like NCC before initiating therapy especially in countries endemic to both NCC and tuberculosis, like India.


Capsaicin, the pungent ingredient of chilli peppers has become a &quot;hot&quot; topic in neuroscience with yearly publications over half thousand papers. It is outlined in this survey how this exciting Hungarian research field emerged from almost complete ignorance. From the initial observation of the phenomenon of &quot;capsaicin desensitization&quot;, a long-lasting chemoanalgesia and impairment in thermoregulation against heat, the chain of new discoveries which led to the formulation of the existence of a &quot;capsaicin receptor&quot; on C-polymodal nociceptors is briefly summarized. Neurogenic inflammation is mediated by these C-afferents which are supplied by the putative capsaicin receptor and were termed as &quot;capsaicin sensitive&quot; chemoceptive afferents. They opened new avenues in local peptidergic regulation in peripheral tissues. It has been suggested that in contrast to the classical axon reflex theory, the capsaicin-sensitive sensory system subserves a &quot;dual sensory-efferent&quot; function whereby initiation of afferent signals and neuropeptide release are coupled at the same nerve endings. Furthermore, in the skin at threshold stimuli which do not evoke sensation elicit already maximum efferent response as enhanced microcirculation. In isolated organ preparations large scale of new type of peptidergic capsaicin-sensitive neurogenic smooth muscle responses were revealed after the first one was described by ourselves on the guinea-pig ileum in 1978. Recently the &quot;capsaicin receptor&quot; has been cloned and it is now named as the &quot;transient receptor potential vanilloid 1&quot; (TRPV1). Hence, capsaicin research led to the discovery of the first temperature-gated ion channel gated by noxious heat, protons, vanilloids and endogenous ligands as anandamide, N-oleoyldopamine and lipoxygenase products. Another recent achievement is the discovery of a novel &quot;unorthodox&quot; neurohumoral regulatory mechanism mediated by somatostatin. Somatostatin released from the TRPV1-expressing nerve endings reaches the circulation and elicits systemic antiinflammatory and analgesic &quot;sensocrine&quot; functions with counter-regulatory influence e.g. in Freund's adjuvant-induced chronic arthritis. Nociceptors supplied by TRPV1 and sst4 somatostatin receptors has become nowadays promising targets for drug development.
This study was conducted to determine whether adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) contributes to nociceptor activity induced by ureter distension. Multifibre recordings of ureter afferents were made using the guinea pig ureter preparation perfused in vitro. Distension of the ureter resulted in an initial rapid and later maintained increase in afferent nerve discharge. Intraluminal application of ATP (10-1000 microM, 0.1 ml/min for 3 min) or alpha,beta-meATP (10-1000 microM) mimicked these increases in afferent activity. The afferent responses consisted of fast and slow components. Both agonists caused a sensitisation of the afferents to ureter distensions. TNP-ATP (30 microm), a P2X3 receptor antagonist, and the non-specific P2 antagonist, PPADS (100 microm), blocked the rapid and reduced the slower response to ATP. The remaining responses were blocked by the selective A1 receptor antagonist, DPCPX. TNP-ATP and PPADS reduced distension-induced afferent activity. The selective ecto-ATPase inhibitor, ARL-67156 (100, 200 microM) and suramin (100, 200 microM), an ecto-nucleotidase inhibitor as well as a P2 receptor antagonist, produced an increase in baseline and distension-induced discharge. These results indicate that the ureter epithelium may tonically (at rest) as well as phasically (on distension) release ATP, which stimulates afferent terminals by interacting with multiple P2 and P1 receptors.
Immediately after action potential occurrence, owing to transient sodium channel inactivation, axon excitability is reduced for a short period of time, including the absolute refractory period, a first period of total inexcitability, followed by the relative refractory period. There are basically two different stimulation protocols to estimate axonal refractoriness, i.e. &quot;paired-pulse&quot; and &quot;collision&quot; techniques. Refractory period has been assessed in various conditions and appeared to depend on several physiological or methodological factors, featuring the type of nerve or the characteristics of the subject, but also the technique of stimulation or the method of data analysis. In addition, refractory periods can be altered by pathological conditions. Several studies showed prolonged refractory periods in patients suffering from alcoholic, diabetic or toxic neuropathies. Refractory period abnormality is a sensitive marker of axonal dysfunction as observed in Guillain-Barr syndrome, carpal tunnel syndrome or multiple sclerosis. Thus, the measurement of the refractory periods is a valuable tool to study the pathophysiology of peripheral nerves, complementary to standard nerve conduction studies. However, the application of these techniques in the routine practice of clinical neurophysiology remains limited.
Threshold (Th) is a neurophysiological parameter frequently used in TMS studies. The present study was designed to investigate the repeatability of the Th measurements by reexamining healthy subjects over various time points. Overall, 82 subjects (median age: 19 years, range: 12-65) entered the study. Following a baseline examination, there were six retest sessions: S0 (n = 8 hemispheres reexamined, mean interval x = 19 min), S1 (n = 34 hemispheres reexamined, mean interval x = 4 days), S2 (n = 32 hemispheres, x = 29 days), S3 (n = 30 hemispheres, x = 106 days), S4 (n = 30 hemispheres, x = 183 days) and S5 (n = 30 hemispheres, x = 1867 days). Stimulation was performed with a figure of eight coil and Th was defined at 1% steps. At baseline, controls had an MT of 41.1 +/- 8. Mean difference of MT from baseline was 0.62 on S0 (95% confidence interval (CI) of the difference: -1.04 to +2.29), 0.13 on S1 (95% CI: -1.2 to +1.5), -0.03 on S2 (95% CI: -1.1 to +1.06), -2.07 on S3 (95% CI: -4.33 to +0.19), 0.15 on S4 (95% CI: -0.98 to +1.28) and 0.87 on S5 (95% CI: -0.49 to +2.23). None of these differences were statistically significant (repeated measures ANOVA, P &gt; 0.05). The upper limit of MT difference that an individual subject might have with a probability of 95% (measurement error) was 8. The repeatability of the method was found to be independent from the age of the subjects, the magnitude of threshold or the test-retest interval. The topography of corticomotor threshold was also investigated. Minimal threshold values were obtained from a restricted area of scalp sites that always included the fixed stimulation point of the current protocol. Therefore, using a fixed stimulation point is an adequate technique for measuring threshold. In conclusion, threshold is a stable parameter on an individual and group basis. These data quantify the repeatability of the method and may prove useful in the interpretation of findings during longitudinal studies.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate the variability of EEG power spectrum data, considering the time course of the EEG spectrum in resting conditions, and the relationship between the spectral parameters and the length of the analyzed segments. Recordings were performed in 57 normal subjects, with a protocol consisting of regular cycles with open eyes (5 s) followed by closed eyes (55 s) repeated during 10 min. Towards the end of the recording there was a decrease in the alpha and beta power and an increase in the delta and theta power. The coefficient of variation (CV) for the power of 4 s epochs was in the range 0.49-0.67 (delta), 0.53-0.58 (theta), 0.58-0.76 (alpha), 0.37-0.49 (beta) and 0.09-0.12 for the alpha peak frequency. CV decreased with the increase of the sample size, being inversely proportional to the square root of the sample size. Increasing the recording length from 40 to 400 s increased CV by 36% (alpha), 41% (beta), 29% (delta) and 35% (theta), while the standard error of the mean decreased by 55-60%. It is concluded that the power estimates of the EEG activity are heavily dependent on the length of the analyzed segments, and the way they are selected. This observation is particularly relevant for clinical and drug studies where short recordings are often used, thus significantly biasing the estimation of the EEG parameters. The present data provide an estimate on the minimal length of EEG required for a given level of variability.

A mouse strain has been developed that expresses low levels of the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor. These mice are a model of chronic developmental NMDA receptor hypofunction and may therefore have relevance to the hypothesized NMDA receptor hypofunction in schizophrenia. Many schizophrenia patients show exaggerated behavioral and neuronal responses to amphetamine compared to healthy subjects. Studies were designed to determine if the NR1-deficient mice would exhibit enhanced sensitivity to amphetamine. Effects of amphetamine on behavioral activation and Fos induction were compared between the NR1-deficient mice and wild-type controls. The NR1 hypomorphic mice and controls exhibited similar locomotor activation after administration of amphetamine at 2 mg/kg. The mutant mice showed slightly reduced peak locomotor activity and slightly increased stereotypy after 4 mg/kg amphetamine. There were no differences in Fos induction in response to amphetamine in the caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens, medial or central amygdala nuclei, or bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. However, amphetamine-induced Fos was substantially attenuated in the medial frontal (infralimbic) and cingulate cortices, basolateral amygdala, and in the lateral septum of the mutant mice. The results suggest a neuroanatomically selective activation deficit to amphetamine challenge in the NR1-deficient mice.
Previously we found that outbred male Sprague-Dawley rats can be classified as either low or high cocaine responders (LCRs or HCRs, respectively), based on their open-field locomotor response to acute cocaine (COC; 10 mg/kg, i.p.). Here, we extended this analysis to amphetamine (AMPH; 0.5, 1, and 5 mg/kg, i.p.) and found that the individual differences in behavioral activation were not as pronounced as with COC. This was confirmed with observational analysis of behaviors. Differences in drug-induced activation could involve differential dopamine transporter (DAT) function/trafficking. To address this possibility, we measured [3H]DA uptake into dorsal striatal synaptosomes prepared from rats injected 30 min earlier with saline, COC, or AMPH to determine DAT activity, and radioligand binding to determine the total number of DATs. Striatal [3H]DA uptake in COC-treated HCRs was significantly higher than in LCRs. Furthermore, regardless of LCR/HCR classification, uptake in individual COC-treated rats was significantly correlated with their locomotor behavior in the 30 min after drug administration. In contrast, AMPH-treated rats did not differ in uptake, nor were uptake and locomotor activity correlated. DAT number did not differ between LCRs or HCRs, or between AMPH-treated rats. In addition, when individual differences in COC-induced behavior were no longer detected in LCRs and HCRs 1 week after initial classification, uptake was also similar. Together, these results suggest that a difference in expression of functional DATs on the cell surface contributes to the individual differences observed in COC-induced, but not AMPH-induced, behavioral activation of rats.
We compared the rates of recanalization cerebral infarct and hemorrhage between intra-arterial (i.a.) reteplase and intravenous (i.v.) alteplase thrombolysis in a canine model of basilar artery thrombosis. Thrombosis was induced by injecting a clot in the basilar artery of 13 anesthetized dogs via superselective catheterization. The animals were randomized in a blinded fashion, 2 h after clot injection and verification of arterial occlusion, to receive i.v. alteplase 0.9 mg/kg over 60 min and i.a. placebo, or i.a. reteplase 0.09 units/kg over 20 min, equivalent to one-half the alteplase dose, and i.v. placebo. Recanalization was studied for 6 h after treatment with serial angiography; the images were later graded in a blinded fashion. Blinded interpretation of postmortem MRI was performed to assess the presence of brain infarcts and/or hemorrhage. At 3 h after initiation of treatment, partial or complete recanalization was observed in one of six dogs in the i.v. alteplase group and in five of seven in the i.a. reteplase group (P = 0.08). At 6 h, no significant difference in partial or complete recanalization was observed between the groups (two of six vs. five of seven; P = 0.20). Postmortem MRI revealed infarcts in four of six animals treated with i.v. alteplase and three of seven treated with i.a. reteplase (P = 0.4). Intracerebral hemorrhage was more common in the i.v. alteplase group (four of six vs. none of seven; P = 0.02). This study thus suggests that i.a. thrombolysis affords a recanalization rate similar to that of i.v. thrombolysis, but with a lower rate of intracerebral hemorrhage.

Faces in portraits are often depicted from the left 3/4 view (an oblique view of the face that is intermediate between the frontal view and left profile). Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to show that, compared with photographs of right 3/4 views of familiar faces, photographs of left 3/4 views of the same faces elicited stronger neural responses in the right middle occipital/inferior parietal cortex, and right inferior frontal gyrus; which are known to be involved in face recognition. By contrast, there was no differential activation in the temporal cortex including the superior temporal sulcus and fusiform gyrus, which are thought to process face-related visual stimuli at a stage that precedes recognition. We suggest that the preference for the left 3/4 view of faces was produced at a later stage of facial information processing that involves attention or memory retrieval.
Many different strategies are used to recruit students into scientific research careers, including neuroscience research. These strategies are rarely based on knowledge about students; instead, activities are selected based on their ease of implementation. The goal of the LEARN Project is to encourage high school students into mental health science research using the theme of learning and memory. One intervention the authors developed is five Web-based biographies introducing students to contemporary neuroscientist role models studying learning and memory. To guide the design of this intervention, the authors created a survey to determine where students obtain career information and who and what influences their career selection. In a convenience sample of 124 students, the authors found that almost all students use the Internet for information about careers, in addition to consulting family members and teachers. Students' career selections are influenced most by family members, teachers, and people already in the field. The most important factors students look for in their future career are money, fun, and a good match between current interests and future careers. The data affirm the value of outreach efforts that go beyond students to include a broader audience of parents and teachers who play a critical role in career selection.
The serotonin system is implicated in major depression and suicide and is negatively regulated by somatodendritic 5-HT1A autoreceptors. Desensitization of 5-HT1A autoreceptors is implicated in the 2- to 3-week latency for antidepressant treatments. Alterations in 5-HT1A receptor levels are reported in depression and suicide, and gene knockout of the 5-HT1A receptor results in an anxiety phenotype, suggesting that abnormal transcriptional regulation of this receptor gene may underlie these disorders. The 5-HT1A receptor gene is negatively regulated in neurons by repressors including REST/NRSF, Freud-1, NUDR/Deaf-1, and Hes5. The association with major depression, suicide, and panic disorder of a new functional 5-HT1A polymorphism at C(-1019)G that selectively blocks repression of the 5-HT1A autoreceptor by NUDR further suggests a causative role for altered regulation of this receptor in predisposition to mental illness. The authors review evidence that altered transcription of the 5-HT1A receptor can affect the serotonin system and limbic and cortical areas, leading to predisposition to depression.
The recent availability of internal tobacco industry documents provides a significant resource for evaluating industry understanding of the pharmacological, psychosocial, and behavioral mechanisms underlying tobacco dependence. In this study, we catalog the range of efforts undertaken by tobacco manufacturers seeking knowledge of these mechanisms. Some areas of industry research, such as cellular and molecular studies of nicotine and its effects, are widely available in the open literature. Of greater interest are internal research projects that have demonstrated direct influence on product development. These include studies of smoker psychology and behavior, evoked-response studies of tobacco-delivered nicotine, the effects of sensory perception, dose-related effects, and the development of nicotine analogs and synergists. Our findings suggest extensive industry knowledge of mechanisms that determine smoker perception and behavior, and application of this knowledge in product development, including control of sensory response, uptake of nicotine, and product effects. Independent research recently has begun to consider the contributions of tobacco product ingredients and design factors to the determination of risk, severity, and prevalence of addiction. However, the application of these findings to cessation and treatment efforts is still quite limited. We conclude that clinical research would greatly benefit from further examination of the decades of knowledge accumulated by tobacco manufacturers.
It is now widely accepted that nicotine is the primary addictive component of tobacco smoke and that a majority of habitual smokers find it difficult to quit smoking because of their dependence upon this component of the smoke. However, although nicotine replacement therapy elicits a clinically valuable and significant improvement in the number of quit attempts that are ultimately successful, its efficacy remains disappointingly low. This review considers some of the reasons for this problem. It focuses on the hypothesis that stimulation of the dopamine (DA) projections to the medial shell and the core of the nucleus accumbens play complementary roles in the development of nicotine dependence. The hypothesis proposes that increased extra-synaptic DA in the medial shell of the accumbens confers hedonic properties on behaviors, such as smoking, which deliver nicotine, and thereby increase the probability that the response is learned. It also summarizes the evidence that the primary role of the increased DA overflow, observed in the accumbal core of nicotine-pretreated individuals, challenged with nicotine, is the attribution of incentive salience to cues associated with delivery of the drug and the transition to Pavlovian responding to these conditioned stimuli. The review argues that sensitization of the DA projections to the accumbal core, and the behaviors that depend upon this process, play a pivotal role in the maintenance of the tobacco smoking habit and that it is this component of the dependence that is inadequately addressed by nicotine replacement therapy.

Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a fundamental part of the pathology of many disorders causing dementia and/or cerebral haemorrhage. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), CAA is due to the deposition of amyloid alpha protein (Abeta) within the adventitia and media of leptomeningeal and brain parenchymal arteries. Although virtually all cases of AD show CAA to a greater or lesser extent, the brain distribution of CAA is not uniform with the occipital lobe being the most commonly and most severely affected region. In vessels affected by CAA, local muscle and elastic elements are lost and replaced by amyloid fibrils, thereby weakening the overall structure of the vessel. Consequently, CAA predisposes towards cerebral infarction and cerebral haemorrhage, though the clinical affects of CAA in AD are mostly silent, or at least are ''masked'' by the greater degree of neuronal dysfunction induced by senile plaque (SP) formation and neurofibrillary degeneration. Nonetheless, major cerebral infarctions with focal neurological deficits can occur in some cases of AD, and CAA is a major cause of fatal intracerebral (lobar) haemorrhage. CAA may also contribute to white matter lesions (myelin loss) in AD by inducing ischaemia through autoregulatory dysfunction. Although the Abeta protein deposited within blood vessels in AD is similar in chemical composition to that deposited in the brain parenchyma in SP, there is no clear relationship between the 2 pathologies. Indeed, when CAA is high, SP formation may be low, and vice versa. As if to emphasise these differences, Abeta within CAA is mostly Abeta40 whereas that within SP is Abeta42. Such compositional differences may reflect differences in source, with Abeta in SP being derived from nerve cells and Abeta in CAA having a local vascular origin. Although certain inherited forms of CAA with cerebral haemorrhage are associated with autosomal dominant mutations in APP and other genes (cystatin-C, transthyretin, gelsolin, ABrit, ADan), in most cases of AD CAA does not associate clearly with any genetic risk factor other than APO E beta4 allele, which appears to increase the severity of CAA in a dose dependent manner, especially within the occipital cortex. Genotype/phenotype correlations may be helpful in understanding the development of CAA in AD and other disorders. Why blood vessels in the occipital lobe should be most susceptible to CAA in AD remains unclear, though this pattern of blood vessel involvement does not seem to be recapitulated in other disorders in which CAA is the principal pathological change.
Dementia is a disease of the elderly, and although there are many causes of dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD) account for the majority of cases world- wide. Many patients with dementia have radiological and neuropathological features of AD and VaD, with the classical neurofibrillary tangles and senile amyloid-beta (Abeta) plaques of AD together with the cerebral infarcts of VaD. In this review we examine the close relationship between AD and VaD and suggest that the age changes in cerebral blood vessels that are the basis of cerebrovascular disease and VaD may also be responsible for the failure of elimination of Abeta from the brain in AD. Abeta appears to be eliminated along the perivascular pathways by which interstitial fluid (ISF) drains from the brain (effectively the lymphatics of the brain). In aged individuals, insoluble Abeta amyloid fibrils are deposited in the ISF drainage pathways resulting in cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). We review the evidence that age changes in cerebral arteries and cerebrovascular disease inhibit the perivascular drainage of ISF and Abeta along the walls of cerebral arteries resulting in the accumulation of insoluble and soluble Abeta in the brain in AD. Therapies for AD are reviewed, especially those involving immunotherapy for the removal of insoluble Abeta from the cerebral cortex and the facilitation of drainage of ISF and soluble Abeta from the brain.
The purpose of the study was to assess the validity and reliability of the Parkinson's disease questionnaire (PDQ-39, UK English version) as well as its briefer version (the PDQ-8) among Asian patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) in Singapore. Eighty-eight patients recruited from movement disorder clinics or patient support groups completed the PDQ-39 and EQ-5D, a generic health related quality of life questionnaire previously validated for use in Singapore. PDQ-39 items showed good convergent and discriminant validity. Construct validation against the EQ-5D showed strong correlation between these scales as hypothesised (Spearman's rho: 0.53-0.71, P&lt;0.001 for all). Factor analysis yielded a component on which all eight PDQ-39 dimensions were substantially loaded (loading range: 0.50-0.79). The PDQ-39 also demonstrated acceptable internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha: 0.59-0.94) and test-retest reliability (intra-class correlation coefficient:0.67-0.87, n=68). Six of eight PDQ-8 items showed the strongest correlation with their PDQ-39 dimensions as hypothesised. PDQ-39 and PDQ-8 summary indexes were highly correlated (Pearson's r=0.96, ICC=0.95), and both were strongly correlated with the EQ-5D utility index and EQ-5D visual analogue scale (P&lt;0.001). We conclude that the PDQ-39 and PDQ-8 are valid and reliable disease-specific HRQoL instruments for PD in Singapore.
Genetically-derived neurodegenerative disorders offer a rare opportunity to test validity of neuropathological criteria for diagnosis. Implications regarding an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder (PARK 8) in which four different neuropathological diagnoses were found at autopsy are discussed. We suggest that just as there is currently no clinical 'gold standard' for Parkinson's disease, there is no pathological 'gold standard.' We conclude that in certain circumstances genetic studies may provide definitive arbitration of validity of clinical and pathological diagnostic criteria.
Two hypothalamic peptides, cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) and alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH), recognized as anorexigenic neuropeptides to suppress the feeding behavior, were monitored in rats fed with a high-fat (HIF) diet for 14 weeks. While half of the rats developed obesity (diet-induced obese, DIO), some did not (diet resistant, DR). Compared to the DR rats and the control rats (fed with standard chow), DIO rats were accompanied by a markedly higher energy intake and a decrease in the number of neurons carrying alpha-MSH and CART peptide in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. Failure of hypothalamic anorexigenic peptides CART and alpha-MSH to increase their content in response to HIF diet may play a key role for overly high energy consumption, resulting in obesity.
Previous findings implicate opioid receptors in the expression of the conditioned rewarding and aversive properties of ethanol. We have recently reported that the conditioned rewarding effect of ethanol is mediated by opioid receptors in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). We attempted to determine whether VTA opioid receptors also mediate the expression of the conditioned aversive properties of ethanol. However, the magnitude of conditioned place aversion (CPA) was not consistent with our previous findings and prevented us from making definitive conclusions. We hypothesized that the handling required to make intracranial infusions in mice alters the expression of CPA, but not conditioned place preference (CPP). Therefore, non-operated animals underwent a Pavlovian conditioning procedure for either ethanol CPA or CPP. Just before testing, half of the animals were held by the scruff of the neck to mimic intracranial infusion handling. Animals conditioned for CPA did not express CPA if they were handled. However, animals conditioned for CPP exhibited robust CPP, regardless of handling. These findings provide additional evidence that the conditioned rewarding and aversive effects of ethanol are mediated by different neural mechanisms.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, or &quot;Ecstasy&quot;) is a popular recreational drug among adolescents that is often taken primarily on weekends. The goals of this study were to develop a model of the typical intermittent pattern of human MDMA use in periadolescent rats and to determine the behavioral consequences of MDMA exposure in this model. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received s.c. injections of 10 mg/kg of MDMA or saline twice daily with an interdose interval of 4 h. Treatments were given every fifth day from postnatal day (PD) 35 to PD 60. Beginning at PD 65, the animals were tested for open-field activity, object recognition memory, and anxiety-related behaviors in the elevated plus-maze. Brain tissues were collected at PD 70 for determination of radiolabeled paroxetine binding to the serotonin transporter (SERT) in the neocortex and hippocampus. Repeated MDMA administration led to a reduced rate of weight gain that was evident by PD 50. There was no treatment effect on ambulatory behavior in the open-field. However, the MDMA group displayed an impairment of object recognition memory and reduced anxiety as indicated by a twofold increase in open-arm duration in the elevated plus-maze. Only modest decreases in SERT binding were observed, although there was a significant negative correlation between hippocampal SERT levels and open-arm duration within the MDMA group. These findings demonstrate that intermittent MDMA exposure during the adolescent period of development can influence subsequent cognitive and affective functioning in the absence of severe serotonergic damage.
We examined whether treatment with sildenafil citrate (the active compound of Viagra), a cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor (PDE5), would reverse the learning impairment induced by cholinergic muscarinic (mACh) receptor blockade [0.75 mg/kg scopolamine HCl, intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections]. Rats were pretrained in a one-way active avoidance of foot shock in a straight runway and the next day received 15 training trials in a 14-unit T-maze. Performance in this maze paradigm requires accurate responding to avoid mild foot shock and has been shown to be sensitive to aging and to impairment in central cholinergic systems. Intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of scopolamine or saline and sildenafil or vehicle were given 30 and 15 min before training, respectively. The combined treatment conditions were as follows: saline+vehicle (control), scopolamine (0.75 mg/kg)+vehicle, and scopolamine (0.75 mg/kg)+sildenafil (1.5, 3.0, or 4.5 mg/kg). Behavioral measures of performance included deviations from the correct pathway (errors), run time from start to goal, shock frequency, and duration. Statistical analysis revealed that scopolamine impaired maze performance and that sildenafil (3.0 mg/kg) significantly attenuated this impairment in a dose-dependent manner. These results suggest that sildenafil citrate may serve as a cognitive enhancer for therapeutic treatment of cholinergic dysfunction in age-related cognitive decline and Alzheimer's dementia (AD).
The extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases (ERKs) are proline-directed, serine/threonine kinases that regulate a variety of cellular functions, including proliferation, differentiation, and plasticity. In the present report, we provide evidence that ERK2 and phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C (PLC)-beta and -gamma isozymes interact in the rat hippocampal formation. We found that anti-PLC-beta1a, -beta2, -beta4, -gamma1 and -gamma2, but not -beta3, immune complexes isolated from rat hippocampal formation postnuclear fractions contain anti-ERK2 immunoreactivity. Further, we show that PLC catalytic activity is associated with anti-ERK2 immunoprecipitates isolated from the hippocampal formation, and that the amount of enzyme activity is significantly increased following fear-conditioned learning. The observed interactions may be mediated by consensus sequences conforming to an ERK2 docking site, termed a D-domain, that we identified in PLC-beta1a, -beta2, -beta4 -gamma1 and -gamma2. Based on these results, we propose that PLC-beta and PLC-gamma isozymes form signaling complexes with ERK2 in rat brain, and these complexes play critical roles in learning and memory, as well as a variety of other neuronal functions.
Self-injurious behaviour (SIB) is a debilitating behaviour disorder that can have life-threatening consequences. It is often exhibited in intellectually handicapped and autistic populations, and it has been modeled with pharmacological manipulations in animals. We have characterized the induction of SIB using high doses of caffeine and pemoline in rats. Caffeine only produced very mild SIB in a small proportion of the rats, when administered repeatedly at very high doses (140-185 mg/kg/day). All the caffeine-treated rats showed profound signs of caffeine-toxicity at these doses, and lower doses did not induce any self-injury. On the other hand, pemoline was effective across a range of doses (100-300 mg/kg/day), including doses that did not produce overt signs of toxicity (100-200 mg/kg/day). The topography of the tissue injury sites (tail vs. paws and ventrum) differed between caffeine and pemoline treatments, and across doses of pemoline. The speed of onset, the incidence, and the severity of SIB occurred in a dose-orderly manner across the pemoline doses, and there was substantial individual variability in the induction of SIB when a moderately high dose (200 mg/kg/day) was used. These individual differences in vulnerability to self-injure are reminiscent of the fact that some humans with specific neurobiological disorders express SIB and some individuals with those same disorders do not. Accordingly, the pemoline model of SIB may be useful to investigate the neurobiological basis of factors that contribute to etiology of SIB.
In the last two decades, there has been a growing interest in unraveling the role that the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger (NCX) plays in the function and regulation of several cellular activities. Molecular biology, electrophysiology, genetically modified mice, and molecular pharmacology have helped to delve deeper and more successfully into the physiological and pathophysiological role of this exchanger. In fact, this nine-transmembrane protein, widely distributed in the brain and in the heart, works in a bidirectional way. Specifically, when it operates in the forward mode of operation, it couples the extrusion of one Ca2+ ion with the influx of three Na+ ions. In contrast, when it operates in the reverse mode of operation, while three Na+ ions are extruded, one Ca2+ enters into the cells. Different isoforms of NCX, named NCX1, NCX2, and NCX3, have been described in the brain, whereas only one, NCX1, has been found in the heart. The hypothesis that NCX can play a relevant role in several pathophysiological conditions, including hypoxia-anoxia, white matter degeneration after spinal cord injury, brain trauma and optical nerve injury, neuronal apoptosis, brain aging, and Alzheimer's disease, stems from the observation that NCX, in parallel with selective ion channels and ATP-dependent pumps, is efficient at maintaining intracellular Ca2+ and Na+ homeostasis. In conclusion, although studies concerning the involvement of NCX in the pathological mechanisms underlying brain injury during neurodegenerative diseases started later than those related to heart disease, the availability of pharmacological agents able to selectively modulate each NCX subtype activity and antiporter mode of operation will provide a better understanding of its pathophysiological role and, consequently, more promising approaches to treat these neurological disorders.

Drosophila has been developed recently as a model system to investigate the molecular and neural mechanisms underlying responses to drugs of abuse. Genetic screens for mutants with altered drug-induced behaviors thus provide an unbiased approach to define novel molecules involved in the process. We identified mutations in the Drosophila LIM-only (LMO) gene, encoding a regulator of LIM-homeodomain proteins, in a genetic screen for mutants with altered cocaine sensitivity. Reduced Lmo function increases behavioral responses to cocaine, while Lmo overexpression causes the opposite effect, reduced cocaine responsiveness. Expression of Lmo in the principal Drosophila circadian pacemaker cells, the PDF-expressing ventral lateral neurons (LN(v)s), is sufficient to confer normal cocaine sensitivity. Consistent with a role for Lmo in LN(v)function,Lmomutants also show defects in circadian rhythms of behavior. However, the role for LN(v)s in modulating cocaine responses is separable from their role as pacemaker neurons: ablation or functional silencing of the LN(v)s reduces cocaine sensitivity, while loss of the principal circadian neurotransmitter PDF has no effect. Together, these results reveal a novel role for Lmo in modulating acute cocaine sensitivity and circadian locomotor rhythmicity, and add to growing evidence that these behaviors are regulated by shared molecular mechanisms. The finding that the degree of cocaine responsiveness is controlled by the Drosophila pacemaker neurons provides a neuroanatomical basis for this overlap. We propose that Lmo controls the responsiveness of LN(v)s to cocaine, which in turn regulate the flies' behavioral sensitivity to the drug.
Human behavior is organized into 24-hour cycles that are typically composed of about 16 hours of wakefulness and about 8 hours of sleep. Sleep is an essential behavior and is critical for maintaining normal adaptive waking behavior. Both sleep and wake are initiated and maintained by separate and specific neural systems. The sleep-wake cycle is a function of 2 processes--a homeostatic drive for sleep that increases throughout the waking day and an opposing circadian influence that promotes wakefulness centered in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). A better understanding of the basis for sleep can help treatment and direct research about sleep.

Neuronal nicotinic receptors (NAChRs) form a heterogeneous family of ion channels that are differently expressed in many regions of the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system. These different receptor subtypes, which have characteristic pharmacological and biophysical properties, have a pentameric structure consisting of the homomeric or heteromeric combination of 12 different subunits (alpha2-alpha10, beta2-beta4). By responding to the endogenous neurotransmitter acetylcholine, NAChRs contribute to a wide range of brain activities and influence a number of physiological functions. Furthermore, it is becoming evident that the perturbation of cholinergic nicotinic neurotransmission can lead to various diseases involving nAChR dysfunction during development, adulthood and ageing. In recent years, it has been discovered that NAChRs are present in a number of non-neuronal cells where they play a significant functional role and are the pathogenetic targets in several diseases. NAChRs are also the target of natural ligands and toxins including nicotine (Nic), the most widespread drug of abuse. This review will attempt to survey the major achievements reached in the study of the structure and function of NAChRs by examining their regional and cellular localisation and the molecular basis of their functional diversity mainly in pharmacological and biochemical terms. The recent availability of mice with the genetic ablation of single or double nicotinic subunits or point mutations have shed light on the role of nAChRs in major physiological functions, and we will here discuss recent data relating to their behavioural phenotypes. Finally, the role of NAChRs in disease will be considered in some details.
The ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) is the major protein quality control system in eukaryotic cells. Many neurodegenerative diseases are characterized by aggregates and inclusions of aberrant proteins, implying a sub-optimal functioning or defective UPS. The last few years have seen increasing evidence for the involvement of the UPS in neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Notably, decreases in proteasome activity were detected in several cortical areas in AD patients. In addition, proteins that accumulate in the classical hallmarks of AD were linked to UPS function. This review specifically discusses the involvement of the UPS in AD pathogenesis. First, a detailed overview of the UPS is presented, after which AD pathology and its relation to the UPS is discussed.
The anticipation phenomenon, described as either an increase in disease severity, a decrease in age at onset, or both, in successive generations, has been suggested as a possibility of genetic transmission for bipolar affective disorder. We report here investigation of the stability of intergenerational transmission of a variable number tandem repeat (VNTR) polymorphism, found in the Huntingtin interacting protein-1 related gene (HIP12/HIP1R) that is mapped to the chromosome 12q24.31 region, in nine pedigrees showing decreased age at onset in successive generations. We did not observe any allelic instability but we report a deletion that includes this VNTR polymorphism. Allelic and genotypic association studies should be undertaken to verify the involvement of HIP12/HIP1R in bipolar disorder.
The role of the dopamine (DA) system in brain reward mechanisms and the development of substance abuse has been well established. We review earlier animal and human studies on DA and alcoholism with some relevant issues relating to those studies. The present animal and human data suggest several alterations in the DA system in the context of alcoholism. Receptor studies imply that DA D(2) receptor density and function are lower at least among type 1 alcoholics, which suggests that they could benefit from drugs that enhance DAergic activity, such as partial DA agonists. These drugs could help to restore suboptimal levels of DAergic activity by reducing both the craving for alcohol in abstinence and the euphoria subsequent to alcohol's release of DA in the nucleus accumbens (NAC), thus providing negative reinforcement for relapse.
Protein expression has been compared in human substantia nigra specimens from Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and from controls, and 44 proteins expressed in this midbrain region were identified by peptide mass fingerprinting. Among them, nine showed changes in their abundance. L and M neurofilament chains are less abundant in PD specimens, whereas peroxiredoxin II, mitochondrial complex III, ATP synthase D chain, complexin I, profilin, L-type calcium channel delta-subunit, and fatty-acid binding protein are significantly more present in PD samples than in controls. Besides the consolidated view of oxidative stress involvement in PD pathogenesis, suggested by overexpression of mitochondrial and reactive oxygen species (ROS)-scavenging proteins, these results indicate a possible potentiation mechanism of afferent signals to substantia nigra following degeneration of dopaminergic neurons.
The basal ganglia are perceived as important nodes in cortico-subcortical networks involved in the transfer, convergence, and processing of information in motor, cognitive, and limbic domains. How this integration might occur remains a matter of some debate, particularly given the consistent finding in anatomic and physiologic studies of functional segregation in cortico-subcortical loops. More recent theories, however, have raised the notion that modality-specific information might be integrated not spatially, but rather temporally, by coincident processing in discrete neuronal populations. Basal ganglia neurotransmitters, given their diverse roles in motor performance, learning, working memory, and reward-related activity are also likely to play an important role in the integration of cerebral activity. Further work will elucidate this to a greater extent, but for now, it is clear that the basal ganglia form an important nexus in the binding of cognitive, limbic, and motor information into thought and action.
Logorrhea, verbigeration and echolalia persisted unremittingly for 3 years, with occasional short periods of motoric excitement, in a patient with mild intellectual handicap suffering from chronic schizophrenia. The speech catatonic symptoms, previously refractory to various antipsychotics, responded promptly to lorazepam, a benzodiazepine with documented efficacy in the treatment of acute catatonia but not chronic catatonia. It is suggested that pathways in speech production were selectively involved in the genesis of the chronic speech catatonic syndrome, possibly a rare form of chronic catatonia not previously described.
The validity of the Lie/Bet Screen was tested on two community population samples, one adult (n=2,014) and one adolescent sample (n=3,237), in Norway. With positive responses on at least one of the questions on Lie/Bet Screen used as the cutoff point the screen showed high both sensitivity and specificity. The negative predictive value was also high, but the positive predictive value was comparatively lower. A prediction of probable pathological gambling or &quot;At-risk gambling&quot; based on both Lie/Bet questions identified a valid screening in the two samples (0.54% in adults, 5.6% in adolescents). Compared to the use of the full DSM-IV this is pretty close, with the figures 0.45% and 5.22%. It is concluded that the Lie/Bet Screen may function as a good screening device for pathological gambling plus At-risk gambling in normal community samples.
Starting from the premise that the purpose of cognitive modeling is to gain information about the cognitive processes of individuals, we develop a general theoretical framework for assessment of models on the basis of tests of the models' ability to yield information about the true performance patterns of individual subjects and the processes underlying them. To address the central problem that observed performance is a composite of true performance and error, we present formal derivations concerning inference from noisy data to true performance. Analyses of model fits to simulated data illustrate the usefulness of our approach for coping with difficult issues of model identifiability and testability.
This article outlines a framework of creativity based on functional neuroanatomy. Recent advances in the field of cognitive neuroscience have identified distinct brain circuits that are involved in specific higher brain functions. To date, these findings have not been applied to research on creativity. It is proposed that there are four basic types of creative insights, each mediated by a distinctive neural circuit. By definition, creative insights occur in consciousness. Given the view that the working memory buffer of the prefrontal cortex holds the content of consciousness, each of the four distinctive neural loops terminates there. When creativity is the result of deliberate control, as opposed to spontaneous generation, the prefrontal cortex also instigates the creative process. Both processing modes, deliberate and spontaneous, can guide neural computation in structures that contribute emotional content and in structures that provide cognitive analysis, yielding the four basic types of creativity. Supportive evidence from psychological, cognitive, and neuroscientific studies is presented and integrated in this article. The new theoretical framework systematizes the interaction between knowledge and creative thinking, and how the nature of this relationship changes as a function of domain and age. Implications for the arts and sciences are briefly discussed.


Witnessing a seizure is not something you're likely to forget, but as a bedside nurse it's something you're bound to experience. Seizures are a transient disruption in brain function caused by excessive electrical discharge of cortical neurons in one or more areas of the brain. They affect an estimated 2.5 million Americans. Each year in the United States, 300,000 people-120,000 of them younger than 18-have a seizure for the first time, and about 181,000 people are diagnosed with epilepsy.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether ratings according to the Assessment of Communication and Interaction Skills, Swedish version (ACIS-S) are related to the settings in which the skills are assessed, and whether the client's comprehension of the setting is related to the ACIS-S rating scores. The ACIS-S is an observation rating scale applied immediately after each of two to six different social sessions that the client takes part in. The selection of settings relies on the client's judgement of them as being meaningful. In total, nine occupational therapists and 16 clients participated in the study. A total of 71 ratings were made in a mean of 4.4 settings per client. The results indicate that the client's rated comprehension of the settings is not significantly related, in general, to the ACIS-S rating scores given by the occupational therapist. However, the clients ACIS-S scores may vary a lot over settings. In the present study, 13- of the 20-items showed ratings of both the existence and the absence of problems in the same skill -- but in different settings -- in half or more of the client group. This may rise questions for the practitioners how to implement the ACIS-S in clinical practice, for example, how many and which kind of settings and how many times? Further research in the field is recommended.
Abnormal activation of semantic networks may be the underlying basis for thought disorder (ThD) in patients with schizophrenia. However, whether this abnormality consists of increased or decreased activation is unclear. Previous behavioral and electrophysiological (N400) data have failed to yield consistent evidence for clarifying this hypothesis. One of the event-related potentials (ERP) components (the recognition potential, RP), presumably reflecting activation of specific semantic networks involved in ThD, has not been used to studies of schizophrenia, and may add additional information to support or refute this hypothesis. In an initial experiment, RP amplitude was reduced in schizophrenic patients, but particularly in those with ThD. In a second experiment, in addition to reduced overall RP amplitude, concrete words were shown to have higher amplitudes than abstract words in both patients and controls, supporting a relative integrity of the lexicon in ThD patients. RP reduction suggests that a fewer number of networks' elements are activated when an incoming word is processed, thus supporting hypoactivation of the semantic networks as the basis for ThD.
The protein kinase glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) is highly abundant in brain and involved in signal transduction cascades, particularly during neurodevelopment. We have previously found reduced GSK-3beta mRNA levels, protein levels and GSK-3 total (alpha+beta isoforms) activity in postmortem frontal cortex of schizophrenic patients in the Stanley Medical Research Institute's Brain Collection. To verify and extend these findings, GSK-3 parameters were now measured in the frontal cortex (BA9) and hippocampus obtained from the Rebecca L. Cooper Research Laboratories postmortem brain collection. Fifteen pairs of schizophrenic patients and matched control subjects have been studied. No significant differences in GSK-3alpha and GSK-3beta mRNA levels, GSK-3beta protein levels or total GSK-3 (alpha+beta) activity were found in the frontal cortex of the two diagnostic groups. Hippocampal GSK-3alpha and GSK-3beta mRNA levels were significantly lower (22% and 28%, respectively) in the tissue from the schizophrenic patients compared with the normal controls. Hippocampal GSK-3beta protein levels in the schizophrenic patients were 24% significantly lower than control values only after omission of three outlier subjects. Hippocampal total GSK-3 (alpha+beta) activity in the patients was 31% lower in the schizophrenic patients vs. control subjects. This difference was marginally significant. While our previous data on GSK-3beta in postmortem brain and the recent report that there is impaired AKT1-GSK-3beta signaling in schizophrenia suggest that changes in pathways involving protein kinases such as AKT1 and GSK-3beta in schizophrenia are complex, our present data do not provide strong evidence in support of the involvement of GSK-3beta in schizophrenia. Therefore, further investigation in a greater number of brain samples is warranted to better clarify the possible role of this enzyme in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
Growing evidence suggests that NMDA receptor (NMDAR) dysfunction may be involved in schizophrenia. The NMDAR is a multimeric assembly derived from seven different genes (NR1, NR2A-2D and NR3A-3B). While region-specific changes in the expression of most NMDAR subunits have been reported in schizophrenia, possible abnormalities of NR3A expression have not been investigated. Both electrophysiological and anatomical data in rodents, however, suggest that NR3A subunits could play a role in this disorder. In this study, we measured NR3A transcript levels in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and inferior temporal neocortex in the brains of people with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression, and a comparison group. This transcript was elevated by 32% in schizophrenia relative to controls, but only in the DLPFC and not inferior temporal cortical regions. Interestingly, this effect was restricted to gyral aspects of the DLPFC and did not involve sulcal areas. NR3A mRNA was significantly decreased by 12% in bipolar disorder relative to the comparison group in DLPFC, although there were no gyral versus sulcal differences. As was the case in schizophrenia, no changes in NR3A expression were observed in the inferior temporal cortex in bipolar disorder. These data indicate that the NR3A subunit is abnormally expressed in both schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.



Current evidence suggests that epilepsy outcome for people with a learning disability is poor, with the majority remaining refractory to treatment. There is very little evidence from randomised controlled trials in this population and despite the many uncontrolled variables it is suggested that an outcome audit may be one method of adding to the evidence base. This audit reports on the outcome for 37 patients with learning disability and refractory epilepsy. All patients were seen for the first time before March 2001 and the mean number of seizures for the sample was 10.4 per month. The exit audit included all patients at a date 2 years after their initial visit following a programme of medication changes. The mean seizure frequency had reduced to 5.9 per month. Ten patients had become seizure-free and 76% had experienced an improvement in seizure frequency overall. A simple questionnaire was administered to carers and relatives at the exit audit in an attempt to establish an impression of global changes in alertness, assertiveness and challenging behaviour following interventions. Sixty-five percent of patients were regarded as being more aware and interactive with their surroundings following medication changes and 49% were reported to be more assertive. Thirty percent presented with an increase in behaviours regarded as challenging and 22% were reported to present with less challenging behaviour. The results of this audit suggest that the outcome for the majority of patients with learning disability and refractory epilepsy may be better than that has been previously reported.
Ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase isozyme L1 (UCH-L1) is a deubiquitinating enzyme that is responsible for making ubiquitin, which is required to target proteins for degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway in neurons, available. We investigated whether UCH-L1 plays a neuroprotective role at the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM), the origin of sympathetic neurogenic vasomotor tone in the medulla oblongata where the organophosphate insecticide mevinphos (Mev) acts to elicit cardiovascular toxicity. In Sprague-Dawley rats maintained under propofol anesthesia, Mev (960 microg/kg, i.v.) induced a parallel and progressive augmentation in UCH-L1 or ubiquitin expression at the ventrolateral medulla during the course of Mev intoxication. The increase in UCH-L1 level was significantly blunted on pretreatment with bilateral microinjection into the RVLM of a transcription inhibitor, actinomycin D (5 nmol), or a translation inhibitor, cycloheximide (20 nmol). Compared with aCSF or sense oligonucleotide (100 pmol) pretreatment, microinjection of an antisense uch-L1 oligonucleotide (100 pmol) bilaterally into the RVLM significantly increased mortality, reduced the duration of the &quot;pro-life&quot; phase, blunted the increase in ubiquitin expression in ventrolateral medulla, and augmented the induced hypotension in rats that received Mev. These findings suggest that de novo synthesis of UCH-L1, leading to an enhanced disassembly of ubiquitin-protein conjugates in the RVLM, is essential to maintenance of the &quot;pro-life&quot; phase of Mev intoxication via prevention of cardiovascular depression, leading to neuroprotection.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is a common malignancy in the Asian Chinese population. First-line treatment consists primarily of radiotherapy and chemotherapy, with salvage surgery if recurrence occurs. Patients with this tumours frequently present years after radiotherapy with symptomatic temporal lobe cystic lesions and a diagnostic problem arises. The possible differential diagnoses include radionecrosis, pyogenic abscesses or tumour recurrence. A series of three cases of cystic temporal lobe lesions, with emphasis on their clinical, radiological and histopathological diagnostic aspects, are presented. The three cases presented consist of radiation necrosis, pyogenic abscess, and a case with both infection with tumour recurrence. The methodology of both clinical and radiological diagnosis are presented.
To identify genes that may be involved in the process of human embryonic stem cell (hESC) differentiation, we profiled gene expression by expressed sequenced tag (EST) enumeration and massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) using RNA samples from feeder-free cultures of undifferentiated (passages 40-50) and differentiated (day 14) H1, H7, and H9 lines. MPSS and EST scan analysis showed good concordance and identified a large number of genes that changed rapidly as cultures transition from a pluripotent to a differentiated state. These included known and unknown ES cell-specific genes as well as a large number of known genes that were altered as cells differentiate. A subset of genes that were either up- or down-regulated were selected and their differential expression confirmed by a variety of independent methods, including comparison of expression after further differentiation, publicly available databases, and direct assessments by reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR and immunocytochemistry. The analysis identified markers unique to the hESC and embryoid bodies (hEBs) stage as well as signaling pathways that likely regulate differentiation. The data generated can be used to monitor the state of hESC isolated by different laboratories using independent methods and maintained under differing culture conditions.
Neural stem/progenitor cells are clonogenic in vitro and produce neurospheres in serum-free medium containing epidermal growth factor (EGF) and fibroblast growth factor (FGF2). Here, we demonstrate that lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) instigated the clonal generation of neurospheres from dissociated mouse postnatal forebrain in the absence of EGF and FGF2. LPA induced proliferation of cells which co-expressed Sca-1 antigen and AC133, markers of primitive hematopoietic and neural stem/progenitor cells. Clonal expansion of these cells induced by LPA was inhibited by diacylglycerol- pyrophosphate (DGPP), an antagonist of the LPA receptor subtypes LPA1 and LPA3. Moreover, Sca-1- and AC133-positive cells of these neurospheres expressed LPA1, LPA2, and LPA3, suggesting important roles for these LPA receptors in proliferation of neural progenitors. LPA induced neurospheres to differentiate on an adherent laminin/poly-L-ornithine matrix. In differentiating neurospheres, LPA receptors co-localized with betaIII-tubulin, nestin, and CNPase, but not with glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), a marker of astrocyte lineage. Our results demonstrate for the first time that lysophosphatidic acid induces clonal neurosphere development via proliferation of AC133/Sca-1-positive stem cells by a receptor-dependent mechanism. This differentiation was characterized by the initial co-localization of neural specific antigens at sites of LPA receptor expression upon their interaction with the inducing agonist.
Studies on rodent bone marrow stromal cells (MSCs) have revealed a capacity, for at least a portion of cells, to express neuron-like traits after differentiation in culture. Little, however, is known about the ability of human MSCs in this regard. We show here that incubation with certain differentiation cocktails, particularly those that include reagents that increase cellular cAMP levels, produces a rapid (1-4 h) and transient (24-48 h) transformation of nearly all hMSCs into neuron-like cells displaying a complex network of processes using phase or scanning electron microscopic optics. In addition, differentiated human (h) MSCs express increased quantities of neuron-[beta-tubulin III, neurofilament (NF), neuronal-specific enolase (NSE)] and glial- [glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)] specific proteins and mRNAs, which are also expressed in low levels in undifferentiated MSCs. In contrast, the mesenchymal marker, fibronectin, which is highly expressed in the undifferentiated state, is reduced following differentiation. These biochemical changes, but not the acquisition of a neuron-like appearance, are partially inhibited by incubation of hMSCs with protein (cycloheximide) and mRNA (actinomycin D) synthesis inhibitors with differentiating reagents. Only incubation with 100 ng/ml colchicine, which disrupts the microtubular cytoskeleton, prevents the conversion of hMSCs into neuron- like cells. These results demonstrate that hMSCs acquire the morphological appearance and the biochemical makeup typical of neurons by independently regulated mechanisms.
We have summarised evidence in the literature for modulatory effects of stress on inflammatory autoimmune disease. We find that overall there is strong evidence for such an interrelationship. Apparent discrepancies between groups and studies are probably due to differences in experimental design, whether longitudinal or retrospective. Other important variables are the specific effects of different types of stress and the intensity and timing of the stressor relative to onset of inflammation. We conclude that there is much of benefit to be learned from scientific study of stress, such as harnessing and rationalising of stressful experiences through self-expression in patients, or the identification of novel anti-inflammatory compounds activated by stress.
The serotonin (5-HT)-3A receptor has been localized in limbic and brainstem structures that regulate hypothalamic--pituitary--adrenal (HPA) activity. We previously showed that 5-HT-3A receptor knock-out (KO) male mice displayed lower ACTH responses to acute restraint or lipopolysaccharide administration compared to age-matched wild-type (WT) males. In the present study, we found that pituitary-adrenal responses to acute stress were not different in female WT and KO mice. Furthermore, we examined the role of the 5-HT-3A receptor in regulation of chronic stress-induced HPA activity in both male and female WT and KO mice. The results show that ACTH, but not corticosterone, responses to novel restraint are lower in chronically cold stressed females compared to non-stressed control females but no effect of 5-HT-3A receptor deletion was observed. In contrast, male mice showed facilitated responses to novel restraint after chronic cold stress and this facilitation produced sex differences in ACTH responses to novel restraint between male and female chronically stressed KO mice. Together, these results indicate that there are sex differences in HPA responses to novel restraint in chronically stressed mice and these differences are partly related to 5-HT-3A receptor function.




Several lines of evidence have pointed to a role of the dopamine system in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. A recent postmortem study demonstrated a selective decrease of tyrosine hydroxylase fibers on pyramidal neurons in sector CA2 in the hippocampus of schizophrenics. Although both brain imaging and postmortem studies have examined the distribution of the D1 receptor in the prefrontal and cingulate cortex, no study to date has examined its expression of mRNA using a high-resolution autoradiographic approach. In order to further assess whether the regulation of the dopamine D1 receptor is altered in hippocampal neurons in this disorder, we used in situ hybridization (ISH) to measure the expression of messenger RNA for this receptor in the dentate gyrus and sectors CA1-4. Both the number of cells expressing D1 mRNA and the amount of expression per cell were measured in 15 schizophrenic, 15 bipolar disorder, and 15 normal control subjects. The results show a significant (21%) and selective decrease in D1 mRNA expression in sector CA3 of schizophrenic subjects. First-degree relatives of schizophrenics did not show any differences in either the expression of D1 mRNA per cell or the number of cells expressing this mRNA when compared to a separate group of normal controls matched for age and PMI. Subjects with bipolar disorder also showed a significant (25%) and selective increase of D1 mRNA expression in sector CA2. Other hippocampal sectors did not show significant changes. These findings in schizophrenics and bipolars were also associated with inverse changes in the overall number of neurons expressing D1 mRNA in sectors CA3 and CA2, respectively. This study shows diagnosis-specific changes in D1 mRNA expression in the hippocampus of schizophrenic versus bipolar subjects and suggests that this neuromodulatory system may show distinct changes in the pathophysiology of the two disorders.
The typical antipsychotic drug haloperidol causes vacuous chewing movements (VCM) in rats, which are representative of early-Parkinsonian symptoms or later-onset extrapyramidal side effects of tardive dyskinesia (TD) in humans. Haloperidol (HP) has been hypothesized to potentiate increases in oxidative stress or free radical-mediated levels of toxic metabolites in rat striatum while simultaneous upregulating dopamine (DA)-D2 receptors leading to presumed DA supersensitivity. Alpha(alpha)-Phenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN) is an antioxidant used to combat oxidative stress and measure increases in PBN spin-adduct activity. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate whether VCMs are related to upregulation of DA-D2 receptors or to increased levels of free radicals produced during oxidative stress, and whether PBN had any protective effects. Rats received daily chronic (28 day) i.p. injections of saline, haloperidol (2 mg/kg), PBN (150 mg/kg), or haloperidol + PBN. The VCM model was used to measure extrapyramidal side effects of drug treatments. Electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy was performed to compare concentrations of free radical species in rats receiving injections of HP + PBN. To examine the upregulation of DA-D2 receptors, binding assays were carried out to assess the increase in DA-D(2) receptor numbers with respect to VCMs following treatment of rats injected with HP, PBN, and HP + PBN. Results of these experiments show that HP-induced VCMs in rats results from increases in oxidative cellular events and may not be related to increases in striatal DA-D(2) receptors.
Some robots have been given emotional expressions in an attempt to improve human-computer interaction. In this article we analyze what it would mean for a robot to have emotion, distinguishing emotional expression for communication from emotion as a mechanism for the organization of behavior. Research on the neurobiology of emotion yields a deepening understanding of interacting brain structures and neural mechanisms rooted in neuromodulation that underlie emotions in humans and other animals. However, the chemical basis of animal function differs greatly from the mechanics and computations of current machines. We therefore abstract from biology a functional characterization of emotion that does not depend on physical substrate or evolutionary history, and is broad enough to encompass the possible emotions of robots.
Complex motor skill often consists of a fixed sequence of movements. Recent studies show that a stereotyped temporal pattern or rhythm emerges as we learn to perform a motor sequence. This is because the sequence is reorganized during learning as serial chunks of movements in both a sequence-specific and subject-specific manner. On the basis of human imaging studies we propose that the formation of chunk patterns is controlled by the cerebellum, its posterior and anterior lobes contributing, respectively, to the temporal patterns before and after chunk formation. The motor rhythm can assist the motor networks in the cerebral cortex to control automatic movements within chunks and the cognitive networks to control non-automatic movements between chunks, respectively. In this way, organized motor skill can be performed automatically and flexibly.
One hypothesis concerning the human dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is that it functions, in part, to signal the occurrence of conflicts in information processing, thereby triggering compensatory adjustments in cognitive control. Since this idea was first proposed, a great deal of relevant empirical evidence has accrued. This evidence has largely corroborated the conflict-monitoring hypothesis, and some very recent work has provided striking new support for the theory. At the same time, other findings have posed specific challenges, especially concerning the way the theory addresses the processing of errors. Recent research has also begun to shed light on the larger function of the ACC, suggesting some new possibilities concerning how conflict monitoring might fit into the cingulate's overall role in cognition and action.
Why is immediate-serial-recall (short-term memory) span consistently shorter for sign language than it is for speech? A new study by Boutla et al. shows that neither the length of signs, nor the formational similarity of signed digits, can account for the difference. Their results suggest instead that the answer lies in differences between the auditory and visual systems. At the same time, however, their results show that sign language and spoken language yield equivalent processing spans, suggesting that reliance on immediate-serial-recall measures in clinical and educational testing is misplaced.
Obesity is quickly becoming one of the most common and debilitating disorders of the developed world. More than 60% of American adults are now overweight or obese, predisposing them to a host of chronic diseases. To understand the etiology of obesity, and to discover new therapies for obesity, we must understand the components of energy balance. In simple terms, energy intake (feeding) must equal energy expenditure (physical activity, basal metabolism and adaptive thermogenesis) for body weight homeostasis. To maintain homeostasis, neurocircuitry must sense both immediate nutritional status and the amount of energy stored in adipose tissue, and must be able to provide appropriate output to balance energy intake and energy expenditure. The brain receives various signals that carry information about nutritional and metabolic status including neuropeptide PYY(3-36), ghrelin, cholecystokinin, leptin, glucose and insulin. Circulating satiety signals access the brain either by &quot;leakage&quot; across circumventricular organs or transport across the blood-brain barrier. Signals can also activate sensory vagal terminals that innervate the whole gastrointestinal tract.
Molecular biologists and geneticists alike now acknowledge that most common human diseases with a genetic component are likely to have complex etiologies. Yet despite this belief, many statistical geneticists continue applying, in slightly new and different ways, methodologies that were developed to dissect much simpler etiologies. In this article, we characterize, with examples, the various factors that can complicate genetic analysis and demonstrate their shared features and how they affect genetic analysis. We describe a variety of approaches that are currently available, revealing methodological gaps and suggesting new directions for method development. Finally, we propose a comprehensive two-step approach to analysis that systemically addresses the different genetic factors that are likely to underlie complex diseases.
The secondary cascade of cell death that follows central nervous system (CNS) injury or ischemia has long been considered a target for neuroprotective agents aimed at sparing tissue and function. Recently, several laboratories have shown remarkable protection and recovery of function in rodent models of spinal cord injury using treatments that target components of the CNS inflammatory response. The use of minocycline, an antibiotic that reduces microglial activation, antibody blockade of the CD95 (FAS) ligand and the blockade of glycosphingolipid-induced iNOS (inducible nitric oxide synthase) have recently been shown to reduce neuronal and glial apoptosis with concomitant improvement in neurological function, and appear to enhance the efficacy of cell transplantation strategies.
The fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, has become a model for the study of a growing number of human characteristics because of the power of its genetics. Higher cognitive functions, however, might be assumed to be out of reach for the little fly. But the cumulative history of cognitive studies in insects and some of their arachnid relatives, as well as specific probing of the capabilities of fruit flies, suggests that even in this ethereal realm these creatures have much to contribute. What are the degrees of sophistication in cognitive behavior displayed by these organisms, how have they been demonstrated, and what is their potential for understanding how our own brains work?
It has taken 17 years from the first identification of a voltage-gated Ca2+ channel (CaV) beta-subunit as a band on a gel following purification of skeletal muscle dihydropyridine (DHP) receptors in 1987 to the publication of key information on the structures of Ca2+ channel beta-subunits. Three recent X-ray crystallographic studies have now solved the structures of the core domains of three Ca2+ channel beta-subunits. In this article, the properties of these cytoplasmic auxiliary subunits will first be summarized. Then the CaVbeta structures and the information they provide regarding how these proteins interact with the CaValpha1 subunit will be discussed and the possible implications of these new data for G-protein modulation of Ca2+ channels will be examined.
Poliovirus is the causative agent of an acute disease of the central nervous system, poliomyelitis. Poliovirus will be eradicated in the near future by a world-wide vaccination program. Poliovirus is a neurotropic virus that produces severe lesions selectively in the CNS. However, a basic question why poliovirus exhibits neurotropic property has not been elucidated. Poliovirus receptor and host factors involved in the translation initiation of viral protein, which are required for virus replication, play important roles in determining tissue tropism. We found that type I interferon response is also an important determinant of poliovirus tissue tropism. Type I interferon inhibits viral replication in the non-target tissues. The tissue tropism of poliovirus may be determined based on the balance of these mechanisms.

Little is known about the spatial vision of mice or of the role the visual cortex plays in mouse visual perception. In order to provide baseline information upon which to evaluate the spatial vision of experimentally and genetically altered mice, we used the visual water task to assess the contrast sensitivity and grating acuity of normal C57BL/6 mice. We then ablated striate cortex (V1) bilaterally and re-measured the same visual functions. Intact mice displayed an inverse &quot;U&quot;-shaped contrast sensitivity curve with a maximum sensitivity near 0.2 cycles/degree (c/d). Grating acuity, measured either by discriminating a sine-wave grating from an equiluminant gray, or vertical from horizontal sine wave gratings, was near 0.55 c/d. Grating acuity and contrast sensitivity were reduced significantly following aspiration of V1. The mouse visual system exhibits fundamental mammalian characteristics, including the feature that striate cortex is involved in processing visual information with the highest sensitivity and spatial frequency.
The swept contrast visual evoked potential technique is a quasi-psychophysical method that can help bridge the gap between cell biology and visual performance in studies of ocular dominance plasticity. In mice we found that four days of monocular deprivation diminished the amplitude of evoked potentials from the deprived eye relative to the non-deprived eye. This ocular dominance plasticity was nearly as great in adult mice as in juveniles. The monocular deprivation effect was mediated, at least in part, by enhancement of responses evoked from the non-deprived eye, rather than by depression of responses from the deprived eye.
Development of the retino-collicular pathway has served as an important model system for examining the cellular mechanisms responsible for the establishment of neuronal maps of the sensory periphery. A consensus has emerged that molecular or chemical cues are responsible for the initial establishment of gross topography in this map, and that activity dependent factors sharpen this initial rough topography into precision. However, there is little evidence available concerning the biochemical signaling mechanisms that are responsible for topographic map refinement in the retino-collicular system. Using a combination of anatomical and biochemical techniques in normal and mutant mice, we provide evidence that Ca2+/Calmodulin regulated Adenylate Cyclase 1 (AC1), which is strongly expressed in the superficial layers of the colliculus, is an important downstream signaling agent for activity dependent map refinement in the superior colliculus.
Observers often fail to detect the appearance of an unexpected visual object (&quot;inattentional blindness&quot;). Experiment 1 studied the effects of fixation position and spatial attention on inattentional blindness. Eye movements were measured. We found strong inattentional blindness to the unexpected stimulus even when it was fixated and appeared in one of the expected positions. The results suggest that spatial attention is not sufficient for attentional capture and awareness. Experiment 2 showed that the stimulus was easier to consciously detect when it was colored but the relation of the color to the color of the attended objects had no effect on detection. The unexpected stimulus was easiest to detect, when it represented the same category as the attended objects.
If the elements within a figure move synchronously while those in the surround move at a different time, the figure is easily segregated from the surround and thus perceived. Lee and Blake (1999) [Visual form created solely from temporal structure. Science, 284, 1165-1168] demonstrated that this figure-ground separation may be based not only on time differences between motion onsets, but also on the differences between reversals of motion direction. However, Farid and Adelson (2001) [Synchrony does not promote grouping in temporally structured displays. Nature Neuroscience, 4, 875-876] argued that figure-ground segregation in the motion-reversal experiment might have been based on a contrast artefact and concluded that (a)synchrony as such was 'not responsible for the perception of form in these or earlier displays'. Here, we present experiments that avoid contrast artefacts but still produce figure-ground segregation based on purely temporal cues. Our results show that subjects can segregate figure from ground even though being unable to use motion reversals as such. Subjects detect the figure when either (i) motion stops (leading to contrast artefacts), or (ii) motion directions differ between figure and ground. Segregation requires minimum delays of about 15 ms. We argue that whatever the underlying cues and mechanisms, a second stage beyond motion detection is required to globally compare the outputs of local motion detectors and to segregate figure from ground. Since analogous changes take place in both figure and ground in rapid succession, this second stage has to detect the asynchrony with high temporal precision.




Participants completed a category-learning task in which they needed to discover which of three stimulus dimensions (shape, color or size) was relevant. After meeting a learning criterion (nine of 10 consecutive correct responses), participants continued making categorization choices and response latencies associated with these trials were examined. In both Experiments 1 and 2, people responded reliably faster when correct responses matched the previous responses with respect to irrelevant dimension values. Thus, they demonstrated a form of incidental short-term memory analogous to that we previously reported in studies of rats. In Experiment 2, participants' explicit memory for irrelevant dimension values was assessed after category learning was complete. The results indicated that people were unaware of the irrelevant dimension values encountered on trials preceding surprise probe trials. This indicates that memory for the irrelevant dimension values was implicit (i.e. unconscious). The findings are discussed with respect to both human and non-human studies of hippocampus-independent memory and implicit memory.
Depending on task demands, there is a growing body of evidence suggesting that the dorsal striatum plays a critical role in not only learning new response strategies but also in the inhibition of pre-existing strategies when a shift in strategy is required. The present experiment examined the effects of lesions of the dorsal striatum or dorsal hippocampus on acquisition of a response-learning rule and a place-learning rule in a Greek Cross version of the Morris water maze. Specifically, adult Long-Evans rats were prepared with either sham lesions or lesions to one of two subcortical areas of the brain considered necessary for processing nondeclarative or declarative memories, the dorsal striatum or the hippocampus, respectively. An analysis of the trial 2 performance pooled across reversals revealed hippocampus lesions induced accelerated acquisition when a response-learning rule was required. A much smaller enhancement effect was observed in dorsal striatum-lesioned animals in the place-learning paradigm. Dorsal hippocampus- and dorsal striatum-lesioned animals were highly impaired on place learning and response learning, respectively. The present results are congruent with a growing body of literature suggesting that different anatomical substrates are involved in the acquisition and maintenance of different types of information, that these processes can occur simultaneously and in parallel, and that the dorsal striatum is necessary for the mediation of stimulus-response learning, while the hippocampus is necessary to mediate the expression of place learning.
Synaptophysin and synaptobrevin/VAMP are abundant synaptic vesicle proteins that form homo- and heterooligomers. We now use chemical cross-linking in synaptosomes, pinched-off nerve terminals that are capable of stimulus-dependent neurotransmitter release, to investigate whether these complexes are regulated. We show that in synaptosomes treated with three stimuli that induce exocytosis (a depolarizing K(+) solution, the excitatory neurotoxin alpha-latrotoxin, or the Ca(2+)-ionophore ionomycin), the homo- and heteromultimerization of synaptophysin and synaptobrevin is increased up to 6-fold. Whereas at rest less than 10% of the total synaptobrevin and synaptophysin could be chemically cross-linked into homo- and heteromeric complexes, after stimulation up to 25% of synaptobrevin and synaptophysin are present in homo- and heteromultimers, suggesting that a large fraction of these synaptic vesicle proteins physiologically participate in such complexes. The increase in multimerization of synaptophysin and synaptobrevin was only observed in intact but not in lysed synaptosomes and could not be inhibited by general kinase or phosphatase inhibitors. The stimulus dependence of synaptophysin and synaptobrevin multimers indicates that the complexes are not composed of a fixed multisubunit structure, for example, as an ion channel, but represent distinct functional states of synaptobrevin and synaptophysin that are modulated in parallel with synaptic vesicle exo- and endocytosis.
The NMDA receptor has been implicated in the pathophysiology of several diseases including schizophrenia and affective disorders. We have investigated the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor in a well-defined series of psychiatric cases using radioligand binding and quantitative immunoblotting techniques. Saturable radioligand binding of [(3)H]L-689,560 to the glycine site on this subunit of the NMDA receptor was undertaken in superior temporal cortex of patients with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression and matched control subjects. A tendency towards an increased receptor density was found in schizophrenia. A significant decrease in NMDA receptor density below control value was found in both bipolar and depressive disorders. The immunoblotting technique was used to identify NR1 protein in the same series of cases of which two bands were identified consistent with NR1 splice variants. A tendency to a decrease in the density of the NR1 upper band below control values was found in bipolar and depressed patients, but not schizophrenics. Consistent with this observation, the ratio between the upper and lower NR1-immunoreactive bands showed a significant decrease in bipolar disorder, although the ratio in depression did not reach significance. No significant difference was found in the NR1 lower band in any patient group compared with control. The finding of an increase NMDA receptor density in schizophrenia is consistent with the previous reports, with a possible compensatory response to glutamatergic deficits in superior temporal cortex in schizophrenia. The findings in affective disorders are interesting in respect of reports of cortical NMDA receptor deficits in suicide victims, although antidepressant drug treatment may contribute to these changes.
Spontaneous activity and receptive field size for spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons were measured and related to the mechanical allodynia in both neuropathic (L5-L6 ligation, 14 days post-injury) and complete Freund's adjuvant-inflamed rats (CFA, 2 days post-injury). The size of the WDR receptive field located on the hindpaw expanded significantly (p&lt;0.01) following both modes of injury, with no difference between CFA and neuropathic animals. Likewise, the spontaneous firing of WDR neurons was significantly elevated following both the CFA (4.4+/-0.6 spikes/s, p&lt;0.01) and neuropathic (3.2+/-0.3 spikes/s, p&lt;0.05) injuries compared to naive (2.1+/-0.2 spikes/s) and sham-neuropathic (1.9+/-0.3 spikes/s) rats. Furthermore, the spontaneous WDR activity recorded from CFA rats was also significantly greater (p&lt;0.05) than neuropathic rats. Mechanical allodynia, as measured by application of a von Frey hair stimulus, was observed from both CFA and neuropathic rats, however, the degree of sensitivity was significantly greater (p&lt;0.01) for the CFA animals. These data suggest that the differences in mechanical sensitivity between CFA and neuropathic rats may be related to their respective changes in WDR spontaneous activity, but not to the changes in receptive field size, and is further demonstration of the importance of spontaneous WDR activity in determining mechanical sensitivity following injury.
This work investigates the design of a new method to evaluate the importance of visual elements taken into account by a handball goalkeeper facing a thrower. Virtual reality was used to design and reproduce standardised situations in a controlled environment. Under such conditions, it was possible to isolate for investigation one visual element in the thrower's gestures. The goalkeeper's movements were recorded in order to compare his reactions to two separate throws where only one visual element was modified. Our systems allowed us to measure and record the effects of small changes in the thrower's movements. With the numerical values we obtained from our results we were able to come up with a scale of significance for each isolated element. These preliminary results look promising for neuroscience, allowing us to better understand the strategies used in duel situations.
The intracellular actions of the antidepressant, venlafaxine, were studied in C6-gliomas using a phosphoproteomics approach. Long-term pre-treatment of C6-gliomas with venlafaxine followed by an acute challenge with isoproterenol (a beta-adrenoceptor agonist), resulted in increased p90Rsk phosphorylation (three-fold) versus control levels (isoproterenol alone). The effect of venlafaxine pre-treatment on p90Rsk activity was dose-dependent (EC(50)=3.75nM) in C6 gliomas. In rat brain sections, intense immunoreactive phospho-p90Rsk labeling was observed for both neurons and glia, especially in cortical layers II/III and hippocampal formations. In vivo studies demonstrated an intense but similar distribution pattern of phospho-p90Rsk staining after chronic venlafaxine dosing of rats compared to naives and no region-specific drug effect was observed in vivo. In conclusion, our findings suggest that some of the centrally-mediated benefits of venlafaxine in depression may be due to its intracellular properties especially on the neuro-glial circuitry and MAPK/p90Rsk-dependent pathways at an early stage.
Lipreading reliably improve speech perception during face-to-face conversation. Within the range of good dubbing, however, adults tolerate some audiovisual (AV) discrepancies and lipreading, then, can give rise to confusion. We used event-related brain potentials (ERPs) to study the perceptual strategies governing the intermodal processing of dynamic and bimodal speech stimuli, either congruently dubbed or not. Electrophysiological analyses revealed that non-coherent audiovisual dubbings modulated in amplitude an endogenous ERP component, the N300, we compared to a 'N400-like effect' reflecting the difficulty to integrate these conflicting pieces of information. This result adds further support for the existence of a cerebral system underlying 'integrative processes' lato sensu. Further studies should take advantage of this 'N400-like effect' with AV speech stimuli to open new perspectives in the domain of psycholinguistics.
The effects of tool-use on the brain's representation of the body and of the space surrounding the body ('peripersonal space') has recently been studied within a number of disciplines in cognitive neuroscience, and is also of great interest to philosophers and behavioural ecologists. To date, most experimental findings suggest that tool-use extends the boundary of peripersonal space-visual stimuli presented at the tips of tools interact more with simultaneous tactile stimuli presented at the hands than visual stimuli presented at the same distance, but not associated with the tools. We studied the proposed extension of peripersonal space by tool-use by measuring the effects of three different tool-use tasks on the integration of visual and tactile stimuli at three distances from participants' hands along two hand-held tools. When the tool-use task required using the shafts or the tips of the tools, visuotactile interactions were stronger at the tips of the tools than in the middle of the shaft. When the handles of the tools were used, however, visuotactile interactions were strongest near the hands and decreased with distance along the tools. These results suggest that tools do not simply 'extend' peripersonal space, but that just the tips of tools actively manipulated in extrapersonal space are incorporated into the brain's visuotactile representations of the body and of peripersonal space.
Membrane proteins represent approximately 30% of the proteome of both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Unique to cell surface receptors is their biogenesis pathway, which involves vesicular trafficking from the endoplasmic reticulum through the Golgi apparatus and to the cell surface. Increasing evidence suggests specific regulation of biogenesis for different membrane receptors, hence affecting their surface expression. We report the development of a pulse-chase assay to monitor function recovery after chemobleaching (FRAC) to probe the transit time of the Kir2.1 K+ channel to reach the cell surface. Our results reveal that the channel activity is contributed by a small fraction of channel protein, providing evidence of activity-silent &quot;sleeping&quot; molecules on the cell surface. This method distinguishes molecular density from functional density, and the assay strategy is generally applicable to other membrane receptors. The ability of the reported method to access the biogenesis pathways in a high-throughput manner facilitates the identification and evaluation of molecules affecting receptor trafficking.
Cognitive neuroscience is challenging the Anglo-American approach to criminal responsibility. Critiques, in this issue and elsewhere, are pointing out the deeply flawed psychological assumptions underlying the legal tests for mental incapacity. The critiques themselves, however, may be flawed in looking, as the tests do, at the psychology of the offender. Introducing the strategic structure of punishment into the analysis leads us to consider the psychology of the punisher as the critical locus of cognition informing the responsibility rules. Such an approach both helps to make sense of the counterfactual assumptions about offender psychology embodied in the law and provides a possible explanation for the human conviction of the existence of free will, at least in others.
The ability to think counterfactually about the consequence of one's actions represents one of the hallmarks of the development of complex reasoning skills. The legal system places a great emphasis on this type of reasoning ability as it directly relates to the degree to which individuals may be judged liable for their actions. In the present paper, we review both behavioural and neuroscientific data exploring the role that counterfactual thinking plays in reasoning about the consequences of one's actions, especially as it pertains to the developing mind of the adolescent. On the basis of assimilation of both behavioural and neuroscientific data, we propose a brain-based model that provides a theoretical framework for understanding the emergence of counterfactual reasoning ability in the developing mind.
In recent decades, the general trend in the criminal justice system in the USA has been to narrow the range of insanity defences available, with an increasing dependence solely on the M'Naghten rule. This states that innocence by reason of insanity requires that the perpetrator could not understand the nature of their criminal act, or did not know that the act was wrong, by reason of a mental illness. In this essay, I question the appropriateness of this, in light of contemporary neuroscience. Specifically, I focus on the role of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in cognition, emotional regulation, control of impulsive behaviour and moral reasoning. I review the consequences of PFC damage on these endpoints, the capacity for factors such as alcohol and stress to transiently impair PFC function, and the remarkably late development of the PFC (in which full myelination may not occur until early adulthood). I also consider how individual variation in PFC function and anatomy, within the normative range, covaries with some of these endpoints. This literature is reviewed because of its relevance to issues of criminal insanity; specifically, damage can produce an individual capable of differentiating right from wrong but who, nonetheless, is organically incapable of appropriately regulating their behaviour.
The rapidly growing field of cognitive neuroscience holds the promise of explaining the operations of the mind in terms of the physical operations of the brain. Some suggest that our emerging understanding of the physical causes of human (mis)behaviour will have a transformative effect on the law. Others argue that new neuroscience will provide only new details and that existing legal doctrine can accommodate whatever new information neuroscience will provide. We argue that neuroscience will probably have a transformative effect on the law, despite the fact that existing legal doctrine can, in principle, accommodate whatever neuroscience will tell us. New neuroscience will change the law, not by undermining its current assumptions, but by transforming people's moral intuitions about free will and responsibility. This change in moral outlook will result not from the discovery of crucial new facts or clever new arguments, but from a new appreciation of old arguments, bolstered by vivid new illustrations provided by cognitive neuroscience. We foresee, and recommend, a shift away from punishment aimed at retribution in favour of a more progressive, consequentialist approach to the criminal law.
Over the past couple of decades, there have been great developments in the fields of psychology and cognitive neuroscience that have allowed the advancement of our understanding of how people make judgements about causality in several domains. We provide a review of some of the contemporary psychological models of causal thinking that are directly relevant to legal reasoning. In addition, we cover some exciting new research using advanced neuroimaging techniques that have helped to uncover the underlying neural signatures of complex causal reasoning. Through the use of functional imaging, we provide a first-hand look at how the brain responds to evidence that is either consistent or inconsistent with one's beliefs and expectations. Based on the data covered in this review, we propose some ideas for how the effectiveness of causal reasoning, especially as it pertains to legal decision-making, may be facilitated.
Much has been written about how law as an institution has developed to solve many problems that human societies face. Inherent in all of these explanations are models of how humans make decisions. This article discusses what current neuroscience research tells us about the mechanisms of human decision making of particular relevance to law. This research indicates that humans are both more capable of solving many problems than standard economic models predict, but also limited in ways those models ignore. This article discusses how law is both shaped by our cognitive processes and also shapes them. The article considers some of the implications of this research for improving our understanding of how our current legal regimes operate and how the law can be structured to take advantage of our neural mechanisms to improve social welfare.
Developments in cognitive neuroscience are providing new insights into the nature of normative judgment. Traditional views in such disciplines as philosophy, religion, law, psychology and economics have differed over the role and usefulness of intuition and emotion in judging blameworthiness. Cognitive psychology and neurobiology provide new tools and methods for studying questions of normative judgment. Recently, a consensus view has emerged, which recognizes important roles for emotion and intuition and which suggests that normative judgment is a distributed process in the brain. Testing this approach through lesion and scanning studies has linked a set of brain regions to such judgment, including the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, orbitofrontal cortex, posterior cingulate cortex and posterior superior temporal sulcus. Better models of emotion and intuition will help provide further clarification of the processes involved. The study of law and justice is less well developed. We advance a model of law in the brain which suggests that law can recruit a wider variety of sources of information and paths of processing than do the intuitive moral responses that have been studied so far. We propose specific hypotheses and lines of further research that could help test this approach.
This paper discusses several issues at the intersection of law and brain science. It focuses principally on ways in which an improved understanding of how evolutionary processes affect brain function and human behaviour may improve law's ability to regulate behaviour. It explores sample uses of such 'evolutionary analysis in law' and also raises questions about how that analysis might be improved in the future. Among the discussed uses are: (i) clarifying cost-benefit analyses; (ii) providing theoretical foundation and potential predictive power; (iii) assessing comparative effectiveness of legal strategies; and (iv) revealing deep patterns in legal architecture. Throughout, the paper emphasizes the extent to which effective law requires: (i) building effective behavioural models; (ii) integrating life-science perspectives with social-science perspectives; (iii) considering the effects of brain biology on behaviours that law seeks to regulate; and (iv) examining the effects of evolutionary processes on brain design.
This essay discusses the strengths and limitations of the new, growing field of law and biology and suggests that advancements in neuroscience can help to bolster that field. It also briefly discusses some ways that neuroscience can help to improve the workings of law more generally.
Advances in evolutionary biology, experimental economics and neuroscience are shedding new light on age-old questions about right and wrong, justice, freedom, the rule of law and the relationship between the individual and the state. Evidence is beginning to accumulate suggesting that humans evolved certain fundamental behavioural predispositions grounded in our intense social natures, that those predispositions are encoded in our brains as a distribution of probable behaviours, and therefore that there may be a core of universal human law.
Combining law and the brain as a matter for study requires the integration not just of two apparently remote fields of study but also of two profoundly different orientations towards research and study. We believe that, in spite of the difficulties, such a combination, perhaps even emerging in a new specialized discipline in the future, will not only enrich both fields but is the ineluctable consequence of the current assault on the secrets of the brain. The effort to bring the fields together is therefore a worthy task, and this issue is the first systematic effort to test this expectation.
Since the symptoms of intoxication with non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists closely mimic symptoms in patients with schizophrenia, [+]-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo-[a,d]-cycloheptene-5,10-iminehydrogenmaleate (MK-801)-treated rodents are often used as a model for schizophrenia. In most studies, acute injections of MK-801 to rats have been used, but in some studies, longer periods of treatment have been performed. In our previous work, alterations in mRNA/protein expression were screened in the cerebral cortex of MK-801 treated rats. Different proteins were altered in different treatment courses of MK-801. The main objective of the present study was to evaluate different treatment periods of treatment with MK-801 in rats as a model for schizophrenia. Thalamus proteins from treated (acute, six and 12 days) and control rats were analyzed with two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry. Our results show that different treatment times of MK-801 to rats give different biochemical results. Therefore, it is important to use the same treatment time in studies that will be compared.
Pharmacological effects of cannabinoid ligands are thought to be mediated through cannabinoid CB1 and CB2 receptor subtypes. Sequence analysis revealed that rat and human cannabinoid CB2 receptors are divergent and share 81% amino acid homology. Pharmacological analysis of the possible species differences between rat and human cannabinoid CB2 receptors was performed using radioligand binding and functional assays. Pronounced species selectivity at the rat cannabinoid CB2 receptor (50- to 140-fold) was observed with AM-1710 (3-(1,1-Dimethyl-heptyl)-1-hydroxy-9-methoxy-benzo[c]chromen-6-one) and AM-1714 (3-(1,1-Dimethyl-heptyl)-1-9-dihydroxy-benzo[c]chromen-6-one). In contrast, JWH-015 ((2-Methyl-1-propyl-1H-indol-3-yl)-napthalen-1-yl-methanone) was 3- to 10-fold selective at the human cannabinoid CB2 receptor. Endocannabinoid ligands were more human receptor selective. Cannabinoid CB2 receptor antagonist, AM-630 ((6-Iodo-2-methyl-1-(2-morpholin-4-yl-ethyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-methanone) was more potent at the rat receptor in radioligand binding and functional assays than that of the human receptor. The findings of the pharmacological differences between the human and rat cannabinoid CB2 receptors in this study provide critical information for characterizing cannabinoid ligands in in vivo rodent models for drug discovery purpose.
The inositol-signaling pathway is a therapeutic target for lithium in the treatment of bipolar disorder. Inositol monophosphatases (IMPases) play a key role in inositol signaling. Lithium's ability to inhibit IMPase 1 is well known, but its effect on IMPase 2 or on the transcriptional regulation of these genes has not been studied. Here, we report the identification and characterization of the minimal promoter of IMPA2 (encoding IMPase 2) in HeLa (epithelial) and SK-N-AS (neuronal) cells. IMPA2 promoter activity appears to be contributed by different elements in the 5' flanking region, suggesting that the gene is differentially regulated in neuronal and non-neuronal cells. Furthermore, IMPA2 promoter activity in both cell lines is downregulated, in a dose-dependent manner, by lithium after treatment for only 24h. This effect is also observed in vivo. Our results suggest a possible role for IMPA2 in bipolar disorder.
Since C57 and 129 mice are the commonly used background strains, a better knowledge of all their behavioural characteristics is important in neuroscience research. Grooming is a complex and essential ritual in the rodent behavioural repertoire, normally proceeding in a cephalocaudal progression (paws-nose-face-body-legs-tail and genitals). Various stressors as well as genetic manipulations have been reported to alter mouse grooming and its patterning, underlying the importance of analysis of grooming behaviours in detail. Although strain differences between C57BL/6 and 129S1/SvImJ substrains have been assessed in many studies, no ethological analyses of their grooming have been performed. Here we show strain differences between these mice in spontaneous (novelty-induced) and artificial (water-induced) grooming. Overall, 129S1/SvImJ mice demonstrated less grooming activity, more interrupted and incomplete bouts, and more incorrect transitions (contrary to the cephalocaudal rule) between patterns, accompanied by lower vertical activity and higher defecation/urination in both tests. These results are consistent with general hypoactive anxious phenotype in 129S1/SvImJ mice and suggest that ethological analysis of mouse grooming may be used in neurobehavioural stress research, including behavioural phenotyping of both mutant and background mice.
Elevated glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) activity is associated with Alzheimer disease. We have found that collapsin response mediator proteins (CRMP) 2 and 4 are physiological substrates of GSK-3. The amino acids targeted by GSK-3 comprise a hyperphosphorylated epitope first identified in plaques isolated from Alzheimer brain. Expression of wild type CRMP2 in primary hippocampal neurons or SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells promotes axon elongation. However, a GSK-3-insensitive CRMP2 mutant has dramatically reduced ability to promote axon elongation, a similar effect to pharmacological inhibition of GSK-3. Hence, we propose that phosphorylation of CRMP proteins by GSK-3 regulates axon elongation. This work provides a direct connection between hyperphosphorylation of these residues and elevated GSK-3 activity, both of which are observed in Alzheimer brain.
Voltage-gated calcium channels play a major role in many important processes including muscle contraction, neurotransmission, excitation-transcription coupling, and hormone secretion. To date, 10 calcium channel alpha(1)-subunits have been reported, of which four code for L-type calcium channels. In our previous work, we uncovered by transcript-scanning the presence of 19 alternatively spliced exons in the L-type Ca(v)1.2 alpha(1)-subunit. Here, we report the smooth muscle-selective expression of alternatively spliced exon 9(*) in Ca(v)1.2 channels found on arterial smooth muscle. Specific polyclonal antibody against exon 9(*) localized the intense expression of 9(*)-containing Ca(v)1.2 channels on the smooth muscle wall of arteries, but the expression on cardiac muscle was low. Whole-cell patch clamp recordings of the 9(*)-containing Ca(v)1.2 channels in HEK293 cells demonstrated -9 and -11-mV hyperpolarized shift in voltage-dependent activation and current-voltage relationships, respectively. The steady-state inactivation property and sensitivity to blockade by nifedipine of the +/-exon 9(*) splice variants were, however, not significantly different. Such cell-selective expression of an alternatively spliced exon strongly indicates the customization and fine tuning of calcium channel functions through alternative splicing of the pore-forming alpha(1)-subunit. The generation of proteomic variations by alternative splicing of the calcium channel Ca(v)1.2 alpha(1)-subunit can potentially provide a flexible mechanism for muscle or neuronal cells to respond to various physiological signals or to diseases.
Microtubule-associated protein tau is abnormally hyperphosphorylated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other tauopathies and is believed to lead to neurodegeneration in this family of diseases. Here we show that infusion of forskolin, a specific cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) activator, into the lateral ventricle of brain in adult rats induced activation of PKA by severalfold and concurrently enhanced the phosphorylation of tau at Ser-214, Ser-198, Ser-199, and or Ser-202 (Tau-1 site) and Ser-396 and or Ser-404 (PHF-1 site), which are among the major abnormally hyperphosphorylated sites seen in AD. PKA activation positively correlated to the extent of tau phosphorylation at these sites. Infusion of forskolin together with PKA inhibitor or glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) inhibitor revealed that the phosphorylation of tau at Ser-214 was catalyzed by PKA and that the phosphorylation at both the Tau-1 and the PHF-1 sites is induced by basal level of GSK-3, because forskolin activated PKA and not GSK-3 and inhibition of the latter inhibited the phosphorylation at Tau-1 and PHF-1 sites. Inhibition of cdc2, cdk5, or MAPK had no significant effect on the forskolin-induced hyperphosphorylation of tau. Forskolin inhibited spatial memory in a dose-dependent manner in the absence but not in the presence of R(p)-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate triethyl ammonium salt, a PKA inhibitor. These results demonstrate for the first time that phosphorylation of tau by PKA primes it for phosphorylation by GSK-3 at the Tau-1 and the PHF-1 sites and that an associated loss in spatial memory is inhibited by inhibition of the hyperphosphorylation of tau. These data provide a novel mechanism of the hyperphosphorylation of tau and identify both PKA and GSK-3 as promising therapeutic targets for AD and other tauopathies.
As axons mature, neurofilament-M (NF-M) expression rises, contributing to maturation of the axonal cytoskeleton and an expansion in axon caliber. This increase is partly due to a rise in NF-M mRNA stability. Such post-transcriptional regulation is often mediated through the binding of specific proteins to the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of mRNAs. Vertebrate NF-M 3'-UTRs are remarkably well conserved, prompting us to test whether similar proteins bind the 3'-UTRs of different vertebrate NF-Ms. Identification of such proteins could lead to insights into the regulation of NF-M expression during development and in response to trauma or disease. Ultraviolet cross-linking analysis of proteins isolated from adult frog (Xenopus laevis), mouse, and rat brains revealed three ribonucleoprotein complexes (97, 70, and 47 kDa) that were present in all species and bound specifically to NF-M 3'-UTRs. Affinity purification of NF-M 3'-UTR-binding proteins from rat brain followed by mass spectrometry and immunoprecipitation assays identified heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) K and hnRNP E1 as the proteins forming the 70- and 47-kDa complexes, respectively. These RNA-binding proteins of the KH domain family recognize CU-rich motifs identical to ones present in NF-M 3'-UTRs. Ultraviolet cross-linking assays performed on Xenopus embryos at different stages of neural development demonstrated that whereas hnRNP K binding occurred at all stages, hnRNP E binding occurred only at the most mature stages of axon development. Since hnRNP E is known to stabilize mRNAs, these results raise the hypothesis that these proteins may contribute to the increases in cytoplasmic levels of NF-M mRNA that accompany axonal maturation.
Motor neurons project onto specific muscles with a distinct positional bias. We have previously shown using electrophysiological techniques that overexpression of ephrin-A5 degrades this topographic map. Here, we show that positional differences in axon terminal areas, an entirely different parameter of neuromuscular topography, are also eliminated with ephrin-A5 overexpression. Therefore, we now have both morphological and electrophysiological approaches to explore the mechanisms of neuromuscular topography.
Seasonal changes in the neuroendocrine actions of gonadal steroid hormones are triggered by fluctuations in daylength. The mechanisms responsible for photoperiodic influences upon the feedback and behavioral effects of testosterone in Siberian hamsters are poorly understood. We hypothesized that daylength regulates the expression of androgen receptor (AR) and/or steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1) in specific forebrain regions. Hamsters were castrated and implanted with either oil-filled capsules or low doses of testosterone; half of the animals remained in 16L/8D and the rest were kept in 10L/14D for the ensuing 70 days. The number of AR-immunoreactive (AR-ir) cells was regulated by testosterone in medial amygdala and caudal arcuate, and by photoperiod in the medial preoptic nucleus and the posterodorsal medial amygdala. A significant interaction between photoperiod and androgen treatment was found in medial preoptic nucleus and posterodorsal medial amygdala. The molecular weight and distribution of SRC-1 were similar to reports in other rodent species, and short days reduced the number of SRC-1-ir cells in posteromedial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and posterodorsal medial amygdala. A significant interaction between androgen treatment and daylength in regulation of SRC-1-ir was found in anterior medial amygdala. The present results indicate that daylength-induced fluctuations in SRC-1 and AR expression may contribute to seasonally changing effects of testosterone.
Plasma membrane Ca2+-ATPase (PMCA) is a calcium pump that exists on the plasma membrane and has a role in keeping the intracellular Ca2+ concentration low. In the current study, the expression of PMCA isoforms in spinal cord tissues was investigated in detail and the changes of the expression was examined after contusion injury. Rats received a weight drop on the thoracic spinal cord as the injury or they received a sham surgery as a control. Three or twenty-four hours after spinal cord injury (SCI), the spinal cord was removed and processed for in situ hybridization, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry. PMCA1-4 mRNAs were expressed in neurons in the control spinal cord. Each isoform of the PMCA proteins showed distinct expression patterns in the spinal cord. PMCA1 and PMCA3 were expressed in all of the layers of gray matter. PMCA2 was also abundant in gray matter, except laminae I and II, while PMCA4 expression was restricted to the superficial layers of the dorsal horn. Distinct expression patterns of the PMCA isoforms suggest differential functions of each isoform in the spinal cord. After spinal cord injury, the expression of PMCA2 was decreased; however, the change in expression of other isoforms showed a tendency of decrease but did not reach a statistically significant level. The decrease in PMCA expression may contribute to the increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration and PMCA may have a role in secondary injury following spinal cord injury.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is a key mediator of the behavioral, autonomic, and endocrine responses to stress. CRF binds two receptors and a CRF-binding protein (CRF-BP), which may inactivate or modulate the actions of CRF at its receptors. The amygdala is an important anatomical substrate for CRF and contains CRF, its receptors, and CRF-BP. Few studies have examined the effects of acute stress on the regulation of amygdala CRF-BP with other CRF system genes. Therefore, we examined the time course of the effects of acute restraint stress on central (CeA) and basolateral (BLA) amygdala CRF system genes. Consistent with our previous study, acute stress increased BLA CRF-BP mRNA shortly after stress offset. Surprisingly, BLA CRF-BP mRNA remained elevated up to 21 h after the stressor. This effect was selective in the BLA as stress did not alter CeA CRF-BP mRNA, and there were no changes in CRF or CRF receptor mRNAs in either amygdala nucleus. These results suggest that alterations in BLA CRF-BP gene expression are a primary response of the BLA/CeA CRF system to acute stress. Because CRF-BP can modulate CRF action, changes in amygdala CRF-BP levels after stress exposure may affect the ability of an organism to adapt to future stressors.
The molecular mechanisms by which neurotrophins regulate growth cone motility are not well understood. This study investigated the signaling involved in transducing BDNF-induced increases of filopodial dynamics. Our results indicate that BDNF regulates filopodial length and number through a Rho kinase-dependent mechanism. Additionally, actin depolymerizing factor (ADF)/cofilin activity is necessary and sufficient to transduce the effects of BDNF. Our data indicate that activation of ADF/cofilin mimics the effects of BDNF on filopodial dynamics, whereas ADF/cofilin inactivity blocks the effects of BDNF. Furthermore, BDNF promotes the activation of ADF/cofilin by reducing the phosphorylation of ADF/cofilin. Although inhibition of myosin II also enhances filopodial length, our results indicate that BDNF signaling is independent of myosin II activity and that the two pathways result in additive effects on filopodial length. Thus, filopodial extension is regulated by at least two independent mechanisms. The BDNF-dependent pathway works via regulation of ADF/cofilin, independently of myosin II activity.
The environmental context previously associated with opiate use plays an important role in human relapse, but the neuronal mechanisms involved in context-induced drug relapse are not known. Using a rat relapse model, we determined the effect of a group II metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist [LY379268 ((-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicylco hexane-4,6-dicarboxylic acid)] on contextual cue-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. LY379268, which acts centrally to reduce evoked glutamate release, was injected systemically or directly into the ventral tegmental area (VTA), a brain area involved in opiate reward and conditioned drug effects. Rats were trained to self-administer intravenous heroin for 12 d; drug infusions were paired with a discrete tone-light cue. Subsequently, lever pressing was extinguished in the presence of the discrete cue in a context that differed from the drug self-administration context in terms of visual, auditory, tactile, and circadian cues. After extinction of lever responding, LY379268 was injected systemically or into the VTA, and nonreinforced responding was determined in the extinction context or the drug context. Exposure to the heroin-associated context induced robust reinstatement of drug seeking, and this effect was attenuated by systemic or intra-VTA injections of LY379268. Results indicate that glutamate transmission in the VTA plays an important role in contextual cue-induced relapse to heroin seeking.
Endocannabinoids form a novel class of retrograde messengers that modulate short- and long-term synaptic plasticity. Depolarization-induced suppression of excitation (DSE) and inhibition (DSI) are the best characterized transient forms of endocannabinoid-mediated synaptic modulation. Stimulation protocols consisting of long-lasting voltage steps to the postsynaptic cell are routinely used to evoke DSE-DSI. Little is known, however, about more physiological conditions under which these molecules are released in vitro. Moreover, the occurrence in vivo of such forms of endocannabinoid-mediated modulation is still controversial. Here we show that physiologically relevant patterns of synaptic activity induce a transient suppression of excitatory transmission onto dopamine neurons in vitro. Accordingly, in vivo endocannabinoids depress the increase in firing and bursting activity evoked in dopamine neurons by prefrontal cortex stimulation. This phenomenon is selectively mediated by the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoyl-glycerol (2-AG), which activates presynaptic cannabinoid type 1 receptors. 2-AG synthesis involves activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors and Ca2+ mobilization from intracellular stores. These findings indicate that dopamine neurons release 2-AG to shape afferent activity and ultimately their own firing pattern. This novel endocannabinoid-mediated self-regulatory role of dopamine neurons may bear relevance in the pathogenesis of neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia and addiction.
Typically, D1 and D2 dopamine (DA) receptors exert opposing actions on intracellular signaling molecules and often have disparate physiological effects; however, the factors determining preferential activation of D1 versus D2 signaling are not clear. Here, in vitro patch-clamp recordings show that DA concentration is a critical determinant of D1 versus D2 signaling in prefrontal cortex (PFC). Low DA concentrations (&lt;500 nm) enhance IPSCs via D1 receptors, protein kinase A, and cAMP. Higher DA concentrations (&gt;1 microm) decrease IPSCs via the following cascade: D2--&gt;G(i)--&gt;platelet-derived growth factor receptor--&gt; increase phospholipase C--&gt; increase IP3--&gt; increase Ca2+--&gt; decrease dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein-32--&gt; increase protein phosphatase 1/2A--&gt; decrease GABA(A). Blockade of any molecule in the D2-linked pathway reveals a D1-mediated increase in IPSCs, suggesting that D1 effects are occluded at higher DA concentrations by this D2-mediated pathway. Thus, DA concentration, by acting through separate signaling cascades, may determine the relative amount of cortical inhibition and thereby differentially regulate the tuning of cortical networks.
Peroxynitrite toxicity is a major cause of neuronal injury in stroke and neurodegenerative disorders. The mechanisms underlying the neurotoxicity induced by peroxynitrite are still unclear. In this study, we observed that TPEN [N,N,N',N'-tetrakis (2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine], a zinc chelator, protected against neurotoxicity induced by exogenous as well as endogenous (coadministration of NMDA and a nitric oxide donor, diethylenetriamine NONOate) peroxynitrite. Two different approaches to detecting intracellular zinc release demonstrated the liberation of zinc from intracellular stores by peroxynitrite. In addition, we found that peroxynitrite toxicity was blocked by inhibitors of 12-lipoxygenase (12-LOX), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and caspase-3 and was associated with mitochondrial membrane depolarization. Inhibition of 12-LOX blocked the activation of p38 MAPK and caspase-3. Zinc itself induced the activation of 12-LOX, generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and activation of p38 MAPK and caspase-3. These data suggest a cell death pathway triggered by peroxynitrite in which intracellular zinc release leads to activation of 12-LOX, ROS accumulation, p38 activation, and caspase-3 activation. Therefore, therapies aimed at maintaining intracellular zinc homeostasis or blocking activation of 12-LOX may provide a novel avenue for the treatment of inflammation, stroke, and neurodegenerative diseases in which the formation of peroxynitrite is thought to be one of the important causes of cell death.
In rats, feeding can be triggered experimentally using many approaches. Included among these are (1) food deprivation and (2) acute microinjection of the neurotransmitter l-glutamate (Glu) or its receptor agonist NMDA into the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA). Under both paradigms, the NMDA receptor (NMDA-R) within the LHA appears critically involved in transferring signals encoded by Glu to stimulate feeding. However, the intracellular mechanisms underlying this signal transfer are unknown. Because protein-tyrosine kinases (PTKs) participate in NMDA-R signaling mechanisms, we determined PTK involvement in LHA mechanisms underlying both types of feeding stimulation through food intake and biochemical measurements. LHA injections of PTK inhibitors significantly suppressed feeding elicited by LHA NMDA injection (up to 69%) but only mildly suppressed deprivation feeding (24%), suggesting that PTKs may be less critical for signals underlying this feeding behavior. Conversely, food deprivation but not NMDA injection produced marked increases in apparent activity for Src PTKs and in the expression of Pyk2, an Src-activating PTK. When considered together, the behavioral and biochemical results demonstrate that, although it is easier to suppress NMDA-elicited feeding by PTK inhibitors, food deprivation readily drives PTK activity in vivo. The latter result may reflect greater PTK recruitment by neurotransmitter receptors, distinct from the NMDA-R, that are activated during deprivation-elicited but not NMDA-elicited feeding. These results also demonstrate how the use of only one feeding stimulation paradigm may fail to reveal the true contributions of signaling molecules to pathways underlying feeding behavior in vivo.
Acute and chronic stress differentially regulate immediate-early gene (IEG) expression in the brain. Although acute stress induces c-Fos and FosB, repeated exposure to stress desensitizes the c-Fos response, but FosB-like immunoreactivity remains high. Several other treatments differentially regulate IEG expression in a similar manner after acute versus chronic exposure. The form of FosB that persists after these chronic treatments has been identified as DeltaFosB, a splice variant of the fosB gene. This study was designed to determine whether the FosB form induced after chronic stress is also DeltaFosB and to map the brain regions and identify the cell populations that exhibit this effect. Western blotting, using an antibody that recognizes all Fos family members, revealed that acute restraint stress caused robust induction of c-Fos and full-length FosB, as well as a small induction of DeltaFosB, in the frontal cortex (fCTX) and nucleus accumbens (NAc). The induction of c-Fos (and to some extent full-length FosB) was desensitized after 10 d of restraint stress, at which point levels of DeltaFosB were high. A similar pattern was observed after chronic unpredictable stress. By use of immunohistochemistry, we found that chronic restraint stress induced DeltaFosB expression predominantly in the fCTX, NAc, and basolateral amygdala, with lower levels of induction seen elsewhere. These findings establish that chronic stress induces DeltaFosB in several discrete regions of the brain. Such induction could contribute to the long-term effects of stress on the brain.
Fragile X syndrome is the most common form of inherited mental retardation and is caused by the loss of function of the Fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). FMRP is an RNA binding protein thought to play a key role in protein synthesis-dependent synaptic plasticity. The regulation of FMRP expression itself is also likely to be an important control point in this process. Here we used dark-reared/light-exposed rats to determine the role of experience in regulating FMRP levels in the visual cortex. We find that FMRP levels increase in the cell bodies and dendrites of visual cortical neurons after as little as 15 min of light exposure. Remarkably, FMRP expression in these neurons returns to baseline levels by 30 min of light exposure. These changes were post-transcriptional because the FMR1 mRNA levels remained constant over this time period. A transient increase in FMRP levels was also observed in synaptic fractions prepared from visual cortices of light-exposed animals. In contrast, alpha-calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II expression showed a sustained upregulation under these conditions. Finally, the increase in FMRP expression was inhibited by blockade of NMDA receptors. This tight temporal-spatial regulation suggests that FMRP plays a dynamic role in a distinct epoch of experience-dependent synaptic plasticity.
HIV-1 Nef is expressed in astrocytes, but a contribution to neuropathogenesis and the development of HIV-associated dementia (HAD) remains uncertain. To determine the neuropathogenic actions of the HIV-1 Nef protein, the brain-derived (YU-2) and blood-derived (NL4-3) Nef proteins were expressed in neural cells using an alphavirus vector, which resulted in astrocyte death (P &lt; 0.001). Supernatants from Nef-expressing astrocytes also caused neuronal death, suggesting the release of neurotoxic molecules by astrocytes. Analysis of pro-inflammatory gene induction in astrocytes expressing Nef revealed increased IP-10 mRNA expression (4000-fold) that was Nef sequence dependent. Recombinant IP-10 caused selective cell death in neurons (P &lt; 0.001) but not astrocytes, and the cytotoxicity of supernatant from astrocytes expressing Nef YU-2 was blocked by an antibody directed against the chemokine receptor CXCR3 (P &lt; 0.001). SCID/NOD mice implanted with a Nef YU-2-expressing vector displayed abnormal motor behavior (P &lt; 0.05), neuroinflammation, and neuronal loss relative to controls. Analysis of mRNA levels in brains from patients with HAD also revealed increased expression of IP-10 (P &lt; 0.05), which was confirmed by immunoreactivity detected principally in astrocytes. Phylogenetic and protein structure analyses of Nef sequences derived from HIV/AIDS patients with and without HAD suggested viral evolution toward a neurotropic Nef protein. These results indicate that HIV-1 Nef contributes to neuropathogenesis by directly causing astrocyte death together with indirect neuronal death through the cytotoxic actions of IP-10 on neurons. Furthermore, Nef molecular diversity was evident in brain tissue among patients with neurological disease and which may influence IP-10 production by astrocytes.
Roger Carpenter is Reader in Oculomotor Physiology at the University of Cambridge. His main research interest is eye movements, and especially the neural decision mechanisms that determine where you look. He is the author of Movements of the Eyes as well as of the highly successful textbook Neurophysiology. In 2000 he was one of the inaugural winners of a national teaching prize.

Ligand-gated ion channels (LGICs) mediate rapid chemical neurotransmission in the mammalian brain. This gene superfamily includes the nicotinic acetylcholine (nAChR), GABA(A), 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3, and glycine receptors. Upon agonist binding these receptors undergo a rapid allosteric transition from the closed to open state. The molecular mechanism of coupling between agonist binding and channel gating remains poorly understood, in part due to the lack of a high-resolution structure of the entire receptor. Miyazawa, Fujiyoshi, and Unwin published a 4A resolution structure of the nAChR, and proposed that a single residue--valine 44 in Loop 2 of the extracellular domain--functions as a critical determinant of a &quot;pin-into-socket&quot; mechanism for receptor activation in nAChR. Here we examined whether this proposed &quot;pin-into-socket&quot; mechanism also contributes to channel activation in the GABA(A) and glycine receptors. We mutated residues corresponding to nAChR valine 44 in the GABA(A) (alpha(1) histidine 56 and beta(2) valine 53) and glycine (alpha(1) threonine 54) receptors. The results obtained in this study do not support a simple &quot;pin-into-socket&quot; mechanism of activation for the activation of GABA(A) and glycine receptors. This conclusion is consistent with other recent reports in which mutations of residues distributed throughout several loops of nAChR, GABA(A) and glycine receptors had large effects on gating behavior.
Mitochondrial impairment has been implicated in the pathogenesis of the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Furthermore, mitochondrial-specific polymorphisms were previously related to other neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson, Friedreich and Alzheimer disease. To investigate if specific genetic polymorphisms within the mitochondrial genome (mtDNA) could act as susceptibility factors and contribute to the clinical expression of sporadic ALS (sALS), we have genotyped predefined European mtDNA haplogroups in 222 Italian patients with sALS and 151 matched controls. Individuals classified as haplogroup I demonstrated a significant decrease in risk of ALS versus individuals carrying the most common haplogroup, H (odds ratio 0.08, 95% confidence interval 0.04-0.4, p &lt; 0.01). Further stratification of the dataset by sex, age and site of onset of disease and survival failed to reach significance for association. Our study provides evidence of the contribution of mitochondrial variation to the risk of ALS development in Caucasians. Further it may help elucidate the mechanism of the mitochondrial dysfunction detectable in ALS, and may be of relevance in development of strategies for the treatment of this disease.
The RNA-binding protein HuD binds to and stabilizes a number of neuronal-specific mRNAs. Recent work from our laboratory indicated that HuD expression is increased in neurons during peripheral nerve regeneration. To gain further insight into the function of this protein in CNS neurons we examined the levels of expression and localization of HuD in hippocampal neurons under normal conditions and in animals subjected to a learning paradigm, contextual fear conditioning (CFC). In the adult hippocampal formation, HuD immunoreactivity was highest in CA3 pyramidal neurons and interneurons in the hilus, moderate in the CA1 region and not detectable in dentate granule cells. Using confocal microscopy we found that HuD immunoreactivity was associated with large cytoplasmic granules in the neuronal cell body and smaller granules in dendrites. Both types of granules were also stained with the ribosomal marker Y10B, suggesting that they also contain ribosomes. Consistent with this idea, subcellular fractionation and immunoprecipitation analyses indicated that HuD is present in both the polysomal (P130) and cytosolic (S130) fraction. In addition to the basal pattern of HuD expression, we examined changes in the levels of this protein 24 h after rats were subjected to a single trial CFC paradigm. HuD protein expression was found to increase in the hilus and CA3 regions of the hippocampus but not in CA1. Our findings suggest that HuD plays a role in synaptic plasticity mechanisms stabilizing mRNAs associated with ribosomes both in the soma and dendrites of hippocampal neurons.
Alcohol abuse adversely affects essentially all the organs of the body, either directly or indirectly. Ethanol may contribute to brain damage via inflammation. Ethanol may also alter CNS immunocompetence and further the progression of certain CNS infections. Nuclear factor (NF)-kappa B helps regulate inflammatory gene expression in glia. It is possible that ethanol effects on CNS pathology are partly a consequence of ethanol modulation of NF-kappa B-associated pathways in glia. We have assessed the effects of 0.5-6 h ethanol exposure on cytokine (5 ng/ml interleukin-1 beta + 100 ng/ml interferon gamma + 30 ng/ml tumor necrosis factor-alpha)-induced NF-kappa B activation in human A172 astroglial cells. Immunoblot analysis indicated that NF-kappa B p65 nuclear translocation occurred within 0.5 h after cytokine stimulation. Stimulation in the presence of ethanol resulted in increased nuclear p65 levels at 3 h, with 200 mM causing a greater increase than 50 mM ethanol. Gel shift assay data suggested that cytokine-induced NF-kappa B binding activity was greatest in cells exposed to 50 mM ethanol, followed by 200 and 0 mM ethanol exposed cells, respectively. Thus, in cytokine-stimulated cells, 200 mM ethanol resulted in greater nuclear p65 levels, yet, 50 mM ethanol exposure resulted in more pronounced DNA binding by NF-kappa B. These findings demonstrate that acute ethanol enhances p65 activity in human astroglia and further support the hypothesis that ethanol-mediated brain pathology involves modulation of NF-kappa B pathways. A better understanding of the mechanistic events involved in ethanol-induced CNS pathology should provide for therapeutic strategies to combat detrimental effects of alcohol on the CNS.
This is the first study of the action of metyrapone on Pavlovian extinction. Pavlovian acquisition memory can be impaired when 50 mg/kg metyrapone, a corticosterone synthesis inhibitor, is injected 90 min before training. It was hypothesized that the same treatment given before extinction may also impair Pavlovian extinction memory, and thereby facilitate recovery of the extinguished behavior. This study examined the behavioral effects of 50 mg/kg metyrapone on the extinction of conditioned freezing following Pavlovian conditioning of tone (CS) and footshock (US). On days 1-2, mice were habituated to the training context. On days 4-5, mice received 4 tone-shock pairings per day. On day 6, metyrapone or saline was injected s.c. 90 min before an extinction session with 60 tone presentations. Probe sessions with 4 tones were conducted in the extinction context on day 7 and in the acquisition context on day 9. Metyrapone treatment did not affect performance during extinction or pre-CS freezing behavior. But metyrapone-treated animals showed greater conditioned freezing when tested with the tone the day after extinction in the extinction context (spontaneous recovery) and 3 days after extinction in the acquisition context (renewal effect). It was concluded that 50 mg/kg metyrapone did not affect extinction performance, but it effectively facilitated the subsequent recovery of the extinguished behavior. This effect may be explained by an impairment of the consolidation of the Pavlovian extinction memory. This interpretation is consistent with previous studies showing that metyrapone may interfere with memory consolidation for a variety of learned responses.

The propriospinal system is important in mediating reflex control and in coordination during locomotion. Propriospinal neurons (PNs) present varied patterns of projections with ascending and/or descending fibers. Following spinal cord contusion injury (SCI) in the rat, certain supraspinal pathways, such as the corticospinal tract, appear to be completely abolished, whereas others, such as the rubrospinal and vestibuospinal tracts, are only partially damaged. The amount of damage to propriospinal axons following different severities of SCI is not fully known. In the present study retrograde and anterograde tracing techniques were used to assess the projection patterns of propriospinal neurons in order to determine how this system is affected following SCI. Our findings reveal that PNs have differential vulnerabilities to SCI. While short thoracic propriospinal axons are severely damaged after injury, 5-7% of long descending propriospinal tract (LDPT) projections survive following 50 and 12.5-mm weight drop contusion lesions, respectively, albeit with a reduced intensity of retrograde label. Even though the axons of short thoracic propriospinal cells are damaged, their cell bodies of origin remain intact 2 weeks after injury, indicating that they have not undergone postaxotomy retrograde cell death at this time point. Thus, short PNs may constitute a very attractive population of cells to study regenerative approaches, whereas LDPT neurons with spared axons could be targeted with therapeutic interventions, seeking to enhance recovery of function following incomplete lesions to the spinal cord.
Two kinds of constancy underlie the everyday perception of surface colour: constancy under changes in illuminant and constancy under changes in surface position. Classically, these two constancies seem to place conflicting demands on the visual system: to both take into account the region surrounding a surface and also discount it. It is shown here, however, that the ability of observers to make surface-colour matches across simultaneous changes in test-surface position and illuminant in computer-generated 'Mondrian' patterns is almost as good as across changes in illuminant alone. Performance was no poorer when the surfaces surrounding the test surface were permuted, or when information from a potential comparison surface, the one with the highest luminance, was suppressed. Computer simulations of cone-photoreceptor activity showed that a reliable cue for making surface-colour matches in all experimental conditions was provided by the ratios of cone excitations between the test surfaces and a spatial average over the whole pattern.
Inhibitory glycine receptors are most abundant in spinal cord and brainstem, and glycinergic synapses have a well-established role in the regulation of locomotor behavior. Little is known about the function of glycine receptors in cortex and hippocampus, where GABA plays a dominant role in synaptic inhibition. Therefore, we have investigated tissue and cellular expression of glycine receptor alpha-subunits. Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses reveal the presence of glycine receptors in hippocampal tissue. Immunocytochemical experiments in hippocampal cultures show prominent cellular expression of glycine receptors in pyramidal neurons and GAD-positive interneurons similar to the calcium-binding protein VILIP-1 with widespread hippocampal distribution. On the subcellular level we found co-staining of GlyR and the presynaptic marker synapsin I. Furthermore, co-staining with GAD at synaptic terminals indicated partial co-localization of GABA- and glycine receptors.
Two to twelve weeks after crushing a muscle nerve, still before the damaged afferents reinnervate the muscle receptors, conditioning stimulation of group I fibers from flexor muscles depolarizes the damaged afferents [M. Enriquez, I. Jimenez, P. Rudomin, Changes in PAD patterns of group I muscle afferents after a peripheral nerve crush. Exp. Brain Res., 107 (1996), 405-420]. It is not known, however, if this primary afferent depolarization (PAD) is indeed related to presynaptic inhibition. We now show in the cat that 2-12 weeks after crushing the medial gastrocnemius nerve (MG), conditioning stimulation of group I fibers from flexors increases the excitability of the intraspinal terminals of both the intact lateral gastrocnemius plus soleus (LGS) and of the previously damaged MG fibers ending in the motor pool, because of PAD. The PAD is associated with the depression of the pre- and postsynaptic components of the extracellular field potentials (EFPs) evoked in the motor pool by stimulation of either the intact LGS or of the previously damaged MG nerves. These observations indicate, in contrast to what has been reported for crushed cutaneous afferents [K.W. Horch, J.W. Lisney, Changes in primary afferent depolarization of sensory neurones during peripheral nerve regeneration in the cat, J. Physiol., 313 (1981), 287-299], that shortly after damaging their peripheral axons, the synaptic efficacy of group I spindle afferents remains under central control. Presynaptic inhibitory mechanisms could be utilized to adjust the central actions of muscle afferents not fully recovered from peripheral lesions.
The overall objective of the present experiment was to assess sex differences in the effects of repeated restraint stress on fear-induced defensive behavior and general emotional behavior. Groups of male and female Long-Evans rats received either daily restraint stress (stressed) or daily brief handling (nonstressed) for 21 consecutive days. On days 22-25, a number of behavioral tests were administered concluding with a test of defensive behavior in response to a predatory odor. Stressed and nonstressed males and females were exposed to a piece of cat collar previously worn by a female domestic cat (cat odor) or a piece of collar never worn by a cat (control odor) in a familiar open field containing a hide barrier. Rats displayed pronounced defensive behavior (increased hiding and risk assessment) and decreased nondefensive behavior (grooming, rearing) in response to the cat odor. Nonstressed females exposed to cat odor displayed less risk assessment behavior relative to nonstressed males exposed to cat odor. Restraint stress had little effect on defensive behavior in male rats but significantly increased risk assessment behaviors in females. Behavior on the Porsolt forced swim test (a measure of depression-like behavior) and the open field test (a measure of anxiety-like behavior) was not affected by stress or sex. These findings indicate the utility of the predator odor paradigm in detecting subtle shifts in naturally occurring anxiety-like behaviors that may occur differentially in males and females.
We have developed a monoclonal antibody (4A7) directed against the C-terminus of the ataxin-2 protein that is involved in the polyglutamine neurodegenerative disorder spinocerebellar ataxia type 2. Comparison with other ataxin-2 antibodies showed that 4A7 specifically recognized ataxin-2. In contrast, a previously reported ataxin-2 antibody (15F6) did not appear to recognize full-length ataxin-2 in our systems. Immunocytochemical and subcellular fractionation studies using 4A7 confirmed previous reports that ataxin-2 is localized to both the cytoplasm and the trans-Golgi network in rat PC12 cells and rat brain tissue. In contrast, 4A7 failed to label the trans-Golgi network in the three primate cell lines examined. Cytoplasmic ataxin-2 was not associated with mitochondria, lysosomes, endoplasmic reticulum, peroxisomes, proteasomes, clathrin-coated pits or vesicles, or F-actin. Ataxin-2 was found to be phosphorylated but not glycosylated, and exhibited an estimated half-life of not less than 21 h. Interestingly, another commercially available ataxin-2 antibody did not detect ataxin-2 localized to the trans-Golgi network. This antibody was also found to immunoprecipitate fewer proteins/protein partners than 4A7. Although cross-reactivity of the 4A7 antibody with other protein(s) cannot be ruled out, it appears likely that the interaction of ataxin-2 with other cell components is dependent on both the host cell type and its subsequent subcellular localization.
Peripheral nerve regeneration has been studied extensively in the sciatic nerve crush model, at the level of both function and gene expression. The crush injury allows full recovery of sensory and motor function in about 3 weeks as assessed by the foot reflex withdrawal test and De Medinacelli walking patterns. We used the recently developed CatWalk paradigm to study walking patterns in more detail in mice and rats. We found that, following the recovery of sensory function, the animals developed a state of mechanical allodynia, which retreated slowly over time. The motor function, although fully recovered with the conventional methods, was revealed to be still impaired because the animals did not put weight on their previously injured paw. The development of neuropathic pain following successful sensory recovery has not been described before in crush-lesioned animals and may provide an important new parameter to assess full sensory recovery.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is critical to the health of the central nervous system. The BBB is formed primarily by the presence of tight junctions (TJ) between cerebral microvessel endothelial cells. In light of the known effects of nicotine on endothelial cell biology, the specific effects of nicotine on the in vivo BBB were examined. Using in situ brain perfusion, it was found that continuous administration of nicotine (4.5 mg free base x kg(-1) x day(-1)) for 1 and 7 days led to increased permeability of the BBB to [14C]-sucrose without significant changes in its initial volume of distribution. The expression and distribution of the TJ-associated proteins actin, occludin, claudin-1, -3, and -5, and ZO-1 and -2 were analyzed by Western blot and immunofluorescence microscopy. Though no changes in total protein expression were observed, nicotine treatment was associated with altered cellular distribution of ZO-1 and diminished junctional immunoreactivity of claudin-3. It is proposed that nicotine leads to changes in BBB permeability via the modulation of TJ proteins.
The present study was aimed at assessing the in vivo effectiveness of the positive allosteric modulator of the gamma-aminobutyric acidB (GABAB) receptor, CGP7930 [2,6-di-tert-butyl-4-(3-hydroxy-2,2-dimethyl-propyl)-phenol]. The synergistic potentiation of GABAB receptor functioning, previously observed in different in vitro assays, has been confirmed in the present work, where pretreatment with CGP7930 (10-170 mg/kg, i.p.) resulted in a marked potentiation of the sedative/hypnotic effect of the GABAB receptor agonists, baclofen (40 mg/kg, i.p.) and gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (500 mg/kg, i.p.), in DBA mice. Pretreatment with the GABAB receptor antagonist, SCH 50911 [(S)-5,5-dimethyl-2-morpholine acetic acid; 100 mg/kg, i.p.], resulted in a complete blockade of the sedative/hypnotic effect of the combination of CGP7930 with either baclofen or gamma-hydroxybutyric acid. These results confirm that CGP7930 may constitute an interesting tool for pharmacological studies in the GABAB receptor field.
Accumulation of cerebral amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) is believed to be part of the pathogenic process in Alzheimer's disease. Abeta is derived by proteolytic cleavage from a precursor protein, the amyloid precursor protein (APP). APP is a type-1 membrane-spanning protein, and its carboxyl-terminal intracellular domain binds to X11beta, a neuronal adaptor protein. X11beta has been shown to inhibit the production of Abeta in transfected non-neuronal cells in culture. However, whether this is also the case in vivo in the brain and whether X11beta can also inhibit the deposition of Abeta as amyloid plaques is not known. Here we show that transgenic overexpression of X11beta in neurons leads to a decrease in cerebral Abeta levels in transgenic APPswe Tg2576 mice that are a model of the amyloid pathology of Alzheimer's disease. Moreover, overexpression of X11beta retards amyloid plaque formation in these APPswe mice. Our findings suggest that modulation of X11beta function may represent a novel therapeutic approach for preventing the amyloid pathology of Alzheimer's disease.
Malaria is a protozoan disease caused in humans by the genus Plasmodium of which four species are known: P. falciparum, P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae. It is transmitted through the bite of infected female mosquitoes of the genus Anopheles. Malaria is endemic in tropical and subtropical regions of the world. It is characterized by extreme exhaustion associated with paroxysms of high fever, sweating, shaking chills, and anemia. Approximately 40% of the world''s population, mostly those living in the poorest nations, are at risk. Much of the deaths due to malaria occur in Africa, mostly among children. The search for prevention and control interventions that are effective and sustainable remains an abiding challenge for national governments and international health agencies. To this end, the World Health Organization and several nongovernmental organizations are investing in the use of insecticide-treated mosquito nets (ITMNs) as a viable option. Trials of ITMNs in the 1980s and 1990s showed that they reduce deaths in young children by an average of 20% and multilateral agencies, spearheaded by Roll Back Malaria (RBM), seek to have 60% of the populations at risk sleeping under ITMNs by 2005. All pesticides are toxic by nature and present risks of adverse effects that depend on toxicity of the chemical and the degree of exposure. While there is agreement that ITMNs can be effective in reducing malaria morbidity and mortality under field trials, a number of factors relating to their sustainability and contribution to health improvement in less-developed countries have yet to be determined. In particular, the adverse effects associated with their long-term use and misuse has yet to be fully evaluated. Although this paper examines potential neurotoxic and neurobehavioral effects of long-term use of ITMNs and discusses priority public health actions for protecting the health of users, it forms the basis for further research.
(3-tert-Butyl-7-(5-methylisoxazol-3-yl)-2-(1-methyl-1H-1,2,4-triazol-5-ylmethoxy)pyrazolo[1,5-d][1,2,4]triazine (13) has been identified as a functionally selective, inverse agonist at the benzodiazepine site of GABA(A) alpha5 receptors. 13 is orally bioavailable, readily penetrates the CNS, and enhances performance in animal models of cognition. It does not exhibit the convulsant, proconvulsant, or anxiogenic activity associated with nonselective GABA(A) inverse agonists.
This report describes the discovery of the first centrally active allosteric modulators of the metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5). Appropriately substituted N-(1,3-diphenyl-1H-pyrazol-5-yl)benzamides (e.g., 8) have been identified as a novel class of potent positive allosteric modulators of mGluR5 that potentiate the response to glutamate. An iterative analogue library synthesis approach provided potentiators with excellent potency and selectivity for mGluR5 (vs mGluRs 1-4, 7, 8). Compound 8q demonstrated in vivo proof of concept in an animal behavior model where known antipsychotics are active, supporting the development of new antipsychotics based on the NMDA hypofunction model for schizophrenia.

The amygdala is instrumental to a set of brain processes that lead to cocaine consumption, including those that mediate reward and drug craving. This study examined the volumes of the amygdala and hippocampus in cocaine-addicted subjects and matched healthy controls and determined that the amygdala but not the hippocampus was significantly reduced in volume. The right-left amygdala asymmetry in control subjects was absent in the cocaine addicts. Topological analysis of amygdala isosurfaces (population averages) revealed that the isosurface of the cocaine-dependent group undercut the anterior and superior surfaces of the control group, implicating a difference in the corticomedial and basolateral nuclei. In cocaine addicts, amygdala volume did not correlate with any measure of cocaine use. The amygdala symmetry coefficient did correlate with baseline but not cocaine-primed craving. These findings argue for a condition that predisposes the individual to cocaine dependence by affecting the amygdala, or a primary event early in the course of cocaine use.
Cerebellar parallel fiber (PF)-Purkinje cell (PC) synapses can undergo postsynaptically expressed long-term depression (LTD) or long-term potentiation (LTP) depending on whether or not the climbing fiber (CF) input is coactivated during tetanization. Here, we show that modifications of the postsynaptic calcium load using the calcium chelator BAPTA or photolytic calcium uncaging result in a reversal of the expected polarity of synaptic gain change. At higher concentrations, BAPTA blocks PF-LTP. These data indicate that PF-LTD requires a higher calcium threshold amplitude than PF-LTP induction and suggest that CF activity acts as a polarity switch by providing dendritic calcium transients. Moreover, previous CF-LTD induction changes the relative PF-LTD versus -LTP induction probability. These findings suggest that bidirectional cerebellar learning is governed by a calcium threshold rule operating &quot;inverse&quot; to the mechanism previously described at other glutamatergic synapses (BCM rule) and that the LTD/LTP induction probability is under heterosynaptic climbing fiber control.
Computational models based on hippocampal connectivity have proposed that CA3 is uniquely positioned as an autoassociative memory network, capable of performing the competing functions of pattern completion and pattern separation. Recently, three independent studies, two using parallel neurophysiological recording methods and one using immediate-early gene imaging, have examined the responses of CA3 and CA1 ensembles to alterations of environmental context in rats. The results provide converging evidence that CA3 is capable of performing nonlinear transformations of sensory input patterns, whereas CA1 may represent changes in input in a more linear fashion.
The process by which excess axons are pruned during development has remained unclear. In this issue of Neuron, Bishop et al. use time-lapse imaging and serial electron microscopy of developing neuromuscular junctions to describe a novel cellular mechanism in which retracting axon branches shed fragments rich in normal synaptic organelles. These &quot;axosomes&quot; are engulfed by adjacent Schwann cells and may be assimilated into the glial cytoplasm. Shedding of axosomes and glial engulfment may represent a widespread mechanism of synapse elimination.
BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was firstly, to improve and validate a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) prefractionation method followed by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) and secondly, using this strategy to investigate differences between the CSF proteome of frontotemporal dementia (FTD) patients and controls. From each subject three ml of CSF was prefractionated using liquid phase isoelectric focusing prior to 2-DE. RESULTS: With respect to protein recovery and purification potential, ethanol precipitation of the prefractionated CSF sample was found superior, after testing several sample preparation methods.The reproducibility of prefractionated CSF analyzed on 2-D gels was comparable to direct 2-DE analysis of CSF. The protein spots on the prefractionated 2-D gels had an increased intensity, indicating a higher protein concentration, compared to direct 2-D gels. Prefractionated 2-DE analysis of FTD and control CSF showed that 26 protein spots were changed at least two fold. Using mass spectrometry, 13 of these protein spots were identified, including retinol-binding protein, Zn-alpha-2-glycoprotein, proapolipoproteinA1, beta-2-microglobulin, transthyretin, albumin and alloalbumin. CONCLUSION: The results suggest that the prefractionated 2-DE method can be useful for enrichment of CSF proteins and may provide a new tool to investigate the pathology of neurodegenerative diseases. This study confirmed reduced levels of retinol-binding protein and revealed some new biomarker candidates for FTD.
We used a 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNP)-enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) transgenic mouse to study postnatal subventricular zone (SVZ) progenitor fate, with a focus on the olfactory bulb (OB). The postnatal OB of the CNP-EGFP mouse contained EGFP+ interneurons and oligodendrocytes. In the anterior SVZ, the majority of EGFP+ progenitors were NG2+. These NG2+/EGFP+ progenitors expressed the OB interneuron marker Er81, the neuroblast markers doublecortin (DC) and Distalless-related homeobox (DLX), or the oligodendrocyte progenitor marker Nkx2.2. In the rostral migratory stream (RMS), EGFP+ cells displayed a migrating phenotype. A fraction of these cells were either NG2-/Er81+/DC+/DLX+ or NG2+/Nkx2.2+. DiI (1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate) injection into the lateral ventricle (LV) of early postnatal mice demonstrated that NG2+/EGFP+ progenitors migrate from the SVZ through the RMS into the OB. Moreover, fluorescence-activated cell-sorting-purified NG2+/CNP-EGFP+ or NG2+/beta-actin-enhanced yellow fluorescent protein-positive (EYFP+) progenitors transplanted into the early postnatal LV displayed extensive rostral and caudal migration. EYFP+ or EGFP+ graft-derived cells within the RMS were DLX+/Er81+ or Nkx2.2+, migrated to the OB, and differentiated to interneurons and oligodendrocytes. In the subcortical white matter (SCWM), grafted cells differentiated to either oligodendrocytes or astrocytes. Transplantation of NG2+/EYFP+ progenitors selectively purified from the SVZ showed that these cells were migratory and generated glia and neurons in the OB, hippocampus, and striatum. In contrast, cortical, OB, or cerebellar NG2+ cells had a very limited migratory potential and gave rise to glia in the SCWM and striatum. Our findings indicate region-specific differences between NG2+ progenitor cells and show that NG2+ cells can migrate throughout the RMS and contribute to both gliogenesis and neurogenesis in the postnatal OB.
Activation of the neurotrophin receptor p75 has been shown to elicit opposing cellular signals. Depending on the context of the cell, p75 will either promote survival or induce apoptosis after neurotrophin stimulation. p75-induced apoptosis occurs through activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), whereas the survival signal is mediated by nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB). The receptor proximal signals that produce these responses are unknown, although several molecules have been identified that associate with the intracellular domain of p75. One such interactor, TRAF6, a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor family, has been implicated in p75 signaling. To assess the role of TRAF6 in p75 signaling, we analyzed mice with this gene deleted. In Schwann cells isolated from traf6+/+ animals, NGF elicited an 80% increase in transcription of an NFkappaB reporter; however, in traf6-/- cells, the NGF response was abrogated. Similarly, NGF activation of JNK was not apparent in Schwann cells from mice lacking traf6. Deficiencies in p75 signaling in traf6-/- animals resulted in a loss of p75-mediated apoptosis. In sympathetic neurons cultured from traf6+/+ superior cervical ganglia (SCGs), there was an increase in JNK activation and apoptosis after BDNF binding to p75; however, traf6-/- neurons did not respond. In vivo during naturally occurring cell death, there was a 55.6% reduction in TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling)-positive cells in the SCG of postnatal day 4 traf6-/- animals relative to traf6+/+ littermates. These results indicate that TRAF6 plays an essential role in mediating p75 signal transduction and induction of apoptosis.
The role of the brain in chronic pain conditions remains speculative. We compared brain morphology of 26 chronic back pain (CBP) patients to matched control subjects, using magnetic resonance imaging brain scan data and automated analysis techniques. CBP patients were divided into neuropathic, exhibiting pain because of sciatic nerve damage, and non-neuropathic groups. Pain-related characteristics were correlated to morphometric measures. Neocortical gray matter volume was compared after skull normalization. Patients with CBP showed 5-11% less neocortical gray matter volume than control subjects. The magnitude of this decrease is equivalent to the gray matter volume lost in 10-20 years of normal aging. The decreased volume was related to pain duration, indicating a 1.3 cm3 loss of gray matter for every year of chronic pain. Regional gray matter density in 17 CBP patients was compared with matched controls using voxel-based morphometry and nonparametric statistics. Gray matter density was reduced in bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and right thalamus and was strongly related to pain characteristics in a pattern distinct for neuropathic and non-neuropathic CBP. Our results imply that CBP is accompanied by brain atrophy and suggest that the pathophysiology of chronic pain includes thalamocortical processes.
Striatal cholinergic interneurons are critical elements of the striatal circuitry controlling motor planning, movement, and associative learning. Intrastriatal release of dopamine and inhibition of interneuron activity is thought to be a critical link between behaviorally relevant events, such as reward, and alterations in striatal function. However, the mechanisms mediating this modulation are unclear. Using a combination of electrophysiological, molecular, and computational approaches, the studies reported here show that D2 dopamine receptor modulation of Na+ currents underlying autonomous spiking contributes to a slowing of discharge rate, such as that seen in vivo. Four lines of evidence support this conclusion. First, D2 receptor stimulation in tissue slices reduced the autonomous spiking in the presence of synaptic blockers. Second, in acutely isolated neurons, D2 receptor activation led to a reduction in Na+ currents underlying pacemaking. The modulation was mediated by a protein kinase C-dependent enhancement of channel entry into a slow-inactivated state at depolarized potentials. Third, the sodium channel blocker TTX mimicked the effects of D2 receptor agonists on pacemaking. Fourth, simulation of cholinergic interneuron pacemaking revealed that a modest increase in the entry of Na+ channels into the slow-inactivated state was sufficient to account for the slowing of pacemaker discharge. These studies establish a cellular mechanism linking dopamine and the reduction in striatal cholinergic interneuron activity seen in the initial stages of associative learning.
Glutamate together with its N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors has an important role in the transmission of stimuli in the spinal cord. Whilst the expression of the various NMDA receptor subunits within the spinal cord has been investigated the subcellular location of the NMDA NR2B subunit has yet to be definitively established. Both mRNA and light microscopical studies have failed to unequivocally demonstrate the proposed pre-synaptic location of this subunit. This has been proposed from pharmacological data and is thought to underlie the apparent analgesic properties of selective NR2B antagonists. Using pre-embedding immunohistochemistry combined with electron microscopy our findings provide the first definitive morphological evidence for both a pre- and post-synaptic localisation of NR2B/containing NMDA receptors, and suggest expression by astrocytes, in the rat lumbar spinal cord.
Adenosine appears to be an endogenous somnogen. The lateral dorsal tegmental/pedunculopontine nucleus (LDT/PPT) located in the mesopontine tegmentum is important in the regulation of arousal. Neurons in this nucleus are strongly hyperpolarized by adenosine and express neuronal nitric oxide synthase. Zaprinast is a cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor, and has been shown in the hippocampal slice to inhibit the field excitatory postsynaptic potential. This action could be blocked by an adenosine receptor antagonist, and therefore is presumably due to adenosine release stimulated by zaprinast. In the present study we tested the effect of zaprinast on extracellular adenosine accumulation in pontine slices containing the LDT. Zaprinast at 10 microM evoked an increase in extracellular adenosine concentration. This effect was blocked by impermeant inhibitors of 5'-nucleotidase, indicating that the extracellular adenosine was derived from extracellular AMP. However, inhibitors of cAMP degradation had little or no effect on zaprinast-evoked adenosine accumulation, suggesting that extracellular cAMP was not the source. Removal of extracellular calcium inhibited the effect of zaprinast. These results demonstrate that a pathway exists by which zaprinast stimulates extracellular adenosine accumulation, and the presence of this pathway in the pontine slice suggests the possibility that it may be relevant for the regulation of behavioral state.
Regulator of G protein signaling (RGS) proteins negatively regulate receptor-mediated second messenger responses by enhancing the GTPase activity of Galpha subunits. We describe a receptor-specific role for an RGS protein at the level of an individual brain neuron. RGS9-2 and Gbeta(5) mRNA and protein complexes were detected in striatal cholinergic and gamma-aminobutyric acidergic neurons. Dialysis of cholinergic neurons with RGS9 constructs enhanced basal Ca(2+) channel currents and reduced D(2) dopamine receptor modulation of Cav2.2 channels. These constructs did not alter M(2) muscarinic receptor modulation of Cav2.2 currents in the same neuron. The noncatalytic DEP-GGL domain of RGS9 antagonized endogenous RGS9-2 activity, enhancing D(2) receptor modulation of Ca(2+) currents. In vitro, RGS9 constructs accelerated GTPase activity, in agreement with electrophysiological measurements, and did so more effectively at Go than Gi. These results implicate RGS9-2 as a specific regulator of dopamine receptor-mediated signaling in the striatum and identify a role for GAP activity modulation by the DEP-GGL domain.
Since the dawn of experimental psychology, researchers have sought an understanding of the fundamental relationship between the amplitude of sensory stimuli and the magnitudes of their perceptual representations. Contemporary theories support the view that magnitude is encoded by a linear increase in firing rate established in the primary afferent pathways. In the present study, we have investigated sound intensity coding in the rat primary auditory cortex (AI) and describe its plasticity by following paired stimulus reinforcement and instrumental conditioning paradigms. In trained animals, population-response strengths in AI became more strongly nonlinear with increasing stimulus intensity. Individual AI responses became selective to more restricted ranges of sound intensities and, as a population, represented a broader range of preferred sound levels. These experiments demonstrate that the representation of stimulus magnitude can be powerfully reshaped by associative learning processes and suggest that the code for sound intensity within AI can be derived from intensity-tuned neurons that change, rather than simply increase, their firing rates in proportion to increases in sound intensity.
The adult mammalian CNS shows a very limited capacity to regenerate after injury. However, endogenous precursors, or stem cells, provide a potential source of new neurons in the adult brain. Here, we induce the birth of new corticospinal motor neurons (CSMN), the CNS neurons that die in motor neuron degenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and that cause loss of motor function in spinal cord injury. We induced synchronous apoptotic degeneration of CSMN and examined the fates of newborn cells arising from endogenous precursors, using markers for DNA replication, neuroblast migration, and progressive neuronal differentiation, combined with retrograde labeling from the spinal cord. We observed neuroblasts entering the neocortex and progressively differentiating into mature pyramidal neurons in cortical layer V. We found 20-30 new neurons per mm(3) in experimental mice vs. 0 in controls. A subset of these newborn neurons projected axons into the spinal cord and survived &gt;56 weeks. These results demonstrate that endogenous precursors can differentiate into even highly complex long-projection CSMN in the adult mammalian brain and send new projections to spinal cord targets, suggesting that molecular manipulation of endogenous neural precursors in situ may offer future therapeutic possibilities for motor neuron degenerative disease and spinal cord injury.
Practitioners understand &quot;meditation,&quot; or mental training, to be a process of familiarization with one's own mental life leading to long-lasting changes in cognition and emotion. Little is known about this process and its impact on the brain. Here we find that long-term Buddhist practitioners self-induce sustained electroencephalographic high-amplitude gamma-band oscillations and phase-synchrony during meditation. These electroencephalogram patterns differ from those of controls, in particular over lateral frontoparietal electrodes. In addition, the ratio of gamma-band activity (25-42 Hz) to slow oscillatory activity (4-13 Hz) is initially higher in the resting baseline before meditation for the practitioners than the controls over medial frontoparietal electrodes. This difference increases sharply during meditation over most of the scalp electrodes and remains higher than the initial baseline in the postmeditation baseline. These data suggest that mental training involves temporal integrative mechanisms and may induce short-term and long-term neural changes.
The cytoprotective activity of MITO-4565, a novel, non-hormonal, estradiol derivative, was evaluated in the S334ter transgenic model of retinitis pigmentosa (RP). Progressive blindness in RP is due to apoptotic death of the photoreceptors, a process mimicked by the animal models [Portera-Cailliau C, Sung C-H, Nathans J, Adler R. Apoptotic photoreceptor cell death in mouse models of retinitis pigmentosa. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1994;91:974-8]. On postnatal day 9, 10 transgenic S334ter rats received a single intraocular injection of MITO-4565 in the left eye, and vehicle in the right eye. By postnatal day 20, the thickness of the outer nuclear layer (ONL) in the superior retina of the untreated eyes was 5.76 +/- 1.12 microm (N = 10), versus 10.72 +/- 1.52 microm (N = 10) for eyes treated with MITO-4565 (P &lt; 0.0001, ANOVA F = 1671). Comparable cytoprotection was also observed for the inferior retina. Cytoprotection by MITO-4565 was also observed in primary cultures of rat retinal ganglion cells against NMDA excitotoxicity. Data from studies of hexose monophosphate shunt flux, mitochondrial stability, and in vitro lipid peroxidation, are in accord with previous reports [Green PS, Gridley KE, Simpkins JW. Nuclear estrogen receptor independent neuroprotection by estratrienes: a novel interaction with glutathione. Neuroscience 1997;84:7-10]; a likely mechanism of action entails moderation of membrane lipid peroxidation in a redox couple with glutathione. Such preservation of membrane integrity is particularly crucial to mitochondria, where collapse of membrane potential precipitates cell death, and where GSH is maintained at mM concentrations. Indeed, exposure to MITO-4565, but not a methoxy substituted negative control, allowed mitochondria to retain membrane potential (DeltaPsi(m)) under conditions of Ca(2+) overload that would normally induce complete mitochondrial failure. Mitochondrial interventions offer a novel therapeutic approach for RP, and other degenerative diseases of the retina.
High-throughput screening with cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5)/p25 led to the discovery of N-(5-isopropyl-thiazol-2-yl)isobutyramide (1). This compound is an equipotent inhibitor of cdk5 and cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (cdk2)/cyclin E (IC(50)=ca. 320nM). Parallel and directed synthesis techniques were utilized to explore the SAR of this series. Up to 60-fold improvements in potency at cdk5 and 12-fold selectivity over cdk2 were achieved.
The Ca(2+)-permeable channel TRPM8 is thought to play an important role in the pathophysiology of prostate cancer. We have investigated the intracellular location of TRPM8 and its role as a Ca(2+)-permeable channel in an androgen-responsive and an androgen-insensitive prostate cancer cell line. We report evidence from immunofluorescence experiments that in the androgen-responsive LNCaP cell line, the TRPM8 protein is expressed in the endoplasmic reticulum and plasma membrane, acts as a Ca(2+)-permeable channel (assessed using Fura-2 to measure increases in the cytoplasmic Ca(2+) concentration) in each of these membranes, and is regulated by androgen. Although TRPM8 was detected in the androgen-insensitive PC-3 cell line, no evidence was obtained for regulation of its expression by androgen. The results of experiments using LNCaP cells, the TRPM8 antagonist capsazepine, and small interference RNA targeted to TRPM8 indicate that TRPM8 is required for cell survival. These results indicate that TRPM8 is an important determinator of Ca(2+) homeostasis in prostate epithelial cells and may be a potential target for the action of drugs in the management of prostate cancer.
The past few years have seen remarkable progress in our understanding of embryonic stem cell (ES cell) biology. The necessity of examining human ES cells in culture, coupled with the wealth of genomic data and the multiplicity of cell lines available, has enabled researchers to identify critical conserved pathways regulating self-renewal and identify markers that tightly correlate with the ES cell state. Comparison across species has suggested additional pathways likely to be important in long-term self-renewal of ES cells including heterochronic genes, microRNAs, genes involved in telomeric regulation, and polycomb repressors. In this review, we have discussed information on molecules known to be important in ES cell self-renewal or blastocyst development and highlighted known differences between mouse and human ES cells. We suggest that several additional pathways required for self-renewal remain to be discovered and these likely include genes involved in antisense regulation, microRNAs, as well as additional global repressive pathways and novel genes. We suggest that cross species comparisons using large-scale genomic analysis tools are likely to reveal conserved and divergent paths required for ES cell self-renewal and will allow us to derive ES lines from species and strains where this has been difficult.
Microglia, the major immune effector cells in the central nervous system, are activated when the brain suffers injury. A number of studies indicate that gangliosides activate microglia. However, the signaling mechanisms involved in microglial activation are not yet to be elucidated. Our results show that gangliosides induce the expression of interleukin (IL)-1beta, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in rat brain microglia and BV2 murine microglia via protein kinase C (PKC) and NADPH oxidase. Expression of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and iNOS in ganglioside-treated cells was significantly reduced in the presence of inhibitors of PKC (GF109203X, Go6976, Ro31-8220, and rottlerin) and NADPH oxidase (diphenyleneiodonium chloride [DPI]). In response to gangliosides, PKC-alpha, betaII, and delta and NADPH oxidase p67(phox) translocated from the cytosol to the membrane. ROS generation was also activated within 5 min of ganglioside treatment. Ganglioside-induced ROS generation was blocked by PKC inhibitors. Furthermore, ganglioside-induced activation of NF-kappaB, an essential transcription factor that mediates the expression of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and iNOS, was reduced in the presence of GF109203X and DPI. Our results collectively suggest that gangliosides activate microglia via PKC and NADPH oxidase, which regulate activation of NF-kappaB.
Astrocytes express gap junction proteins and multiple types of P2Y receptors (P2YRs) that contribute to the propagation of intercellular Ca(2+) waves (ICW). To gain access to the role played by gap junctional communication in ICW propagation generated by P2YR activation, we selectively expressed P2Y(1,2,4)R subtypes and Cx43 in the human 1321N1 astrocytoma cell line, which lacks endogenous P2 receptors. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching revealed that 1321N1 cells are poorly dye-coupled and do not propagate ICW. Forced expression of Cx43 in 1321N1 cells (which did not show functional hemichannels) increased dye coupling and allowed short-range ICW transmission that was mainly mediated by intercellular diffusion of Ca(2+) generated in the stimulated cells. Astrocytoma clones expressing each of the P2YR subtypes were also able to propagate ICWs that were likely dependent on IP(3) generation. These waves exhibited properties particular to each P2YR subtype. Co-expression of eGFP-hCx43 and P2Y(1)R modified the properties of P2Y(1)R-generated ICW to those characteristics of P2Y(2)R. Increased coupling in P2Y(4)R clones induced by expression of eGFP-hCx43 abolished the ICWs observed in uncoupled P2Y(4)R clones. No changes in the behavior of ICWs generated in P2Y(2)R clones were observed after forced expression of Cx43. These data indicate that in 1321N1 cells gap junctional communication provides intercellular integration of Ca(2+) signals generated by P2YR activation, thus coordinating the propagation of intercellular calcium waves.

Dd-TRAP1 is a Dictyostelium homologue of tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated protein 1 (TRAP-1). Dd-TRAP1 is located in the cortex of cells growing at a low density, but was found to be translocated to mitochondria with the help of a novel prestarvation factor that was accumulated in growth medium along with increased cell densities. The knockdown mutant of Dd-TRAP1 (TRAP1-RNAi cells) exhibited a significant defect in prestarvation response. Although TRAP1-RNAi cells showed normal expressions of classical prestarvation genes [dscA (discoidin I) and car1 (carA; cAMP receptor)], the expression of differentiation-associated genes (dia1 and dia3) induced by the prestarvation response were markedly repressed. By contrast, transformants overexpressing Dd-TRAP1 showed an early prestarvation response and also increased expression of dia1 and dia3 in a cell-density-dependent manner. Importantly, introduction of Dd-TRAP1 antibody into D. discoideum Ax-2 cells by electroporation inhibited the translocation of Dd-TRAP1 from the cortex to mitochondria and greatly inhibited the initiation of differentiation. Taken together, these results indicate that Dd-TRAP1 is translocated to mitochondria by sensing the cell density in growth medium and enhances the early developmental program through a novel prestarvation response.

The publication of a paper entitled &quot;Direct transdifferentiation gives rise to the earliest new hair cells in regenerating avian auditory epithelium&quot; in the Journal of Neuroscience Research offers the opportunity to call attention to a well-developed line of research on the auditory receptor of birds, which should be of interest to students of regeneration and plasticity of the mature nervous system in higher vertebrates, including mammals. Although hair cell proliferation normally stops before hatching, destruction of the auditory receptors of the chicken may be followed by complete regeneration of hair cells. Most of the new hair cells arise from a new wave of proliferation, but Roberson et al. show that about one-third of the new hair cells are formed without undergoing cell division and thus may differentiate from so-called supporting cells or cells with an &quot;intermediate morphology.&quot; This finding suggests some models for regeneration of this neuroepithelium, including the possibility that mature supporting cells could transform directly into hair cells. The present Mini-Review discusses some of the models for neural regeneration that future studies might address in the light of our current knowledge and the new report. The possibility is raised that transitional forms of hair cell and supporting cell precursors may reside in the inner ear in a quiescent state until stimulated by damage.
Methods for growing primary neuronal cultures rely on the inclusion of antioxidants in the culture medium, but no studies have determined precisely if or when antioxidants are required for neuronal survival, despite the significance this information would have for understanding neurodevelopment and studying oxidative stress. We show that cortical neurons grown in Neurobasal media with B27 supplement required antioxidants for only the first 24 hr post-explantation, after which the antioxidants could be removed permanently without noticeable loss of neuronal survival over the normal lifespan. Cortical cultures never exposed to antioxidants did not survive. These findings represent a novel method for substantially antioxidant-free neuronal culture, whereby antioxidants can be removed permanently from the cultures after only 1 day. This method may prove critical for studies of oxidative stress, because B27 antioxidants significantly diminished pro-oxidative effects of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate and hydrogen peroxide on cortical cultures, even if antioxidants were removed before the oxidizing treatment. Together, these findings suggest a brief window of high vulnerability to reactive oxygen species, and have important implications for studies of oxidative stress and developmental neuroscience.
The present study was designed to elucidate whether the conduction of vasomotor responses mediated by endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) in rat mesenteric arteries is altered during hypertension. Iontophoresed acetylcholine (ACh; 500 ms) caused EDHF-mediated hyperpolarization and vasodilatation at the local site and these responses spread through the endothelium to remote sites in 12-week-old Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). Conducted responses were significantly attenuated in age-matched spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) although the rate of decay with distance did not change. Inhibition of inwardly rectifying potassium (Kir) channels (30 microM barium) eliminated the difference between WKY and SHR by attenuating conducted responses in WKY but not SHR. At the local site, barium (30 microM) significantly reduced the duration but not the amplitude of ACh-induced hyperpolarization in WKY only. Barium had no effect when the iontophoretic stimulus was reduced to 350 ms. After blockade of EDHF in SHR, ACh elicited a depolarization which our indirect data suggest spreads along the vessel in the endothelium. Messenger RNA expression of Kir2.0 genes did not differ between the strains nor did the amplitude of K(+)-induced hyperpolarization, which was abolished by disruption of the endothelium. Immunohistochemistry revealed a decrease in connexin (Cx)37 but not Cx40 or Cx43 protein in endothelial cells of SHR compared to WKY. Results suggest that conduction of EDHF-mediated responses in WKY, but not in SHR, is facilitated by activation of Kir channels at the site of ACh application and not by differences in endothelial connexin expression. Lack of Kir channel involvement in hypertension may result from reduction in the duration of the hyperpolarization due to the development of ACh-mediated depolarization, rather than to any difference in Kir subunit expression or function.
We used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in a paired pulse protocol to investigate interhemispheric interactions between the right dorsal premotor (dPM) and left primary motor cortex (M1) using interstimulus intervals of 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 16 and 20 ms in ten healthy subjects. A conditioning stimulus over right dPM at an intensity of either 90 or 110% resting motor threshold (RMT) suppressed motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) evoked in the first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle by stimulation of left M1. Maximum effects occurred for interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 8-10 ms. There was no effect if the conditioning stimulus was applied 2.5 cm lateral, anterior or medial to dPM. The effect differed from previously described M1 interhemispheric inhibition in that the threshold for the latter was greater than 90% RMT, whereas stimulation of the dPM at the same intensity led to significant inhibition. In addition, voluntary contraction of the left FDI (i.e. contralateral to the conditioning TMS) enhanced interhemispheric inhibition from right M1 but had no effect on the inhibition from right dPM. Finally, conditioning to right dPM at 90% RMT reduced short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI; at ISI = 2 ms) in left M1 whilst there was no effect if the conditioning stimulus was applied to right M1. We conclude that conditioning TMS over dPM has effects that differ from the previous pattern of interhemispheric inhibition described between bilateral M1s. This may reflect the existence of commissural fibres between dPM and contralateral M1 that may play a role in bimanual coordination.
Sensory input can remodel representations in the sensory cortex, and this effect is heavily influenced by attention to the stimulus. Here we ask whether pure sensory input can also influence the spatial distribution of sensory effects on motor cortical hand area (sensorimotor organization) and whether this is modulated by attention. Sensorimotor organization was tested by applying short (1.5 s) periods of low amplitude vibration to single intrinsic hand muscles and measuring motor cortex excitability with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). In healthy subjects, sensorimotor organization in the hand is focal, with input from one hand muscle increasing motor-evoked potentials (MEPs), decreasing short and increasing long-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI and LICI) in the vibrated muscle ('homotopic' effects) and having opposite effects on neighbouring muscles ('heterotopic' effects). Here we show that a 15 min intervention of vibration applied simultaneously to two hand muscles can lead to long-term (&gt; 30 min) changes in the spatial pattern of sensorimotor interaction. The amount and direction of the effects depended on the subject's attention during the intervention: if subjects attended to both muscles when they were receiving simultaneous vibration, subsequent short-term vibration applied to one of them produced 'homotopic' effects on both muscles. 'Heterotopic' effects on a muscle not vibrated during the intervention were unaffected. If subjects did not attend to simultaneous vibration, subsequent short-term vibration of the muscles involved in the intervention no longer had any effect on them although the 'heterotopic' effects on a muscle not involved in the intervention were unchanged. We conclude that a 15 min period of pure sensory input can remodel the way that subsequent sensory inputs interact with motor output, that the effects are specific for the motor output to muscles involved in the intervention and that they are modulated by the subject's attention.
Cells that express the NG2 proteoglycan are the largest proliferative progenitor population in the postnatal central nervous system (CNS). Although this entire population has long been considered to be oligodendrocyte progenitors, numerous NG2(+) cells are present in the cerebral cortex, where relatively little myelination occurs, and also persist long after myelination is complete in the CNS. Several studies have alluded to the presence of distinct NG2(+) cell subtypes based on marker expression, but no experimentally derived hypotheses about the physiological role of these subtypes has been proposed. In the current study, whole-cell patch-clamp data from acutely isolated slices demonstrate that subcortical white matter and cortical NG2(+) cells display distinct membrane properties in addition to possessing differing K(+)- and Na(+)-channel expression profiles. A striking observation is that a subpopulation of cortical, but not white matter NG2(+) cells, elicit depolarization-induced spikes that are akin to immature action potentials. Our data demonstrate that a population of cortical NG2(+) cells display physiological properties that differ from their white matter counterparts.
Research into attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) has indicated abnormalities in electrodermal system activity (EDA) and separately, deficits in sustained attention. Here we asked whether reduced EDA in ADHD was consequential for the attention problems associated with this disorder. On a sustained attention task ADHD participants had higher overall error rates and exhibited a marked decrease in skin conductance responses (SCRs) to errors, relative to control children. Further, sustained attention errors were predicted by SCR amplitudes. Evidence of post-error slowing in both groups suggested comparable error awareness. It is proposed that attenuation of the normal autonomic response to errors reflects impairment in ADHD participants' psychological response to error significance and results in decreased behavioural correction and hence poorer sustained attention.
The functional significance of the M50 and M100 auditory evoked fields remains unclear. Here we report auditory evoked field data from three different studies employing wide-band noise stimuli. We find that, for the same stimuli, the strength of the M100, as well as its lateralization, are task-modulated. The M50, in contrast, shows three properties: It is dramatically more pronounced for noise stimuli than for pure tones, does not seem to be task dependent, and, is significantly stronger in the left hemisphere in all task conditions. These contrasting patterns of activation shed light on the properties of the response-generating mechanisms and suggest roles in the process of auditory figure-ground segregation.

Pair bonding represents social attachment between mates and is common among monogamous animals. The prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster) is a monogamous rodent in which mating facilitates pair bond formation. In this review, we first discuss how prairie voles have been used as an excellent model for neurobiological studies of pair bonding. We then primarily focus on male prairie voles to summarize recent findings from neuroanatomical, neurochemical, cellular, molecular, and behavioral studies implicating vasopressin (AVP), oxytocin (OT), and dopamine (DA) in the regulation of pair bonding. Possible interactions among these neurochemicals in the regulation of pair bonding, the brain areas important for pair bond formation, and potential sexually dimorphic mechanisms underlying pair bonding are also discussed. As analogous social bonds are formed by humans, investigation of the neurochemical regulation of pair bond formation in prairie voles may be beneficial for our understanding of the mechanisms associated with normal and abnormal social behaviors in humans.
The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus contains the cell bodies of a group of oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extrahypothalamic brain areas and to the spinal cord, which are involved in the control of erectile function and copulation. In male rats, these neurons can be activated by dopamine, excitatory amino acids, nitric oxide (NO), hexarelin analogue peptides and oxytocin itself to induce penile erection and facilitate copulation, while their inhibition by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and GABA agonists and by opioid peptides and opiate-like drugs inhibits sexual responses. The activation of paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons by dopamine, oxytocin, excitatory amino acids and hexarelin analogue peptides is apparently mediated by the activation of nitric oxide (NO) synthase. NO in turn activates, by a mechanism that is as yet unidentified, the release of oxytocin from oxytocinergic neurons in extrahypothalamic brain areas. Paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons and mechanisms similar to those reported above are also involved in the expression of penile erection in physiological contexts, namely, when penile erection is induced in the male by the presence of an inaccessible receptive female, which is considered a model for psychogenic impotence in man, as well as during copulation. These findings show that paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons projecting to extrahypothalamic brain areas and to the spinal cord and the paraventricular nucleus play an important role in the control of erectile function and male sexual behaviour in mammals.
We review the mechanisms by which steroid hormones masculinize two different regions of the central nervous system (CNS) in rats. Although in both cases, androgens induce a male phenotype, the detailed mechanisms are remarkably different in the two models. In the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB), testosterone must be present during the perinatal period to spare motoneurons and their target muscles from cell death. This masculinization of the SNB system is through activation of androgen receptors, because XY rats with a defective gene for the androgen receptor fail to develop a masculine SNB system. Interestingly, the motoneurons are spared by androgen, even though they themselves do not possess androgen receptors during the critical period for their survival. Thus, steroids can act on one part of the body to secondarily masculinize the CNS. In the posterodorsal aspect of the medial amygdala (MePD), testosterone can induce masculine development even in adulthood, indicating that there is no critical period for steroids to affect sexual differentiation of this system. In the case of the MePD, both estrogen receptors and androgen receptors appear to mediate testosterone's masculinizing influence on neural structure. The extended neural plasticity of the MePD may reflect annual &quot;reorganization&quot; of the brain in the seasonally breeding ancestors of laboratory rats.
With recent advances in molecular genetics, the popularity of mice as subjects for behavioral neuroscience is increasing at an exponential rate. Unfortunately, the existing body of knowledge on sexual behavior in male mice is not large and many basic gaps exist. The assumption that what is true of rats is also true of mice is a dangerous one that can misdirect and, in the worst case, impede progress. We summarize the current knowledge about the sexual behavior of male mice, with an emphasis on hormonal bases of these behaviors. Behavioral differences between strains, developmental actions of steroids, activational actions of steroids given peripherally and in the brain, and data generated in various receptor knockout and related mice are discussed. In addition, suggestions are made for the standardization of experimental protocols used in investigations of the sexual physiology and behavior of male mice in order to facilitate between-experiment and between-laboratory comparisons and to expedite the growth of knowledge in this area.
In an investigation of the neural circuits that may mediate the subjective experience of social phobia (SP), six male patients with a primary DSM-IV diagnosis of generalized social phobia watched, in the presence of a group of &quot;communication experts,&quot; a videotape of themselves giving an impromptu talk (Exposure condition). In the control Baseline condition, they viewed a videotape of a socially competent stranger giving a talk. Regional cerebral blood flow was measured thrice under each condition. The study revealed significant deactivations from Baseline during Exposure in the right lingual gyrus (BA 18) and in the right medial frontal gyrus (BA 11); significant activations during Exposure were not observed. Deactivation of these regions may reflect a strategy of visual avoidance employed by the patients to dampen their phobic experience.
We investigated the role of the parabrachial complex in cutaneous nociceptor-induced respiratory stimulation in chloralose-urethane anesthetized, vagotomized rats. Noxious stimulation (mustard oil, MO) applied topically to a forelimb or hindlimb enhanced the peak amplitude of the integrated phrenic nerve discharge and, with forelimb application, increased phrenic nerve burst frequency. Bilateral inactivation of neural activity in the parabrachial complex with injection of the GABA agonist muscimol (3nl) markedly attenuated the response to MO application. Injection of the retrograde tracer FluoroGold within the medullary ventral respiratory column labeled neurons in dorsolateral pontine regions known to receive nociceptive inputs (i.e., Kolliker-Fuse, lateral crescent, and superior lateral subnuclei of the parabrachial complex). Extracellular recordings of 65 dorsolateral parabrachial neurons revealed about 15% responded to a noxious cutaneous pinch with either an increase or a decrease in discharge and approximately 40% of these exhibited a phasic respiratory-related component to their discharge. In conclusion, parabrachial pontine neurons contribute to cutaneous nociceptor-induced increases in breathing.
The dorsolateral pons around the parabrachial nucleus is an important participant in respiratory control. This area involves various respiration-related neurons, and their respiratory modulation is thought to arise from afferents from medullary respiratory neurons. Today, however, only a limited number of afferent sources have been identified. First, relatively well-characterized afferents to the pons are those originating from two types of the lung stretch receptors, slowly adapting and rapidly adapting receptors. That is, the majority of the second-order relay neurons of these receptors in the nucleus tractus solitarii project to the pons. Second, certain types of respiratory neurons of the medullary respiratory groups are either known to or presumed to project to the pons. For instance, major inhibitory neurons of the Botzinger complex, augmenting and decrementing expiratory neurons, send afferents to the pons. This article overviews such afferents and discusses their connectivity with pontine neurons.
Historical and contemporary views of the functional organization of the lateral pontine regions influencing breathing are reviewed. In vertebrates, the rhombencephalon generates a breathing rhythm and detailed motor pattern that persist throughout life. Key to this process is an essentially continuous column of neurons extending from the spino-medullary border through the ventrolateral medulla, continuing through the ventral pons and arcing into the dorsolateral medulla. Comparative neuroanatomy and physiology indicate this is a richly interconnected network divided into serial, functionally distinct compartments. Serial compartmentalization of pontomedullary structures related to breathing also reflects the developmental segmentation of the rhombencephalon. However, with migration of cell groups such as the facial nucleus from the pons to the medulla during ontogeny, the boundaries of the adult pons are sometimes difficult to precisely define. Accordingly, a working definition of rostral and caudal pontine boundaries for adult mammals is depicted.

Groups of six, six and eight miniature gilts, respectively, received 5, 10 or 15 mg/day of altrenogest for 18 days, and the numbers of corpora lutea and residual follicles were counted approximately 14 days after the treatment by an exploratory laparotomy. They were compared with the numbers in a control group of eight gilts which were examined six to eight days after oestrus. The interval between the last dose of altrenogest and the onset of oestrus increased with the dose of altrenogest, and was significantly longer after the treatments with 10 or 15 mg/day than after 5 mg/day (P &lt; 0.01). Significantly more corpora lutea were observed in the gilts receiving 5 or 10 mg/day of altrenogest than in the control gilts (P &lt; 0.1). Groups of six, seven and six miniature gilts that had respectively received 5, 10 or 15 mg/day of altrenogest were artificially inseminated; four, six and five of the gilts in these groups farrowed, and their mean (sd) litter sizes were 5.5 (2.4), 6.8 (1.2) and 5.0 (2.3), respectively. All six of a group of control gilts farrowed and their mean litter size was 5.8 (1.2).
The superoxide dismutase isoenzymes (SOD) play a key role in scavenging, O*2- radicals. In contrast with previous studies, recent data have shown that human neuroblastoma cells are able to export the cytosolic Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1), thus suggesting a paracrine role exerted by this enzyme in the nervous system. To evaluate whether SOD1 could activate intracellular signalling pathways, the functional interaction between SOD1 and human neuroblastoma SK-N-BE cells was investigated. By analyzing the surface binding of biotinylated SOD1 on SK-N-BE cells and by measuring intracellular calcium concentrations and PKC activity, we demonstrated that SOD1 specifically interacts in a dose-dependent manner with the cell surface membrane of SK-N-BE. This binding was able to activate a PLC-PKC-dependent pathway that increased intracellular calcium concentrations mainly deriving from the intracellular stores. Furthermore, we showed that this effect was independent of SOD1 dismutase activity and was totally inhibited by U73122, the PLC blocker. On the whole, these data indicate that SOD1 carries out a neuromodulatory role affecting calcium-dependent cellular functions.
The G-protein gamma-subunit-like (GGL) domain present within a subfamily of RGS proteins binds specifically to Gbeta5. This interaction and resulting biological effect impacts the standard model of heterotrimeric G-protein signaling. It has been hypothesized that the RGS/Gbeta5 may potentially substitute for Gbetagamma in the heterotrimeric complex. Saccharomyces cerevisiae pheromone responsive mating signaling pathway is primarily driven by Gbetagamma. We evaluated GGL containing RGS9 and RGS7 for functional complementation in a RGS (sst2Delta) knockout yeast strain. The potential of Gbeta5 to augment the function of these RGS proteins was also evaluated. While Gbeta5 had no effect on RGS7, coexpression of Gbeta5 with RGS9 enhanced cell cycle arrest, suggesting that under certain conditions, RGS9 and Gbeta5 may possibly function as betagamma dimer. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Gbeta5 can complement a ste4Delta, the yeast beta-subunit, thus providing the first evidence of functional complementation of a mammalian Gbeta.
Memory includes processes such as acquisition, consolidation and retrieval. Reference memory (RM) and working memory (WM) are two kinds of memory that can be assessed in rodents using spatial tasks, especially using the Morris water maze. The Morris water maze is particularly sensitive to hippocampal lesions. The supramammillary nucleus (SuM) has strong links with the hippocampus and septum. The role of the SuM on spatial learning is controversial. In the present study, involvement of SuM in the different steps of spatial RM and WM was investigated in the Morris water maze using reversible inactivation of SuM with lidocaine. Lidocaine (0.5 microl, 4%) was injected into the SuM through a guide cannula implanted above the SuM. The rats were trained on RM and WM versions of the Morris water maze. SuM was inactivated before training or immediately after training or before the probe trial of retrieval tests. Reversible inactivation of the SuM impaired consolidation of RM, and of consolidation and retrieval of WM. Therefore, it seems that activity of SuM neurons plays a role in spatial RM and WM learning and memory in the rat.
Transient retinal ischemia leads to the loss of neurons in the inner retina. In an accompanying paper [F. Dijk, S. Van Leeuwen, W. Kamphuis, Differential effects of ischemia/reperfusion on amacrine cell subtype-specific transcript levels in the rat retina, Brain Res., 1026 (2004) 194-204] we present the results of a study on the effects of experimentally induced retinal ischemia on transcript levels of genes expressed by distinct subpopulations of amacrine cells. In response to 60-min ischemia, three different patterns of changes in transcript levels were found, indicating a differential vulnerability of amacrine subtypes: (i) a gradual decrease of transcript level without recovery (parvalbumin; PV); (ii) a gradual decrease, with varying rates and degrees, followed by partial recovery after 72 h of reperfusion (choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), calretinin (CR) and glycine transporter (Glyt1)); (iii) no significant changes (substance P (SP)). In order to verify whether the degree of cell loss can be predicted from the quantified alterations in gene expression level, immunocytochemical stainings were carried out. A 60-min ischemic period was administered to the rat eye by raising the intraocular pressure, followed by a reperfusion period lasting between 2 h and 4 weeks. Cryosections were immunostained for Glyt1, PV, ChAT, CR, and SP. Double-labelling with apoptosis marker TUNEL was used to demonstrate cell type-specific apoptosis. Following ischemia, the numbers of detected PV-, Glyt1, ChAT-, and CR-immunopositive somata showed a substantial, but differential, reduction at 1-4 weeks after ischemia. The total amount of immunoreactivity present in the inner plexiform layer (IPL) also decreased. The extent of alterations derived from immunocytochemical staining was greater than was anticipated from the decrease of transcript levels. Only for SP, no significant decrease in number of cells or in the intensity of immunoreactivity in IPL was observed, which is in agreement with the absence of significant changes in transcript levels. In conclusion, retinal ischemia/reperfusion differentially affects amacrine cell populations. Although both protein and mRNA levels are reduced, transcript levels are less attenuated. Caution must be applied in the use of real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) screening as a tool to assess the cellular pattern of neurodegeneration in the retina.
Transient retinal ischemia induces loss of retinal ganglion cells, supporting the hypothesis that ischemic conditions contribute to the induction and progression of glaucoma. However, after 60 min of ischemia, also amacrine cells are lost from the inner nuclear layer. The main goal was to determine the relative vulnerability of various amacrine subpopulations by measuring the levels of transcripts that are known to be specifically expressed by different amacrine subpopulations. A 60-min ischemic period was administered to the rat eye by raising the intraocular pressure, followed by a reperfusion period lasting between 2 h and 4 weeks. Total RNA was isolated from the whole retina and expression levels were assessed by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Retinal ischemia/reperfusion has differential effects on the levels of the various transcripts. Three main patterns of changes were identified. (i) A gradual decrease of transcript level without recovery was observed for parvalbumin; this transcript is expressed by the glycinergic AII cells. (ii) A gradual reduction to different levels at 72 h of reperfusion followed by a partial or complete recovery (glycine transporter 1, glutamate decarboxylase, calretinin, and several other transcripts). The glycinergic amacrine cell markers recovered to 65-75% of the control level, while the main GABAergic markers had completely recovered at 4 weeks. (iii) No significant changes of transcript levels were found for markers of several smaller GABAergic subpopulations [including substance P (Tac1), somatostatin, and others]. Expression levels of photoreceptor-, horizontal cell-, and bipolar cell-specific transcripts were not altered. These patterns were confirmed by a cluster analysis of the data. Based on gene expression levels, it may be concluded that amacrine cells are vulnerable to ischemic insults and that the glycinergic amacrine cells are relatively more sensitive to ischemia than the GABAergic population. In particular, the extensive loss of the parvalbumin-containing AII amacrine cells, which serve in the rod pathway, may have functional implications for vision under scotopic conditions. In the accompanying paper [F. Dijk and W. Kamphuis, An immunocytochemical study on specific amacrine subpopulations in the rat retina after ischemia, Brain Res. (2004).], the results are evaluated at the protein level by immunostaining for a selection of the amacrine cell markers.
The pinceau is a cerebellar structure formed by descending GABA-ergic basket cell axonal terminals converging on the initial axonal segment of Purkinje cell. Although basket cells exert a powerful inhibitory influence on the output of the cerebellar cortex, the function and mode of action of the pinceau are not understood because the majority of basket cell axons fail to make identifiable synaptic contacts with the Purkinje cell axon. Several proteins were previously reported to cluster specifically in this area, including a number of voltage-activated potassium channel subunits. In this study, we used immunohistochemistry, electron microscopy, and electron tomography to examine the ultrastructural localization of a novel voltage-gated potassium channel subunit, Kv3.2, in the pinceau. We found strong, selective localization of Kv3.2 to basket cell axons. Additionally, because potassium buffering is often conducted through water channels, we studied the extent of a brain-specific water channel, aquaporin-4 (AQP4), using confocal and electron microscopy. As expected, we found AQP4 was heavily localized to astrocytic processes of the pinceau. The abundance of potassium channels and AQP4 in this area suggests rapid ionic dynamics in the pinceau, and the unusual, highly specialized morphology of this region implies that the structural features may combine with the molecular composition to regulate the microenvironment of the initial segment of the Purkinje cell axon.
Angiotensin II (Ang II) exerts detrimental effects on cerebral circulation, the mechanisms of which have not been elucidated. In particular, Ang II impairs the increase in cerebral blood flow (CBF) produced by neural activity, a critical mechanism that matches substrate delivery with energy demands in brain. We investigated whether Ang II exerts its deleterious actions by activating Ang II type 1 (AT1) receptors on cerebral blood vessels and producing reactive oxygen species (ROS) through NADPH oxidase. Somatosensory cortex CBF was monitored in anesthetized mice by laser-Doppler flowmetry. Ang II (0.25 microg/kg per minute IV) attenuated the CBF increase produced by mechanical stimulation of the vibrissae. The effect was blocked by the AT1 antagonist losartan and by ROS scavenger superoxide dismutase or tiron and was not observed in mice lacking the gp91phox subunit of NADPH oxidase or in wild-type mice treated with the NADPH oxidase peptide inhibitor gp91ds-tat. Ang II increased ROS production in cerebral microvessels, an effect blocked by the ROS scavenger Mn(III)tetrakis (4-benzoic acid) porphyrin and by the NADPH oxidase assembly inhibitor apocynin. Ang II did not increase ROS production in gp91-null mice. Double-label immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated that AT1 and gp91phox immunoreactivities were present in endothelium and adventitia of neocortical arterioles. Collectively, these findings suggest that Ang II impairs functional hyperemia by activating AT1 receptors and inducing ROS production via a gp91phox containing NADPH oxidase. The data provide the mechanistic basis for the cerebrovascular dysregulation induced by Ang II and suggest novel therapeutic strategies to counteract the effects of hypertension on the brain.
Mammalian Staufen2 (Stau2), a brain-specific double-stranded RNA-binding protein, is involved in the localization of mRNA in neurons. To gain insights into the function of Stau2, the subcellular localization of Stau2 isoforms fused to the green fluorescence protein was examined. Fluorescence microscopic analysis showed that Stau2 functions as a nucleocytoplasmic shuttle protein. The nuclear export of the 62-kDa isoform of Stau2 (Stau2(62)) is mediated by the double-stranded RNA-binding domain 3 (RBD3) because a mutation to RBD3 led to nuclear accumulation. On the other hand, the shorter isoform of Stau2, Stau2(59), is exported from the nucleus by two distinct pathways, one of which is RBD3-mediated and the other of which is CRM1 (exportin 1)-dependent. The nuclear export signal recognized by CRM1 was found to be located in the N-terminal region of Stau2(59). These results suggest that Stau2 may carry a variety of RNAs out of the nucleus, using the two export pathways. The present study addresses the issue of why plural Stau2 isoforms are expressed in neurons.
Based on sequence comparisons, MOX (monooxygenase X), is a member of the copper monooxygenase family that includes dopamine beta-monooxygenase (DBM) and peptidylglycine alpha-hydroxylating monooxygenase (PHM). MOX has all of the residues expected to be critical for copper binding, and its cysteine residues can yield the intramolecular disulfide bond pattern observed in DBM. Although DBM and PHM function within the lumen of the secretory pathway, the published sequence for human MOX lacks a signal sequence, suggesting that it does not enter this compartment. We identified an upstream exon that encodes the signal sequence of human MOX. A retained intron yields minor amounts of transcript encoding MOX without a signal sequence. MOX transcripts are widely expressed, with the highest levels in the salivary gland and ovary and moderate levels in brain, pituitary, and heart. Despite the presence of a signal sequence, exogenous MOX is not secreted, and it localizes throughout the endoplasmic reticulum in both endocrine or nonendocrine cells. Neither appending green fluorescent protein to its C terminus nor deleting the hydrophobic domain near its C terminus facilitates secretion of MOX. MOX is N-glycosylated, is tightly membrane-associated, and forms oligomers that are not disulfide-linked. Based on its sequence and localization, MOX is predicted to hydroxylate a hydrophobic substrate in the endoplasmic reticulum.
In this study, we investigated the functional mechanism by which spatial attention excludes unwanted information, a consequence of attention that has been consistently demonstrated at the neuronal level, the neural population level, and the overall behavioral level. The effect of spatial attention was measured using a temporal cuing paradigm. External noise, whose spatial frequency characteristics were systematically manipulated, was added to the signal stimulus. Contrast thresholds were measured as functions of the pass-band of the external noise to reveal the spatial frequency characteristics of the perceptual template in both the attended and unattended conditions. We found that spatial attention excludes external noise uniformly across all the spatial frequencies without changing the spatial frequency selectivity of the perceptual template.
We have previously determined that melatonin modulates hippocampal synaptic transmission in a biphasic way: an initial depression was followed by a recovery/amplification phase. Here we describe the influence of two novel melatonin receptor ligands, BMNEP (N-bromoacetyl-2-iodo-5-methoxytryptamine) and TMPEI (N-[2-(2-Trimethylammoniumethyleneoxy-7-methoxy)ethyl]propionamide iodide), on the population spike (PS) and excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSP) recorded from mouse hippocampal slices. BMNEP, which specifically alkylates and constitutively activates the MT2 melatonin receptor, mimicked the first phase of melatonin's action by irreversibly depressing both the PS and EPSP. TMPEI, a charged ligand of plasma membrane melatonin receptors, amplified those potentials in a manner similar to the effect of melatonin observed during the second, recovery phase. Melatonin had no influence on the potentials amplified by the action of TMPEI. Our results suggest that the biphasic, receptor-dependent action of melatonin and its analogs modulates the efficiency of the hippocampal glutamergic synapse and is most likely mediated through two different, sequentially occurring mechanisms.



In order to look for genetic markers helpful for the biological risk stratification of medulloblastomas (MBs) we assayed by real-time PCR expression levels of the following genes: MATH1, encoding a critical transcription factor for the differentiation of cerebellar granular cells (CGCs); PEDF, that encodes a trophic factor for CGCs and is located in a region of frequent allelic imbalance in MBs; and BIRC5, encoding the antiapoptotic protein survivin, usually overexpressed in malignancies. Expression levels of TRKC, higher in MBs with a more favorable prognosis, were also studied. Twenty-three patients were considered: MATH1 expression was strong in 14/23 and undetectable in the others. PEDF was up-regulated in 8/23, TRKC in 9/23, and BIRC5 in 23/23. MATH1 expression was significantly correlated with adult age (p &lt; 0.0001), tumor location in hemispheres rather than the vermis (p &lt; 0.0004), and PEDF and TRKC up-regulation (p &lt; 0.008 and p &lt; 0.04, respectively). During development MATH1 is selectively expressed in the external germinal layer (EGL) of the cerebellum. Thus, MATH1 expression identifies a subgroup of MBs that derive from the EGL and arise during adult age into cerebellar hemispheres. MATH1 mRNA-positive MBs express high levels of PEDF and show a trend towards longer survival, in agreement with increased expression of TRKC. BIRC5 expression, which is strong in all MBs and absent in normal cerebellum, lacks any prognostic value but could be explored for selective targeting of therapeutic factors to MBs.
Female Lewis rats (n = 88) were inoculated with an emulsion of spinal cord and complete Freund's adjuvant. They were then exposed in 11 separate blocks of experiments over a year period for approximately 6 min every hour between midnight and 08:00 h during post-inoculation nights 1-7, 8-16, 1-16, or 9 and 10 to 50-nT, 7-Hz, amplitude-modulated magnetic fields or to sham field (control) conditions. Compared to the control rats those exposed to the magnetic fields for nights 1-7 and nights 9-10 displayed more severe clinical symptoms while those exposed for nights 1-16 or 8-16 showed less severe symptoms. There was a strong correlation between the severity of the clinical symptoms in the control groups and the global geomagnetic activity 9 and 10 days after inoculation. These results suggest that the immunosuppressive effects of weak nocturnal magnetic fields may depend upon when they are applied during various stages in the development of a disease.
The developmental expression of heat shock protein 108 (HSP108) mRNA was mapped in chicken brain using in situ hybridization and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). RT-PCR showed that HSP108 mRNA increased from embryonic day 5 (E5) to 13 (E13), significantly decreased from E17 to E21 and then increased again at the adult stage. In situ hybridization showed that while intense HSP108 positive (HSP108+) signals were localized in the cerebellum from E7 to E14, the intensities of these signals were significantly decreased at E17. However, at the adult stage, HSP108 expression increased in a cell type dependent manner. A decrease in HSP108 mRNA expression during differentiation was also observed in an in vitro study of brain cells treated with nerve growth factor (NGF).
The lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) contains a large population of neurons that express the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE), but are not themselves cholinergic. Some of these neurons have been shown to contain melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH), a neuropeptide implicated in regulating feeding, but the identities of the remaining neurons are unknown. We now report that nearly all AChE-immunoreactive neurons in the LHA express immunoreactivity for either MCH or for orexin, a peptide implicated in regulating wakefulness. Furthermore, most orexin neurons and MCH neurons appear to contain AChE. AChE immunoreactivity appears to be a key feature of nearly all of the diffusely-projecting cortical systems.
Although adaptation to novel motor tasks is sometimes a very slow process, de-adaptation is usually extremely rapid. Such rapid de-adaptation is seen in dynamic learning in which subjects can take hundreds of movements to learn a novel force environment but only a few movements to de-adapt back to a normal or &quot;null&quot; force environment. We investigated whether this effect is unique to the null environment or reveals a more general rapid adaptation mechanism by studying how subjects behave when their dynamic environment changes. We observed that after learning a dynamic force field, subjects took longer to de-adapt when the forces were turned off than to adapt to a novel scaled-down version of the experienced field. This demonstrates that rapid adaptation is not unique to the &quot;null&quot; force environment. Moreover, we examined subjects' ability to adapt from a learned field to either a scaled down field or to a field in which the sign of the forces changed. Even though in both conditions the required change in force output was identical, subjects were significantly faster at adapting to the scaled down field. The result suggests that rapid de-adaptation reflects a capacity to scale down the relative contribution of existing control modules to the motor output.
Converging lines of evidence suggest the involvement of the insula and basal ganglia in the processing of disgust, an important primary emotion that guides the avoidance of potential physical contamination and disease. Prior human lesion and functional brain imaging studies have employed exteroceptive sensory stimuli such as facial expressions of disgust, and disgust-eliciting pictures. Thus, the neural substrates underlying the internal experience of disgust remain unknown. The present fMRI study examined the neural correlates of self-induced disgust aided by the recall and re-experience of personally salient life events. Subjects were scanned while they recalled and re-experienced either a recent situation that evoked intense disgust or a time-matched, equally vivid neutral/non-emotional event. Relative to the emotionally neutral condition, self-induced disgust was associated with activation of the insula, hippocampus, anterior and posterior cingulate cortex, basal ganglia, thalamus, and primary visual cortex. These findings suggest that areas previously associated with the perception of disgust (e.g., insula, basal ganglia) are also involved interoceptive experience of disgust.
Intact female rats and ovariectomized (OVX) rats with different ovarian steroid replacement regimens were tested for changes in corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)-enhanced startle (increased acoustic startle amplitude after intracerebroventricular infusion of 1 mug of CRF). OVX rats injected with estradiol (E) followed by progesterone (P) showed a blunted CRF-enhanced startle effect compared with OVX and E-injected rats. CRF-enhanced startle also was reduced significantly in lactating females (high endogenous P levels) compared with cycling rats (low to moderate P levels), as well as in non-E-primed rats when P was administered acutely (4 hr before testing) or chronically (7 d P replacement). The ability of P to attenuate CRF-enhanced startle was probably mediated by its metabolite allopregnanolone [tetrahydroprogesterone (THP)], because THP itself had a similar effect, and chronic administration of medroxyprogesterone, which is not metabolized to THP, did not blunt CRF-enhanced startle but instead slightly increased it. These data suggest that P blunts CRF-enhanced startle through a mechanism involving its neuroactive metabolite THP, although a role for the P receptor cannot be completely ruled out. Finally, neither chronic P replacement nor acute THP affected fear-potentiated startle, suggesting that P metabolites have an effect on the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and anxiety rather than on the amygdala and stimulus-specific fear.
Interactions between NMDA receptors (NMDARs) and the PDZ [postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95)/Discs large/zona occludens-1] domains of PSD-95/SAP90 (synapse-associated protein with a molecular weight of 90 kDa) family proteins play important roles in the synaptic targeting and signaling of NMDARs. However, little is known about the mechanisms that regulate these PDZ domain-mediated interactions. Here we show that casein kinase II (CK2) phosphorylates the serine residue (Ser1480) within the C-terminal PDZ ligand (IESDV) of the NR2B subunit of NMDAR in vitro and in vivo. Phosphorylation of Ser1480 disrupts the interaction of NR2B with the PDZ domains of PSD-95 and SAP102 and decreases surface NR2B expression in neurons. Interestingly, activity of the NMDAR and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II regulates CK2 phosphorylation of Ser1480. Furthermore, CK2 colocalizes with NR1 and PSD-95 at synaptic sites. These results indicate that activity-dependent CK2 phosphorylation of the NR2B PDZ ligand regulates the interaction of NMDAR with PSD-95/SAP90 family proteins as well as surface NMDAR expression and may be a critical mechanism for modulating excitatory synaptic function and plasticity.
Previous work has suggested that object and place processing are neuroanatomically dissociated in ventral visual areas under conditions of passive viewing. It has also been shown that the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus mediate the integration of objects with background scenes in functional imaging studies, but only when encoding or retrieval processes have been directed toward the relevant stimuli. Using functional magnetic resonance adaptation, we demonstrated that object, background scene, and contextual integration of selectively repeated objects and background scenes could be dissociated during the passive viewing of naturalistic pictures involving object-scene pairings. Specifically, bilateral fusiform areas showed adaptation to object repetition, regardless of whether the associated scene was novel or repeated, suggesting sensitivity to object processing. Bilateral parahippocampal regions showed adaptation to background scene repetition, regardless of whether the focal object was novel or repeated, suggesting selectivity for background scene processing. Finally, bilateral parahippocampal regions distinct from those involved in scene processing and the right hippocampus showed adaptation only when the unique pairing of object with background scene was repeated, suggesting that these regions perform binding operations.
To investigate whether activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in damaged and/or undamaged primary afferents participates in neuropathic pain after partial nerve injury, we examined the phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK), p38 MAPK, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) in the L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglion (DRG) in the L5 spinal nerve ligation (SNL) model. We first confirmed, using activating transcription factor 3 and neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity, that virtually all L4 DRG neurons are spared from axotomy in this model. In the injured L5 DRG, the L5 SNL induced the activation of ERK, p38, and JNK in different populations of DRG neurons. In contrast, in the uninjured L4 DRG, the L5 SNL induced only p38 activation in tyrosine kinase A-expressing small- to medium-diameter neurons. Intrathecal ERK, p38, and JNK inhibitor infusions reversed SNL-induced mechanical allodynia, whereas only p38 inhibitor application attenuated SNL-induced thermal hyperalgesia. Furthermore, the L5 dorsal rhizotomy did not prevent SNL-induced thermal hyperalgesia. We therefore hypothesized that p38 activation in the uninjured L4 DRG might be involved in the development of heat hypersensitivity in the L5 SNL model. In fact, the treatment of the p38 inhibitor and also anti-nerve growth factor reduced SNL-induced upregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor and transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1 expression in the L4 DRG. Together, our results demonstrate that the L5 SNL induces differential activation of MAPK in injured and uninjured DRG neurons and, furthermore, that MAPK activation in the primary afferents may participate in generating pain hypersensitivity after partial nerve injury.
Disruption of melanocortin (MC) signaling, such as by ectopic Agouti overexpression, leads to an obesity syndrome with hyperphagia, obesity, and accelerated body weight gain during high-fat diet. To investigate where in the brain disruption of MC signaling results in obesity, long-term Agouti expression was induced after local injections of recombinant adeno-associated viral particles in selected brain nuclei of adult rats. Agouti expression in the paraventricular nucleus, a hypothalamic region with a high density of MC receptors, induced acute onset hyperphagia and rapid weight gain that persisted for at least 6 weeks. In contrast, obesity and hyperphagia developed with a 3 week delay when Agouti was expressed in the dorsal medial hypothalamus. Agouti expression in the lateral hypothalamus (LH) did not affect food intake and body weight during regular diet, despite the presence of MC receptors in this region. However, during exposure to a high-fat diet, animals with Agouti expression in the LH exhibited a marked increase in body weight. Here we show that the LH is important for the protection against diet-induced obesity by controlling caloric intake during consumption of a high-fat diet. Together, this study provides evidence that different aspects of the Agouti-induced obesity syndrome, such as hyperphagia and diet responsiveness, are mediated by distinct brain regions and opens challenging opportunities for further understanding of pathophysiological processes in the development of the obesity syndrome.
NMDA receptors (NMDARs) colocalize with postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95), a multivalent synaptic scaffolding protein and core component of the postsynaptic density, at excitatory synapses. Although much is known about the identity and properties of scaffolding proteins, little is known about their actions on NMDAR function. Here we show that association of PSD-95 with NMDARs modulates channel gating and surface expression. PSD-95 increases the number of functional channels at the cell surface and channel opening rate of NMDARs, with little or no change in conductance, reversal potential, or mean open time. We show further that PSD-95 increases NMDAR surface expression by increasing the rate of channel insertion and decreasing the rate of channel internalization. The PDZ (PSD-95, discs large, zona occludens-1) binding motif at the distal end of the NR2 C-terminal tail is critical to the actions of PSD-95 on NMDAR function and surface expression. Given that activity bi-directionally modifies synaptic levels of PSD-95, our findings suggest a novel mechanism for activity-dependent regulation of NMDARs at central synapses.
The identification of the chemical structure of an odorant by the vertebrate olfactory system is thought to occur through the combinatorial activity from multiple receptors, each tuned to recognize different chemical features. What are the molecular determinants underlying the selectivity of individual odorant receptors for their cognate ligands? To address this question, we performed molecular modeling and site-directed mutagenesis on the ligand-binding region of two orthologous amino acid odorant receptors belonging to the &quot;C family&quot; of G-protein-coupled receptors in goldfish and zebrafish. We identified the critical ligand-receptor interactions that afford ligand binding as well as selectivity for different amino acids. Moreover, predictions regarding binding pocket structure allowed us to alter, in a predictable manner, the receptor preferences for different ligands. These results reveal how this class of odorant receptor has evolved to accommodate ligands of varying chemical structure and further illuminate the molecular principles underlying ligand recognition and selectivity in this family of chemosensory receptors.
Spinal cord injury usually results in permanent paralysis because of lack of regrowth of damaged neurons. Here we demonstrate that adult mice lacking EphA4 (-/-), a molecule essential for correct guidance of spinal cord axons during development, exhibit axonal regeneration and functional recovery after spinal cord hemisection. Anterograde and retrograde tracing showed that axons from multiple pathways, including corticospinal and rubrospinal tracts, crossed the lesion site. EphA4-/- mice recovered stride length, the ability to walk on and climb a grid, and the ability to grasp with the affected hindpaw within 1-3 months of injury. EphA4 expression was upregulated on astrocytes at the lesion site in wild-type mice, whereas astrocytic gliosis and the glial scar were greatly reduced in lesioned EphA4-/- spinal cords. EphA4-/- astrocytes failed to respond to the inflammatory cytokines, interferon-gamma or leukemia inhibitory factor, in vitro. Neurons grown on wild-type astrocytes extended shorter neurites than on EphA4-/- astrocytes, but longer neurites when the astrocyte EphA4 was blocked by monomeric EphrinA5-Fc. Thus, EphA4 regulates two important features of spinal cord injury, axonal inhibition, and astrocytic gliosis.
During sound stimulation, receptor potentials are generated within the sensory hair cells of the cochlea. Prevailing theory states that outer hair cells use the potential-sensitive motor protein prestin to convert receptor potentials into fast alterations of cellular length or stiffness that boost hearing sensitivity almost 1000-fold. However, receptor potentials are attenuated by the filter formed by the capacitance and resistance of the membrane of the cell. This attenuation would limit cellular motility at high stimulus frequencies, rendering the above scheme ineffective. Therefore, Dallos and Evans (1995a) proposed that extracellular potential changes within the organ of Corti could drive cellular motor proteins. These extracellular potentials are not filtered by the membrane. To test this theory, both electric potentials inside the organ of Corti and basilar membrane vibration were measured in response to acoustic stimulation. Vibrations were measured at sites very close to those interrogated by the recording electrode using laser interferometry. Close comparison of the measured electrical and mechanical tuning curves and time waveforms and their phase relationships revealed that those extracellular potentials indeed could drive outer hair cell motors. However, to achieve the sharp frequency tuning that characterizes the basilar membrane, additional mechanical processing must occur inside the organ of Corti.
Withdrawal from chronic exposure to nicotine, the main addictive component of tobacco, produces distinctive symptoms in humans. The appearance of these symptoms is a major deterrent when people try to quit smoking. To study which type of nicotine receptor is relevant for the onset of the withdrawal syndrome, we used a mouse model of nicotine withdrawal. Wild-type mice and mice null for the beta4 (beta4-/-) or the beta2 (beta2-/-) nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits were implanted with osmotic minipumps delivering 24 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1) nicotine for 13 d. Subsequently, a single intraperitoneal injection of the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine induced behavioral symptoms of withdrawal measured as increased grooming, chewing, scratching, and shaking, plus the appearance of some unique behaviors such as jumping, leg tremors, and cage scratching. Mecamylamine injection triggered comparable withdrawal signs in wild-type and in beta2-/- mice, whereas the beta4-/- mice displayed significantly milder somatic symptoms. In addition, nicotine withdrawal produced hyperalgesia in wild-type but not beta4-/- mice. Finally, chronic nicotine produced an increase in epibatidine binding in several areas of the brain in both wild-type and in beta4-/- mice, but such receptor upregulation did not correlate with the severity of withdrawal signs. Our results demonstrate a major role for beta4-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the appearance of nicotine withdrawal symptoms. In contrast, the beta2 subunit does not seem to greatly influence this phenomenon. We also show that the upregulation of epibatidine binding sites attributable to chronic nicotine, an effect associated with beta2-containing receptors, is probably not related to the mechanisms underlying withdrawal.
While many studies have provided evidence of homodimerization and heterodimerization of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), few studies have used fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) combined with confocal microscopy to visualize receptor dimerization on the plasma membrane, and there have been no reports demonstrating the expression of serotonin receptor dimers/oligomers on the plasma membrane of living cells. In the study presented here, biochemical and biophysical techniques were used to determine if 5-HT(2C) receptors exist as homodimers on the plasma membrane of living cells. Immunoprecipitation followed by Western blotting revealed the presence of immunoreactive bands the predicted size of 5-HT(2C) receptor monomers and homodimers that were detergent and cross-linker sensitive. Bioluminescence resonance energy transfer (BRET) was assessed in HEK293 cells expressing 5-HT(2C) receptors labeled with Renilla luciferase and yellow fluorescent protein. BRET levels were not altered by pretreatment with serotonin. Confocal microscopy provided direct visualization of FRET on the plasma membrane of live cells expressing 5-HT(2C) receptors labeled with cyan (donor) and yellow (acceptor) fluorescent proteins. FRET, assessed by acceptor photobleaching, was dependent on the donor/acceptor ratio and independent of acceptor expression levels, indicating that FRET resulted from receptor clustering and not from overexpression of randomly distributed receptors, providing evidence for GPCR dimers/oligomers in a clustered distribution on the plasma membrane. The results of this study suggest that 5-HT(2C) receptors exist as constitutive homodimers on the plasma membrane of living cells. In addition, a confocal-based FRET method for monitoring receptor dimerization directly on the plasma membrane of living cells is described.


Neurotransmitter transporters generate larger currents than expected if one assumes fixed stoichiometry models. It remains controversial, however, whether these depolarizing currents arise from high density and rapid turnover rates of a classical transporter, or whether transporters exhibit bona fide channel behavior. Although heterologously expressed transporters show single-channel behavior and noise analysis in native cells strongly suggests channel behavior, no directly observed single-channel events associated with transporters have been reported thus far in native cells. We describe single-channel events arising directly from the Caenorhabditis elegans dopamine transporter (DAT-1) as evidenced by DA-induced channel activity blocked by a high-affinity DAT-1 inhibitor, increased channel activity in neurons that overexpress DAT-1, and loss of channels in dat-1 knockout neurons. Our data indicate that authentic transporter channels underlie depolarizing whole-cell currents. Thus, DA transporters not only transport DA but also exhibit a channel mode of conduction that directly modulates membrane potential and neuronal function.
A growing number of human disorders have been associated with expansions of a tract of a single amino acid. Recently, polyalanine (polyA) tract expansions in the Aristaless-related homeobox (ARX) protein have been identified in a subset of patients with infantile spasms and mental retardation. How alanine expansions in ARX, or any other transcription factor, cause disease have not been determined. We generated a series of polyA expansions in Arx and expressed these in cell culture and brain slices. Transfection of these constructs results in nuclear protein aggregation, filamentous nuclear inclusions, and an increase in cell death. These inclusions are ubiquitinated and recruit Hsp70. Coexpressing Hsp70 decreases the percentage of cells with nuclear inclusions. Finally, we show that expressing mutant Arx in mouse brains results in neuronal nuclear inclusion formation. Our data suggest expansions in one of the ARX polyA tracts results in nuclear protein aggregation and an increase in cell death; likely underlying the pathogenesis of the associated infantile spasms and mental retardation.

Nicotine facilitates hippocampus-dependent contextual but not hippocampus-independent cued delay fear conditioning. To test if the effects of nicotine are specific to contextual fear conditioning or would extend to another hippocampus-dependent version of fear conditioning, we compared the effects of nicotine on cued delay and cued trace fear conditioning in male and female C57BL/6 mice. Unlike cued delay fear conditioning, cued trace fear conditioning is hippocampus dependent. Thus, if nicotine enhances hippocampus-dependent fear conditioning, nicotine should enhance trace fear conditioning. For both trace and delay conditioning, five 30 s, 85 dB white noise conditioned stimuli (CS) were paired with five 2 s, 0.5 mA footshock unconditioned stimuli (US). In the trace paradigm, a 30-s period was inserted between CS offset and US onset. The CS and US co-terminated in the delay paradigm. Testing occurred 24 h later. The data indicate that nicotine (given on training and testing day) enhances trace but not delay cued fear conditioning. No sex differences were found. For delay cued fear conditioning a high level of freezing to the CS was found. Thus, a second experiment examined if the lack of enhancement of delay cued fear conditioning by nicotine was due to a ceiling effect. The CS duration was decreased to 15 s and only one CS-US pairing was used for delay and trace cued fear conditioning. Although overall levels of freezing to the cue were lower in the second experiment, nicotine still enhanced trace fear conditioning but did not enhance delay fear conditioning. Taken together, the results of the present experiments suggest that nicotine enhances hippocampus-dependent versions of fear conditioning.
In the face of contradictory findings on the role of visual cortex contributions to spatial behavior, the present study evaluated the ability of rats with primary visual cortex (area 17) lesions to learn spatial problems in a swimming pool. Because the solution to any spatial learning problem consists of acquiring at least two primary elements of a task, task procedures and spatial learning, the study, in addition to assessing spatial ability on a place task, used two training/testing methods to identify the nature of the spatial impairment associated with visual cortex lesions. Non-spatial training consisted of learning to find a platform in the dark and spatial training consisted of a series of matching-to-place problems. The results confirmed that although rats with visual cortex lesions were impaired on place learning, the deficit was partially ameliorated by non-spatial training given following the lesion, and completely ameliorated by non-spatial training given before the lesion. Nevertheless, all visual cortex groups failed to show a quadrant preference on a probe trial and displayed a profound impairment in matching-to-place learning. This definitive demonstration that appropriate testing methods can reveal a failure in spatial behavior following visual cortex lesions is consistent with the idea that primary visual cortex is required in spatial navigation.
In late-stage embryos of domestic fowl, exposure of the right eye to light entering through the shell induces asymmetry of the thalamofugal visual pathway, together with differences in performance according to whether the right or left eye (RE, LE) is in use (Behav. Brain Res. 38 (1990) 211). Nevertheless, at least some of the main specialisations of the right and left eye systems (RES, LES) are not dependent on such exposure. Higher ability of LES to assess and respond to novelty is present in dark-incubated (Da) chicks. This is probably also true of RES ability to control response, and specifically to inhibit shift to an alternative response (i.e. to a novel stimulus). We imprinted chicks on red table-tennis balls with a horizontal, white strip on their equator. At test, they chose between this and a ball with a vertical, white strip. Da chicks showed clear choice with the LE, but not with the RE. Unexpectedly, light-incubated (Li) chicks failed to show LE/RE differences in choice. Exploratory pecks at a novel feature were greatly reduced in Li. Two effects of light exposure on RES are likely. The first is greater use of RES in the home-cage, affecting what is learned about the companion ball. This may make RES more competent in assessing ball properties, and so explain the enhanced choice by RE, that abolished the RE/LE difference in Li. Secondly, the ability of RES to inhibit shift to an alternative response is enhanced. Light exposure and being female similarly opposed shift to the novel feature, but probably via different mechanisms. The effects of exposure are discussed as an example of the generation of a range of behavioural phenotypes, which are sustained within a single population by varying or frequency-dependent selection.
The present study investigated the effect of different doses of estradiol treatment on performance in the non-spatial delayed alternation T-maze a task in which performance is mediated by the integrity of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Ovariectomized (OVX) female rats were injected with estradiol benzoate (0.3 microg/0.1 ml sesame oil (EB0.3), 5 microg/0.1 ml sesame oil (EB5) or 10 microg/0.1 ml sesame oil (EB 10)) or vehicle (sesame oil, 0.1 ml). Approximately 2 h after each injection, animals were trained daily on the T-maze with an initial delay of 10 s (short delay). Following a month with no treatment animals were re-trained at a 40 s delay (long delay). Days to reach criterion (one error per day for three consecutive days), mean total errors, errors across days, change in performance across training (short subtracted from long delay), and latency to reach goal arm, were scored. At the short delay, there was a weak effect for the low dose of estradiol (EB0.3 low-to-medium physiological) to significantly decrease the number of working memory errors compared to controls. However at the longer delay the higher doses of estradiol EB5 (high physiological) and to a lesser extent EB10 (suupraphysiological) significantly increased the number of working memory errors compared to controls. These data demonstrate the differential effect of estradiol during short and long delays on prefrontal cortex dependent working memory. High levels of estradiol impair PFC-dependent working memory at longer delays, while low level estradiol weakly facilitates PFC-dependent working memory at a shorter delay. These data suggest that estradiol's facilitatory effects on working memory may not be mediated through the PFC, while estradiols inhibitory effects on working memory may be mediated at least in part through the PFC.
Post-synaptic GABA(B) responses (slow, late hyperpolarisations which can be eliminated by perfusion with phaclofen) can be recorded in vitro from many, but not all, neurones in the intermediate medial hyperstriatum ventrale (IMHV). The IMHV is an area of the chick forebrain which is remarkable for its plasticity, and for its essential role in two specific types of early learning-imprinting, and a form of one-trial passive-avoidance learning. Post-synaptic GABA(B) responses are strongly statistically associated with other properties (such as high membrane resistance) which are, themselves, dependent on a bird's past history. There is also evidence that their incidence changes with prior training in vivo and with age. GABA(B) hyperpolarisations are always offset to a varying extent by excitatory NMDA components. These two components follow a very similar time-course, so that the duration and (to a lesser extent), the magnitude of a response is controlled by the balance between the two systems. The evidence suggests that this balance fluctuates, and that its fluctuations determine the extent to which any neurone can function as a coincidence detector.
DNA sequences encoding the murine ortholog of the human P2Y12 receptor were cloned. The human and mouse P2Y12 receptors were expressed in a yeast cell-based GPCR expression technology containing chimeric yeast Galpha protein (Gpa1) constructs in which the 5 C-terminal amino acids were identical to corresponding sequences from mammalian Galphai/o proteins. LacZ reporter gene assays of agonist-induced activation of the G protein-coupled mating signal transduction pathway revealed murine P2Y12 functional pharmacological properties that closely resembled those exhibited by the human P2Y12 receptor. In NIH3T3 cells, the mouse P2Y12 stimulated calcium uptake monitored in FLIPR via coupling to a Galphaq/i3 chimeric protein. Murine P2Y12 mRNA was expressed at high levels in the brain and at lower levels in a variety of peripheral tissues. In situ hybridization analysis indicated glia-specific expression within the brain.
Malignant glioma patients have a dismal prognosis with an urgent need of new treatment modalities. Previously developed gene therapies for brain tumors showed promising results in experimental animal models, but failed in clinical trials due to low transfection rates and insufficient expression of the transgene in tumor cells, as well as low bystander killing effects. We have previously shown that the histone deacetylase inhibitor 4-phenylbutyrate (4-PB) enhances gap junction communication between glioma cells in culture. In this study, we demonstrate an activation of recombinant HSV-tk gene expression, and a dramatic enhancement of gap junction-mediated bystander killing effect by administration of the HSV-tk prodrug ganciclovir together with 4-PB. These findings that 4-PB potentiates &quot;suicide gene&quot; expression as well as enhances gap junctional communication and bystander killing of tumor cells justify further testing of this paradigm as an adjunct to suicide gene therapy of malignant gliomas.
The classic view of dopamine (DA) loss in Parkinson's disease is that it produces a functional deafferentation in striatal-cortical circuitry that, in turn, contributes to sensorimotor deficits. The present study examines this view in the rat by assessing how DA-depletion affects the intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) topographic representation of movement in the rostral and caudal motor areas of the motor cortex. The ICMS map is used as an index of motor cortex function because it has been shown to reflect motor function and experience. Groups of rats received no training or skilled reach training and were then given unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) or sham lesions of the nigrostriatal bundle to deplete nigrostriatal DA. Lesion success was confirmed by abnormalities in skilled reaching, by apomorphine-induced rotation, and by loss of DA neurons in the substantia nigra. The size and threshold of the motor map in naive and skilled reach trained DA-depleted rats were preserved. In addition, there was an increase in distal limb representation in the caudal forelimb area (CFA) in the DA-depleted rats suggesting a possible plastic response to the behavioral effects of DA-depletion. The presence of preserved size and modified map organization in DA-depleted rats is discussed in relation to the hypothesis that preserved motor cortex functionality despite DA loss underlies the spared motor abilities of DA-depleted rats.
The regeneration of the auditory nerve remains a challenge in restoring hearing. An interesting approach would be to use a cell replacement therapy with the potential to establish connections from the inner ear to the central auditory system. This hypothesis was tested by xenografted (mouse to rat) implantation of embryonic dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and embryonic stem (ES) cells along the auditory nerve in the adult host. DRG neurons were obtained at embryonic day 13-14 in transgenic animals expressing enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP). For embryonic stem cells, a tau-GFP ES cell line was used as a donor. The fibers of the auditory nerve in the adult rat were transected through the modiolus at the first cochlear turn, and the biological implants were transplanted into the transection. The transplanted DRG neurons and ES cells survived for a postoperative survival time ranging from 3 to 9 weeks, verified by EGFP/GFP fluorescence, and neurofilament or TUJ1 immunostaining. At 9 weeks following implantation, the implanted DRG neurons were found to have migrated along the auditory nerve in the internal meatus. At the same postoperative time, the ES cells had migrated into the brain stem close to the ventral cochlear nucleus. The results demonstrate not only the survival and migration of xenografted DRG neurons and stem cells along the adult auditory nerve but also the feasibility of a cell replacement therapy in the degenerated auditory system.
The hippocampal mossy fiber terminals of CA3 area contain high levels of vesicular zinc that is released in a calcium-dependent way, following high-frequency stimulation. However the properties of zinc release during normal synaptic transmission, paired-pulse facilitation and mossy fiber long-term potentiation are still unknown. Using the fluorescent zinc probe N-(6-methoxy-8-quinolyl)-para-toluenesulfonamide, we measured fast mossy fiber zinc changes indicating that zinc is released following single and low levels of electrical stimulation. The observed presynaptic zinc signals are maintained during the expression of mossy fiber long-term potentiation, assumed to be mediated by an increase in transmitter release, and are enhanced during paired-pulse facilitation. This zinc enhancement is, like paired-pulse facilitation, reduced during established long-term potentiation. The correlation between the paired-pulse evoked zinc and field potential responses supports the idea that zinc is co-released with glutamate.
NogoA, a myelin-associated component, inhibits neurite outgrowth. Nogo66, a portion of NogoA, binds to Nogo66 receptor (NgR) and induces the inhibitory signaling. LINGO-1 and p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75), the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor, are also required for NogoA signaling. However, signaling mechanisms downstream to Nogo receptor remain poorly understood. Here, we observed that NgR and p75 were colocalized in low-density membrane raft fractions derived from forebrains and cerebella as well as from cerebellar granule cells. NgR interacted with p75 in lipid rafts. In addition, disruption of lipid rafts by beta-methylcyclodextrin, a cholesterol-binding reagent, reduced the Nogo66 signaling. Our results suggest an important role of lipid rafts in facilitating the interaction between NgRs and provide insight into mechanisms underlying the inhibition of neurite outgrowth by NogoA.
Mutations in presenilins (PS) 1 and 2 are the major cause of familial Alzheimer's disease. Conditional double knock-out mice lacking both presenilins in the postnatal forebrain (PS cDKO mice) exhibit memory and synaptic plasticity impairments followed by progressive neurodegeneration in the cerebral cortex. Here we further investigate the molecular events that may underlie the observed phenotypes and identify additional neuropathological markers in the PS cDKO brain. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay analysis showed reduced levels of the toxic beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides in the cerebral cortex of PS cDKO mice. Interestingly, the reduction in Abeta40 and Abeta42 peptides is similar in PS1 conditional knock-out and PS cDKO mice. We further examined the gene expression profile by oligonucleotide microarrays in the PS cDKO cerebral cortex and found that a high number of genes are differentially expressed, most notably a group of up-regulated inflammatory genes. Quantitative real-time reverse transcription PCR and Western analyses confirmed the elevated levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein, complement component C1q, and cathepsin S, up-regulation of which has been associated with inflammatory responses in various neurodegenerative processes. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the increase in complement component C1q is confined to the hippocampal formation, whereas glial fibrillary acidic protein and cathepsin S are up-regulated throughout the entire neocortex and hippocampus. In addition, strong microglial activation occurs in the hippocampus and the deeper cortical layers of PS cDKO mice. These results indicate that the memory impairment and neurodegeneration in PS cDKO mice are not caused by Abeta accumulation and that loss of PS function leads to differential up-regulation of inflammatory markers in the cerebral cortex.
A mutation in the gamma2 subunit of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptor (GABAR), which changes an arginine to a glutamine at position 43 (R43Q), is linked to familial idiopathic epilepsies. We used radioligand binding, immunoblotting, and immunofluorescence techniques to examine the properties of wild-type alpha1beta2gamma2 and mutant alpha1beta2gamma2R43Q GABARs expressed in HEK 293 cells. The gamma2R43Q mutation had no affect on the binding affinity of the benzodiazepine flunitrazepam. However, in cells expressing alpha1beta2gamma2R43Q GABARs, the number of binding sites for [3H]flunitrazepam relative to wild-type receptors was decreased 75%. Using surface protein biotinylation, affinity purification, and immunoblotting, we demonstrated that expression of cell surface alpha1beta2gamma2R43Q GABARs was decreased. Surface immunostaining of HEK 293 cells expressing alpha1beta2gamma2R43Q GABARs confirmed that surface expression of the gamma2R43Q subunit was reduced. These data demonstrate that the gamma2R43Q mutation impairs expression of cell surface GABARs. A deficit in surface GABAR expression would reduce synaptic inhibition and result in neuronal hyperexcitability, which could explain why families possessing the gamma2R43Q subunit have epilepsy.
Cleavage of amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) by alpha-,beta-, and gamma-secretases releases an extracellular fragment called APPS, small Abeta peptides, and a short APP intracellular domain that may provide a transcriptional signal analogous to the Notch intracellular domain. Notch cleavage is activated by extracellular ligands on the cell surface, but the cellular localization of APP cleavage remains unclear. We now show that in transfected cultured cells, the plasma membrane SNARE protein syntaxin 1A, when expressed as a full-length protein, disrupts the Golgi apparatus and blocks trans-Golgi traffic and exocytosis. In contrast, truncated syntaxin 1A1-243 selectively abolishes exocytosis but has no apparent effect on trans-Golgi traffic or Golgi structure, whereas further truncated syntaxins 1A1-236 and 1A1-230 have no effect on either exocytosis or Golgi traffic. Using these syntaxin 1A fragments, we demonstrated that blocking trans-Golgi traffic greatly impairs APP cleavage and AICD-dependent nuclear signaling, whereas blocking exocytosis alone does not affect either process, even though secretion of APPS and Abeta40 peptide is abolished. Our data suggest that, different from Notch, cleavage of APP is independent of cell surface regulation by extracellular ligands but may be controlled by intracellular signaling.

Brain-derived growth factor (BDNF) acutely regulates synaptic transmission and modulates hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), cellular models of plasticity associated with learning and memory. Our previous studies revealed that BDNF rapidly increases phosphorylation of NMDA receptor subunits NR1 and NR2B in the postsynaptic density (PSD), potentially linking receptor phosphorylation to synaptic plasticity. To further define molecular mechanisms governing BDNF actions, we examined tyrosine phosphorylation of GluR1, the most well-characterized subunit of AMPA receptors. Initially, we investigated synaptoneurosomes that contain intact pre- and postsynaptic elements. Incubation of synaptoneurosomes with BDNF for 5 min increased tyrosine phosphorylation of GluR1 in a dose-dependent manner, with a maximal, 4-fold enhancement at 10 ng/ml BDNF. NGF had no effects, suggesting the specificity of BDNF actions. Subsequently, we found that BDNF elicited a maximal, 2.5-fold increase in GluR1 phosphorylation in the PSD at 250 ng/ml BDNF within 5 min, suggesting that BDNF enhances the phosphorylation through postsynaptic mechanisms. Activation of trkB receptors was critical as k252-a, an inhibitor of trk receptor tyrosine kinase, blocked the BDNF-activated GluR1 phosphorylation. In addition, AP-5 and MK 801, NMDA receptor antagonists, blocked BDNF enhancement of phosphorylation in synaptoneurosomes or PSDs. Conversely, NMDA, the specific receptor agonist, evoked respective 3.8- and 2-fold increases in phosphorylation in synaptoneurosomes and PSDs within 5 min, mimicking the effects of BDNF. These findings raise the possibility that BDNF modulates GluR1 activity via changes in NMDA receptor function. Moreover, incubation of synaptoneurosomes or PSDs with BDNF and ifenprodil, a specific NR2B antagonist, reproduced the results of AP-5 and MK-801. Finally, coexposure of synaptoneurosomes or PSDs to BDNF and NMDA was not additive, suggesting that BDNF and NMDA activate the same tyrosine phosphorylation site(s) in GluR1. Our findings suggest that BDNF-mediated GluR1 tyrosine phosphorylation potentially regulates synaptic plasticity postsynaptically through NR2B subunits of the NMDA receptor.
Previous studies have shown that peripheral electrical stimulation (PES) can suppress morphine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) and the reinstatement of extinguished CPP in the rat. The present study was performed to elucidate if preproenkephalin (PPE) and preprodynorphin (PPD) mRNAs in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) play a role in this event. Rats were trained with morphine for 4 days to establish CPP paradigm. They were then given 15-min test once a day for eight consecutive days for extinction trial. Twenty-four hours after the 8th session of extinction trials, rats were given peripheral electrical stimulation (PES) at 2 or 100 Hz once a day for 3 days, then a morphine-priming injection at a dose of 1, 2, or 4 mg/kg to reinstate the extinguished CPP. At the end of the experiment, PPE and PPD mRNA levels in the nucleus acccumbens (NAc) were determined by the semiquantitative RT-PCR technique. The results showed that PES at 2- and 100-Hz administered 30 min a day for 3 days suppressed both the expression of morphine-induced CPP and the reinstatement of extinguished CPP. PES at 2 Hz increased preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA levels, whereas PES of 100 Hz that of preprodynorphin (PPD) mRNA levels in the NAc. These findings suggest that enkephalin and dynorphin in NAc may play important roles in the mechanisms underlying the inhibitory effect of PES on the expression and reinstatement of morphine-induced CPP in rats.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the mammalian hypothalamus contains a central circadian pacemaker, which adjusts circadian rhythms within the body to environmental light-dark cycles. It has been shown that dark exposure in the day causes phase shifts in circadian rhythms, but it does not induce changes in the melatonin levels in the pineal gland. In this study, we examined the effect of dark exposure on two &quot;circadian clock&quot; genes Period1 and Period2 mRNA levels in the rat SCN, and on Period1, Period2, and arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (Aa-Nat, the rate-limiting enzyme in melatonin synthesis) gene expression in the pineal gland. Period1 and Period2 mRNA levels were significantly decreased in the SCN after 0.5 and 2 h, respectively, therefore suggesting that changes in those mRNA levels may be the part of the mechanisms of dark-induced phase shifts. Period1 and Aa-Nat mRNA levels in the pineal gland were not affected by darkness, but Period2 was moderately affected. Since Period1 and Aa-Nat mRNA levels in the pineal gland did not respond to dark stimulation, we further examined whether the pineal gland itself is capable of responding to adrenergic stimulation at this time of the day. Isoproterenol significantly induced Period1 and Aa-Nat mRNA levels; however, it did not affect Period2. Although previous studies have reported that during the day the SCN &quot;gates&quot; the dark information reaching the pineal, our data demonstrate that dark information may reach the pineal during the daytime.
The serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) receptor 1A is involved in many physiological functions, including the regulation of learning and memory by acting either as an autoreceptor located on 5-HT neurons (raphe nuclei) or as a heteroreceptor on non-5-HT neurons, mainly in the hippocampal formation. To investigate whether the effects of 5-HT via 5-HT1A receptors on learning are age-sensitive, we evaluated the performance of young-adult (3 months old) and aged (22 months old) 5-HT1A knockout (KO) mice and their homologous wild types (WT) in the hippocampal-dependent spatial reference memory version of the Morris water maze. We demonstrated that young-adult 5-HT1AKO mice exhibit an impairment in learning and retention of the spatial task, as compared to WT mice, without showing any sign of change in their sensori-motor and locomotor abilities or motivation. This genotype effect does not persist during aging. In fact, aged 5-HT1AKO mice seem to be slightly facilitated during the early stages of learning. These results are consistent with a possible prevalence of 5-HT1A raphe functions in learning and memory abilities of young-adult animals, since the effects of the mutation on mice performance (impairment) are opposite to those found after intra-raphe injection of 5-HT1A agonists (facilitation), and with data showing increased activity of 5-HT neurons in 5-HT1AKO mice. The reduced effect of the mutation in aged animals possibly reflects the lower efficacy of autoreceptors due to aging and/or a prevalence of hippocampal heteroreceptors.
Mental fatigue, with decreased concentration capacity, is common in neuroinflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases, often appearing prior to other major mental or physical neurological symptoms. Mental fatigue also makes rehabilitation more difficult after a stroke, brain trauma, meningitis or encephalitis. As increased levels of proinflammatory cytokines are reported in these disorders, we wanted to explore whether or not proinflammatory cytokines could induce mental fatigue, and if so, by what mechanisms.It is well known that proinflammatory cytokines are increased in major depression, &quot;sickness behavior&quot; and sleep deprivation, which are all disorders associated with mental fatigue. Furthermore, an influence by specific proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-1, on learning and memory capacities has been observed in several experimental systems. As glutamate signaling is crucial for information intake and processing within the brain, and due to the pivotal role for glutamate in brain metabolism, dynamic alterations in glutamate transmission could be of pathophysiological importance in mental fatigue. Based on this literature and observations from our own laboratory and others on the role of astroglial cells in the fine-tuning of glutamate neurotransmission we present the hypothesis that the proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 could be involved in the pathophysiology of mental fatigue through their ability to attenuate the astroglial clearance of extracellular glutamate, their disintegration of the blood brain barrier, and effects on astroglial metabolism and metabolic supply for the neurons, thereby attenuating glutamate transmission. To test whether our hypothesis is valid or not, brain imaging techniques should be applied with the ability to register, over time and with increasing cognitive loading, the extracellular concentrations of glutamate and potassium (K+) in humans suffering from mental fatigue. At present, this is not possible for technical reasons. Therefore, more knowledge of neuronal-glial signaling in in vitro systems and animal experiments is important.In summary, we provide a hypothetic explanation for a general neurobiological mechanism, at the cellular level, behind one of our most common symptoms during neuroinflammation and other long-term disorders of brain function. Understanding pathophysiological mechanisms of mental fatigue could result in better treatment.
The p53 tumor suppressor gene has been implicated in the regulation of apoptosis in a number of different neuronal death paradigms. Because of the importance of p53 in neuronal injury, we questioned the mechanism underlying p53-mediated apoptosis in neurons. Using adenoviral-mediated gene delivery, reconstitution experiments, and mice carrying a knock-in mutation in the endogenous p53 gene, we show that the transactivation function of p53 is essential to induce neuronal cell death. Although p53 possesses two transactivation domains that can activate p53 targets independently, we demonstrate that the first activation domain (ADI) is required to drive apoptosis after neuronal injury. Furthermore, the BH3-only proteins Noxa and PUMA exhibit differential regulation by the two transactivation domains. Here, we show that Noxa can be induced by either activation domain, whereas PUMA induction requires both activation domains to be intact. Unlike Noxa, the upregulation of PUMA alone is sufficient to induce neuronal cell death. We demonstrate, therefore, that the first transactivation domain of p53 is indispensable for the induction of neuronal cell death.
The globus pallidus (GP) is a critical component of the basal ganglia circuitry controlling motor behavior. Dysregulation of GP activity has been implicated in a number of psychomotor disorders, including Parkinson's disease (PD), in which a cardinal feature of the pathophysiology is an alteration in the pattern and synchrony of discharge in GP neurons. Yet the determinants of this activity in GP neurons are poorly understood. To help fill this gap, electrophysiological, molecular, and computational approaches were used to identify and characterize GABAergic GP neurons in tissue slices from rodents. In vitro, GABAergic GP neurons generate a regular, autonomous, single-spike pacemaker activity. Hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated cation (HCN) channels make an important contribution to this process: their blockade with ZD7288 significantly slowed discharge rate and decreased its regularity. HCN currents evoked by somatic voltage clamp had fast and slow components. Single-cell RT-PCR and immunohistochemical approaches revealed robust expression of HCN2 subunits as well as significant levels of HCN1 subunits in GABAergic GP neurons. Transient activation of striatal GABAergic input to GP neurons led to a resetting of rhythmic discharge that was dependent on HCN currents. Simulations suggested that the ability of transient striatal GABAergic input to reset pacemaking was dependent on dendritic HCN2/HCN1 channels. Together, these studies show that HCN channels in GABAergic GP neurons are key determinants of the regularity and rate of pacemaking as well as striatal resetting of this activity, implicating HCN channels in the emergence of synchrony in PD.
Transient global ischemia induces a delayed rise in intracellular Zn2+, which may be mediated via glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2)-lacking AMPA receptors (AMPARs), and selective, delayed death of hippocampal CA1 neurons. The molecular mechanisms underlying Zn2+ toxicity in vivo are not well delineated. Here we show the striking finding that intraventricular injection of the high-affinity Zn2+ chelator calcium EDTA (CaEDTA) at 30 min before ischemia (early CaEDTA) or at 48-60 hr (late CaEDTA), but not 3-6 hr, after ischemia, afforded robust protection of CA1 neurons in approximately 50% (late CaEDTA) to 75% (early CaEDTA) of animals. We also show that Zn2+ acts via temporally distinct mechanisms to promote neuronal death. Early CaEDTA attenuated ischemia-induced GluR2 mRNA and protein downregulation (and, by inference, formation of Zn2+-permeable AMPARs), the delayed rise in Zn2+, and neuronal death. These findings suggest that Zn2+ acts at step(s) upstream from GluR2 gene downregulation and implicate Zn2+ in transcriptional regulation and/or GluR2 mRNA stability. Early CaEDTA also blocked mitochondrial release of cytochrome c and Smac/DIABLO (second mitochondria-derived activator of caspases/direct inhibitor of apoptosis protein-binding protein with low pI), caspase-3 activity (but not procaspase-3 cleavage), p75NTR induction, and DNA fragmentation. These findings indicate that CaEDTA preserves the functional integrity of the mitochondrial outer membrane and arrests the caspase death cascade. Late injection of CaEDTA at a time when GluR2 is downregulated and caspase is activated inhibited the delayed rise in Zn2+, p75NTR induction, DNA fragmentation, and cell death. The finding of neuroprotection by late CaEDTA administration has striking implications for intervention in the delayed neuronal death associated with global ischemia.
Striatal cholinergic interneurons, also known as tonically active neurons (TANs), acquire a pause in firing during learning of stimulus-reward associations. This pause response to a sensory stimulus emerges after repeated pairing with a reward. The conditioned pause is dependent on dopamine from the substantia nigra, but its underlying cellular mechanism is unknown. Using in vivo intracellular recording, we found that both subthreshold and suprathreshold depolarizations in cholinergic interneurons induced a prolonged after-hyperpolarization (AHP) associated with a pause in their tonic firing. The AHP duration was dependent on the level of depolarization, whether elicited by intracellular current injection or by activation of excitatory inputs from the cortex. High-frequency stimulation of the substantia nigra induced potentiation of the cortically evoked excitation and increased the prolonged AHP after the stimulus. These findings from anesthetized animals suggest that a substantia nigra-induced AHP produces stimulus-associated firing pauses in cholinergic interneurons. This mechanism may underlie the acquisition of the pause response in TANs recorded from behaving animals during learning.
Microglia are the principle immune effector and phagocytic cells in the CNS. These cells are associated with fibrillar beta-amyloid (fAbeta)-containing plaques found in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. The plaque-associated microglia undergo a phenotypic conversion into an activated phenotype and are responsible for the development of a focal inflammatory response that exacerbates and accelerates the disease process. Paradoxically, despite the presence of abundant activated microglia in the brain of AD patients, these cells fail to mount a phagocytic response to Abeta deposits but can efficiently phagocytose Abeta fibrils and plaques in vitro. We report that exposure of microglia to fAbeta in vitro induces phagocytosis through mechanisms distinct from those used by the classical phagocytic receptors, the Ig receptors (FcRgammaI and FcgammaRIII) or complement receptors. Microglia interact with fAbeta through a recently characterized Abeta cell surface receptor complex comprising the B-class scavenger receptor CD36, alpha6beta1 integrin, and CD47 (integrin-associated protein). Antagonists specific for each component of the receptor complex blocks fAbeta-stimulated phagocytosis. These data demonstrated that engagement of this ensemble of receptors is required for induction of phagocytosis. The phagocytic response stimulated by this receptor complex is driven principally by a beta(1) integrin-linked process that is morphologically and mechanistically distinct from the classical type I and type II phagocytic mechanisms. These data provide evidence for phagocytic uptake of fAbeta through a receptor-mediated, nonclassical phagocytic mechanism.
Recent accounts suggest that the hippocampal system critically supports two central characteristics of episodic memory: the ability to establish and maintain representations for the salient relationships between experienced events (relational representation) and the capacity to flexibly manipulate memory (flexible memory expression). To test this proposal in monkeys, intact controls and subjects with bilateral aspiration lesions of the entorhinal cortex were trained postoperatively on two standard memory tasks, delayed nonmatchingto-sample (DNMS) and two-choice object discrimination (OD) learning, and three procedures intended to emphasize relational representation and flexible memory expression: a paired associate (PA) task, a transitive inference (TI) test of learning and memory for hierarchical stimulus relationships, and a spatial delayed recognition span (SDRS) procedure. The latter assessments each included critical &quot;probe&quot; tests that asked monkeys to evaluate the relationships among previously learned stimuli presented in novel combinations. Subjects with entorhinal cortex lesions scored as accurately as controls on all phases of DNMS and OD, procedures that can be solved on the basis of memory for individual stimuli. In contrast, experimental monkeys displayed deficits relative to controls on all phases of the PA, TI, and SDRS tasks that emphasized the flexible manipulation of memory for the relationships between familiar items. Together, the findings support the conclusion that the primate hippocampal system critically enables the relational organization of declarative memory.
At detection threshold, sensitivity improves as the area of a test grating increases, but not when the test is placed on a pedestal and the task becomes contrast discrimination (G. E. Legge &amp; J. M. Foley, 1980). This study asks whether the abolition of area summation is specific to the situation where mask and test stimuli have the same spatial frequency and orientation (&quot;within-channel&quot; masking) or is more general, also occurring when mask and test stimuli are very different (&quot;cross-channel&quot; masking). Threshold versus contrast masking functions were measured where the test and mask were either both small (SS), both large (LL), or small and large, respectively (SL). For within-channel masking, facilitation and area summation were found at low mask contrasts, but the results for SS and LL converged at intermediate contrasts and above, replicating Legge and Foley (1980). For all three observers, less facilitation was found for SL than for SS. For cross-channel masking, area summation occurred across the entire masking function and results for SS and SL were identical. The results for the entire data set were well fit by an extended version of a contrast masking model (J. M. Foley, 1994) in which the weights of excitatory and suppressive surround terms were free parameters. I conclude that (i) there is no empirical abolition of area summation for cross-channel masking, (ii) within-channel area summation can be abolished empirically without being disabled in the model, (iii) observers are able to select the area of spatial integration, but not suppression, (iv) extending a cross-channel mask to the surround has no effect on contrast detection, and (v) there is a formal similarity between area summation and contrast adaptation.
Ethanol exposure during nervous system development produces a range of abnormalities, and in humans may lead to the fetal alcohol syndrome. Among the mechanisms hypothesized to play roles in ethanol neurotoxicity are altered expression of supportive neurotrophic factors (NTFs), and cellular disturbances in oxidative processes. In this study, ethanol effects on secretion of two NTFs, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and neurotrophin-3 were analyzed in neonatal rat cerebellar granule cells, and the potential of the antioxidant vitamin E to modulate ethanol effects was investigated. Ethanol exposure in these preparations reduced NTF secretion, but vitamin E appreciably ameliorated the ethanol effects. Possible mechanisms underlying both the ethanol effects on NTF secretion, and the protection of this antioxidant are considered.
Neuroimaging studies of patients with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) have largely been performed in adult populations. The purpose of the current study was to investigate neural correlates of PTSD in adolescents. Specifically, this study investigates whether a differential brain response was present during the visual perception and imaginary recollection of traumatic reminders in adolescents who developed PTSD versus those who did not after experiencing earthquake. Eleven Taiwanese adolescents (age range: 12-14 years) with traumatic experience of earthquake were enrolled. Five subjects fulfilled PTSD criteria, while the other six served as non-PTSD controls. Brain activation was measured by functional magnetic resonance image (fMRI) during visual perception and imagery recall of earthquake and neutral pictures at 14 months after earthquake. During earthquake imagery (as compared with neutral imagery), PTSD group demonstrated activation in the bilateral visual cortex, bilateral cerebellum and left parahippocampal gyrus, while control group did not. During earthquake perception (as compared with neutral perception), the control group showed activation over anterior cingulate, but the PTSD group did not. Intergroup comparison confirmed above discrepancies was significant. We concluded that neurobiological alternation of PTSD in adolescent was similar to those in adult and might have developed within 14 months after trauma exposure.
7,8-Dihydro-8-oxoguanine (8-oxoG) is the most frequent mutagenic lesion caused by oxidative stress. Eukaryotic cells use a specific DNA glycosylase, OGG1, to excise 8-oxoG from DNA. The mild phenotype of OGG1 null mice has been attributed to the existence of alternative pathways, including Cockayne syndrome B (CSB)-dependent transcription coupled repair (TCR), for removal of 8-oxoG. We have studied repair and transcription activities at 8-oxoG lesions with a reconstituted transcription system (RTS; RNA polymerase II, TBP, TFIIA, TFIIB, TFIIE, TFIIF and TFIIH), as well as in cellular extracts and in vivo. All measurable repair activity at 8-oxoG lesions takes place in the 3'-direction from the lesion, indicating base excision repair (BER) activity and negligible role of nucleotide excision repair (NER). Although 8-oxoG has been shown to be preferentially removed from the transcribed strand, in vitro experiments with purified transcription factors failed to identify a definite block for RNA polymerase II at the lesion. However, a weak block was observed at the lesion during transcription carried out with RTS as well as with cellular extracts. RNA polymerase II was identified at the site of the lesion on obstructed templates. Wild-type cells, as well as cells carrying targeted mutations of genes required for removal of 8-oxoG, were transfected with a luciferase expression vector containing an 8-oxoG lesion. No significant obstruction at 8-oxoG lesions was observed by this in vivo approach. In control experiments transcription elongation was completely blocked by cisplatin.
The vestibular semicircular canals respond to angular acceleration that is integrated to angular velocity by the biofluid mechanics of the canals and is the primary origin of afferent responses encoding velocity. Surprisingly, some afferents actually report angular acceleration. Our data indicate that hair-cell/afferent synapses introduce a mathematical derivative in these afferents that partially cancels the biomechanical integration and results in discharge rates encoding angular acceleration. We examined the role of convergent synaptic inputs from hair cells to this mathematical differentiation. A significant reduction in the order of the differentiation was observed for low-frequency stimuli after gamma-aminobutyric acid type B receptor antagonist administration. Results demonstrate that gamma-aminobutyric acid participates in shaping the temporal dynamics of afferent responses.
Southern Illinois University School of Medicine recently completed its fourth year of a resource-session-enhanced, case-based, tutor-group-oriented curriculum. As an example of a curricular unit, the authors describe the implementation of the basic and clinical sciences in one of the four units in year one, and detail that unit's organization, logistics, content, rationale, and other characteristics. The Sensorimotor Systems and Behavior (SSB) unit is preceded by a cardio-respiratory-renal unit and is followed by an endocrine-reproductive-gastrointestinal unit. A Doctoring unit temporally spans each of these three units. The SSB unit is allotted an 11.5-week period that includes an aggregate of 2.5 weeks of available clinical time, 1.5 weeks for examinations and exam study time, and approximately 8.5 weeks for tutor-group sessions, mandatory laboratory sessions, and self-directed learning. Optional resource sessions are offered during a two- to four-hour block on a single morning each week. Clinical training in the SSB unit augments self-directed, laboratory, and tutor-group learning of neuroscience, gross anatomy, cell biology, physiology, biochemistry, behavioral and social science, embryology, limited pharmacology and genetics, and basic clinical neurology for first-year students. Although it is fast-paced and places heavy responsibility for independent learning on the students, the SSB unit culminates in significant achievement in the basic and clinical sciences. The unit provides substantial clinical training and practical experience in physical and neurological examinations that directly integrate with basic science knowledge. The unit reduces lecture-based instruction, demands self-determination, and promotes experience in team effort, professionalism, peer interaction, empathy in clinical medicine, and practical use of basic science knowledge.

Marine predatory cone snails (genus Conus) with over 500 species represent what is arguably the largest single genus of marine animals alive today. All Conus are venomous and utilize a complex mixture of Conus peptides to capture their preys and for other biological purposes. Each component of Conus peptides selectively targets a specific subtype of ion channels, neurotransmitter receptors or transporters. Owing to their diversity, more than 50,000 distinct active peptides are theoretically estimated in Conus venoms. These diversified toxins are generally categorized into several superfamilies and/or families based on their characteristic arrangements of cysteine residues and pharmacological actions. Some mechanisms underlying the remarkable diversity of Conus peptides have been postulated: the distinctive gene structure, gene duplication and/or allelic selection, genus speciation, and sophisticated expression pattern and post-translational modification of these peptides. Due to their highly pharmacological potency and target selectivity, Conus peptides have attracted extensive attention with their potentials to be developed as new research tools in neuroscience field and as novel medications in clinic for pain, epilepsy and other neuropathic disorders. Several instructive lessons for our drug development could be also learnt from these neuropharmacological &quot;expertises&quot;. Conus peptides comprise a rich resource for neuropharmacologists, and most of them await to be explored.



Progression of neuritic dystrophy is a histological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in addition to amyloid deposition and neurofibrillary tangle formation. Dystrophic neurites (DNs) are abnormal neurites, and are closely associated with amyloid deposits. To clarify the process of DN formation, we immunohistochemically investigated phosphorylated tau (AT8 and Ser396)-positive DNs and plaques in Tg2576 mice overexpressing human beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) with the Swedish type mutation (K670N/M671L). AT8-positive DNs were exclusively associated with the Congo red-positive plaques examined, and all Abeta(1-40)-positive plaques appeared to be associated with AT8-positive DNs, whereas there were no AT8-positive DNs with Abeta(1-42)-positive/Abeta(1-40)-negative plaques. Since we have previously shown that Abeta(1-42)-positive plaque precede Abeta(1-40) deposition, the appearance of congophilic structures is also late. Quantitative analyses were performed on AT8-positive DNs that were associated with congophilic plaques in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus (more than 1,000 plaques). The number of congophilic plaques increased dramatically with age. The area of DNs in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus increased 120- and 60-fold from 11-13 to 20.5 months of age, respectively. Interestingly, the mean ratio of DN area to congophilic plaque area in every plaque was unchanged, approximately 10%, through the ages examined. The mean plaque size was stable with age in both the cortex and hippocampus. These data suggest that the formation of AT8-positive DNs is simultaneous with Congo red-positive plaque development, and that the event may be closely related in the pathological progression of AD.

Neural stem cells contribute to neurogenesis in both the embryonic and adult brain. However, while adult neural stem cells produce new neurons that populate the olfactory bulb and the granule cell layer of the hippocampus, they do not normally participate in reparative neurogenesis following injury or disease affecting regions distant from the subventricular zone or the dentate gyrus. Here we review differences between neural stem cells found in the embryo and the adult, and describe factors that enhance neuronal output from these cells in vivo. Additionally, we review evidence that neural stem cells can be transplanted into injured regions of the adult brain to enhance compensatory neurogenesis from endogenous precursors. Pre-differentiation of neural stem cells into immature neurons prior to transplantation can also aid in functional recovery following injury or disease.
The ageing process and its associated diseases all involve perturbed energy metabolism, oxidative damage, and an impaired ability of the organism and its cells to cope with adversity. We propose that some specific signaling pathways in the brain may be important determinants of health during ageing. Among such specific signaling modalities are those activated in neurons by insulin-like growth factors (IGFs), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and serotonin. This triumvirate may be particularly important because of their cooperative influence on energy metabolism, food intake, stress responses and cardiovascular function. The health benefits to the periphery and central nervous system of dietary restriction and exercise may be mediated by this triumvirate of signals in the brain. At the molecular level, BDNF, serotonin and IGFs can all stimulate the production of proteins involved in cellular stress adaptation, growth and repair, neurogenesis, learning and memory and cell survival. The importance of this triumvirate is emphasized when it is seen that their general roles in energy metabolism, stress adaptation and disease resistance are conserved among diverse organisms consistent with important roles in the ageing process.





Functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome are currently considered to be two separate nosological entities. However, the overlap of symptoms and the evidence of a number of common pathophysiological characteristics suggest that functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome may be different presentations of the same disorder. In this review, we critically appraise points in common, as well as differences, in the epidemiology, pathophysiology and response to treatment of functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome. Population-based studies and large case series show that one- to two-thirds of subjects with irritable bowel syndrome have symptoms that overlap with functional dyspepsia. Symptom analyses have generally failed to support functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome as separate entities. An exaggerated motor response to meals, delayed gastric emptying and abnormal small bowel and colonic transit can all be found in subsets of functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome, and are not exclusive to either condition. Visceral hypersensitivity is a common feature to both entities and seems unlikely to be site or disease specific. There is good evidence for the post-infectious development of irritable bowel syndrome, and this may also apply in functional dyspepsia. Psychiatric comorbidities are similar in functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome. Several common drug classes (prokinetics, visceral analgesics, psychoactive agents) may similarly improve both functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome symptoms. The evidence available suggests that at least subsets of functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome represent different manifestations of a single entity. The identification of common pathophysiological targets for therapy should be pursued in future research.
Activity of the human (h) cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) channel is predominantly regulated by PKA-mediated phosphorylation. In contrast, Xenopus (X)CFTR is more responsive to PKC than PKA stimulation. We investigated the interaction between the two kinases in XCFTR. We expressed XCFTR in Xenopus oocytes and maximally stimulated it with PKA agonists. The magnitude of activation after PKC stimulation was about eightfold that without pretreatment with PKC agonist. hCFTR, expressed in the same system, lacked this response. We name this phenomenon XCFTR-specific PKC potentiation effect. To ascertain its biophysical mechanism, we first tested for XCFTR channel insertion into the plasma membrane by a substituted-cysteine-accessibility method. No insertion was detected during kinase stimulation. Next, we studied single-channel properties and found that the single-channel open probability (Po) with PKA stimulation subsequent to PKC stimulation was 2.8-fold that observed in the absence of PKC preactivation and that single-channel conductance (gamma) was increased by approximately 22%. To ascertain which XCFTR regions are responsible for the potentiation, we constructed several XCFTR-hCFTR chimeras, expressed them in Xenopus oocytes, and tested them electrophysiologically. Two chimeras [hCFTR NH2-terminal region or regulatory (R) domain in XCFTR] showed a significant decrease in potentiation. In the chimera in which XCFTR nucleotide-binding domain (NBD)2 was replaced with the hCFTR sequence there was no potentiation whatsoever. The converse chimera (hCFTR with Xenopus NBD2) did not exhibit potentiation. These results indicate that potentiation by PKC involves a large increase in Po (with a small change in gamma) without CFTR channel insertion into the plasma membrane, that XCFTR NBD2 is necessary but not sufficient for the effect, and that the potentiation effect is likely to involve other CFTR domains.
PKA-mediated phosphorylation of the regulatory (R) domain plays a major role in the activation of the human cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (hCFTR). In contrast, the effect of PKC-mediated phosphorylation is controversial, smaller than that of PKA, and dependent on the cell type. In the present study, we expressed Xenopus CFTR (XCFTR) and hCFTR in Xenopus oocytes and examined their responses (i.e., macroscopic membrane conductance) to maximal stimulation by PKC and PKA agonists. With XCFTR, the average response to PKC was approximately sixfold that of PKA stimulation. In contrast, with hCFTR, the response to PKC was approximately 90% of the response to PKA stimulation. The reason for these differences was the small response of XCFTR to PKA stimulation. Using the substituted cysteine accessibility method, we found no evidence for insertion of functional CFTR channels in the plasma membrane in response to PKC stimulation. The increase in macroscopic conductance in response to PKC stimulation of XCFTR was due to an approximately fivefold increase in single-channel open probability, with a minor (approximately 30%) increase in single-channel conductance. The responses of XCFTR to PKC stimulation and of hCFTR to PKA stimulation were mediated by similar increases in Po. In both instances, there were no changes in the number of channels in the membrane. We speculate that in animals other than humans, PKC stimulation may be the dominant mechanism for activation of CFTR.
The hypothesis that acetaminophen can reduce necrosis during myocardial infarction was tested in male dogs. Two groups were studied: vehicle- (n=10) and acetaminophen-treated (n=10) dogs. All dogs were obtained from the same vendor, and there were no significant differences in their ages (18 +/- 2 mo), weights (24 +/- 1 kg), or housing conditions. Selected physiological data, e.g., coronary blood flow, nonspecific collateral flow, epicardial temperature, heart rate, systemic mean arterial pressure, left ventricular developed pressure, the maximal first derivative of left ventricular developed pressure, blood gases, and pH, were collected at baseline and during regional myocardial ischemia and reperfusion. There were no significant differences in coronary blood flow, nonspecific collateral flow, epicardial temperature, heart rate, systemic mean arterial pressure, or blood gases and pH between the two groups at any of the three time intervals, even though there was a trend toward improved function in the presence of acetaminophen. Infarct size, the main objective of the investigation, was markedly and significantly reduced by acetaminophen. For example, when expressed as a percentage of ventricular wet weight, infarct size was 8 +/- 1 versus 3 +/- 1%(P &lt;0.05) in vehicle- and acetaminophen-treated hearts, respectively. When infarct size was expressed as percentage of the area at risk, it was 35 +/- 3 versus 13 +/- 2% (P &lt;0.05) in vehicle- and acetaminophen-treated groups, respectively. When area at risk was expressed as percentage of total ventricular mass, there were no differences in the two groups. Results reveal that the recently reported cardioprotective properties of acetaminophen in vitro can now be extended to the in vivo arena. They suggest that it is necessary to add acetaminophen to the growing list of pharmaceuticals that possess cardioprotective efficacy in mammals.
The central glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) system has been implicated in the control of feeding behavior. Here we explore GLP-1 mediation of the anorexic response to administration of systemic LPS and address the relative importance of caudal brain stem and forebrain GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1-R) for the mediation of the response. Fourth-intracerebroventricular delivery of the GLP-1-R antagonist exendin-(9-39) (10 microg) did not itself affect food intake in the 24 h after injection but significantly attenuated the otherwise robust (approximately 60%) reduction in food intake obtained after LPS (100 microg/kg) treatment. This result highlights a role for caudal brain stem GLP-1-R in the mediation of LPS anorexia but does not rule out the possibility that forebrain receptors also contribute to the response. Forebrain contribution was addressed by delivery of the GLP-1-R antagonist to the third ventricle with the caudal flow of cerebrospinal fluid blocked by occlusion of the cerebral aqueduct. Exendin-(9-39) delivery thus limited to forebrain did not attenuate the anorexic response to LPS. These data suggest that LPS anorexia is mediated, in part, by release of the native peptide acting on GLP-1-R within the caudal brain stem.


Robert Barany won the 1914 Nobel Prize in medicine for his convection hypothesis for caloric stimulation. Microgravity caloric tests aboard the 1983 SpaceLab 1 mission produced nystagmus results that contradicted the basic premise of Barany's convection theory. In this paper, we present a fluid structural analysis of the caloric stimulation of the lateral semicircular canal. Direct numerical simulations indicate that on earth, natural convection is the dominant mechanism for endolymphatic flow. However, in the microgravity environment of orbiting spacecraft, where buoyancy effects are mitigated, an expansive convection becomes the sole mechanism for producing endolymph motion and cupular displacement. Transient 1 g and microgravity case studies are presented to delineate the different dynamic behaviors of the 1 g and microgravity endolymphatic flows. The associated fluid-structural interactions are also analyzed based on the time evolution of cupular displacements.
We identified a large Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease family with a novel mutation in the Connexin 32 (Cx32) P2 promoter region at position -526bp. This mutation was in a highly conserved SOX10 binding site. Functional studies were conducted on the Cx32 promoter that showed that this mutation reduced the activity of the Cx32 promoter and the affinity for SOX10 binding. These data suggest that interaction between the Cx32 P2 promoter, SOX10, and EGR2 highlight a mechanism of peripheral nerve dysfunction.
Individuals with Down's syndrome develop Alzheimer's-like pathologies comparatively early in life, including progressive degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCNs). Cholinergic hypofunction contributes to dementia-related cognitive decline and remains a target of therapeutic intervention for Alzheimer's disease. In light of this, partial trisomy 16 (Ts65Dn) mice have been developed to provide an animal model of Down's syndrome that exhibits progressive loss of BFCNs and cognitive ability. Another feature common to both Down's syndrome and Alzheimer's disease is neuroinflammation, which may exacerbate neurodegeneration, including cholinergic loss. Minocycline is a semisynthetic tetracycline with antiinflammatory properties that has demonstrated neuroprotective properties in certain disease models. Consistent with a role for inflammatory processes in BFCN degeneration, we have shown previously that minocycline protects BFCNs and improves memory in mice with acute, immunotoxic BFCN lesions. We now report that minocycline treatment inhibits microglial activation, prevents progressive BFCN decline, and markedly improves performance of Ts65Dn mice on a working and reference memory task. Minocycline is an established antiinflammatory and neuroprotective drug and may provide a novel approach to treat specific AD-like pathologies.

Caspase-3 is a potential therapeutic target for a number of degenerative diseases. However the development of specific caspase-3 inhibitors has been hampered by inter-species differences and the high degree of homology shared by different caspases. To circumvent these issues, we have produced and characterised a humanised caspase-3 mouse line (possessing one copy of the human gene with both copies of the murine gene disrupted) by crossing human caspase-3 transgenic mice with nullizygous caspase-3 knock-out mice. Humanised mice appeared normal and survived to adulthood. Analysis of the human gene revealed that human pro-caspase-3 was expressed in the same tissues as its murine counterpart. However humanised mice retained the hypercellularity of frontal cortex seen in their knock-out parental line and there was no biochemical evidence of human protein processing during naturally occurring neuronal death taking place during brain development. In contrast, the human protein was cleaved by the mouse machinery following anti-Fas treatment of adult mice. These data suggest that there is a fundamental difference between the activation pathways leading to caspase-3 cleavage during naturally occurring cell death in development/embryogenesis and following an apoptotic stimulus in the adult.
Human myo-inositol 1-phosphate synthase (IP synthase; E.C. 5.5.1.4), encoded by ISYNA1, catalyzes the de novo synthesis of inositol 1-phosphate from glucose 6-phosphate. It is a potential target for mood-stabilizing drugs such as lithium and valproate. But, very little is known about the regulation of human IP synthase. Here, we have characterized the minimal promoter of ISYNA1 and show that it is upregulated by E2F1. Upregulation occurs in a dose-dependent fashion and can be suppressed by ectopic expression of Rb. EMSA and antibody supershift analysis identified a functional E2F binding motif at -117. Complex formation at this site was competed by an excess of unlabeled Sp1 oligo consistent with the -117 E2F site overlapping an Sp1 motif. Because the -117 E2F motif is not a high-affinity binding site, we propose that the upregulation of ISYNA1 occurs through the cooperative interaction of several low-affinity E2F binding motifs present in the minimal promoter.



Considerable research with animals indicates that the GABA-benzodiazepine (BZ) system plays a key role in alcohol reinforcement. However, only limited research appears to have assessed this issue directly in humans. The present study investigated whether low-dose diazepam would cross-prime motivation for alcohol in problem drinkers. Twelve male problem drinkers (Alcohol Dependence Scale; ADS score &gt; or =9) received oral diazepam (5 mg) and placebo, in a counterbalanced manner on separate sessions. There were three measures of primed motivation for alcohol: self-reported desire for alcohol, consumption of placebo beer in an ostensible taste test procedure, and automatically executed vocal reading responses to Alcohol versus Neutral words on a computer-based task. Diazepam significantly increased beer consumption, and produced a marginally significant increase in reported desire for alcohol. On the reading task, diazepam significantly decreased response latency to Alcohol words relative to Neutral words. Latency to Alcohol words correlated significantly with beer consumption under the drug. Moreover, response latency to Alcohol words under the drug also predicted ADS scores. Thus, severity of dependence was directly linked with vulnerability to a BZ priming effect on motivation for alcohol. These findings provide direct evidence that the GABA-BZ system plays an important role in alcohol reinforcement in problem drinkers.
We investigated the presence and potential role of N-glycosylation of the human (h) 5-hydroxytryptamine3 (5-HT3A) receptor subunit expressed in COS-7 cells. Incubation of cells with the N-glycosylation inhibitor, tunicamycin, reduced the molecular weight of the predominant immunoreactive h5-HT3A subunit species (from approximately 59 to 45 kDa) indicating that the h5-HT3A subunit is normally N-glycosylated. Site-directed mutagenesis studies individually substituting four identified N-terminal asparagines (N5, N81, N147, N163) demonstrated that each expressed mutant displayed a reduced molecular weight (by approximately 3 kDa) suggesting that each asparagine residue was subject to N-glycosylation. In addition, 5-HT3 receptor binding studies indicated that prevention of N-glycosylation, by individual amino acid substitution at each of the four asparagine residues, either prevented (N81, N147, N163) or greatly reduced (N5) the production of a 5-HT3 receptor binding site. Corresponding with the radioligand binding studies, immunocytochemical studies demonstrated that substitution of each asparagine either prevented (N81, N147, N163) or reduced considerably (N5) mutant protein expression within the cell membrane. The present study demonstrates an important role for N-glycosylation at multiple identified asparagine residues in the N-terminus of the h5-HT3A receptor subunit.
Although relatively few G-protein-coupled receptors are Class C, in recent years, this small family of receptors has become a focal point for the discovery of new and exciting allosteric modulators. The mGlu (metabotropic glutamate) receptors are illustrative in the discovery of both positive and/or negative allosteric modulators with unique pharmacological properties. For instance, allosteric modulators of the mGlu2 receptor act as potentiators of glutamate responses in clonal expression systems and in native tissue assays. These potentiators act to increase the affinity of orthosteric agonists for the mGlu2 receptor and shift potency curves for the agonist to the left. In electrophysiological experiments, the potentiators show a unique activation-state-dependent presynaptic inhibition of glutamate release and significantly enhance the receptor-mediated increase in G-protein binding, as seen with autoradiography. Similarly, potentiators of mGlu5 have been described, as well as allosteric antagonists or inverse agonists of mGlu1 and mGlu5. Binding and activity of the modulators have recently indicated that positive and negative allosteric sites can be, but are not necessarily, overlapping. Compared with orthosteric ligands, these modulators display a unique degree of subtype selectivity within the highly conserved mGlu family of receptors and can have very distinct pharmacological properties, such as neuronal frequency-dependent activity. This short review describes some of the unique features of these mGlu1, mGlu2 and mGlu5 allosteric modulators.
mGluRs (metabotropic glutamate receptors) are G-protein-coupled receptors that modulate synaptic transmission. The eight mammalian mGluRs form three groups based on sequence and functional similarities: group I (1 and 5), group II (2 and 3) and group III (4, 6-8) mGluRs. In the present study, we used a Y2H (yeast two hybrid) screen to identify proteins that interact with the C-terminal intracellular tail of mGluR3. Prominent among the candidate receptor interacting proteins was calmodulin, a Ca(2+) sensor known to bind identifiable sequences in group I and III mGluRs. The Y2H method was used to investigate calmodulin binding to mGluRs but failed to confirm the documented interaction with group III mGluRs. Furthermore, subsequent biochemical analysis showed that calmodulin does not interact with group II mGluRs. This illustrates that certain Ca(2+)-dependent interactions are not recapitulated in yeast. Moreover, it highlights the necessity for supporting biochemical data to substantiate interactions identified with Y2H methods.
Complexes of alpha(2A)-ARs (alpha(2A)-adrenergic receptors) and MORs (mu-opioid receptors), probably hetero-oligomers, were detected by co-immunoisolation after extraction from HEK-293 cells (human embryonic kidney 293 cells). Functional communication between these receptors is revealed by alpha(2A)-AR activation of a pertussis toxin-insensitive G(i)alpha subunit (termed as G(i)1) when fused with the MOR and evaluated in membranes from pertussis toxin-treated cells. However, the alpha(2A)-AR does not require transactivation through MOR, since quantitatively indistinguishable results were observed in cells co-expressing alpha(2A)-AR and a fusion protein of G(i)1 with the first transmembrane span of MOR (myc-MOR-TM1). Functional cross-talk among these alpha(2A)-AR-MOR complexes does not occur for internalization profiles; incubation with adrenaline (epinephrine) leads to endocytosis of alpha(2A)-AR but not MOR, while incubation with DAMGO ([D-Ala,NMe-Phe,Gly-ol]enkephalin) leads to endocytosis of MOR but not alpha(2A)-AR in cells co-expressing both the receptors. Hence, alpha(2A)-AR and MOR hetero-oligomers, although they occur, do not have an obligatory functional influence on one another in the paradigms studied.
The natural source for new pancreatic beta cells is an important issue both for understanding the pathogenesis of diabetes, and for possibly curing diabetes by increasing the number of beta cells. Dor et al. investigated beta-cell renewal and regeneration by genetic lineage analysis in mice during physiological growth and after partial pancreatectomy. The data conclusively showed that beta-cell replication was the only source for new beta cells without contributions from stem cells or other non-beta cells. This underlines the capacity for beta-cell self-renewal and casts doubt that other cell types are able to generate new beta cells in the intact pancreas.

This study investigated how the human auditory brainstem represents constituent elements of speech sounds differently in children with language-based learning problems (LP, n = 9) compared to normal children (NL, n = 11), especially under stress of rapid stimulation. Children were chosen for this study based on performance on measures of reading and spelling and measures of syllable discrimination. In response to the onset of the speech sound /da/, wave V-V(n) of the auditory brainstem response (ABR) had a significantly shallower slope in LP children, suggesting longer duration and/or smaller amplitude. The amplitude of the frequency following response (FFR) was diminished in LP subjects over the 229-686 Hz range, which corresponds to the first formant of the/da/ stimulus, while activity at 114 Hz, representing the fundamental frequency of /da/, was no different between groups. Normal indicators of auditory peripheral integrity suggest a central, neural origin of these differences. These data suggest that poor representation of crucial components of speech sounds could contribute to difficulties with higher-level language processes.


Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is present in the hippocampus in three subtypes of GABAergic interneurones, two of which innervate preferentially other interneurones, responsible for pyramidal cell inhibition. We investigated how pre- and postsynaptic modulation of GABAergic transmission (to both pyramidal cells and interneurones) by VIP could influence excitatory synaptic transmission in the CA1 area of the hippocampus. VIP (0.1-100 nM) increased [(3)H]GABA release from hippocampal synaptosomes (maximum effect at 1 nM VIP; 63.8 +/- 4.0%) but did not change [(3)H]glutamate release. VIP (0.3-30 nM) enhanced synaptic transmission in hippocampal slices (maximum effect at 1 nM VIP; field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (epsp) slope: 23.7 +/- 1.1%; population spike amplitude: 20.3 +/- 1.7%). The action on field epsp slope was fully dependent on GABAergic transmission since it was absent in the presence of picrotoxin (50 microM) plus CGP55845 (1 microM). VIP (1 nM) did not change paired-pulse facilitation but increased paired-pulse inhibition in CA1 pyramidal cells (16.0 +/- 0.9%), reinforcing the involvement of GABAergic transmission in the action of VIP. VIP (1 nM) increased muscimol-evoked inhibitory currents by 36.4 +/- 8.7% in eight out of ten CA1 interneurones in the stratum radiatum. This suggests that VIP promotes increased inhibition of interneurones that control pyramidal cells, leading to disinhibition of synaptic transmission to pyramidal cell dendrites. In conclusion, concerted pre- and postsynaptic actions of VIP lead to disinhibition of pyramidal cell dendrites causing an enhancement of synaptic transmission.
The pharmacology of monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL) is not well understood. In consequence, the abilities of a series of analogues of 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) to inhibit cytosolic 2-oleoylglycerol and membrane-bound anandamide hydolysis by MAGL and fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), respectively, have been investigated. 2-AG and its 1-regioisomer (1-AG) interacted with MAGL with similar affinities (IC(50) values 13 and 17 mum, respectively). Shorter homologues of 2-AG (2-linoleoylglycerol and 2-oleoylglycerol) had affinities for MAGL similar to 2-AG. This pattern was also seen when the arachidonoyl side chain of arachidonoyl trifluoromethylketone was replaced by an oleoyl side chain. Arachidonoyl serinol (IC(50) value 73 microM) was a weaker inhibitor of MAGL than 2-AG. The IC(50) values of noladin ether towards MAGL and FAAH were 36 and 3 microM, respectively. Arachidonoyl glycine interacted with FAAH (IC(50) value 4.9 microM) but only weakly interacted with MAGL (IC(50) value &gt;100 microM). alpha-Methyl-1-AG had similar potencies towards MAGL and FAAH (IC(50) values of 11 and 33 microM, respectively). O-2203 (1-(20-cyano-16,16-dimethyl-eicosa-5,8,11,14-tetraenoyl) glycerol) and O-2204 (2-(20-hydroxy-16,16-dimethyl-eicosa-5,8,11,14-tetraenoyl) glycerol) were slightly less potent, but again affected both enzymes equally. alpha-Methyl-1-AG, O-2203 and O-2204 interacted only weakly with cannabinoid CB(1) receptors expressed in CHO cells (K(i) values 1.8, 3.7 and 3.2 microM, respectively, compared with 0.24 microM for 1-AG) and showed no evidence of central cannabinoid receptor activation in vivo at doses up to 30 mg kg(-1) i.v. It is concluded that compounds like alpha-Methyl-1-AG, O-2203 and O-2204 may be useful as leads for the discovery of selective MAGL inhibitors that lack direct effects upon cannabinoid receptors.
1 Melanocortin (MC) receptors are widely distributed throughout the body of chicken, like in mammals, and participate in a wide range of physiological functions. 2 To clarify the pharmacological impact of ligands acting in the MC system, we expressed the chicken MC1, MC2, MC3, MC4 and MC5 (cMC1-5) receptors in eukaryotic cells and performed comprehensive pharmacological characterization of the potency of endogenous and synthetic melanocortin peptides. 3 Remarkably, the cMC receptors displayed high affinity for ACTH-derived peptides and in general low affinity for alpha-MSH. It is evident that not only the cMC2 receptor but also the other cMC receptors interact with ACTH-derived peptide through an epitope beyond the sequence of alpha-MSH. 4 The synthetic ligand MTII was found to be a potent agonist whereas HS024 was a potent antagonist at the cMC4 receptor, indicating that these ligands are suitable for physiological studies in chicken. 5 We also show the presence of prohormone convertase 1 (PC1) and PC2 genes in chicken, and that these peptides are coexpressed with proopiomelanocortin (POMC) in various tissues.
1 Naloxone benzoylhydrazone (NalBzoH) has initially been developed as an agonist of the pharmacologically defined kappa3-opioid receptor and has recently been employed as an antagonist at the opioid receptor-like (ORL1) receptor. In the present study, we investigated the ability of NalBzoH to elicit agonist-like effects on receptor signalling in distinct layers of rat olfactory bulb, a brain region where we have demonstrated the presence of opioid and ORL1 receptors coupled to both stimulation and inhibition of cyclic AMP formation. 2 In membranes of the olfactory nerve-glomerular layer (ON-GL), external plexiform layer (EPL) and granule cell layer (GRL), NalBzoH elicited a concentration-dependent stimulation of guanosine-5'-O-(3-[35S]-thio)triphosphate ([35S]GTPgammaS) binding with pEC50 values ranging from 7.36 to 7.86, whereas the kappa1-opioid receptor agonists (-)-U-50,488 and U-69,593 were inactive. 3 In membranes of GRL, but not ON-GL and EPL, NalBzoH stimulated basal adenylyl cyclase activity by 40% with a pEC50 of 8.14, and significantly potentiated the net enzyme stimulation elicited by corticotropin-releasing hormone and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide 38. Pertussis toxin prevented the NalBzoH stimulations of [35S]GTPgammaS binding and adenylyl cyclase activity. 4 In membranes of EPL and GRL, but not ON-GL, NalBzoH elicited a concentration-dependent inhibition of forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity with pEC50 values of 8.07 and 8.08, respectively. 5 At concentrations that completely blocked the actions of nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ), the ORL1 receptor antagonists CompB and [Nphe1]N/OFQ(1-13)NH2 failed to antagonize either the stimulatory or the inhibitory effect of NalBzoH on cyclic AMP formation. Similarly, the kappa1-opioid receptor antagonist nor-binaltorphimine counteracted the NalBzoH effects with relatively low potencies (pKi values=7.67-8.09). 6 Conversely, the selective delta-opioid receptor antagonist TIPP (pKi=9.10) and the selective mu-opioid receptor antagonist CTAP (pKi=8.27) reduced the inhibitory effect of NalBzoH by 70 and 30%, respectively. Moreover, TIPP and CTAP potently inhibited the NalBzoH stimulation of cyclic AMP, each antagonist maximally causing 50% blockade of the agonist response. 7These data demonstrate that in the olfactory bulb NalBzoH activates receptor signalling by acting through delta- and mu-opioid receptors and independently of ORL1 and kappa1-opioid receptors.
Convergent evidence highlights the differential contributions of various regions of the prefrontal cortex in the service of cognitive control, but little is understood about how the brain determines and communicates the need to recruit cognitive control, and how such signals instigate the implementation of appropriate performance adjustments. Here we review recent progress from cognitive neuroscience in examining some of the main constituent processes of cognitive control as involved in dynamic decision making: goal-directed action selection, response activation and inhibition, performance monitoring, and reward-based learning. Medial frontal cortex is found to be involved in performance monitoring: evaluating outcome vis-a-vis expectancy, and detecting performance errors or conflicting response tendencies. Lateral and orbitofrontal divisions of prefrontal cortex are involved in subsequently implementing appropriate adjustments.
Sphingolipid metabolites, such as ceramide, sphingosine, sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) and complex sphingolipids (gangliosides), are recognized as molecules capable of regulating a variety of cellular processes. The role of sphingolipid metabolites has been studied mainly in non-neuronal tissues. These studies have underscored their importance as signals transducers, involved in control of proliferation, survival, differentiation and apoptosis. In this review, we will focus on studies performed over the last years in the nervous system, discussing the recent developments and the current perspectives in sphingolipid metabolism and functions.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission is considered a reliable cellular model of several forms of learning and memory. Described for the first time in 1973, this synaptic phenomenon consists in the enduring facilitation of the communication between two neurons in response to the sustained activation of the synapses by which they are interconnected. In a book of 1895 entitled Project for a Scientific Psychology, Sigmund Freud theorized about the possibility of representing memory at the synaptic level as &quot;a permanent alteration following an event&quot;, and anticipated several crucial physiological properties of LTP. In the present article we aim at presenting Freudian theory on the functional organization of the nervous system developed in the Project, with particular respect to his ideas of the cellular bases of memory.
Mitochondrial responses to ischemic stress play an important role in necrosis and apoptosis of brain cells. Recent studies using several different experimental preparations have shown that activation of ATP-sensitive potassium channels in mitochondria (mitoK(ATP) channels) is able to protect neurons and astroglia against injury and death. Thus, targeting of mitoK(ATP) channels appears to be a novel approach to neuroprotection. However, little is known about the mechanisms involved. The purpose of this review is to detail the current state of knowledge about this important, emerging area of investigation, and to provide suggestions for future studies.
The corpus callosum (CC) represents the major commissural tract connecting the two cerebral hemispheres and is supposed to play crucial integrative role in functional hemispheric specialization. The present study examined whether interindividual variations in macro- and microstructure of the human CC are associated with handedness and gender. Therefore, a combined diffusion-tensor (DTI) and high-resolution morphological MRI study was performed on 34 right- and 33 left-handed subjects of both sexes. The mid-sagittal surface areas and quantitative measures of molecular diffusion (relative anisotropy, mean diffusion) of the total CC and its subregions (genu, truncus, posterior third) were determined. Analysis revealed a larger total callosal area in right- as compared to left-handed subjects and in males as compared to females. Throughout all callosal subregions, anisotropy was found to be increased in left-handed as well as in male subjects, while the mean diffusion was diminished only in left-handers. For the posterior third of the CC, a significant negative correlation (r=-0.34) between anisotropy and area was detected in right-handed subjects. Summarized, significant alterations in the molecular diffusion and in the size of the CC with respect to gender and handedness were revealed in the present study. These findings can be interpreted as handedness- and gender-related differences in macro- and microstructure of the callosal pathways. It was demonstrated that the inspection of the callosal microstructure using DTI yields empirical evidence on interhemispheric connectivity that goes well beyond the information revealed by anatomical measurements alone. Thus, DTI has proven to be a useful additional method in cognitive neuroscience.
Ample evidence suggests that developmental dyslexia results from a phonological deficit that may not be reducible to a low-level auditory deficit. Yet, on-line phonological processing (in)capacities in dyslexics remain virtually unexplored, as studies have typically focused on either meta-phonological awareness tasks or, at the other extreme, basic perceptual tasks. The present study investigates event-related potential (ERP) correlates of implicit phonological processing during the recognition of spoken words in dyslexic and normally reading children (7-10 years). We examined general ERP morphology and alliteration priming effects on ERP measures in an auditory lexical decision task. Primes were words (Experiment 1) and non-words (Experiment 2). Alliteration priming effects suggested a distinct pattern of normal versus anomalous aspects of spoken word processing in dyslexic children. Whereas dyslexics showed deviant priming effects in earlier time windows encompassing the N1 and N2, later N400 priming effects were comparable to those of normal readers. The same pattern of results was also present in group comparisons of general ERP morphology. These findings suggest that dyslexics have selective processing anomalies at an earlier phonetic/phonological level, while processing at a later phonological/lexical level proceeds normally. In particular, our results indicate an anomalous contribution of phonological (word onset) information to the processing of spoken words, which may be related to time-course aspects of phonetic/phonological processing.
To address the extent to which the visual foveal representation is split, we examined a 29-year-old patient with a lower right quadrantanopia following surgical removal of the left occipital cortex above the calcarine sulcus and compared her performance with subjects receiving transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over the occipital lobes. In a letter/digit classification task, the patient responded accurately to targets presented in the upper visual field, for all horizontal eccentricities. In the lower visual field, she failed to discriminate letters from digits when targets were presented in the right, but not the left visual field (RVF and LVF, respectively). This pattern was also true for the foveal targets, with poor performance to foveal-RVF (0.5 degrees to the right of fixation) but not foveal-LVF (0.5 degrees to the left of fixation) targets. Similar patterns of normal performance to LVF but not RVF or foveal-RVF targets were observed in a group of nine normal observers when TMS was applied over their left occipital cortex. Complementary impairments to LVF and foveal-LVF target classification were induced with TMS over the right occipital cortex. Thus, we have induced an hemianopic pattern in normal observers contralateral to the magnetically stimulated hemisphere. This correspondence between real and TMS-induced visual field defects is further evidence, in neurologically intact subjects, that the cortical representation of the fovea is split between the two hemispheres along the vertical meridian.
The Morris water maze and the radial-arm maze are two of the most frequently employed behavioral tasks used to assess spatial memory in rodents. In this study, we describe two new behavioral tasks in a radial-arm water maze enabling to combine the advantages of the Morris water maze and the radial-arm maze. In both tasks, spatial and nonspatial learning was assessed and the only task parameter that varied was the nature of the information available which was either spatial (various distal extra-maze cues) or nonspatial (visual intra-maze patterns). In experiment 1, 129T2/Sv mice were able to learn three successive pairwise discriminations [(1) A+/B-, (2) B+/C-, (3) C+/A-] with the same efficiency in both modalities (i.e. spatial and nonspatial modalities). Probe-trials at the end of each of these discriminations revealed particular features of this transverse-patterning-like procedure. In experiment 2, another group of 129T2/Sv mice was submitted to a delayed matching-to-sample working memory task. Mice were able to learn the task and were then able to show resistance to temporal interference as long as 60 min in the spatial modality but they failed to acquire the task in the nonspatial modality. The fact that the nonspatial information was exactly the same in both experiments highlights the existence of an interaction between the cognitive requirements of the task and the nature of the information.
Two hundred years ago, Giovanni Aldini published a highly influential book that reported experiments in which the principles of Luigi Galvani (animal electricity) and Alessandro Volta (bimetallic electricity) were used together for the first time. Aldini was born in Bologna in 1762 and graduated in physics at the University of his native town in 1782. As nephew and assistant of Galvani, he actively participated in a series of crucial experiments with frog's muscles that led to the idea that electricity was the long-sought vital force coursing from brain to muscles. Aldini became professor of experimental physics at the University of Bologna in 1798. He traveled extensively throughout Europe, spending much time defending the concept of his discreet uncle against the incessant attacks of Volta, who did not believe in animal electricity. Aldini used Volta's bimetallic pile to apply electric current to dismembered bodies of animals and humans; these spectacular galvanic reanimation experiments made a strong and enduring impression on his contemporaries. Aldini also treated patients with personality disorders and reported complete rehabilitation following transcranial administration of electric current. Aldini's work laid the ground for the development of various forms of electrotherapy that were heavily used later in the 19th century. Even today, deep brain stimulation, a procedure currently employed to relieve patients with motor or behavioral disorders, owes much to Aldini and galvanism. In recognition of his merits, Aldini was made a knight of the Iron Crown and a councillor of state at Milan, where he died in 1834.



A significant association between migraine and ischemic stroke has been demonstrated in population and case-control studies. The risk of ischemic stroke appears to be higher in migraine with aura (MWA) than migraine without aura (MwoA). Migraine-stroke comprises a number of distinct entities, including migrainous infarction, in which ischemic stroke occurs during an attack of MWA and migraine-related stroke, in which the causal link is less clear. Migrainous infarction accounts for only one-third of migraine-stroke, strokes may occur during attacks of MwoA, and a number of cerebrovascular disorders may present as MWA or MwoA. Migraine may occur as a consequence of conditions that are known to cause stroke; therefore it remains to be determined whether migraine predisposes to stroke in the absence of any known disease associations, if it is an epiphenomenon of an underlying stroke diathesis, or if it requires the presence of another stroke risk factor to produce cerebral ischemia. Furthermore, it is unclear if ischemia results in migraine more often than migraine results in ischemia. Careful clinical studies that evaluate this bidirectional relationship are needed to determine why migraine patients are subject to a higher risk of ischemic stroke.

Muscarinic receptor-mediated increases in Ca(2+) in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells consist of an initial fast and transient phase followed by a sustained phase. Activation of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels prior to muscarinic stimulation resulted in a several-fold potentiation of the fast phase. Unlike the muscarinic response under control conditions, this potentiated elevation of intracellular Ca(2+) was to a large extent dependent on extracellular Ca(2+). In potentiated cells, muscarinic stimulation also activated a rapid Mn(2+) entry. By using known organic and inorganic blockers of cation channels, this influx pathway was easily separated from the known Ca(2+) influx pathways, the store-operated pathway and the voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. In addition to the Ca(2+) influx, both IP(3) production and Ca(2+) release were also enhanced during the potentiated response. The results suggest that a small increase in intracellular Ca(2+) amplifies the muscarinic Ca(2+) response at several stages, most notably by unravelling an apparently novel receptor-activated influx pathway.
Growth differentiation factor-15/macrophage inhibitory cytokine-1 (GDF-15/MIC-1) is a new member of the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) superfamily, which has most recently been found in activated macrophages (MPhi). We have now investigated GDF-15/MIC-1 in human MPhi after exposure to oxidized low-density lipoproteins (oxLDL) related mediators in vitro and in arteriosclerotic carotid arteries. Using RT-PCR and Western blotting a pronounced induction of GDF-15/MIC-1 expression by oxLDL, C6-ceramide, tumor necrosis factor (TNFalpha) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) was found in cultured human MPhi. In 11 human arteriosclerotic carotid arteries, immunohistochemical analyses supported by computer-assisted morphometry and regression analyses demonstrated a significant colocalization of GDF-15/MIC-1 immunoreactivity (IR) with oxLDL IR and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) IR in CD68 immunoreactive (ir) MPhi, which were also expressing AIF-IR (apoptosis-inducing factor), caspase-3-IR (CPP32), PARP-IR, c-Jun/AP-1-IR and p53-IR. Our data suggest that GDF-15/MIC-1 is inducible in human MPhi by oxLDL and its mediators in vitro and is supposed to contribute to oxidative stress dependent consequences in arteriosclerotic plaques, e.g. modulating apoptosis and inflammatory processes in activated MPhi.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have identified category-selective regions in ventral occipito-temporal cortex that respond preferentially to faces and other objects. The extent to which these patterns of activation are modulated by bottom-up or top-down mechanisms is currently unknown. We combined fMRI and dynamic causal modelling to investigate neuronal interactions between occipito-temporal, parietal and frontal regions, during visual perception and visual imagery of faces, houses and chairs. Our results indicate that, during visual perception, category-selective patterns of activation in extrastriate cortex are mediated by content-sensitive forward connections from early visual areas. In contrast, during visual imagery, category-selective activation is mediated by content-sensitive backward connections from prefrontal cortex. Additionally, we report content-unrelated connectivity between parietal cortex and the category-selective regions, during both perception and imagery. Thus, our investigation revealed that neuronal interactions between occipito-temporal, parietal and frontal regions are task- and stimulus-dependent. Sensory representations of faces and objects are mediated by bottom-up mechanisms arising in early visual areas and top-down mechanisms arising in prefrontal cortex, during perception and imagery respectively. Additionally non-selective, top-down processes, originating in superior parietal areas, contribute to the generation of mental images, regardless of their content, and their maintenance in the 'mind's eye'.
Effective visual object recognition requires mechanisms to bind object features (e.g. color, shape and motion) while distinguishing distinct objects. Synchronously active neuronal circuits among reentrantly connected cortical areas may provide a basis for visual binding. To assess the potential of this mechanism, we have constructed a mobile brain-based device, Darwin VIII, which is guided by simulated analogues of cortical and sub-cortical areas required for visual processing, decision-making, reward and motor responses. These simulated areas are reentrantly connected and each area contains neuronal units representing both the mean activity level and the relative timing of the activity of groups of neurons. Darwin VIII learns to discriminate among multiple objects with shared visual features and associates 'target' objects with innately preferred auditory cues. We observed the co-activation of globally distributed neuronal circuits that corresponded to distinct objects in Darwin VIII's visual field. These circuits, which are constrained by a reentrant neuroanatomy and modulated by behavior and synaptic plasticity, are necessary for successful discrimination. By situating Darwin VIII in a rich real-world environment involving continual changes in the size and location of visual stimuli due to self-generated movement, and by recording its behavioral and neuronal responses in detail, we were able to show that reentrant connectivity and dynamic synchronization provide an effective mechanism for binding the features of visual objects.
Recent research has implicated T1R1/T1R3 as the primary taste receptor in mammals for detecting L-amino acids, including L-monosodium glutamate (MSG) and L-alanine. Previous behavioral studies with rodents found only minimal evidence that these two substances share perceptual qualities, but those studies did not control for the taste of sodium associated with MSG. This study used several behavioral methods to compare the perceptual qualities of MSG and L-alanine in rats, using amiloride (a sodium channel blocker) to reduce the sodium component of MSG taste. Detection thresholds of L-alanine in rats ranged between 0.4 and 2.5 mM, with or without amiloride added, which are similar to threshold estimates for MSG. Conditioned taste aversion (CTA) found that rats showed strong cross-generalization of CTA between MSG and L-alanine when mixed with amiloride, indicating the two substances have similar perceptual qualities. Discrimination methods showed that rats easily discriminated between L-alanine and MSG unless the cue function of sodium was reduced. The discrimination became significantly more difficult at concentrations &lt; 100 mM when amiloride was added to all stimuli and became even more difficult when NaCl was also added to L-alanine solutions to match the sodium concentrations of MSG. These results indicate that, perceptually, MSG and L-alanine have quite similar taste qualities and support the hypothesis that these two L-amino acids activate a common taste receptor. The differences in perceptual qualities also suggest separate afferent processing of one or both substances may also be involved.

Lactation has been associated with suppression of some components of the neuroendocrine stress response. In humans, suppression of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis has been demonstrated in response to both a psychological and an exercise challenge, but appears to be limited to a short period of time following suckling. Information regarding other components of the stress response and to other challenges in humans is limited. We have evaluated the endocrine, autonomic and psychological response to a single breath of 35% CO(2) during lactation. The 35% CO(2) challenge is a safe and simple test that has been shown to stimulate the HPA axis, produce autonomic activation and emotional arousal. Eight breastfeeding and six bottle-feeding mothers, 6 weeks' postpartum, and eight control women were studied. Twenty minutes following the cessation of feeding, plasma cortisol levels were significantly reduced in the breastfeeding women (P = 0.002 compared with control and P = 0.003 compared with bottle-feeders). Despite this, cortisol, blood pressure, heart rate and psychological responses to the challenge were no different in the breastfeeding group compared to either the control or bottle feeding groups. These results confirm that suckling is associated with short-term suppression of cortisol, but this has no effect on the ability of the mother to mount a normal hormonal, autonomic and psychological response to the 35% CO(2) challenge.

Rabies caused by fox bite is uncommon, most cases being caused by bite of rabid dogs (95%). We report a 45-year-old lady with rabies encephalomyelitis caused by bite of a rabid wild fox (Vulpes vulpes), a species prevalent in the Deccan plateaus of Central India. Though foxes are known to be susceptible to rabies, literature on the pathological changes caused by fox bite rabies in humans is scarce. Unlike the mild histological alterations described in canine rabies, a florid encephalitic process evolved in fox bite rabies, in our case, with intense microglial reaction, neuronophagia and perivascular inflammatory infiltrates despite clinical manifestation as a paralytic rabies. Immunostaining using polyclonal antibodies to the rabies viral nucleocapsid antigen and to the whole virion demonstrated high viral load within neurons with extensive spread along dendritic arborization and axonal tracts. Genomic sequence analysis demonstrated close homology with canine virus strain with only minor variations.




Observing averted eye gaze results in the automatic allocation of attention to the gazed-at location. The role of the orientation of the face that produces the gaze cue was investigated. The eyes in the face could look left or right in a head-centred frame, but the face itself could be oriented 90 degrees clockwise or anticlockwise such that the eyes were gazing up or down. Significant cueing effects to targets presented to the left or right of the screen were found in these head orientation conditions. This suggests that attention was directed to the side to which the eyes would have been looking towards, had the face been presented upright. This finding provides evidence that head orientation can affect gaze following, even when the head orientation alone is not a social cue. It also shows that the mechanism responsible for the allocation of attention following a gaze cue can be influenced by intrinsic object-based (i.e. head-centred) properties of the task-irrelevant cue.
Geometric alterations to the boundaries of a virtual environment were used to investigate the representations underlying human spatial memory. Subjects encountered a cue object in a simple rectangular enclosure, with distant landmarks for orientation. After a brief delay, during which they were removed from the arena, subjects were returned to it at a new location and orientation and asked to mark the place where the cue had been. On some trials the geometry (size, aspect ratio) of the arena was varied between presentation and testing. Responses tended to lie somewhere between a location that maintained fixed distances from nearby walls and a location that maintained fixed ratios of the distances between opposing walls. The former were more common after expansions and for cued locations nearer to the edge while the latter were more common after contractions and for locations nearer to the center. The spatial distributions of responses predicted by various simple geometric models were compared to the data. The best fitting model was one derived from the response properties of 'place cells' in the rat hippocampus, which matches the 'proximities' 1/(d+c) of the cue to the four walls of the arena, where d is the distance to a wall and c is a global constant. Subjects also tended to adopt the same orientation at presentation and testing, although this was not due to using a view matching strategy, which could be ruled out in 50% of responses. Disoriented responses were most often seen where the cued location was near the center of the arena or where the long axis of a rectangular arena was changed between presentation and testing, suggesting that the geometry of the arena acts as a weak cue to orientation. Overall, the results suggest a process of visual landmark matching to determine orientation, combined with an abstract representation of the proximity of the cued location to the walls of the arena consistent with the neural representation of location in the hippocampus.




Patients with large hemispheric strokes frequently develop neurologic deterioration secondary to cerebral edema. Regardless of the medical and surgical management of cerebral edema, there is high morbidity and mortality. This article reviews the clinical and radiographic features of large hemispheric strokes and examines the various therapeutic options for management of cerebral edema.
Painful peripheral neuropathy is a common secondary complication of diabetes. The streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rat is the most commonly employed animal model used to study mechanisms of painful diabetic neuropathy and to evaluate potential therapies. A low dose STZ protocol is described for inducing experimental diabetes in the rat. Several behavioral assays are described, which are routinely used to assess different aspects of neuropathic pain in this animal model of diabetes mellitus, including mechanical allodynia and heat hyperalgesia.
Administration of a drug following ingestion of a novel food or solution often suppresses subsequent intake of the new food or solution. This suppression is associative, in that consumption is not suppressed when there is no temporal relationship between consumption and drug administration. The robust nature of aversion learning has made this procedure a sensitive and widely used behavioral index of drug side effects. The procedures described in this unit are suitable for work with rodents, and may require modifications, e.g., in presentation of the ingesta and drug for other species. Familiar and novel foods may be used instead of solutions, with similar results.
Analysis of rodent feeding behavior during the study of anorectic drugs reveals that contextual variables such as type of food, drug, environment, and physiological state influence food intake. Temporal changes in behavior can signal the onset of a feeding modulation process, as is the case with anorectic drugs acting on distinct neurochemical mechanisms that change temporal behavioral profiles. Comparing the effects of anorectic agents in controlled animal assays can identify potential therapeutic drugs that may influence human eating behavior. This unit specifies the materials and procedures required for continuously monitoring the Behavioral Satiety Sequence, as well as a device for continuous, automatic measurement of the mass of food consumption by the animal during behavioral monitoring called the RUEMA (Rat Universal Eating Monitor Apparatus).
Pyramidal neurons of the central nervous system have extensively arborized apical dendrites that contribute importantly to the signaling properties of the neuron. Recent advances in electrophysiological techniques have allowed recording from neuronal dendrites. These techniques depend on using infrared optics to visualize dendritic processes in the unstained brain slice preparation, on pipet positioning with high resolution micromanipulators, and on stringent techniques for brain slice preparation that preserved healthy dendritic processes, even in tissue from mature animals. The procedures underlying these techniques are described in this unit.
Immunoblotting (western blotting) is used to identify specific antigens recognized by polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies. This unit provides numerous protocols for all steps starting with solubilization of the protein samples, usually with SDS and reducing agents. Following solubilization, the material is separated by SDS-PAGE and the antigens are then electrophoretically transferred to a membrane, a process that can be monitored by reversible staining or Ponceau S staining. The transferred proteins are bound to the surface of the membrane, providing access to immunodetection reagents. Any remaining binding sites are blocked by immersing the membrane in a blocking solution. After probing with the primary antibody, the membrane is washed and the antibody-antigen complexes are identified with horseradish peroxidase (HRPO) or alkaline phosphatase enzymes coupled to the secondary anti-IgG antibody (e.g., goat anti-rabbit IgG) and appropriate chromogenic or luminescent substrates. Finally, membranes may be stripped and reprobed.
In zebrafish, skeletal muscle precursors can adopt at least three distinct fates: fast, non-pioneer slow, or pioneer slow muscle fibers. Slow muscle fibers develop from adaxial cells and depend on Hedgehog signaling. We analyzed when precursors become committed to their fates and the step(s) along their differentiation pathway affected by Hedgehog. Unexpectedly, we find that embryos deficient in Hedgehog signaling still contain postmitotic adaxial cells that differentiate into fast muscle fibers instead of slow. We show that by the onset of gastrulation, slow and fast muscle precursors are already spatially segregated but uncommitted to their fates until much later, in the segmental plate when slow precursors become independent of Hedgehog. In contrast, pioneer and non-pioneer slow muscle precursors share a common lineage from the onset of gastrulation. Our results demonstrate that slow muscle precursors form independently of Hedgehog signaling and further provide direct evidence for a multipotent muscle precursor population whose commitment to the slow fate depends on Hedgehog at a late stage of development when postmitotic adaxial cells differentiate into slow muscle fibers.
To investigate the role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in differentiation of cranial sensory neurons in vivo, we analyzed development of nodose (NG), petrosal (PG), and vestibular (VG) ganglion cells in genetically engineered mice carrying null mutations in the genes encoding BDNF and the proapoptotic Bcl-2 homolog Bax. In bax(-/-) mutants, ganglion cell numbers were increased significantly compared to wild-type animals, indicating that naturally occurring cell death in these ganglia is regulated by Bax signaling. Analysis of bdnf(-/-)bax(-/-) mutants revealed that, although the Bax null mutation completely rescued cell loss in the absence of BDNF, it did not rescue the lethality of the BDNF null phenotype. Moreover, despite rescue of BDNF-dependent neurons by the bax null mutation, sensory target innervation was abnormal in double null mutants. Vagal sensory innervation to baroreceptor regions of the cardiac outflow tract was completely absent, and the density of vestibular sensory innervation to the cristae organs was markedly decreased, compared to wild-type controls. Moreover, vestibular afferents failed to selectively innervate their hair cell targets within the cristae organs in the double mutants. These innervation failures occurred despite successful navigation of sensory fibers to the peripheral field, demonstrating that BDNF is required locally for afferent ingrowth into target tissues. In addition, the bax null mutation failed to rescue expression of the dopaminergic phenotype in a subset of NG and PG neurons. These data demonstrate that BDNF signaling is required not only to support survival of cranial sensory neurons, but also to regulate local growth of afferent fibers into target tissues and, in some cells, transmitter phenotypic expression is required.
The regulation of tyrosine phosphorylation is recognized as an important developmental mechanism. Both addition and removal of phosphate moieties on tyrosine residues are tightly regulated during development. Originally, most attention focused on the role of tyrosine kinases during development, but more recently, the developmental importance of tyrosine phosphatases has been gaining interest. Receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases (RPTPs) are of particular interest to developmental biologists because the extracellular domains of RPTPs are similar to those of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs). This suggests that RPTPs may have functions in development similar to CAMs. This review focuses on the role of RPTPs in development of the nervous system in processes such as axon guidance, synapse formation, and neural tissue morphogenesis.
In Drosophila, commitment of a cell to a sense organ precursor (SOP) fate requires bHLH proneural transcription factor upregulation, a process that depends in most cases on the interplay of proneural gene autoregulation and inhibitory Notch signaling. A subset of SOPs are selected by a recruitment pathway involving EGFR signaling to ectodermal cells expressing the proneural gene atonal. We show that EGFR signaling drives recruitment by directly facilitating atonal autoregulation. Pointed, the transcription factor that mediates EGFR signaling, and Atonal protein itself bind cooperatively to adjacent conserved binding sites in an atonal enhancer. Recruitment is therefore contingent on the combined presence of Atonal protein (providing competence) and EGFR signaling (triggering recruitment). Thus, autoregulation is the nodal control point targeted by signaling. This exemplifies a simple and general mechanism for regulating the transition from competence to cell fate commitment whereby a cell signal directly targets the autoregulation of a selector gene.
The combination of emergent RNA interference (RNAi) technology with in ovo electroporation in the chick embryo has the potential to provide a powerful and rapid means for functional analyses of novel genes in vivo. In this study, we show that electroporation of short 21-bp RNA duplexes (siRNAs) is a quick and simple method for silencing exogenous and endogenous gene expression in vivo. Quantitative comparisons with two other RNAi protocols that use long double-stranded RNA duplexes and endonuclease-digested duplexes (esiRNAs) demonstrate that siRNAs are significantly more effective at reducing gene expression. Furthermore, we also find that much higher amounts of siRNA are required for silencing of endogenous gene expression relative to plasmid-borne reporter constructs. In short, these results demonstrate that siRNAs are the most effective type of double-stranded RNA duplex for silencing gene expression and suggest that there might be important differences between silencing endogenous and exogenous genes. Finally, we review the parameters for each of these RNA-based methods of RNAi and the controls required to analyze RNAi data in the context of the developing vertebrate embryo.
This study examined the effect of neurodevelopmental treatment (NDT) and differences in its intensity on gross motor function of children with cerebral palsy (CP). Participants were 34 children (12 females, 22 males; mean age 7y 3mo [SD 3y 6mo], age range 3 to 14y) with mild to moderate spasticity and hemiplegia (n=10), diplegia (n=12), and tetraplegia (n=12). Gross Motor Function Classification System levels were: I (n=10), II (n=10), and III (n=14). The paired sample, which was obtained by ratio stratification and matching by sex, age, and distribution of impairment from a total of 114 children with CP, was assigned randomly to two groups: group A underwent NDT twice a week and group B five times a week for 16 weeks. The outcome measure used was the Gross Motor Function Measure, which assessed the performance of the children before and after intervention. The paired-sample t-test revealed that gross motor function of children from both groups improved significantly after intervention (p&lt;0.05). Children in group B performed better and showed significantly greater improvement than those in group A (p&lt;0.05). Results support the effectiveness of NDT and underline the need for intensive application of the treatment.
The onset of circadian rhythms in many animals occurs during prenatal development. We conducted four experiments, using the domestic chick as a model, to assess when these rhythms can first be entrained and the type of light zeitgeber necessary. In Experiment 1, the presence of circadian rhythms was assessed using tonic immobility, an antipredator behavior, whereas in Experiments 2 to 4 body temperature was studied. We demonstrate that (a) circadian rhythms can be entrained during the late stage of the chick's 21-day incubation period (prehatch Days 13-18), (b) only 1 day of light cues [12:12 hr light:dark (12L:12D)] on prehatch Day 13 is necessary for entrainment, and (c) short bouts of light, which simulate the light cues embryos typically experience during natural incubation, can act as zeitgebers although they are not as effective as 12L:12D. The onset of entrainment is earlier than predicted and suggests that the brain structures mediating circadian rhythms mature sooner than proposed by previous research.
A noninvasive method of saliva sampling was used to assess the diurnal cortisol rhythm from 0900 to 1700 hr in the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The levels of cortisol were highest in the morning and declined significantly over the day. Individual marmosets varied in the magnitude of the cycle, and the greatest individual variability occurred in the morning levels. The decrease in cortisol levels was more rapid after than before the midday feeding period in subordinate marmosets (aged 53-63 months) compared to dominant marmosets (aged 79-80 months), and overall, the levels of cortisol were higher in the subordinate marmosets. We found no effect of sex on cortisol levels across the cycle.
Fibroblast growth factor (Fgf) proteins are important regulators of pharyngeal arch development. Analyses of Fgf8 function in chick and mouse and Fgf3 function in zebrafish have demonstrated a role for Fgfs in the differentiation and survival of postmigratory neural crest cells (NCC) that give rise to the pharyngeal skeleton. Here we describe, in zebrafish, an earlier, essential function for Fgf8 and Fgf3 in regulating the segmentation of the pharyngeal endoderm into pouches. Using time-lapse microscopy, we show that pharyngeal pouches form by the directed lateral migration of discrete clusters of endodermal cells. In animals doubly reduced for Fgf8 and Fgf3, the migration of pharyngeal endodermal cells is disorganized and pouches fail to form. Transplantation and pharmacological experiments show that Fgf8 and Fgf3 are required in the neural keel and cranial mesoderm during early somite stages to promote first pouch formation. In addition, we show that animals doubly reduced for Fgf8 and Fgf3 have severe reductions in hyoid cartilages and the more posterior branchial cartilages. By examining early pouch and later cartilage phenotypes in individual animals hypomorphic for Fgf function, we find that alterations in pouch structure correlate with later cartilage defects. We present a model in which Fgf signaling in the mesoderm and segmented hindbrain organizes the segmentation of the pharyngeal endoderm into pouches. Moreover, we argue that the Fgf-dependent morphogenesis of the pharyngeal endoderm into pouches is critical for the later patterning of pharyngeal cartilages.
The nervous system in many species consists of multiple neuronal cell layers, each forming specific connections with neurons in other layers or other regions of the brain. How layer-specific connectivity is established during development remains largely unknown. In the Drosophila adult visual system, photoreceptor (R cell) axons innervate one of two optic ganglia layers; R1-R6 axons connect to the lamina layer, while R7 and R8 axons project through the lamina into the deeper medulla layer. Here, we show that the receptor tyrosine kinase Off-track (Otk) is specifically required for lamina-specific targeting of R1-R6 axons. Otk is highly expressed on R1-R6 growth cones. In the absence of otk, many R1-R6 axons connect abnormally to medulla instead of innervating lamina. We propose that Otk is a receptor or a component of a receptor complex that recognizes a target-derived signal for R1-R6 axons to innervate the lamina layer.
Genes belonging to the Nkx, Gsh and Msx families are expressed in similar dorsovental spatial domains of the insect and vertebrate central nervous system (CNS), suggesting the bilaterian ancestor used this genetic program during CNS development. We have investigated the significance of these similar expression patterns by testing whether Nkx6 proteins expressed in ventral CNS of zebrafish and flies have similar functions. In zebrafish, Nkx6.1 is expressed in early-born primary and later-born secondary motoneurons. In the absence of Nkx6.1, there are fewer secondary motoneurons and supernumerary ventral interneurons, suggesting Nkx6.1 promotes motoneuron and suppresses interneuron formation. Overexpression of fish or fly Nkx6 is sufficient to generate supernumerary motoneurons in both zebrafish and flies. These results suggest that one ancestral function of Nkx6 proteins was to promote motoneuron development.


Reviews of the dyslexia literature often seem to suggest that children with dyslexia perform at a lower level on almost any task. Richards et al. (Dyslexia 2002; 8: 1-8) note the importance of being able to demonstrate dissociations between tasks. However, increasingly elegant experiments, in which dissociations are found, almost inevitably find that the performance of children with dyslexia is lower as tasks become more difficult! By looking for deficits in dyslexia, could we be barking up the wrong tree? A methodological approach for circumventing this potential problem is discussed.
New prospects in the use of drugs affecting central GABAergic system for the treatment of anxiety and depressive states are critically assessed. Both clinical (human) and experimental (animal) data on the mutual influence of various GABA-receptor modulators as well as the interaction of GABAergic system with neurohumoral mechanisms of stress are considered. Based on this analysis, new strategies in the GABAergic pharmacotherapy of anxiety and depression spectrum disorders are outlined.

Lactation and fasting are two physiological models characterized by negative energy balance. Our previous studies demonstrated that uncoupling protein (UCP) 3 expression in skeletal muscle was down-regulated during lactation and up-regulated during fasting. The present studies used cDNA microarray and real-time PCR to perform a systems and comparative analysis in gene expression in skeletal muscle under conditions of negative energy balance. Gastrocnemius skeletal muscle RNA pools were generated from the following groups of rats: cycling diestrous females, cycling females with 48 h of fasting, lactation, and lactation + leptin. Of those known genes studied, 35 genes were up-regulated and 49 were down-regulated during lactation. Leptin treatment during lactation reversed the differential regulation of about 80% of these genes, demonstrating the importance of the leptin suppression to the changes in skeletal muscle metabolism. GenMAPP analysis revealed a coordinated regulation at key steps in glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, and lipid metabolism, indicating an increased rate of lactate production through glycolysis and reduced fatty acid degradation in skeletal muscle during lactation. Particular interest was paid to those genes that changed in a similar manner to UCP3 mRNA. Many of these genes that were decreased during lactation and increased during fasting are involved in fatty acid degradation and transport, including acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase for medium chain fatty acid, carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1, and fatty acid translocase. The current studies provide a basis for investigating the mechanisms underlying metabolic adaptations during lactation and fasting and highlight the importance of UCP3 in lipid metabolism.



We have identified DNA sequences required for the expression of the presenilin 1 (PS1) gene. A promoter region has been mapped in SK-N-SH cells and includes sequences between -118 and +178 flanking the major initiation site (+1). The PS1 gene is also efficiently transcribed in the SH-SY5Y subclone of SK-N-SH cells. However the promoter appears to be utilized in alternative ways in both cell types. Sequences both upstream as well as downstream from the initiation site mapped in SK-N-SH cells were shown by 5'- and 3'-deletion analysis to play a crucial role in both cell lines. However, in SH-SY5Y cells either upstream or downstream sequences are sufficient to direct transcription, whereas in SK-N-SH cells 5'-deletions past the +1 site eliminate over 95% of transcription. Several Ets motifs (GGAA) as well as Sp1 motifs [(G/T)GGCGGRRY] are juxtaposed both upstream and downstream from +1. To understand how the promoter may be utilized alternatively in different cell types we have examined the effect of point mutations in these elements. Altering an Ets motif at -10 eliminates 80% of transcription in SK-N-SH cells whereas the same mutation has only a minor effect in SH-SY5Y cells. Conversely, mutation of the Ets element at +90, which eliminates 70% of transcription in SH-SY5Y cells, has a lesser effect in SK-N-SH cells. In both cell types a promoter including mutations at both -10 and +90 sites loses over 90% transcription activity indicating the crucial importance of these two Ets motifs. The effect of Sp1 mutations appears to be similar in both cell types. Hence the differential expression in each cell type may be at least partially determined by Ets factors and the -10/+90 sites. We have identified several Ets factors that recognize specifically the -10 Ets motif by the yeast one-hybrid selection including avian erythroblastosis virus E26 oncogene homologue 2, Ets-like gene 1, Ets translocation variant 1 and Ets related molecule (ERM). We show here that ERM specifically recognizes Ets motifs on the PS1 promoter located at -10 as well as downstream at +90, +129 and +165 and activates PS1 transcription with promoter fragments containing or not the -10 Ets site.
We report the cloning and characterization of two melanocortin receptors (MCRs) from the spiny dogfish (Squalus acanthias) (Sac). Phylogenetic analysis shows that these shark receptors are orthologues of the MC3R and MC5R subtypes, sharing 65% and 70% overall amino acid identity with the human counterparts, respectively. The SacMC3R was expressed and pharmacologically characterized in HEK293 cells. The radioligand binding results show that this receptor has high affinity for adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)-derived peptides while it has comparable affinity for alpha- and beta-melanocyte stimulating hormone (MSH), and slightly lower affinity for gamma-MSH when compared with the human orthologue. ACTH(1-24) has high potency in a second-messenger cAMP assay while alpha- and gamma-MSH had slightly lower potency in cells expressing the SacMC3R. We used receptor-enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP) fusion to show the presence of SacMC3R in plasma membrane of Chinese hamster ovary and HEK293 cells but the SacMC5R was retained in intracellular compartments of these cells hindering pharmacological characterization. The anatomical distribution of the receptors were determined using reverse transcription PCR. The results showed that the SacMC3R is expressed in the hypothalamus, brain stem and telencephalon, optic tectum and olfactory bulbs, but not in the cerebellum of the spiny dogfish while the SacMC5R was found only in the same central regions. This report describes the first molecular characterization of a MC3R in fish. The study indicates that many of the important elements of the MC system existed before radiation of gnathostomes, early in vertebrate evolution, at least 450 million years ago.


Previous studies have shown a peak occurrence of ischemic stroke in the morning but no consistent finding has been attributed to this. Focused on lacunar strokes we performed a prospective study with a detailed diagnostic protocol including parameters of recent infection, indicators of sleep apnea and cerebral vasoreactivity (CVR), aimed at defining differences in risk profiles between diurnal and nocturnal strokes. Consecutively we included 33 nocturnal and 54 diurnal strokes. Baseline characteristics, known risk factors, stroke severity and topology were not different between groups. The mean low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level was significantly higher amongst patients with nocturnal strokes (133.3 +/- 35.2 mg/dl vs. 115.5 +/- 39.8 mg/dl; P = 0.04), as well as the proportion of patients with any dyslipidemia (94% vs. 77.8%; P = 0.047). Twenty-four-hour blood pressure recordings showed a reduced nocturnal decrease of blood pressure in subjects with strokes that occurred between 10 pm and 6 am in comparison with those whose strokes occurred between 6 am and 2 pm (5.0 +/- 7.3% vs. 11.0 +/- 6.7%; P = 0.049). No significant differences were found for parameters of recent infection (including seroreactivity against Chlamydia pneumoniae and cytomegalovirus), CVR, indicators of sleep apnea and the degree of white matter disease assessed by magnetic resonance tomography. Dyslipidemia, especially elevated LDL cholesterol is more prevalent in nocturnal lacunar strokes especially when combined with a reduced nocturnal dipping of blood pressure. This risk factor profile can be regarded as an additional target for stroke prevention.
In clinical trials, short-term galantamine treatment produces consistent positive effects on global ratings, cognitive tests, and assessments of activities of daily living and behavior in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD), providing the rationale for longer-term, open-label treatment. In this continuation trial following enrollment in previous 12-month trials, patients received galantamine 24 mg/day for a total of 24 months (total exposure up to 36 months). Primary efficacy measures were the ADAS-cog/11 and DAD. Adverse events (AEs) were coded to WHO preferred terms, including AEs begun in previous trials. Initial improvement in cognitive function was followed by a gradual decline, as measured by increased ADAS-cog/11 scores. At 36 months, ADAS-cog/11 scores increased by a mean (SEM) of 12.4 (0.80) points (P &lt; 0.001) versus a projected 22-point increase for untreated patients. Functional abilities, as measured by the DAD, had decreased significantly at each time point versus baseline (P &lt; 0.001). The most common treatment-emergent AEs were agitation (16.1%), insomnia (12.4%), fall (11.2%), and urinary tract infection (10.2%). AEs were mainly mild to moderate, appropriate for an elderly population, with few judged treatment related. Galantamine 24 mg/day is safe and effective for long-term treatment of mild-to-moderate AD. Potential exists for prolonged benefit with galantamine therapy versus lack of treatment for the long-term.
Together with its adaptor protein, the adaptor protein of 12 kDa also known as KARAP and TYROBP (DAP12), triggering receptor expressed in myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) is a stimulatory membrane receptor of the immunoglobulin/lectin-like superfamily, well known in myeloid cells. In humans, however, loss-of-function mutations of TREM2/DAP12 leave myeloid cells unaffected but induce an autosomal recessive disease characterized, together with bone cysts, by a spectrum of pathological lesions in the cortex, thalamus and basal ganglia with clinical symptoms of progressive dementia (polycystic lipomembraneous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy). Nothing was known about the role of TREM2/DAP12 in brain cell biology and physiology. By confocal immunocytochemistry we demonstrate that, in both human and mouse cerebral cortex, TREM2/DAP12, strongly expressed by microglia, is also present in a fraction of neurons but not in astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. In contrast, in the hippocampal cortex TREM2-expressing neurons are rare. Both in neurons and microglia the receptor appears to be located mostly intracellularly in a discrete compartment(s) partially coinciding with (or adjacent to) the Golgi complex/trans-Golgi network. Four nerve cell lines were identified as expressing the intracellular receptor system. In living human microglia CHME-5 and glioblastoma T98G cells, activation of TREM2 by its specific antibody induced [Ca2+]i responses, documenting its surface expression and functioning. Surface expression of TREM2, low in resting CHME-5 and T98G cells, increases significantly and transiently (60 min) when cells are stimulated by ionomycin, as revealed by both surface biotinylation and surface immunolabeling. Our results provide the first information about the expression, distribution (mostly intracellular) and functioning of TREM2/DAP12 system in nerve cells, a necessary step in the understanding of the cellular mechanisms affected in polycystic lipomembraneous osteodysplasia with sclerosing leukoencephalopathy.
To assess whether express saccades are generated under everyday conditions, we collected eye movement data from Rhesus monkeys engaged in free viewing under a variety of conditions. The durations of the fixation periods that occurred between saccades were calculated. The results show that while short-duration fixations within the range of express saccades occur quite commonly, the overall distribution is unimodal. This is the case even when all the object elements in the visual scene have the same contrast. The findings suggest that while saccades that fall within the express range occur commonly under natural viewing conditions, bimodal distributions of saccadic latencies are obtainable only under laboratory conditions.
We examined the processing of verbal and nonverbal auditory stimuli using an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study to reveal the neural underpinnings of rapid temporal information processing and it's relevance during speech perception. In the context of a clustered sparse-temporal fMRI data collection eight right-handed native German speakers performed: (i) an auditory gap detection task; and (ii) a CV syllable discrimination task. A tone perception task served as a nontemporal control condition. Here we aimed to research to what extent the left hemisphere preferentially processes linguistically relevant temporal information available in speech and nonspeech stimuli. Furthermore, we sought to find out as to whether a left hemisphere's preference for linguistically relevant temporal information is specifically constrained to verbal utterances or if nonlinguistic temporal information may also activate these areas. We collected haemodynamic responses from three time points of acquisition (TPA) with varying temporal distance from stimulus onset to gain an insight on the time course of auditory processing. Results show exclusively left-sided activations of primary and secondary auditory cortex associated with the perception of rapid temporal information. Furthermore, the data shows an overlap of activations evoked by nonspeech sounds and speech stimuli within primary and secondary auditory cortex of the left hemisphere. The present data clearly support the assumption of a shared neural network for rapid temporal information processing within the auditory domain for both speech and nonspeech signals situated in left superior temporal areas.
Studies in macaque monkeys indicate that the perirhinal cortex in the temporal lobe participates in object memory. This function may be analogous to aspects of human semantic memory (knowledge of objects, concepts, faces and words). To date, the status of perirhinal cortex has not specifically been investigated in patients with semantic deficits as seen in semantic dementia, the temporal lobe variant of frontotemporal dementia. High-resolution three-dimensional magnetic resonance imaging was performed in subjects with semantic dementia and Alzheimer's disease (characterized in its early stages by selective episodic memory impairment) and in healthy age-matched controls. Hippocampal, perirhinal, temporopolar and entorhinal cortex volumes were measured by outlining areas on successive scan slices according to recognized landmarks. The entorhinal and hippocampal regions were further subdivided into anterior and posterior parts. In keeping with the hypothesized contribution of the perirhinal cortex to semantic memory function, we found greater involvement of this region, together with the temporopolar and anterior entorhinal cortices, in semantic dementia than in either Alzheimer's disease patients or control subjects. Performance on a range of semantic tests also correlated with perirhinal volume. Bilateral reduction in hippocampal volume compared with controls was seen in Alzheimer's disease. In conclusion, atrophy of the human perirhinal cortex, and of directly connected areas, was associated with semantic memory impairment but not episodic memory impairment, as predicted from the primate work.
The present study assessed alterations in mesolimbic enkephalin (ENK) mRNA levels after predator [2,5-dihydro-2,4,5-trimethylethiazoline (TMT)] and non-predator (butyric acid) odor encounter and/or light-dark (LD) testing in CD-1 mice immediately, 24, 48 and 168 h after the initial odor encounter and/or LD testing. The nucleus accumbens, ventral tegmental area, basolateral (BLA), central (CEA) and medial amygdaloid nuclei, prelimbic and infralimbic cortex were assessed for fos-related antigen (FRA) and/or ENK mRNA as well as neuronal activation of ENK neurons (FRA/ENK). Mice exposed to TMT displayed enhanced freezing and spent less time in the light of the immediate LD test relative to saline- or butyric acid-treated mice. Among mice exposed to TMT, LD anxiety-like behavior was associated with increased FRA in the prelimbic cortex and accumbal shell and decreased ENK-positive neurons in the accumbal core. Mice displaying high TMT-induced LD anxiety exhibited increased ENK-positive neurons in the BLA, CEA and medial amygdaloid nuclei relative to mice that displayed low anxiety-like behavior in the LD test after TMT exposure. In the BLA and CEA, 'high-anxiety' mice also displayed increased FRA/ENK after TMT exposure and LD testing. In contrast to neural cell counts, the level of ENK transcript was decreased in the BLA and CEA of 'high-anxiety' mice after TMT exposure and LD testing. These data suggest that increased FRA may regulate stressor-responsive genes and mediate long-term behavioral changes. Indeed, increased ENK availability in mesolimbic sites may promote behavioral responses that detract from the aversiveness of the stressor experience.
Peripheral cannabinoid 2 receptors (CB2 receptors) modulate immune responses and attenuate nociceptive behaviour in models of acute and persistent pain. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether peripheral CB2 receptors modulate spinal processing of innocuous and noxious responses and to determine whether there are altered roles of CB2 receptors in models of persistent pain. Effects of local administration of the CB2 receptor agonist JWH-133 (5 and 15 microg/50 microL) on mechanically evoked responses of spinal wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in noninflamed rats, rats with carrageenan-induced hindpaw inflammation, sham operated rats and spinal nerve-ligated (SNL) rats were determined in anaesthetized rats in vivo. Mechanical stimulation (von Frey filaments, 6-80 g) of the peripheral receptive field evoked firing of WDR neurons. Mechanically evoked responses of WDR neurons were similar in noninflamed, carrageenan-inflamed, sham-operated and SNL rats. Intraplantar injection of JWH-133 (15 microg), but not vehicle, significantly (P &lt; 0.05) inhibited innocuous and noxious mechanically evoked responses of WDR neurons in all four groups of rats. In many cases the selective CB2 receptor antagonist, SR144528 (10 microg/50 microL), attenuated the inhibitory effects of JWH-133 (15 microg) on mechanically evoked WDR neuronal responses. The CB1 receptor antagonist, SR141716A, did not attenuate the inhibitory effects of JWH-133 on these responses. Intraplantar preadministration of JWH-133 also inhibited (P &lt; 0.05) carrageenan-induced expansion of peripheral receptive fields of WDR dorsal horn neurons. This study demonstrates that activation of peripheral CB2 receptors attenuates both innocuous- and noxious-evoked responses of WDR neurons in models of acute, inflammatory and neuropathic pain.
Recent evidence suggests that spinal cord glia can contribute to enhanced nociceptive responses. However, the signals that cause glial activation are unknown. Fractalkine (CX3C ligand-1; CX3CL1) is a unique chemokine expressed on the extracellular surface of spinal neurons and spinal sensory afferents. In the dorsal spinal cord, fractalkine receptors are primarily expressed by microglia. As fractalkine can be released from neurons upon strong activation, it has previously been suggested to be a neuron-to-glial signal that induces glial activation. The present series of experiments provide an initial investigation of the spinal pain modulatory effects of fractalkine. Intrathecal fractalkine produced dose-dependent mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia. In addition, a single injection of fractalkine receptor antagonist (neutralizing antibody against rat CX3C receptor-1; CX3CR1) delayed the development of mechanical allodynia and/or thermal hyperalgesia in two neuropathic pain models: chronic constriction injury (CCI) and sciatic inflammatory neuropathy. Intriguingly, anti-CX3CR1 reduced nociceptive responses when administered 5-7 days after CCI, suggesting that prolonged release of fractalkine may contribute to the maintenance of neuropathic pain. Taken together, these initial investigations of spinal fractalkine effects suggest that exogenous and endogenous fractalkine are involved in spinal sensitization, including that induced by peripheral neuropathy.
Factors that regulate neurite outgrowth are important in determining the wiring of the central nervous system. Here we describe that the intracellular regulator of cytokine signalling, suppressor of cytokine signalling-2 (SOCS2) and epidermal growth factor (EGF), both of which are expressed in the cortical plate during neural development, promote neurite outgrowth of cortical neurons. Cortical neurons derived from transgenic mice that over-express SOCS2 had an increased rate of neurite outgrowth and an increased length and number of primary neurites compared with wild-type neurons. EGF produced a similar effect in wild-type cortical neurons and further enhanced the SOCS2-induced neurite outgrowth. The mechanism of neurite outgrowth induction by SOCS2 and EGF at least partially overlapped as phosphorylation of the EGF receptor in SOCS2 over-expressing or EGF-stimulated neurons was increased on Tyrosine845, the Src binding site and neurite outgrowth in both protocols was blocked by inhibitors of the EGF receptor kinase and Src kinase.

Appraisal of caregiving and its relationship to family burden and experienced mental health problems in the relatives were investigated as part of a multi-centre study of the quality of mental health services in Sweden performed in 1997. The sample was drawn from relatives of involuntarily and voluntarily admitted patients to acute psychiatric wards. The instrument used was a semi-structured questionnaire, interviewing relatives about the burden, experience of mental health problems and appraisal of the caregiving situation. The results showed a high proportion of relatives engaged in caregiving activities on a daily basis the month before the patient's admission to hospital and a high proportion of relatives appraising the caregiving activities negatively. The burden was more extensive if the relative and the patient were living together, had a longer duration of their relationship, if the relative was rendering caregiving on a daily basis and if the relative appraised caregiving negatively. The relatives' psychological distress was not related to their negative appraisal of caregiving, nor was patient characteristics, such as diagnosis and level of psychosocial functioning. The only factor found to influence the relatives' psychological distress was the duration of relationship to the patient. Interventions reducing psychological distress for relatives who have known the patients for more than 20 years, who live with the patient, who give care on a daily basis and who appraise their caregiving negatively are suggested.
Fabry's disease is an X-linked recessive Lysosomal Storage disease. The underlying metabolic defect is deficiency of lysosomal enzyme ceramidetrihexosidase. The disease has multisystem involvement. Neurological manifestations include small-fiber polyneuropathy manifested as painful distal extremities and anhidrosis. Fabry's disease also presents with both small-vessel and cortical multiple cerebral infarcts. Enzyme-replacement therapy has been found effective but expensive. Gene therapy could evolve as the ultimate therapeutic strategy.


In the present paper we tested the hypothesis that the amygdala incidentally acquires information during the acquisition of a task sensitive to damage to the dorso-lateral striatum. Two groups of rats were trained on a stimulus-response (S-R) habit task on the eight-arm radial maze. Prior to initial acquisition, one group received NMDA lesions of the amygdala and the other received sham surgeries. After reaching a strict learning criterion, both groups underwent reversal training in either the same or different context from original training. Consistent with our previous work, the sham group showed enhanced reversal learning in a context different from original training. The rats with amygdala damage showed a deficit in reversal learning in both contexts, although the deficit was more apparent in the different context. Both groups of rats that underwent reversal training in the context different from original training showed a normal competition effect for this task (chance performance) when they were returned to the initial training context. This data supports the idea that the second S-R association, acquired during reversal training, and the context-specific inhibitory association, acquired during original training, were unaffected by the amygdala damage. Taken together, this pattern of data suggests that the amygdala incidentally acquired information during the acquisition of the S-R habit task. The nature of the association acquired in this learning paradigm, and the implications of this finding for theories dealing with the organization and functions of mammalian learning and memory are discussed.
The ability of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) to compensate for unexpected perturbations remains relatively unexplored. To address this issue PD subjects were required to compensate at the arm for an unexpected mechanical perturbation of the trunk while performing a trunk-assisted reach. Twelve healthy and nine PD subjects (off medication) performed trunk-assisted reaching movements without vision or knowledge of results to a remembered target in the ipsilateral (T1) or contralateral (T2) workspace. On 60% of the trials trunk motion was unrestrained (free condition). On the remaining 40% of randomly selected trials trunk motion was arrested at movement onset (blocked condition). If subjects appropriately changed arm joint angles to compensate for the trunk arrest, there should be spatial and temporal invariance in the hand trajectories and in the endpoint errors across conditions. The control group successfully changed their arm configuration in a context-dependent manner which resulted in invariant hand trajectory profiles across the free and blocked conditions. More so, they initiated these changes rapidly after the trunk perturbation (group mean 70 ms). Some PD subjects were unable to maintain invariant hand paths and movement errors across conditions. Their hand velocity profiles were also more variable relative to those of the healthy subjects in the blocked-trunk trials but not in the free-trunk trials. Furthermore, the latency of compensatory changes in arm joint angles in movements toward T1 was longer in the PD group (group mean 153 ms). Finally, PD subjects' arm and trunk were desynchronized at movement onset, confirming our previous findings and consistent with PD patients' known problems in the sequential or parallel generation of different movement components. The findings that individual PD subjects were unsuccessful or delayed in producing context-dependent responses at the arm to unexpected perturbations of the trunk suggests that the basal ganglia are important nodes in the organization of adaptive behavior.
The inhibitory motor control mechanisms in human singing and vocalization are not well understood. Using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), we show that singing resulted in right-sided prolongation of ipsilateral silent period and bilateral reduction in contralateral silent period. Reading led to reduced contralateral silent period duration with right-sided TMS only, but no significant inhibitory changes, both ipsilateral and contralateral, were evident with humming. The findings support the presence of enhanced interhemispheric inhibitory motor interaction during singing, as opposed to reading tasks, in dynamic word generation coupled with production of melody.
In two-choice reaction time tasks, participants respond faster when the correct decision switches across consecutive trials. This alternation advantage has been interpreted as the guessing strategies of participants. Because the participants expect that the correct decision will switch across consecutive trials, they respond faster when this expectation is confirmed and they respond more slowly when it is disconfirmed. In this study, we evaluated the veracity of this expectancy interpretation. After replicating a long-lasting alternation advantage in saccadic reaction times (Experiment 1), we show that reducing the participants' ability to guess with a challenging mental rotation task does not change the alternation advantage, which suggests that expectancy is not responsible for the effect (Experiment 2). Next, we used prosaccade and antisaccade responses to dissociate between the sensory and motor contributions of the alternation advantage (Experiment 3) and we found that the alternation advantage originates from sensory processing. The implications of these findings are discussed with regard to guessing strategies, sensory processing, and how these findings may relate to inhibition of return.
We compared in the anesthetized cat the effects of reversible spinalization by cold block on primary afferent depolarization (PAD) and primary afferent hyperpolarization (PAH) elicited in pairs of intraspinal collaterals of single group I afferents from the gastrocnemius nerve, one of the pairs ending in the L3 segment, around the Clarke's column nuclei, and the other in the L6 segment within the intermediate zone. PAD in each collateral was estimated by independent computer-controlled measurement of the intraspinal current required to maintain a constant probability of antidromic firing. The results indicate that the segmental and ascending collaterals of individual afferents are subjected to a tonic PAD of descending origin affecting in a differential manner the excitatory and inhibitory actions of cutaneous and joint afferents on the pathways mediating the PAD of group I fibers. The PAD-mediating networks appear to function as distributed systems whose output will be determined by the balance of the segmental and supraspinal influences received at that moment. It is suggested that the descending differential modulation of PAD enables the intraspinal arborizations of the muscle afferents to function as dynamic systems, in which information transmitted to segmental reflex pathways and to Clarke's column neurons by common sources can be decoupled by sensory and descending inputs, and funneled to specific targets according to the motor tasks to be performed.
In real life situations large gaze saccades may involve rotations of the trunk, as well as the eyes and head. When this happens the rotation of the head-in-space is similar whether or not the trunk is also rotating. However, the rotation of the head on the trunk (i.e. the neck movement) is very different in the two circumstances. For similar head-in-space rotations to occur, the neck and trunk movements cannot simply add independently: they must be coordinated. It is argued that this is achieved via a feedback loop in which the semi-circular canals monitor the rotation of the head-in-space, and the neck is driven by an error signal representing the difference between the intended head-in-space trajectory and the actual trajectory. This mechanism, which is essentially the same as the vestibulo-collic reflex, nulls out disturbances to the head-in-space trajectory, whether these are caused by active or passive trunk rotation.
This study examined the effects of priming on response latency when participants named and/or grasped common objects. A repetition-priming paradigm was used. An object was presented during a study phase and then was presented again during testing along with other objects that had not been seen before. In experiment 1, the studied objects were either named twice or grasped twice, named first and then grasped, or grasped first and then named. We found a strong priming effect (i.e., decreased latency) when naming was preceded by naming, as well as by grasping, but no priming effect when grasping was preceded by either naming or grasping. In experiment 2, we investigated the effects of priming in naming-naming and grasping-grasping paradigms, with and without a change in object orientation from study to test. As expected, we found significant priming of naming by naming, and the effect was not reduced by orientation change. Again, we found no evidence of priming in grasping. Experiment 3 was designed to examine how different kinds of perceptual and visuomotor processing (naming, orientation matching, orientation discrimination, simple observation, and grasping) during the study phase affect naming at a later test phase. We found significant priming of naming following all study conditions. Notably, the effect differed depending on how much &quot;perceptual&quot; processing was involved in the study phase. The results clearly indicate that perceptual/semantic processing is more dependent on memory than visuomotor processing, which instead relies more on moment-to-moment computations.

Alzheimer's disease can be considered a protein misfolding disease. In particular, inappropriate processing of a proteolytic fragment of amyloid precursor protein, amyloid beta-protein (Abeta), in early stages of Alzheimer's disease may lead to stabilization of small oligomers that are highly mobile and have a potential to be extremely toxic assemblies. Recently, the importance of such soluble species of Abeta in triggering synaptic dysfunction, long before neuronal loss occurs, has become apparent. Animal models have revealed that plasticity of hippocampal excitatory synaptic transmission is relatively selectively vulnerable to Abeta both in vitro and in vivo. This review focuses on the mechanisms of Abeta inhibition of long-term potentiation at synapses in the rodent hippocampus from two complimentary perspectives. Firstly, we examine evidence that the synaptic activity of this peptide resides primarily in oligomeric rather than monomeric or fibrillar Abeta species. Secondly, the importance of different oxidative/nitrosative stress-linked cascades including JNK, p38 MAPK and NADPH oxidase/iNOS-generated reactive oxygen/nitrogen free radicals in mediating the inhibition of LTP by Abeta is emphasised. These mechanistic studies provide a plausible explanation for the sensitivity of hippocampus-dependent memory to impairment in the early preclinical stages of Alzheimer's disease.

We investigated early peripheral nervous system impairment in PMP22-transgenic rats (&quot;CMT rat&quot;), an established animal model for Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease 1A, at postnatal day 30 (P30), when the clinical phenotype is not yet apparent. Hemizygous CMT1A rats and wildtype littermates were studied by means of behavioral examination, electrophysiology, molecular biology, and light microscopy analysis. Behavioral studies only showed, a mild, but significant, decrease in toe spread 1-5, suggesting a weakness of distal foot muscles in CMT1A rats compared with normal littermates. Nerve conduction studies disclosed a severe slowing in motor conduction velocity, a temporal dispersion and a dramatic decrease of amplitude of motor waves in P30 transgenic animals. Coherently with a demyelinating process, affected nerves showed a significant thinning of myelin. Interestingly, axonal diameter and area were unchanged, but expression of non-phosphorylated neurofilaments was increased in CMT1A rats compared with normal controls. Our results confirm the fidelity of this animal model to human disease. Similarly, in young CMT1A patients, the MCV is significantly reduced and the muscle weakness is confined to distal segments, whereas morphological and morphometrical signs of axonal atrophy are absent. However, the presence of a molecular and functional damage of the axons suggests that this may be the correct moment to start neuroprotective therapies.
Excess ingestion of pyridoxine (vitamin B6) causes a severe sensory neuropathy in humans. The mechanism of action has not been fully elucidated, and studies of pyridoxine neuropathy in experimental animals have yielded disparate results. Pyridoxine intoxication appears to produce a neuropathy characterized by necrosis of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) sensory neurons and degeneration of peripheral and central sensory projections, with large diameter neurons being particularly affected. The major determinants affecting the severity of the pyridoxine neuropathy appear to be duration and dose of pyridoxine administration, differential neuronal vulnerability, and species susceptibility. The present study used design-based stereological techniques in conjunction with electrophysiological measures to quantify the morphological and physiological changes that occur in the DRG and the distal myelinated axons of the sciatic nerve following pyridoxine intoxication. This combined stereological and electrophysiological method demonstrates a general approach that could be used for assessing the correlation between pathophysiological and functional parameters in animal models of toxic neuropathy.
Reactive nitrogen oxide species (RNOS) may contribute to the progression/enhancement of ischemic injury by augmentation of glutamate release, reduction of glutamate uptake, or a combination of both. Consistent with this, induction of nitric oxide synthase (NOS-2) in murine neocortical cell cultures potentiated neuronal cell death caused by combined oxygen-glucose deprivation in association with a net increase in extracellular glutamate accumulation. However, uptake of glutamate via high affinity, sodium-dependent glutamate transporters was unimpaired by induction of NOS-2 under either aerobic or anaerobic conditions. Further, blocking possible routes of extra-synaptic glutamate release with NPPB [5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)-benzoic acid], a volume-sensitive organic anion channel blocker, or TBOA (d,l-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate), an inhibitor of glutamate transport, exacerbated rather than ameliorated injury. Finally, treatment with riluzole or tetanus toxin attenuated the enhancement in both glutamate accumulation and oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced neuronal injury supporting the idea that increased synaptic release of glutamate underlies, at least in part, the potentiation of neuronal injury by RNOS after NOS-2 induction.
Manipulation of cellular processes in vivo by the delivery of drugs, proteins or DNA is of paramount importance to neuroscience research. Methods for the presentation of these molecules vary widely, including direct injection (either systemic or stereotactic), osmotic pump-mediated chronic delivery, or even implantation of cells engineered to indefinitely secrete a factor of interest. Biomaterial-based delivery systems represent an alternative to more traditional approaches, with the possibility of increased efficacy. Drug-releasing biomaterials, either as injectable microspheres or as three-dimensional implants, can deliver a molecule of interest (including small molecule drugs, biologically active proteins, or DNA) over a more prolonged period of time than by standard bolus injection, avoiding the need for repeated administration. Furthermore, sustained-release systems can maintain therapeutic concentrations at a target site, thus reducing the chance for toxicity. This review summarizes applications of polymer-based delivery of small molecule drugs, proteins, and DNA specifically relevant to neuroscience research. We detail the fabrication procedures for the polymeric systems and their utility in various experimental models. The biomaterial field offers unique experimental tools with downstream clinical application for the study and treatment of neurologic disease.
Our previous studies showed that adrenalectomy (ADX) has surprisingly no effect on body weight and fluid intake in the Brown Norway rat strain, suggesting that mineralocorticoid receptor (MR)-mediated effects are present even in absence of corticosteroids in this strain. Moreover, glucocorticoid receptor (GR)-mediated mechanisms are more effective in Brown Norway than in Fischer 344 rats. Such functional differences in corticosteroid receptor pathways between Brown Norway and Fischer 344 rats led us to compare the effect of ADX and MR/GR-mediated actions on sodium and potassium excretion between these two rat strains. To this end, we first measured the effect of an acute high dose of aldosterone on the urinary Na+/K+ concentration ratio in intact and ADX Brown Norway and Fischer 344 rats. Second, to discriminate mineralocorticoid from glucocorticoid actions, we treated chronically ADX rats with increasing doses of aldosterone or RU28362, a pure GR agonist, in the drinking fluid. As sodium homeostasis involves salt appetite regulation, behaviour under mineralocorticoid control, we also measured saline preference in Brown Norway and Fischer 344 rats. Our data illustrate: (1) the very limited effect of ADX on body weight, food and fluid intake, diuresis, natriuresis, kaliuresis and salt appetite in Brown Norway rats, supporting the presence of MR signalling pathways in the absence of adrenal steroids in these rats; (2) the insensitivity of MR to aldosterone in intact Brown Norway rats, and the reduced sensitivity of MR to aldosterone in ADX Brown Norway rats compared with ADX Fischer 344 rats; and (3) the greater sensitivity of GR-related mechanisms to RU28362 in Brown Norway than in Fischer 344 rats in terms of body weight gain and electrolyte excretion. Considering that both MRs and GRs regulate hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis processes, such functional differences in corticosteroid receptors could be at the origin, at least partly, of the strain differences in corticotropic activity/reactivity to stress previously described.
Sarcopenia is the term widely used to describe the progressive loss of muscle mass with advancing age. Even before significant muscle wasting becomes apparent, ageing is associated with a slowing of movement and a gradual decline in muscle strength, factors that increase the risk of injury from sudden falls and the reliance of the frail elderly on assistance in accomplishing even basic tasks of independent living. Sarcopenia is recognised as one of the major public health problems now facing industrialised nations, and its effects are expected to place increasing demands on public healthcare systems worldwide. Although the effects of ageing on skeletal muscle are unlikely to be halted or reversed, the underlying mechanisms responsible for these deleterious changes present numerous targets for drug discovery with potential opportunities to attenuate muscle wasting, improve muscle function, and preserve functional independence. Very few drugs have been developed with sarcopenia specifically in mind. However, because many of the effects of ageing on skeletal muscle resemble those indicated in many neuromuscular disorders, drugs that target neurodegenerative diseases may also have important relevance for treating age-related muscle wasting and weakness. This review describes a selection of the emerging drugs that have been developed during the period 1997 - 2004, relevant to sarcopenia.
Stimulation of the brain for the treatment of epilepsy, indirectly via the vagus nerve and directly through intracranial targets, is feasible and has increased in use and complexity over the past 10 years. Vagus nerve stimulation is widely applied and the present indications and outcomes together with possible ways in which the treatment could be refined are reviewed. The application of stimulation to deep-brain targets is also reviewed along with present practice and results. Possible developments in the use of direct intracranial stimulation are also considered.
The central concept underlying ideas on the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis is that inflammatory events cause acute injury of axons and myclin. The phases of symptom onset, recovery, persistence, and progression in multiple sclerosis can be summarized as functional impairment with intact structure due to direct effects of inflammatory mediators; demyelination and axonal injury with recovery through plasticity and remyelination; and chronic axonal loss due to failure of enduring remyelination from loss of trophic support for axons normally provided by cells of the oligodendrocyte lineage. Cell death may occur in response to a state of injury from which protection would be anticipated under more favourable neurobiological conditions. Conversely, optimal growth factor environment may save cells from otherwise lethal events occurring at the cell membrane. Hence, in the context of brain inflammation, there is an inseparable interplay between immunological and neurobiological contributions to tissue injury.
An early concept of glial function envisaged them as passive and unexcitable structural elements, much like the connective tissues of organs in the periphery. It is now known that glia have a widespread range of physiological roles and react to all forms of pathological insult. This paper reviews the major functions of oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, the main types of glia in the optic nerve, and examines novel NG2-glia, otherwise known as oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). The major function of oligodendrocytes is to produce the myelin sheaths that insulate CNS axons, but they also have important roles in the establishment of nodes of Ranvier, the sites of action potential propagation, and axonal integrity. Astrocytes have multiple physiological and pathological functions, including potassium homeostasis and metabolism, and reactive astrogliosis in response to CNS insults. The bulk of NG2-glia are postmitotic complex cells, distinct from OPCs, and respond to any insult to the CNS by a rapid and stereotypic injury response. This may be their primary unction, but NG2-glia, or a subpopulation of NG2-expressing adult OPCs, also provide remyelinating oligodendrocytes following demyelination. Oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, and NG2-glia all contact axons at nodes of Ranvier and respond to glutamate, ATP, and potassium released during axonal electrical activity. Glutamate and ATP evoke calcium signalling in optic nerve glia and have dual roles in physiology and pathology, coupling glial functions to axonal activity during normal activity, but enhanced activation induces an injury response, as seen following injury, demyelination, and ischaemia.
We previously showed that mice lacking galectin-3/AGE-receptor 3 develop accelerated diabetic glomerulopathy. To further investigate the role of galectin-3/AGE-receptor function in the pathogenesis of diabetic renal disease, galectin-3 knockout (KO) and coeval wild-type (WT) mice were injected for 3 months with 30 microg/day of N(epsilon)-carboxymethyllysine (CML)-modified or unmodified mouse serum albumin (MSA). Despite receiving equal doses of CML, KO had higher circulating and renal AGE levels and showed more marked renal functional and structural changes than WT mice, with significantly higher proteinuria, albuminuria, glomerular, and mesangial area and glomerular sclerosis index. Renal 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal content and NFkappaB activation were also more pronounced in KO-CML vs. WT-CML. Kidney mRNA levels of fibronectin, laminin, collagen IV, and TGF-beta were up-regulated, whereas those of matrix metalloproteinase-2 and -14 were down-regulated, again more markedly in KO-CML than WT-CML mice. Basal and CML-induced RAGE and 80K-H mRNA levels were higher in KO vs. WT mice. MSA injection did not produce any significant effect in both genotypes. The association of galectin-3 ablation with enhanced susceptibility to AGE-induced renal disease, increased AGE levels and signaling, and altered AGE-receptor pattern indicates that galectin-3 is operating in vivo as an AGE receptor to afford protection toward AGE-dependent tissue injury.
Alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) is a 140-amino acid presinaptic protein whose mutations A30P and A53T have been linked to familiar Parkinson's disease (PD). Many data suggest that alpha-syn aggregation is the key event that triggers alpha-syn-mediated neurotoxicity. Nevertheless, other lines of evidence proposed a protective role of alpha-syn against oxidative stress (a major feature of PD), even if the exact mechanism of this protective action and the role of the pathogenetic mutations to this respect have not been elucidated yet. To address these points, we developed an in vitro model of oxidative stress by exposing PC12 cells to hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) (150 microM) for 72 h, and we evaluated alpha-syn-mediated protection delivering increasing amounts of alpha-syn (wild type [WT] or mutated) inside cells using the fusion proteins TAT-alpha-syn (WT, A30P, and A53T). We found that nanomolar amounts of TAT-alpha-syn-mediated protected against oxidative stress and other cellular injuries (6-hydroxydopamine and serum deprivation), whereas micromolar amounts of the fusion proteins were intrinsically toxic to cells. The protective effect was independent from the presence of the mutations A30P and A53T, but no protection occurred when cells were challenged with the proteasome inhibitors lactacystin and MG132. We verified that the protection mechanism required the presence of the C-terminal domain of alpha-syn, as nanomolar amounts of the C-terminal truncated fusion protein TAT-alpha-syn (WT[1-97]) failed in preventing H2O2 toxicity. To further characterize the molecular mechanisms at the basis of alpha-syn protection, we investigated the possible involvement of the chaperone protein HSP70 that is widely implicated in neuroprotection. We found that, at nanomolar concentrations, TAT-alpha-syn was able to increase HSP70 protein level, whereas at the micromolar scale, TAT-alpha-syn decreased HSP70 at the protein level. These effects on HSP70 were independent from the presence of alpha-syn pathogenetic mutations but required the alpha-syn C-terminal domain. The implications for alpha-syn-mediated neurotoxicity and for PD pathogenesis and progression are discussed.
The determination of nitrite in human plasma or serum has been most frequently used as a marker of nitric oxide (NO) production. In addition, it has recently been suggested that nitrite could act as a vasodilating agent at physiological concentrations by NO delivery. Therefore, nitrite determination in biological fluids is becoming increasingly important. The most frequently used method to measure nitrite is based on the spectrophotometric analysis of the azo dye obtained after reaction with the Griess reagent. This method has some limitations regarding detection limit and sensitivity, thus resulting unsuitable for nitrite detection in plasma. We have identified some drawbacks and modified the original procedure to overcome these problems. By the use of the newly developed method, we measured 221+/-72 nM nitrite in human plasma from healthy donors.
We have cloned and characterized the expression of zebrafish genetic screen homeobox 1 (gsh1). Early expression is confined to hindbrain rhombomeres; by mid-somitogenesis gsh1 is expressed in precise domains within the mesencephalon and diencephalon, as well as in intermediate spinal cord. Double-label experiments revealed that the diencephalic domain is coincident with hypothalamus and that spinal cord expression is in a region that generates interneurons. These data suggest gsh1 may play a role in patterning cell types generated in these domains.
Previously we have reported that thrombin induces inflammatory mediators in brain glial cells (Ryu et al. 2000. J Biol Chem 275:29955). In the present study, we found that thrombin induced a negative regulator of a cytokine signaling molecule, cytokine-induced SH2 protein (CIS), in rat brain astrocytes. In response to thrombin, CIS expression was increased at both the mRNA and protein levels. Although STAT5 is known to regulate CIS expression, thrombin did not activate STAT5, and inhibitors of JAK2 (AG490) and JAK3 (WHI-P97 and WHI-P154) had little effect on thrombin-induced CIS expression. In contrast, cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)), cyclooxygenase (COX), and lipoxygenase (LO) play a role in CIS expression, since inhibitors of cPLA(2), cyclooxygenase (COX), and LO significantly reduced CIS expression. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavengers (N-acetyl-cysteine [NAC] and trolox) reduced thrombin-induced CIS expression, and inhibitors of COX and LO reduced ROS produced by thrombin. Furthermore, prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) and leukotriene B(4) (LTB(4)), products of COX and LO, respectively, potentiated thrombin-induced CIS expression, indicating that ROS, and PGE(2) and LTB(4) generated by COX and LO, mediate CIS expression. Since interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-induced GAS-luciferase activity and tyrosine phosphorylation of STAT1 and STAT3 were lower in CIS-transfected cells compared to control vector-transfected cells, CIS could have anti-inflammatory activity. These data suggest that thrombin-stimulation of ROS and prostaglandin and leukotriene production via the cPLA(2), COX and LO pathways results in CIS expression. More importantly, CIS expression may be a negative feedback mechanism that prevents prolonged inflammatory responses.




Endogenous production of prostaglandins has been demonstrated in the cochlea, but no information is available on the distribution of the cyclo-oxygenase (COX) enzymes, or prostanoid receptors in the cochlea. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the localization of the FP, EP(1) and EP(3) prostanoid receptors as well as the COX-1 and COX-2 enzymes in the cochlea of guinea pig and man. Cochleas were processed for immunohistochemistry using routine techniques. Appropriate controls comprised incubation with specific blocking peptides, or incubation without primary antibodies. Both in guinea pig and man the FP prostanoid receptor was abundantly distributed in the cochlea, e.g., in stria vascularis, the spiral ligament, spiral ganglion, and organ of Corti. The immunohistochemical staining of the EP(1) and EP(3) receptors in the same structures was significantly weaker and sometimes lacking altogether (e.g., EP(3) receptor in human cochlea). Weak, but mostly consistent immunostaining of the COX-1 enzyme was found in the cochlear structures. The COX-2 enzyme appeared to be lacking. The abundant distribution of the FP receptor in several important cochlear structures both in guinea pig and man suggests a physiological function for PGF(2alpha) in the cochlea. The COX-1 enzyme seems to be constitutively expressed in the cochlea in contrast to COX-2.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the functional organization of the auditory cortex for pure tones of 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 12 kHz. Ten subjects were tested with a whole-head magnetometer (151 channels). The location, latency and amplitude of the generators of the N1m (the main component of the response, peaking approximately at 100 ms) were explored simultaneously in the right and left hemispheres under monaural stimulation. Our results revealed that tonotopy is a rather complex functional organization of the auditory cortex. From 1 to 12 kHz, tonotopic maps were found for contralateral as well as for ipsilateral stimulation: N1m generators were found to be tonotopically organized mainly in an anterior-posterior direction in both hemispheres, whatever the stimulated ear, but also in an inferior-superior direction in the right hemisphere. Furthermore, latencies were longer in the left than in the right hemisphere. Two different representations of spectral distribution were found in the right auditory cortex: one for ipsilateral and one for contralateral stimulation.
A wide body of research has indicated that perinatal exposure to stressors alters the organism, notably by programming behavioral and neuroendocrine responses and sensitivity to drugs of abuse in adulthood. Recent evidence suggests that adolescence also may represent a sensitive period of brain development, and yet there has been little research on the long-lasting effects of stressors during this period. We investigated the effects of pubertal social stress (PS; daily 1-h isolation followed by pairing with a new cage mate on postnatal days 33-48) on locomotor sensitization to injections of nicotine and corticosterone response to restraint stress when the rats were adults (approximately 3 weeks after PS). There were no differences among the groups in locomotor activity to injections of saline. However, PS females had enhanced locomotor sensitization to repeated doses of nicotine compared to control (non-stressed; NS) females, whereas PS males and NS males did not differ. PS enhanced the corticosterone response to restraint in male rats previously sensitized to nicotine and decreased the corticosterone response in nonsensitized male rats. In contrast, PS females and NS females did not differ in plasma corticosterone levels in response to restraint stress, but NS females showed enhanced corticosterone release to restraint after sensitization to nicotine. Thus, during adolescence, social stressors can have long-lasting effects, and the effects appear to differ for males and females.
Syrian hamsters are photoperiodic and become sexually quiescent when exposed to short &quot;winter-like&quot; photoperiods. In short photoperiods, male hamsters display significantly higher levels of aggression than males housed in long photoperiods. Arginine-vasopressin (AVP) within the anterior hypothalamus (AH) has been reported to modulate aggression in hamsters housed in long photoperiods. Previous studies have shown that AVP can facilitate aggression and its effects appear to be mediated by AVP V(1a) receptors (V(1a)R). In the present study, we investigated whether the increased levels of aggression observed after exposure to short photoperiod were the result of an increased responsiveness to AVP within the AH. Injections of AVP into the AH significantly increased aggression in hamsters housed in a long photoperiod, but had no effect in hamsters housed in a short photoperiod. In addition, injection of a V(1a)R antagonist into the AH significantly inhibited aggression in hamsters housed in long photoperiod, but had no effect in hamsters housed in a short photoperiod. These findings indicate that AVP within the AH increases aggression in hamsters housed in long photoperiods, but not in hamsters housed in short photoperiods.
In male golden hamsters, agonistic behavior matures during puberty, changing from play fighting to adult-like aggression. In addition, this transition is accelerated by repeated social subjugation early in puberty. However, little is known about the development of agonistic behavior in females. In the present study, we compared the development of agonistic behavior in male and female golden hamsters. Furthermore, we also tested the effects of repeated social subjugation on the development of agonistic behavior during puberty. Hamsters were tested for agonistic behavior in the presence of a smaller intruder at different intervals during puberty. Several observations were made. First, the frequency of attacks remained stable in females, while varying in males. Second, the transition from play fighting to adult-like aggression occurred at earlier time periods in females than in males. Finally, a clear transitional period marked by attacks focused on the flanks was observable in males around mid-puberty. However, this transitional period was not apparent in females. In addition, juvenile females were exposed to aggressive adult males or females. In both cases, repeated exposure to stress had no statistically significant effect on the development of agonistic behavior. After 2 weeks of subjugation, exposure to aggressive adults had no effect on serum cortisol levels, indicating that juvenile females habituate to repeated social stress. These data show significant sex differences in the development of agonistic behavior and adaptation to repeated stress in juvenile golden hamsters.
The GLP-1 receptor is a Class B heptahelical G-protein-coupled receptor that stimulates cAMP production in pancreatic beta-cells. GLP-1 utilizes this receptor to activate two distinct classes of cAMP-binding proteins: protein kinase A (PKA) and the Epac family of cAMP-regulated guanine nucleotide exchange factors (cAMPGEFs). Actions of GLP-1 mediated by PKA and Epac include the recruitment and priming of secretory granules, thereby increasing the number of granules available for Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis. Simultaneously, GLP-1 promotes Ca(2+) influx and mobilizes an intracellular source of Ca(2+). GLP-1 sensitizes intracellular Ca(2+) release channels (ryanodine and IP (3) receptors) to stimulatory effects of Ca(2+), thereby promoting Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release (CICR). In the model presented here, CICR activates mitochondrial dehydrogenases, thereby upregulating glucose-dependent production of ATP. The resultant increase in cytosolic [ATP]/[ADP] concentration ratio leads to closure of ATP-sensitive K(+) channels (K-ATP), membrane depolarization, and influx of Ca(2+) through voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels (VDCCs). Ca(2+) influx stimulates exocytosis of secretory granules by promoting their fusion with the plasma membrane. Under conditions where Ca(2+) release channels are sensitized by GLP-1, Ca(2+) influx also stimulates CICR, generating an additional round of ATP production and K-ATP channel closure. In the absence of glucose, no &quot;fuel&quot; is available to support ATP production, and GLP-1 fails to stimulate insulin secretion. This new &quot;feed-forward&quot; hypothesis of beta-cell stimulus-secretion coupling may provide a mechanistic explanation as to how GLP-1 exerts a beneficial blood glucose-lowering effect in type 2 diabetic subjects.
Human brain mapping allows the systematic assessment of interindividual differences in functional brain anatomy. Functional transcranial Doppler sonography (fTCD) is an imaging tool that allows for fast and mobile assessment of hemispheric lateralization of task-related brain activation. It is ideal to screen large cohorts of subjects. The goal of the present study was to investigate whether fTCD and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) determine hemispheric lateralization of brain activation related to visuospatial attention concordantly. Used together, fMRI and fTCD may then open up a wide range of potential applications in neuroscience. Fifteen subjects were examined both with fTCD and fMRI while they judged accuracy of line bisections (Landmark task). For fTCD, the maximal mean difference in stimulus-related relative cerebral blood flow velocity changes in the left and right middle cerebral arteries was assessed as the lateralization index LI(fTCD). For fMRI, two approaches were used to determine hemispheric dominance. First, we measured brain activity as the extent of the activated region, i.e., the number of activated voxels above a statistical threshold. Second, we calculated the magnitude of the fMRI signal change between the activation and the control task within a region of interest. Results of fTCD and fMRI were concordant in every single case. Therefore, scanning large cohorts with fTCD for hemispheric dominance during Landmark task will provide results consistent with fMRI. FMRI can then be used for in depth assessment of the specific patterns of activation.
Genetic variation in dysbindin (DTNBP1: dystrobrevin-binding protein 1) has recently been shown to be associated with schizophrenia. The dysbindin gene is located at chromosome 6p22.3, one of the most promising susceptibility loci in schizophrenia linkage studies. We attempted to replicate this association in a Japanese sample of 670 patients with schizophrenia and 588 controls. We found a nominally significant association with schizophrenia for four single nucleotide polymorphisms and stronger evidence for association in a multi-marker haplotype analysis (P = 0.00028). We then explored functions of dysbindin protein in primary cortical neuronal culture. Overexpression of dysbindin induced the expression of two pre-synaptic proteins, SNAP25 and synapsin I, and increased extracellular basal glutamate levels and release of glutamate evoked by high potassium. Conversely, knockdown of endogenous dysbindin protein by small interfering RNA (siRNA) resulted in the reduction of pre-synaptic protein expression and glutamate release, suggesting that dysbindin might influence exocytotic glutamate release via upregulation of the molecules in pre-synaptic machinery. The overexpression of dysbindin increased phosphorylation of Akt protein and protected cortical neurons against neuronal death due to serum deprivation and these effects were blocked by LY294002, a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase) inhibitor. SiRNA-mediated silencing of dysbindin protein diminished Akt phosphorylation and facilitated neuronal death induced by serum deprivation, suggesting that dysbindin promotes neuronal viability through PI3-kinase-Akt signaling. Genetic variants associated with impairments of these functions of dysbindin could play an important role in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia.
Extracellular action potentials were recorded from developing dissociated rat neocortical networks continuously for up to 49 days in vitro using planar multielectrode arrays. Spontaneous neuronal activity emerged toward the end of the first week in vitro and from then on exhibited periods of elevated firing rates, lasting for a few days up to weeks, which were largely uncorrelated among different recording sites. On a time scale of seconds to minutes, network activity typically displayed an ongoing repetition of distinctive firing patterns, including short episodes of synchronous firing at many sites (network bursts). Network bursts were highly variable in their individual spatio-temporal firing patterns but showed a remarkably stable underlying probabilistic structure (obtained by summing consecutive bursts) on a time scale of hours. On still longer time scales, network bursts evolved gradually, with a significant broadening (to about 2 s) in the third week in vitro, followed by a drastic shortening after about one month in vitro. Bursts at this age were characterized by highly synchronized onsets reaching peak firing levels within less than ca. 60 ms. This pattern persisted for the rest of the culture period. Throughout the recording period, active sites showed highly persistent temporal relationships within network bursts. These longitudinal recordings of network firing have, thus, brought to light a reproducible pattern of complex changes in spontaneous firing dynamics of bursts during the development of isolated cortical neurons into synaptically interconnected networks.
Pups from the strains 129SvEv/Bkl and C57BL/6/Bkl and F1 hybrids of these were subjected to an analysis of the development of swimming pattern (from the day of birth until 21 days old) to study the neuromuscular development of neonatal and juvenile mice of common laboratory strains in gene modification programmes. Swimming as a parameter of scrutiny was chosen because it requires total coordination of the body's muscles, and we found that the gradual change from a neonatal to an adult swimming pattern can be scored objectively. Five different parameters were scored: the position of the head in the water, the use of front legs, the use of hind legs, the use of the tail and whether or not the animals could maintain a straight course in the water or not. Each parameter could be objectively scored as 0 (neonatal), 1 (juvenile) or 2 (adult) level of development. Both the F1 hybrids C57BL/6/Bklmale x 129SvEv/Bklfemale and 129SvEv/Bklmale x C57BL/6/Bkfemale were fully developed swimmers after only 13 to 14 days, respectively, while it took until 19 or 20 days for the mice of the pure strains to develop an adult swimming pattern. The study also revealed some major differences in swimming pattern between the two strains. The 129SvEv/Bkl maintained a horizontal position in the water and were strong swimmers, whereas the C57BL/6/Bkl mice consistently exhibited a startle reaction when first introduced to the water, maintained a more vertical position in the water and tired easily.
Traditional approaches to understanding biological problems are now being advanced with the use of high throughput technologies, which analyse multiple samples simultaneously, or thousands of analytes in a single sample. The application of these technologies in neurochemistry and neuroscience is beginning to be explored and is assisting in the development of new models of drug action, neuroanatomical investigations, and in identifying molecular pathways involved in neurological and psychiatric disease. Tools such as microarray-based gene expression profiling and 2D and multidimensional proteomic methods are uncovering functional components to a wide variety of neuroscience paradigms and the application of these technologies is set to become standard in analysis.


This study examined the effects of motor responding and stimulus complexity on the event-related potential (ERP) P3 amplitude and latency during an auditory continuous performance task (A-CPT). Subjects were presented with undegraded and degraded syllables during two experimental conditions. In the motor attention (MA) condition participants performed a button press to target syllables. In the covert attention (CA) condition, participants listened for target syllables without responding. The ERP P3 amplitude for targets during MA and CA showed the expected anterior-to-posterior scalp topography, with the greatest amplitude at Pz. Although amplitudes across all scalp sites were greater for MA than CA target P3 responses, both MA and CA targets had greater P3 amplitudes than the P3 for the nontarget syllables (NT). There was no effect of stimulus complexity (degraded vs. undegraded) on P3 amplitude. However, stimulus complexity did affect P3 latency. Degraded syllables elicited longer P3 latency than undegraded syllables for both the MA and CA conditions. The amplitude and topography findings show that when stimulus probability is controlled through the use of a CPT paradigm, a reliable P3 component is present even when the task does not require a motor response to target stimuli.
Discrimination of interaural temporal disparities (ITDs) was measured with either conventional or transposed &quot;targets&quot; centered at 4 kHz. The targets were presented either in the presence or absence of a simultaneously gated diotic noise centered at 500 Hz, the interferer. As expected, the presence of the low-frequency interferer resulted in substantially elevated threshold-ITDs for the conventional high-frequency stimuli. In contrast, these interference effects were absent for ITDs conveyed by the high-frequency transposed targets. The binaural interference effects observed with the conventional high-frequency stimuli were well accounted for, quantitatively, by the model described by Heller and Trahiotis [L. M. Heller and C. Trahiotis, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 99, 3632-3637 (1996)]. The lack of binaural interference effects observed with the high-frequency transposed stimuli was not predicted by that model. It is suggested that transposed stimuli may be one of a class of stimuli that do not foster an obligatory combination of binaural information between low- and high-frequency regions. Under those conditions that do foster such an obligatory combination, one could still consider models of binaural interference, such as the one described in Heller and Trahiotis, to be valid descriptors of binaural processing.


Query Integrator System (QIS) is a database mediator framework intended to address robust data integration from continuously changing heterogeneous data sources in the biosciences. Currently in the advanced prototype stage, it is being used on a production basis to integrate data from neuroscience databases developed for the SenseLab project at Yale University with external neuroscience and genomics databases. The QIS framework uses standard technologies and is intended to be deployable by administrators with a moderate level of technological expertise: It comes with various tools, such as interfaces for the design of distributed queries. The QIS architecture is based on a set of distributed network-based servers, data source servers, integration servers, and ontology servers, that exchange metadata as well as mappings of both metadata and data elements to elements in an ontology. Metadata version difference determination coupled with decomposition of stored queries is used as the basis for partial query recovery when the schema of data sources alters.
Several branches of cognitive science now focus on the nature of the unconscious. This paper explores some of the findings and models from this research. By introducing formulations based on non-clinical data, the cognitive scientists--in neural linguistics, computational modelling, and neuroscience--may depart from the older psychoanalytic formulations. An understanding of unconscious neural processes is nevertheless emerging showing how synapses are modified by experience and how learning, conscious and unconscious, is due to this important aspect of brain plasticity. Freud and Jung's formulations about the unconscious psyche, representing the main tenets of depth psychology, are also based on a conception of the mind as extending beyond immediate awareness. However, their models are more hypothetical in that their data, almost exclusively, come from treatments of psychotherapy patients and their verbal accounts. So how do these two conceptions of the unconscious match, where do they differ? And how does the neural understanding in the present research support theories and practices of analytic treatments?

Rotaviruses constitute a major cause of diarrhea in young mammals. Rotaviruses utilize different integrins as cell receptors, therefore upon their arrival to the intestinal lumen their integrin receptors will be hidden below the tight junction (TJ), on the basolateral membrane. Here we have studied whether the rotavirus outer capsid proteins are capable of opening the paracellular space sealed by the TJ. From the outermost layer of proteins of the rotavirus, 60 spikes formed of protein VP4 are projected. VP4 is essential for virus-cell interactions and is cleaved by trypsin into peptides VP5 and VP8. Here we found that when these peptides are added to confluent epithelial monolayers (Madin-Darby canine kidney cells), VP8 is capable of diminishing in a dose dependent and reversible manner the transepithelial electrical resistance. VP5 exerted no effect. VP8 can also inhibit the development of newly formed TJs in a Ca-switch assay. Treatment with VP8 augments the paracellular passage of non-ionic tracers, allows the diffusion of a fluorescent lipid probe and the apical surface protein GP135, from the luminal to the lateral membrane, and triggers the movement of the basolateral proteins Na+-K+-ATPase, alphanubeta3 integrin and beta1 integrin subunit, to the apical surface. VP8 generates a freeze-fracture pattern of TJs characterized by the appearance of loose end filaments, that correlates with an altered distribution of several TJ proteins. VP8 given orally to diabetic rats allows the enteral administration of insulin, thus indicating that it can be employed to modulate epithelial permeability.
In acute ischemic stroke, the diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) lesion is widely held to represent the core of irreversible damage and is therefore crucial in selecting patients for thrombolysis. However, recent research suggests it may also represent penumbra. An illustrative patient was imaged 7 hours after stroke onset with back-to-back 3T diffusion tensor imaging and quantitative positron emission tomography, which showed a DWI lesion and misery perfusion, respectively. Using previously validated voxel-based probabilistic CBF, CMRO2, and Oxygen Extraction Fraction (OEF) thresholds, the authors show that the DWI lesion contained not only core but also substantial proportions of penumbra. Also, severe apparent diffusion coefficient reductions were present within the potentially salvageable penumbra as well as in the core. These findings have potential implications regarding treatment decisions.
The distribution of m4 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, and their relation to a number other markers, was examined using immunocytochemical techniques. Staining in the dorsal striatum tended to be more pronounced in the striosomal than the matrix compartment of both rats and cynomolgus monkeys. Within the ventral striatum, immunoreactivity was more pronounced within the olfactory tubercle and the shell region of the nucleus accumbens than in the nucleus accumbens core and was especially marked within the lateral striatal stripe. Modest staining was also seen in the external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb. By far, the most intense staining in the forebrain of both rats and cynomolgus monkeys was found in islands of Calleja, where it appeared to be a selective marker for the core or hilus regions of the islands, or an analogous region found adjacent to them. The core regions of different islands appear to be continuous with each other so as to form a complex three-dimensional structure, which is largely encased by layers of granule cells. The neuronal elements in the islands of Calleja, which express m4 receptors, remain to be identified, but it is unlikely that cholinergic neurons are a major locus of these receptors. Although there are certain similarities between the islands of Calleja and other components of the striatal complex, the current studies emphasize the extent to which the islands are unique in terms of their architecture and chemical anatomy.
The clinical success of the taxanes and the vinca alkaloids has sparked a major search for new drugs that perturb mitotic spindle microtubule dynamics and function, yielding a large number of promising compounds. A potential valuable strategy would be to use core microtubule-targeted drugs along with novel targeted drug therapies as they are developed, where the antitumor activity of a targeted drug can be combined with the power of low dose microtubule-targeted therapy. The goal of such combination therapy is to achieve high efficacy, reduced toxicity, and reduced emergence of drug resistance.

Patients treated with microsurgical clipping of ruptured intracranial aneurysms often suffer from neuropsychological deficits in spite of a good neurological outcome. The purpose of this study was to explore if the deficits are related to the type of therapy. Two groups of 16 patients each suffering from aneurysmal SAH, matched for sex, age, aneurysm-site and Hunt and Hess score, and 16 control subjects were examined with a battery of neuropsychological tests including memory, attention, and executive function. Depression, mood, and quality of life were also assessed. One patient group had been treated with surgical clipping, the other with endovascular coiling. Both patient groups showed deficits in verbal and visual memory. Clipped patients were slightly more impaired than coiled patients, especially on measures of affect and on a self-assessment measure of executive function. The pattern of results suggests that the neuropsychological outcome after aneurysmal SAH is affected by both the severity of the bleeding and the type of therapy.
Hemodynamic brain imaging and lesion studies have suggested differential involvement of expressive language-related cortical regions based on the phonemic versus semantic characteristics of verbal cues. The aims of this study were: 1) to elucidate the relative timing of the activity of inferior frontal and anterior insular versus motor and supplementary motor cortex during a fluency task and 2) to assess potential differences in the location or timing of activity in anterior and posterior language areas based on letter versus category cues. Using magnetic source imaging (MSI), we found significantly earlier onset latencies and a greater number of activity sources in motor and supplementary motor compared with inferior frontal and anterior insular regions. We also observed greater left versus right hemispheric asymmetry of activation for letter compared with category cues. This study provides new insights into cortico-cortical interactions during expressive language tasks.

Hand deformities are often useful clinical signs. To our knowledge, they have not been described in association with brachial plexus lesions. A 28-year-old female presented with sudden left shoulder pain and medial forearm parasthesia. Examination showed the left fifth finger adducting and flexing over the dorsal aspect of the fourth finger. Neurophysiological studies and MRI supported a brachial plexus lesion. The physical sign was not present 5 months post onset and the patient experienced near complete clinical improvement. The unusual physical sign occurred in association with neuralgic amyotrophy. Its occurrence can be explained in terms of transient patchy involvement of nerve fascicles in the brachial plexus.




Functional neuroimaging studies of episodic memory retrieval generally measure brain activity while participants remember items encountered in the laboratory (&quot;controlled laboratory condition&quot;) or events from their own life (&quot;open autobiographical condition&quot;). Differences in activation between these conditions may reflect differences in retrieval processes, memory remoteness, emotional content, retrieval success, self-referential processing, visual/spatial memory, and recollection. To clarify the nature of these differences, a functional MRI study was conducted using a novel &quot;photo paradigm,&quot; which allows greater control over the autobiographical condition, including a measure of retrieval accuracy. Undergraduate students took photos in specified campus locations (&quot;controlled autobiographical condition&quot;), viewed in the laboratory similar photos taken by other participants (controlled laboratory condition), and were then scanned while recognizing the two kinds of photos. Both conditions activated a common episodic memory network that included medial temporal and prefrontal regions. Compared with the controlled laboratory condition, the controlled autobiographical condition elicited greater activity in regions associated with self-referential processing (medial prefrontal cortex), visual/spatial memory (visual and parahippocampal regions), and recollection (hippocampus). The photo paradigm provides a way of investigating the functional neuroanatomy of real-life episodic memory under rigorous experimental control.
Syntactically ambiguous sentences have been found to be difficult to process, in particular, for individuals with low working memory capacity. The current study used fMRI to investigate the neural basis of this effect in the processing of written sentences. Participants with high and low working memory capacity read sentences with either a short or long region of temporary syntactic ambiguity while being scanned. A distributed left-dominant network in the peri-sylvian region was identified to support sentence processing in the critical region of the sentence. Within this network, only the superior portion of Broca's area (BA 44) and a parietal region showed an activation increase as a function of the length of the syntactically ambiguous region in the sentence. Furthermore, it was only the BA 44 region that exhibited an interaction of working memory span, length of the syntactic ambiguity, and sentence complexity. In this area, the activation increase for syntactically more complex sentences became only significant under longer regions of ambiguity, and for low span readers only. This finding suggests that neural activity in BA 44 increases during sentence comprehension when processing demands increase, be it due to syntactic processing demands or by an interaction with the individually available working memory capacity.
Quantitative data on thalamocortical synapses in adult mouse barrels have been obtained largely by using lesion-nduced degeneration to label thalamic afferents. By the time degenerating axons can be identified with the electron microscope, they have broken up into many separate pieces, making it impossible to assess the distribution of synapses along unbroken lengths of afferent. Here, this deficiency is rectified by examining intact lengths of axon labeled by the injection of biotinylated dextran amine into ipsilateral thalamus. Serial thin section reconstructions were analyzed to determine the numbers of synapses per axon length made with dendritic spines vs. shafts and the locations of synapses with respect to axonal varicosities. Results for seven axonal segments from six mice showed an average of 0.2 synapses/microm; 80% were made with spines and 20% with dendritic shafts. Just over two-thirds of axonal varicosities formed one synapse; most of the remainder formed two and rarely three, whereas 8% formed none. Although most synapses occurred at varicosities (88%), more than 12% were made at cylindrically shaped regions of the reconstructed axonal segments. These results serve as a caveat for the use of light microscopy to quantify synapses, wherein the usual approach is to equate one varicosity with one synapse. For thalamocortical afferents to mouse barrels, equating one varicosity with one synapse would prove to be incorrect more than 30% of the time and would exclude the roughly 12% of synaptic connections made at cylindrical regions of thalamocortical afferents.
p120 catenin (p120ctn) is involved in the regulation of cadherin-mediated adhesion and the dynamic organization of the actin cytoskeleton by modulating RhoGTPase activity. We have previously described the distribution of p120ctn during rat brain development and provided substantial evidence for the potential involvement of p120ctn in morphogenetic events and plasticity in the central nervous system. Here, we analyzed the cellular and ultrastructural distribution of p120ctn in glial cells of the adult rat forebrain. The highest intensity of immunostaining for p120ctn was found in cells of the choroid plexus and ependyma and was mainly restricted to the plasma membrane. However, p120ctn was almost absent from astrocytes. In contrast, in tanycytes, a particular glial cell exhibiting remarkable morphological plasticity, p120ctn, was localized at the plasma membrane and also in the cytoplasm. We show that a large subpopulation of oligodendrocytes expressed multiple isoforms, whereas other neural cells predominantly expressed isoform 1, and that p120ctn immunoreactivity was distributed through the cytoplasm and at certain portions of the plasma membrane. Finally, p120ctn was expressed by a small population of cortical NG2-expressing cells, whereas it was expressed by a large population of these cells in the white matter. However, in both regions, proliferating NG2-positive cells consistently expressed p120ctn. The expression of p120ctn by cells of the oligodendrocyte lineage suggests that p120ctn may participate in oligodendrogenesis and myelination. Moreover, the expression of p120ctn by various cell types and its differential subcellular distribution strongly suggest that p120ctn may serve multiple functions in the central nervous system.
Needle electromyography and the injection procedures of the face are difficult because of the small size and close anatomic relations of the facial structures. Local injections of the face have increased in frequency since the introduction of botulinum toxin. This article intends to provide anatomically accurate schematics of innervation of the muscles of facial expression that can be used to interpret magnetic resonance images of the muscles and nerves. Cross-sectional schematics of the face were drawn as they appear in imaging projections. The relevant cranial and spinal nerves were color coded. The muscles and skin surfaces were labeled and assigned the color of the appropriate nerves. An organized comprehensive map of the motor innervation of the face allows the physician to increase the accuracy and efficacy of interventional procedures. This could also assist the electromyographer in correlating the clinical and electrophysiologic findings with magnetic resonance images.
In cortical neurons, synaptic &quot;noise&quot; is caused by the nearly random release of thousands of synapses. Few methods are presently available to analyze synaptic noise and deduce properties of the underlying synaptic inputs. We focus here on the power spectral density (PSD) of several models of synaptic noise. We examine different classes of analytically solvable kinetic models for synaptic currents, such as the &quot;delta kinetic models,&quot; which use Dirac delta functions to represent the activation of the ion channel. We first show that, for this class of kinetic models, one can obtain an analytic expression for the PSD of the total synaptic conductance and derive equivalent stochastic models with only a few variables. This yields a method for constraining models of synaptic currents by analyzing voltage-clamp recordings of synaptic noise. Second, we show that a similar approach can be followed for the PSD of the the membrane potential (Vm) through an effective-leak approximation. Third, we show that this approach is also valid for inputs distributed in dendrites. In this case, the frequency scaling of the Vm PSD is preserved, suggesting that this approach may be applied to intracellular recordings of real neurons. In conclusion, using simple mathematical tools, we show that Vm recordings can be used to constrain kinetic models of synaptic currents, as well as to estimate equivalent stochastic models. This approach, therefore, provides a direct link between intracellular recordings in vivo and the design of models consistent with the dynamics and spectral structure of synaptic noise.
Anorexia nervosa (AN) is a complex mental disorder presenting psychiatric and physical symptoms. Literature recognizes the role of several factors in the pathogenesis of this disorder, according to the biopsychosocial model. Many mechanisms are still partly unclear. Endocrine and metabolic alterations usually occur in AN, probably having a role in its pathogenesis and in the disorder perseverance. In consideration of the multifactorial pathogenesis, a multidisciplinary approach is needed in the treatment of anorexic patients. Up-to-date psychotherapy, psychopharmacological, endocrine and nutritional treatments are considered effective in improving AN. Literature does not however provide evidence of a single validated psychopharmacotherapy for anorexic patients. It is known that psychopharmacotherapy can influence hormonal and metabolic states in some conditions, but for the moment few data are present about these effects in AN. This article aims to review the data about the psychopharmacotherapy role in AN, focusing on the endocrine and metabolic effects of anti-depressants (AD) and novel antipsychotic drugs which seem to be the most effective in AN. Scant data are however available and further research should provide more evidence about these effects and also assess whether the severity of the neuroendocrine, hormonal and metabolic impairments can predict the lack of response to the psychopharmacological treatment with AD and neuroleptics.
It has been reported that Trigonella foenum-graecum (TFG) extract exerts analgesic, anti-inflammatory and anti-pyretic effects in different experimental models. The major objective of this paper was to investigate the site and mechanism of the analgesia induced by Trigonella foenum-graecum extract. We studied the analgesic effects of different doses of Trigonella foenum-graecum extract after i.p., i.t. and i.c.v. administration in formalin test, using male NMRI rats (200-250 g). Trigonella foenum-graecum extract showed analgesic effects in i.p. (1 g/kg) and i.t. (0.5, 1, and 2 mg/rat) (P &lt; 0.05 in all groups) but not in i.c.v. (1 and 3 mg/rat) administrations. Based on the similarities between the effects of Trigonella foenum-graecum extract with those of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and the role of 5-HT system in analgesic effects of NSAIDs, we tried to investigate the role of spinal 5-HT system in analgesic effects of Trigonella foenum-graecum extract. After lesioning of spinal 5-HT system by 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT), it was shown that the analgesic effect of Trigonella foenum-graecum extract (0.5 and 3 mg/rat) in the second phase of formalin test, was abolished completely and reduced relatively after using a low-dose (0.5 mg/rat) and a high-dose (3 mg/rat), respectively (P &lt; 0.05). So, the antinociception partially remained (P &lt; 0.05) after using the latter dose. Meanwhile, administration of naloxone (2mg/kg, i.p.) had no effect on the Trigonella foenum-graecum extract (1 g/kg, i.p.) analgesia. In conclusion, this study confirms the central action of Trigonella foenum-graecum extract and that spinal 5-HT system is partially involved in the analgesia induced by it in the second phase of formalin test and also indicates for co-existence of other analgesic mechanism(s).
Recent studies in multiple sclerosis and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), point to the fact that even in the early phase of inflammation, neuronal pathology plays a pivotal role in the sustained disability of affected individuals. We show that the major green tea constituent, (-)-epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), dramatically suppresses EAE induced by proteolipid protein 139-151. EGCG reduced clinical severity when given at initiation or after the onset of EAE by both limiting brain inflammation and reducing neuronal damage. In orally treated mice, we found abrogated proliferation and TNF-alpha production of encephalitogenic T cells. In human myelin-specific CD4+ T cells, cell cycle arrest was induced, down-regulating the cyclin-dependent kinase 4. Interference with both T cell growth and effector function was mediated by blockade of the catalytic activities of the 20S/26S proteasome complex, resulting in intracellular accumulation of IkappaB-alpha and subsequent inhibition of NF-kappaB activation. Because its structure implicates additional antioxidative properties, EGCG was capable of protecting against neuronal injury in living brain tissue induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate or TRAIL and of directly blocking the formation of neurotoxic reactive oxygen species in neurons. Thus, a natural green tea constituent may open up a new therapeutic avenue for young disabled adults with inflammatory brain disease by combining, on one hand, anti-inflammatory and, on the other hand, neuroprotective capacities.
Variation in skin color is the major host risk factor for melanoma and other forms of skin cancer. Individuals with red hair show an increased ratio of phaeomelanin to eumelanin in both hair and skin. This ratio is regulated by the melanocortin (MC) 1 receptor. There are several common point mutations in the human MC1 receptor that are overrepresented in North European red-heads, and in individuals with pale skin. In order to determine the functional significance of these mutations, we expressed the Asp84Glu, Val92Met, Arg163Gln, and Asp294His variants of the human MC1 receptors in eukaryotic cells and determined their ability to bind alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (MSH) peptides and increase intracellular cAMP. The mutants Asp84Glu and Asp294His showed a much lower response to alpha-MSH in cAMP and a slightly impaired ability to bind alpha-MSH, and the Val92Met mutant bound alpha-MSH with 100-fold lower affinity as compared with the wild-type. The Arg163Gln variant, widely found in some Asian populations, reached normal level of cAMP response but had just slightly lower potency for alpha-MSH in binding and second messenger studies. The results provide important pharmacological characterization of common MC1 receptor variants in various world populations.
We assayed the redox forms of cysteine (reduced [CSH], oxidized [CSSC], and bound to protein [CS-SP]), cysteinylglycine (CGSH; cysteinylgycine disulfide [CGSSGC] and cysteinylglycine-protein mixed disulfide [CGS-SP]), glutathione (GSH; glutathione disulfide [GSSG] and glutathione-protein mixed disulfide [GS-SP]), homocysteine (Hcy; homocystine [HcyS] and homocystine-protein mixed disulfides [bHcy]), and protein sulfhydryls in the plasma of healthy subjects (divided into 8 groups ranging in age from birth to 70 years) and patients with mild hyperhomocysteinemia associated with cardiovascular disease (heart-transplant patients) or vascular atherosclerosis, with or without renal failure. In healthy individuals, levels of disulfides and protein-mixed disulfides were more abundant than those of thiols, and those of protein-thiol mixed disulfides were higher than disulfides. Concentrations of CSH, GSH, and CGSH in the various groups had profiles characterized by a maximum over time. The concentration of Hcy was unchanged up to the age of 30 years, after which it increased. CSSC concentration increased gradually with age, whereas concentrations of the other disulfides were essentially unchanged. By contrast, the concentrations of all protein-thiol mixed disulfides, especially those with CSH, increased gradually with age. Ranks of distribution of the reduced forms changed with age (at birth, CSH &gt; CGSH &gt; GSH &gt; Hcy; in 1- to 2-year-olds, CSH &gt; GSH &gt; CGSH &gt; Hcy; and in 51- to 70-year-olds, CSH &gt; CGSH = GSH &gt; Hcy), whereas those of disulfides and protein-thiol mixed disulfides were substantially unchanged (in all age groups, CSSC &gt; CGSSGC &gt; GSSG = HcyS and CS-SP &gt; CGS-SP &gt; bHcy &gt; GS-SP). In patients with pathologic conditions, plasma levels of disulfide forms CSSC, HcyS, CS-SP, and bHcy were significantly increased, whereas other redox forms of thiols were unchanged or showed variations opposite (increasing or decreasing) to control values. Maximal increases in disulfides and protein-thiol mixed disulfides were associated with renal failure. Our data suggest that increases in plasma bHcy concentrations in subjects with pathologic conditions were more likely the result of activation of thiol-disulfide exchange reactions between free reduced Hcy and CS-SP than of a direct action of reactive oxygen species.


ClC-5 chloride channels and epithelial sodium channels (ENaC) are present in many cell types including airway and retinal epithelia. Since ENaC activity is known to be affected by chloride transport, we co-injected Xenopus oocytes with cRNAs encoding ENaC and ClC-5 to investigate whether channel currents are impacted by heterologous co-expression of these proteins. ClC-5 currents were not detectably affected by co-expression with ENaC, whereas amiloride-sensitive ENaC currents were significantly lower compared to control oocytes expressing ENaC alone. Co-expression of ENaC with cRNA sequences encoding non-conducting fragments of ClC-5 revealed that the amino acid sequence region between positions 347 and 647 was sufficient for inhibition of ENaC currents. Co-expression of ENaC and another transport protein, the sodium dicarboxylate co-transporter (NaDC-1), did not affect ENaC currents. To test whether the inhibitory effects of ClC-5 were specific for ENaC, ClC-5 was also co-expressed with CFTR. CFTR currents were also inhibited by co-expression with ClC-5, whereas ClC-5 currents were unaffected. Western blot analysis of biotinylated oocyte surface membranes revealed that the co-expression of ClC-5 with ENaC, CFTR, or NaDC-1 decreased the abundance of these proteins at the surface membrane. We conclude that overexpression of ClC-5, specifically amino acids 347-647, can alter the normal translation or trafficking of ENaC and other ion transport proteins by a mechanism that is independent of the chloride conductance of ClC-5.
Friedreich ataxia (FRDA), an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disease, is associated with an unstable expansion of a GAA trinucleotide repeat in the first intron of the frataxin gene on chromosome 9q13. Unequivocal molecular characterization of the FRDA triplet expansion requires the use of different PCR protocols to amplify normal and mutated alleles combined with Southern blotting analysis to accurately size the expansion. Nevertheless, expansion detection by PCR may be somewhat problematic in heterozygous individuals. The purpose of this study was to evaluate triplet repeat primed PCR (TP PCR) as a screening method for FRDA diagnosis in the diagnostic laboratory. Fifty-four cases referred either to confirm the diagnosis of FRDA or to detect carrier status were re-evaluated by the TP PCR method. The TP PCR assay correctly identified the FRDA status in all 54 individuals tested including homozygous expansions (9 individuals), heterozygous expansions (20 individuals), and non-carriers (25 individuals). Results showed 100% concordance with those obtained by Southern blot analysis. TP PCR allowed us to identify the expanded alleles or to demonstrate their absence in DNA samples where conventional PCR procedures failed to give a reliable result. TP PCR represents an additional valuable tool for mutation detection in FRDA patients and carriers, but also can be used as screening test in a diagnostic laboratory.
Sensory hair cells undergo apoptosis following exposure to aminoglycoside antibiotics. In neurons, apoptosis is associated with a transient increase in intracellular Ca2+, phosphorylation of the transcription factor c-Jun, and the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria into the cytosol, which along with other cofactors results in the activation of caspases. To examine the possible role of these events in the survival and death of the sensory receptors of the inner ear, we examined the effects of neomycin treatment on cytoplasmic calcium, activation of c-Jun-N-Terminal kinases (JNKs), cytochrome c release, and caspase-3 activation in cultured vestibular hair cells. Increased numbers of phospho-c-Jun-labeled hair cells (a downstream indicator of JNK activation) were observed at 3-12 h after neomycin treatment, whereas increased numbers of cells with cytoplasmic cytochrome c were observed at 12-18 h following the onset of neomycin treatment. This was followed by an increase in the number of cells that contained activated caspase-3 and displayed pyknotic nuclei. Treatment with the general caspase inhibitor BAF did not affect the release of cytochrome c and the number of p-c-Jun-labeled cells, but reduced the number of cells with activated caspase-3 and pyknotic nuclei. In contrast, treatment with CEP-11004, an indirect inhibitor of the JNK signaling pathway, promoted hair cell survival following neomycin treatment and reduced the number of cells with phosphorylated JNK and c-Jun, cytoplasmic cytochrome c, and activated caspase 3. These results suggest that JNK activation occurs upstream of the release of cytochrome c and that cytochrome c release precedes caspase activation. Cytochrome c release and JNK activation were also preceded by large changes in cytoplasmic calcium. Cytoplasmic calcium increases may be causally related to the release of cytochrome c, and may also be a potential pathway for activation of JNK in hair cells.
Pycnogenol (PYC), a patented combination of bioflavonoids extracted from the bark of French maritime pine (Pinus maritima), inhibits apoptosis and necrosis of developing neurons exposed acutely to ethanol (EtOH). The present study shows that the protective mechanisms of PYC in EtOH-exposed postnatal day 9 cerebellar granule cells (P9 CGCs) include (1) reduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) production; (2) counteraction of suppressed copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn SOD) and glutathione peroxidase/reductase (GSH-Px/GSSG-R) system activities; (3) upregulation of Cu/Zn SOD protein expression; (4) mitigation of the EtOH-mediated exacerbation of catalase (CAT) activity; and, (5) specific binding and inhibition of active caspase-3. These results indicate that the mechanisms by which PYC antagonizes EtOH-induced oxidative stress include oxidant scavenging and modulation of endogenous, cellular proteins. Using findings from the present and previous studies, a model delineating the mechanisms of EtOH effects on the system of antioxidant enzymes in developing CGCs is presented.
The neuron-specific ELAV/Hu family member, HuD, interacts with and stabilizes GAP-43 mRNA in developing neurons, and leads to increased levels of GAP-43 protein. As GAP-43 protein is enriched in growth cones, it is of interest to determine if HuD and GAP-43 mRNA are associated in developing growth cones. HuD granules in growth cones are found in the central domain that is rich in microtubules and ribosomes, in the peripheral domain with its actin network, and in filopodia. This distribution of HuD granules in growth cones is dependent on actin filaments but not on microtubules. GAP-43 mRNA is localized in granules found in both the central and peripheral domains, but not in filopodia. Ribosomes were extensively colocalized with HuD and GAP-43 mRNA granules in the central domain, consistent with a role in the control of GAP-43 mRNA stability in the growth cone. Together, these results demonstrate that many of the components necessary for GAP-43 mRNA translation/stabilization are present within growth cones.
The time course and regulatory mechanisms of dendritic development are subjects of intense interest. We approached these problems by investigating dendritic morphology of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) at four early postnatal stages. The RGCs develop from a diffusely stratified and poorly differentiated group at birth (P0), to 16 distinct, morphologically well-defined subtypes before eye opening (P13). Even before bipolar cells make synaptic contacts with the RGCs (P8), most adultlike RGC subtypes are already present. Similar to previous studies in other mammalian species, our results indicate that the initiation of the RGC morphological maturation is independent of light stimulation and of formation of glutamatergic synapses. This study narrowed down the window of RGCs morphological maturation and highlighted a few early postnatal events as potential factors controlling the developmental process. Because mouse is the most popular mammalian model for genetic manipulation, this study provided a foundation for further exploring regulatory mechanisms of RGC dendritic development.
Adenosine, by acting on adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptors, exerts opposite modulatory roles on striatal extracellular levels of glutamate and dopamine, with activation of A(1) inhibiting and activation of A(2A) receptors stimulating glutamate and dopamine release. Adenosine-mediated modulation of striatal dopaminergic neurotransmission could be secondary to changes in glutamate neurotransmission, in view of evidence for a preferential colocalization of A(1) and A(2A) receptors in glutamatergic nerve terminals. By using in vivo microdialysis techniques, local perfusion of NMDA (3, 10 microm), the selective A(2A) receptor agonist 2-p-(2-carboxyethyl)phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (CGS 21680; 3, 10 microm), the selective A(1) receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethylxanthine (CPT; 300, 1000 microm), or the non-selective A(1)-A(2A) receptor antagonist in vitro caffeine (300, 1000 microm) elicited significant increases in extracellular levels of dopamine in the shell of the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Significant glutamate release was also observed with local perfusion of CGS 21680, CPT and caffeine, but not NMDA. Co-perfusion with the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist dl-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV; 100 microm) counteracted dopamine release induced by NMDA, CGS 21680, CPT and caffeine. Co-perfusion with the selective A(2A) receptor antagonist MSX-3 (1 microm) counteracted dopamine and glutamate release induced by CGS 21680, CPT and caffeine and did not modify dopamine release induced by NMDA. These results indicate that modulation of dopamine release in the shell of the NAc by A(1) and A(2A) receptors is mostly secondary to their opposite modulatory role on glutamatergic neurotransmission and depends on stimulation of NMDA receptors. Furthermore, these results underscore the role of A(1) vs. A(2A) receptor antagonism in the central effects of caffeine.
Transient receptor potential (TRP) channels mediate light-induced Ca(2+) entry and the electrical response in Drosophila photoreceptors. The role of TRP channels in other invertebrate photoreceptors is unknown, particularly those, exemplified by Limulus ventral eye photoreceptors, in which calcium release from intracellular stores is prominent. We have amplified cDNA encoding three variants of a Limulus TRP channel. LptrpA and LptrpBencode proteins of 896 and 923 amino acids, differing by a 27 amino acid insert within the C-terminus. LptrpC encodes an alternative 63 amino acid sequence in the pore domain compared with LptrpB. LptrpB and LptrpC are present in ventral eye mRNA, while LptrpA is only present in brain mRNA. In situ hybridization indicates the presence of Lptrp in photoreceptors of the Limulus ventral eye. Some canonical TRP channels can be activated by diacylglycerol analogs. Injection of a diacylglycerol analog, 1-oleoyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycerol (OAG), into Limulus photoreceptors can activate an inward current with electrical characteristics similar to the light-activated current. However, simultaneous elevation of cytosolic calcium concentration appears to be necessary. Illumination attenuates the response to OAG injections and vice versa. These results provide molecular and pharmacological evidence for a TRP channel in Limulus ventral eye that may contribute to the light-sensitive conductance.
Culturing mouse cerebellar neurones (predominantly glutamatergic) in the presence of [1-(13)C]glucose for 7 days resulted in a surprisingly extensive labelling of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA, the average content and labelling of which were 20 +/- 4 nmol/mg protein and 20 +/- 4%, respectively. Cultures of neocortical neurones (predominantly GABAergic) had under similar conditions a GABA content and labelling of 32 +/- 2 nmol/mg protein and 21 +/- 2%. The cerebellar cultures contained only 6% glutamate decarboxylase (GAD)-positive neurones when immunolabelled using a GAD67 antibody, while a dense network of neurones in the neocortical cultures stained positively for GAD67. Exposure of the cerebellar cultures to 50 microm kainic acid (KA) which is known to eliminate vesicular release of GABA, only marginally affected GABA labelling and cellular content. Likewise this treatment had no effect on the number of GAD67-positive neurones but a massive punctate immunostaining observed in control cultures was essentially eliminated. Increasing the KA concentration to 0.5 mm in the culture medium for 7 days led to a reduction of GABA labelling and content compared to cerebellar cultures not exposed to KA. Although it is likely that this large capacity for GABA synthesis resides in the relatively few GAD-positive neurones, it seems unlikely that they could account for the large average GABA content in the cultures. Therefore it must be concluded that the newly synthesized GABA is redistributed among the majority of the cells in these cultures, i.e. the glutamatergic neurones.
Alterations in noradrenergic neurotransmission are important in the mechanism of action of many antidepressant drugs, including selective norepinephrine (NA) reuptake inhibitors such as desipramine (DMI). It has been suggested that chronic NA reuptake blockade induces a desensitization of inhibitory alpha(2)-adrenergic autoreceptors. This hypothesis was tested in experiment 1 using in vivo microdialysis to examine the degree of alpha(2)-autoreceptor-mediated inhibition of NA release in rat medial prefrontal cortex exerted by endogenous NA following chronic treatment with vehicle or DMI. This was accomplished by measuring the elevation of extracellular NA levels induced by acute administration of the alpha(2)-receptor antagonist yohimbine. An 8-fold increase in basal NA levels was observed after 21 days of DMI treatment. Further, acute yohimbine administration induced a robust elevation in NA levels which was not attenuated, and in fact at lower doses was greater in DMI-treated rats compared with vehicle-treated controls. In experiment 2, we addressed directly the functional status of terminal alpha(2)-autoreceptors in frontal cortex in vitro, in the absence of potentially confounding competition from elevated levels of endogenous NA, after chronic reuptake blockade. We observed no difference in the degree to which the alpha(2)-receptor agonist clonidine inhibited potassium-evoked [(3)H]-NA release from cortical slices taken from DMI- or vehicle-treated rats. Together, these data suggest that endogenous activation of alpha(2)-autoreceptors persists in restraining NA neurotransmission in the face of tonically elevated basal NA levels following chronic reuptake blockade.
Many nontropical animals display physiological and behavioural changes in response to seasonal environmental cues including photoperiod (day length). Male Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) housed in short photoperiod undergo testicular regression accompanied by reduced circulating testosterone and decreased reproductive behaviour. By contrast to the majority of small mammals studied, aggressive behaviour is elevated in short-day Siberian hamsters when blood testosterone concentrations are not detectable. Because gonadal steroid hormones influence neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), and this enzyme has been implicated in aggressive behaviour, we hypothesized that nNOS expression would be decreased in short-day male Siberian hamsters and negatively correlated with the display of territorial aggression. Adult male Siberian hamsters were individually housed in either long (LD 16:8 h) or short (LD 8:16 h) photoperiods for 10 weeks. Hamsters were assigned to one of two categories by assessing testicular volume and plasma testosterone values: (i) photoperiodic responsive (i.e. regressed testes and low testosterone concentrations) or (ii) photoperiodic nonresponsive (i.e. testes size and circulating testosterone concentrations equivalent to hamsters maintained in long days). At week 10, aggression was assessed using a resident-intruder test. Latency to initial attack, frequency of attacks and duration of total attacks were recorded during a 10-min aggression trial. Brains were collected immediately after behavioural testing and stained for nNOS expression using immunohistochemistry. All short day-housed hamsters were significantly more aggressive than long-day animals, regardless of gonadal size or testosterone concentrations. Short-day animals, both reproductively responsive and nonresponsive morphs, also had significantly less nNOS-immunoreactive cells in the anterior and basolateral amygdaloid areas and paraventricular nuclei compared to long-day hamsters. Together, these results suggest that seasonal aggression in male Siberian hamsters is regulated by photoperiod, through mechanisms that are likely independent from gonadal steroid hormones.
It is well-known that alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) release from the amphibian pars intermedia (PI) depends on the light condition of the animal's background, permitting the animal to adapt the colour of its skin to background light intensity. In the present study, we carried out nine experiments on the effect of low temperature on this skin adaptation process in the toad Xenopus laevis, using the skin melanophore index (MI) bioassay and a radioimmunoassay to measure skin colour adaptation and alpha-MSH secretion, respectively. We show that temperatures below 8 degrees C stimulate alpha-MSH secretion and skin darkening, with a maximum at 5 degrees C, independent of the illumination state of the background. No significant stimulatory effect of low temperature on the MI and alpha-MSH plasma contents was noted when the experiment was repeated with toads from which the neurointermediate lobe (NIL) had been surgically extirpated. This indicates that low temperature stimulates alpha-MSH release from melanotrope cells located in the PI. An in vitro superfusion study with the NIL demonstrated that low temperature does not act directly on the PI. A possible role of the central nervous system in cold-induced alpha-MSH release from the PI was tested by studying the hypothalamic expression of c-Fos (as an indicator for neuronal activity) and the coexistence of c-Fos with the regulators of melanotrope cell activity, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and thyrotrophin-releasing hormone (TRH), using double fluorescence immunocytochemistry. Upon lowering temperature from 22 degrees C to 5 degrees C, in white-adapted animals c-Fos expression decreased in NPY-producing suprachiasmatic-melanotrope-inhibiting neurones (SMIN) in the ventrolateral area of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SC) but increased in TRH-containing neurones of the magnocellular nucleus. TRH is known to stimulate melanotrope alpha-MSH release. We conclude that temperatures around 5 degrees C inactivate the SMIN in the SC and activate TRH-neurones in the magnocellular nucleus, resulting in enhanced alpha-MSH secretion from the PI, darkening the skin of white-adapted X. laevis.

Recent findings have shown that IL-12, a key inducer of Th1 cell development, is not required in the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) as severe CNS inflammatory demyelination can develop in the absence of IL-12 or IL-12 responsiveness. These data raised the possibility of an immunomodulatory action of IL-12 in this disease model. We show here that IL-12 suppresses MOG35-55-induced EAE in the C57BL/6 mouse when administered during the early induction phase of the disease. The inhibitory effect is interferon-gamma-(IFN-gamma)-dependent, as clearly shown by lack of suppression in IFN-gamma-deficient mice, and is also accompanied by inhibition of mRNA expression of the proinflammatory cytokine IL-17.
We compared effects of interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) on cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression in malignant human glioma cell lines and cultured primary human astrocytes. While IFNgamma inhibited interleukin-1beta (IL1beta)-induced expression of COX-2 in the glioma cells, it enhanced expression in primary astrocytes. This differential effect correlated with the observed modulation of NFkappaB and AP-1 DNA binding activity; reduced in the glioma cells, increased in primary astrocytes. Furthermore, IFNgamma had a significantly greater anti-proliferative effect on the glioma cells than COX inhibitors. This inhibitory effect of IFNgamma on expression of COX-2 in human glioma cells may have relevance for immunotherapies directed against high-grade gliomas.


Paroxysmal visual manifestations may represent epileptic seizures arising from the occipital lobe. In coeliac disease (CD) bilateral occipital calcifications and seizure semiology consistent with an occipital origin have been described, primarily in Mediterranean countries. By reporting three adult patients from an Australian outpatient clinic with visual disturbances, occipital cerebral calcifications, and CD, this study seeks to emphasise that CD should be considered even when patients of non-Mediterranean origin present with these symptoms. Seizure types included simple partial, complex-partial, and secondarily generalised seizures. The seizure semiology consisted of visual disturbances such as: blurred vision, loss of focus, seeing coloured dots, and brief stereotyped complex visual hallucinations like seeing unfamiliar faces or scenes. Symptoms of malabsorption were not always present. Neurological examination was unremarkable in two patients, impaired dexterity and mild hemiatrophy on the left was noted in one. Routine electroencephalography was unremarkable. In all cases, computed tomography demonstrated bilateral cortical calcification of the occipital-parietal regions. Magnetic resonance imaging showed no additional lesion. All patients had biopsy confirmed CD. Seizure control improved after treatment with gluten free diet and anticonvulsants. This report illustrates the association between seizures of occipital origin, cerebral calcifications, and CD even in patients not of Mediterranean origin.



Our knowledge of the causes of brain tumors has steadily increased and is leading to a refined understanding of the signaling pathways that may be essential for tumor formation. At the same time, we are gaining insights into the developmental processes that regulate the formation of the diverse range of cell types in the normal brain. Interestingly, many of these pathways seem to overlap and suggest common mechanisms regulating tumor formation and cellular development. This overlap may also inform us about the nature of the cell of origin for different types of brain tumors. By appreciating the inter-relationship between tumor formation and development, we maybe able to design new therapeutics targeting tumors for new modes of treatment.
Herpes simplex encephalitis is usually a monophasic acute illness but can cause chronic disease, particularly in children. Little information is available as to the histological substrate. We report the findings in 3 children. In 2 children, herpes encephalitis had occurred during the first 2 years, but both later developed intractable epilepsy that led to neurosurgery. The biopsies showed chronic granulomatous inflammation with foci of mineralization. One child made a good post-operative recovery. The other was found post-operatively to have herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) DNA and elevated titers of HSV IgM antibodies in the CSE He was given acyclovir but after initial improvement developed hemiparesis, with extensive signal change on MRI. Repeat biopsy revealed florid granulomatous inflammation with necrosis. The third patient was an infant who had had a cutaneous facial HSV-2 eruption soon after birth. This was treated with topical acyclovir, after which she remained well until 2 months, when she presented with a relatively non-specific illness, developed blisters of the right hand and foot, and died a few days later. Necropsy revealed severe granulomatous encephalitis, most extensive in the temporal lobe and insula, and associated with mineralization. Our findings indicate that herpes simplex encephalitis in children can be complicated by chronic granulomatous inflammation with mineralization. This pattern of disease may be an under-recognized complication of herpes simplex infection during the first few years of life.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), acting through CGRP receptors, produces behavioral signs of mechanical hyperalgesia in rats and sensitization of wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons in the spinal cord dorsal horn. Although involvement of CGRP receptors in central sensitization has been confirmed, the second-messenger systems activated by CGRP receptor stimulation and involved in pain transmission are not clear. This study tested whether the hyperalgesia and sensitizing effects of CGRP receptor activation on WDR neurons are mediated by protein kinase A or C (PKA or PKC) signaling. Intrathecal injection of CGRP in rats produced mechanical hyperalgesia, as shown by paw withdrawal threshold tests. CGRP-induced hyperalgesia was attenuated significantly by the CGRP1 receptor antagonist, CGRP8-37. The effect was also attenuated significantly by a PKA inhibitor (H89) or a PKC inhibitor (chelerythrine chloride). Electrophysiological experiments demonstrated that superfusion of the spinal cord with CGRP-induced sensitization of spinal dorsal horn neurons. The CGRP effect could be blocked by CGRP8-37. Either a PKA or PKC inhibitor (H89 or chelerythrine) also attenuated this effect of CGRP. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that CGRP produces hyperalgesia by a direct action on CGRP1 receptors in the spinal cord dorsal horn and suggest that the effects of CGRP are mediated by both PKA and PKC second-messenger pathways.
In the months after spinal cord injury, motoneurons develop large voltage-dependent persistent inward currents (PICs) that cause sustained reflexes and associated muscle spasms. These muscle spasms are triggered by any excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) that is long enough to activate the PICs, which take &gt; 100 ms to activate. The PICs are composed of a persistent sodium current (Na PIC) and a persistent calcium current (Ca PIC). Considering that Ca PICs have been shown in other neurons to be inhibited by baclofen, we tested whether part of the antispastic action of baclofen was to reduce the motoneuron PICs as opposed to EPSPs. The whole sacrocaudal spinal cord from acute spinal rats and spastic chronic spinal rats (with sacral spinal transection 2 mo previously) was studied in vitro. Ventral root reflexes were recorded in response to dorsal root stimulation. Intracellular recordings were made from motoneurons, and slow voltage ramps were used to measure PICs. Chronic spinal rats exhibited large monosynaptic and long-lasting polysynaptic ventral root reflexes, and motoneurons had associated large EPSPs and PICs. Baclofen inhibited these reflexes at very low doses with a 50% inhibition (EC50) of the mono- and polysynaptic reflexes at 0.26 +/- 0.07 and 0.25 +/- 0.09 (SD) microM, respectively. Baclofen inhibited the monosynaptic reflex in acute spinal rats at even lower doses (EC50 = 0.18 +/- 0.02 microM). In chronic (and acute) spinal rats, all reflexes and EPSPs were eliminated with 1 microM baclofen with little change in motoneuron properties (PICs, input resistance, etc), suggesting that baclofen's antispastic action is presynaptic to the motoneuron. Unexpectedly, in chronic spinal rats higher doses of baclofen (20-30 microM) significantly increased the total motoneuron PIC by 31.6 +/- 12.4%. However, the Ca PIC component (measured in TTX to block the Na PIC) was significantly reduced by baclofen. Thus baclofen increased the Na PIC and decreased the Ca PIC with a net increase in total PIC. By contrast, when a PIC was induced by 5-HT (10-30 microM) in motoneurons of acute spinal rats, baclofen (20-30 microM) significantly decreased the PIC by 38.8 +/- 25.8%, primarily due to a reduction in the Ca PIC (measured in TTX), which dominated the total PIC in these acute spinal neurons. In summary, baclofen does not exert its antispastic action postsynaptically at clinically achievable doses (&lt; 1 microM), and at higher doses (10-30 microM), baclofen unexpectedly increases motoneuron excitability (Na PIC) in chronic spinal rats.
L-type calcium channels couple membrane depolarization in neurons to numerous processes including gene expression, synaptic efficacy, and cell survival. To establish the contribution of L-type calcium channels to various signaling cascades, investigators have relied on their unique pharmacological sensitivity to dihydropyridines. The traditional view of dihydropyridine-sensitive L-type calcium channels is that they are high-voltage-activating and have slow activation kinetics. These properties limit the involvement of L-type calcium channels to neuronal functions triggered by strong and sustained depolarizations. This review highlights literature, both long-standing and recent, that points to significant functional diversity among L-type calcium channels expressed in neurons and other excitable cells. Past literature contains several reports of low-voltage-activated neuronal L-type calcium channels that parallel the unique properties of recently cloned CaV1.3 L-type channels. The fast kinetics and low activation thresholds of CaV1.3 channels stand in stark contrast to criteria currently used to describe L-type calcium channels. A more accurate view of neuronal L-type calcium channels encompasses a broad range of activation thresholds and recognizes their potential contribution to signaling cascades triggered by subthreshold depolarizations.
The striatum is thought to play an important role in the spreading of epilepsy from cortical areas to deeper brain structures, but this issue has not been addressed with intracellular techniques. Paired recordings were used to assess the impact of cortical epileptiform activity on striatal neurons in brain slices. Bath-application of 4-amynopyridine (100 microM) and bicuculline (20 microM) induced synchronized bursts in all pairs of cortical neurons (&lt; or = 5 mm apart) in coronal, sagittal, and oblique slices (which preserve connections from the medial agranular cortex to the striatum). Under these conditions, striatal medium spiny neurons (MSs) displayed a strong increased spontaneous glutamatergic activity. This activity was not correlated to the cortical bursts and was asynchronous in pairs of MSs. Sporadic, large-amplitude synchronous depolarizations also occurred in MSs. These events were simultaneously detected in glial cells, suggesting that they were accompanied by considerable increases in extracellular potassium. In oblique slices, cortically driven bursts were also observed in MSs. These events were synchronized to cortical epileptiform bursts, depended on non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors, and persisted in the cortex, but not in the striatum, after disconnection of the two structures. During these bursts, MS membrane potential shifted to a depolarized value (59 +/- 4 mV) on which an irregular waveform, occasionally eliciting spikes, was superimposed. Thus synchronous activation of a limited set of corticostriatal afferents can powerfully control MSs. Cholinergic interneurons located &lt; 120 microm from simultaneously recorded MSs, did not display cortically driven bursts, suggesting that these cells are much less easily engaged by cortical epileptiform activity.
Virtual auditory space (VAS) stimuli based on outer ear transfer functions became increasingly important in spatial hearing research. However, few studies have investigated the match between responses of auditory neurons to VAS and free-field (FF) stimulation. This study validates acoustic spatial receptive fields (SRFs) of 183 individual midbrain units using both VAS and FF stimuli. The first-spike latency, which varied systematically across SRFs, was 14.9 +/- 8.3 (SD) ms in FF, and 15.1 +/- 8.3 ms in VAS. Spike-count-based SRFs measured 0-20 dB above the neural threshold covered on average 44.5 +/- 18.0% of the recorded sphere in FF and 45.5 +/- 18.7% in VAS. The average deviation of the centroid position of SRFs using FF and VAS stimuli was 7.4 degrees azimuth and 3.3 degrees elevation. The average spike rate remained unchanged. The SRF overlap recorded using FF and VAS stimuli (mean: 71.3 +/- 12.6%) or repeated FF stimuli (70.2 +/- 14.2%) was high and strongly correlated (r = 0.96; P &lt; 0.05). The SRF match observed with FF and VAS stimuli was not significantly altered over a range of stimulus levels (paired t-test P = 0.51; n = 6). Randomized VAS barely affected SRF sizes, centroids, or maximum spike count but decreased the average minimum response to 59% compared with sequential stimulation (paired t-test; P = 0.05; n = 26). SRF recordings in VAS excluding the acoustic distortions of the recording equipment differed from those in VAS incorporating the equipment (paired t-test P = 0.01; n = 5). In conclusion, neurophysiological recordings demonstrate that individualized VAS stimuli provided a good simulation of a FF environment.
Astronauts working in zero-gravity (0-G) often experience visual reorientation illusions (VRIs). For example, when floating upside down, they commonly misperceive the spacecraft floor as a ceiling and have a reversed sense of direction. Previous studies have identified a population of neurons in the rat's brain that discharge as a function of the rat's head direction (HD) in a gravitationally horizontal plane and is dependent on an intact vestibular system. Our goal was to characterize HD cell discharge under conditions of acute weightlessness. Seven HD cells in the anterior dorsal thalamus were monitored from rats aboard an aircraft in 0-G parabolic flight. Unrestrained rats locomoted in a clear plexiglas rectangular chamber that had wire mesh covering the floor, ceiling, and one wall. The chamber and surrounding visual environment were relatively up-down symmetrical. Each HD cell was recorded across forty 20-s episodes of 0-G. All HD cells maintained a significant direction-specific discharge when the rat was on the chamber floor during the 0-G and also during the hypergravity pull-out periods. Three of five cells also showed direction-specific responses on the wall in 1-G. In contrast, direction-specific discharge was usually not maintained when the rat locomoted on the vertical wall or ceiling in 0-G. The loss of direction-specific firing was accompanied by an overall increase in background firing. However, while the rat was on the ceiling, some cells showed occasional bursts of firing when the rat's head was oriented in directions that were flipped relative to the long axis of symmetry of the chamber compared with the cell's preferred firing direction on the floor. This finding is consistent with what might be expected if the rat had experienced a VRI. These responses indicate that rats maintain a normal allocentric frame of reference in 0-G and 1-G when on the floor, but may lose their sense of directional heading when placed on a wall or ceiling during acute exposures to 0-G.
In the rodent main olfactory bulb (MOB), mitral cells (MCs) express high levels of the group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) subtype, mGluR1. The significance of this receptor in modulating MC excitability is unknown. We investigated the physiological role of mGluR1 in regulating MC activity in rat and mouse MOB slices. The selective group I agonist (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), but not group II or III agonists, induced potent, dose-dependent, and reversible depolarization and increased firing of MCs. These effects persisted in the presence of blockers of fast synaptic transmission, indicating that they are due to direct activation of mGluRs on MCs. Voltage-clamp recordings showed that DHPG elicited a voltage-dependent inward current consisting of multiple components sensitive to potassium and calcium channel blockade and intracellular calcium chelation. MC excitatory responses to DHPG were absent in mGluR1 knockout mice but persisted in mGluR5 knockout mice. Broad-spectrum LY341495, MCPG, as well as preferential mGluR1 LY367385 antagonists blocked the excitatory effects of DHPG and also potently modulated MC spontaneous and olfactory nerve-evoked excitability. mGluR antagonists altered spontaneous membrane potential bistability, increasing the duration of the up and down states. mGluR antagonists also substantially attenuated MC responses to sensory input, decreasing the probability and increasing the latency of olfactory nerve-evoked spikes. These findings suggest that endogenous glutamate tonically modulates MC excitability and responsiveness to olfactory nerve input, and hence the operation of the MOB circuitry, via activation of mGluR1.
A major outstanding goal of vestibular neuroscience is to understand the distinctive functional roles of type I and type II hair cells. One important question is whether these two hair cell types differ in bundle structure. To address this, we have developed methods to characterize stereocilia numbers on identified type I and type II hair cells in the utricle of a turtle, Trachemys scripta. Our data indicate that type I hair cells, which occur only in the striola, average 95.9 +/-16.73 (SD) stereocilia per bundle. In contrast, striolar type II hair cells have 59.9 +/- 8.98 stereocilia, and type II hair cells in the adjacent extrastriola average 44.8 +/- 10.82 stereocilia. Thus type I hair cells have the highest stereocilia counts in the utricle. These results provide the first direct evidence that type I hair cells have significantly more stereocilia than type II hair cells, and they suggest that the two hair cell types may differ in bundle mechanics and peak mechanoelectric transduction currents.
Humans are able to stabilize their movements in environments with unstable dynamics by selectively modifying arm impedance independently of force and torque. We further investigated adaptation to unstable dynamics to determine whether the CNS maintains a constant overall level of stability as the instability of the environmental dynamics is varied. Subjects performed reaching movements in unstable force fields of varying strength, generated by a robotic manipulator. Although the force fields disrupted the initial movements, subjects were able to adapt to the novel dynamics and learned to produce straight trajectories. After adaptation, the endpoint stiffness of the arm was measured at the midpoint of the movement. The stiffness had been selectively modified in the direction of the instability. The stiffness in the stable direction was relatively unchanged from that measured during movements in a null force field prior to exposure to the unstable force field. This impedance modification was achieved without changes in force and torque. The overall stiffness of the arm and environment in the direction of instability was adapted to the force field strength such that it remained equivalent to that of the null force field. This suggests that the CNS attempts both to maintain a minimum level of stability and minimize energy expenditure.
Using dissociated rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, we have explored the ability of nerve growth factor (NGF) to acutely (within minutes) sensitize responses of nociceptors to capsaicin or noxious heat during postnatal development. While robust sensitization of noxious heat or capsaicin responses by NGF is observed in adult DRG neurons, responses to such stimuli in trkA-positive neurons from early postnatal animals are not sensitized by NGF. Neurons acquire sensitivity to the hyperalgesic effects of NGF between postnatal days 4 and 10 (P4-P10). In contrast to NGF, bradykinin sensitizes responses to noxious heat in both adult and neonatal DRG neurons. These observations suggest a developmental switch in signal transduction cascades linking trkA receptors to hyperalgesia during postnatal development and differences in the signaling pathways mediating bradykinin- and NGF-induced sensitization.
The CaV2.2 gene encodes the functional core of the N-type calcium channel. This gene has the potential to generate thousands of CaV2.2 splice isoforms with different properties. However, the functional significance of most sites of alternative splicing is not established. The IVS3-IVS4 region contains an alternative splice site that is conserved evolutionarily among CaValpha1 genes from Drosophila to human. In CaV2.2, inclusion of exon 31a in the IVS3-IVS4 region is restricted to the peripheral nervous system, and its inclusion slows the speed of channel activation. To investigate the effects of exon 31a in more detail, we generated four tsA201 cell lines stably expressing CaV2.2 splice isoforms. Coexpression of auxiliary CaVbeta and CaValpha2delta subunits was required to reconstitute currents with the kinetics of N-type channels from neurons. Channels including exon 31a activated and deactivated more slowly at all voltages. Current densities were high enough in the stable cell lines co-expressing CaValpha2delta to resolve gating currents. The steady-state voltage dependence of charge movement was not consistently different between splice isoforms, but on gating currents from the exon 31a-containing CaV2.2 isoform decayed with a slower time course, corresponding to slower movement of the charge sensor. Exon 31a-containing CaV2.2 is restricted to peripheral ganglia; and the slower gating kinetics of CaV2.2 splice isoforms containing exon 31a correlated reasonably well with the properties of native N-type currents in sympathetic neurons. Our results suggest that alternative splicing in the S3-S4 linker influences the kinetics but not the voltage dependence of N-type channel gating.
In addition to their role in signaling, Ca2+ ions in the endoplasmic reticulum also regulate important steps in protein processing and trafficking that are critical for normal cell function. Chronic depletion of Ca2+ in the endoplasmic reticulum has been shown to lead to cell degeneration and has been proposed as a mechanism underlying delayed neuronal death following ischemic insults to the CNS. Experiments here have assessed the relative content of ryanodine receptor-gated stores in CA1 neurons by measuring cytoplasmic Ca2+ increases induced by caffeine. These measurements were performed on CA1 neurons, in slice, from normal gerbils, and compared with responses from this same population of neurons 54-60 h after animals had undergone a standard ischemic insult: 5-min bilateral occlusion of the carotid arteries. The mean amplitude of responses in the postischemic population were less than one-third of those in control or sham-operated animals, and 35% of the neurons from postischemic animals showed very small responses that were approximately 10% of the control population mean. Refilling of these stores after caffeine challenges was also impaired in postischemic neurons. These observations are consistent with our earlier finding that voltage-gated influx is sharply reduced in postischemic in CA1 neurons and the hypothesis that the resulting depletion in endosomal Ca2+ is an important cause of delayed neuronal death.
Maps of ocular dominance and orientation in primary visual cortex have a highly characteristic structure. The factors that determine this structure are still largely unknown. In particular, it is unclear how short-range excitatory and inhibitory connections between nearby neurons influence structure both within and between maps. Using a generalized version of a well-known computational model of visual cortical map development, we show that the number of excitatory and inhibitory oscillations in this interaction function critically influences map structure. Specifically, we demonstrate that functions that oscillate more than once do not produce maps closely resembling those seen biologically. This strongly suggests that local lateral connections in visual cortex oscillate only once and have the form of a Mexican hat.
When we interact with objects in the world, the forces we exert are finely tuned to the dynamics of the situation. As our sensors do not provide perfect knowledge about the environment, a key problem is how to estimate the appropriate forces. Two sources of information can be used to generate such an estimate: sensory inputs about the object and knowledge about previously experienced objects, termed prior information. Bayesian integration defines the way in which these two sources of information should be combined to produce an optimal estimate. To investigate whether subjects use such a strategy in force estimation, we designed a novel sensorimotor estimation task. We controlled the distribution of forces experienced over the course of an experiment thereby defining the prior. We show that subjects integrate sensory information with their prior experience to generate an estimate. Moreover, subjects could learn different prior distributions. These results suggest that the CNS uses Bayesian models when estimating force requirements.

Traumatic brain injury induced by mechanical impacts of the head can be modeled in rats in order to investigate acute and chronic therapy. Because frontal lobe contusion affects the neural representation of the forelimb in both the neocortex and basal ganglia, the purpose of the present experiments was to examine the chronic changes in reflexive and skilled forelimb induced by the injury. Contusions produced a cavity in the sensorimotor cortex, accompanied by shrinkage of the pyramidal tract, loss of cells in the dorsolateral striatum, and enlargement of the lateral ventricle. There were substantial individual differences in lesion size despite use of two different contusion forces, but all rats receiving contusions displayed chronic forelimb deficits. Reflexive tests of forelimb use (limb posture, placing, and support) indicated that impairments were most pronounced in the forelimb contralateral to the lesion. Tests of limb preference indicated that the contusion rats displayed a forelimb asymmetry: they were more likely to lean on their ipsilateral-to-lesion forelimb for support when rearing in a test cylinder, and this impairment was amplified in a home cage test. They also displayed a preference for the forelimb ipsilateral to the lesion when reaching for food, although both forelimbs were equally impaired on measures of success when reaching for food from a tray and reaching for a single food pellet on a shelf. A qualitative analysis from frame-by-frame video records indicated that when reaching for single pellets, impairments in forelimb use primarily affected the contralateral-to-lesion limb, especially limb aiming, supination, and food pellet release. Impairments in the ipsilateral-to-lesion forelimb were generally, but not exclusively, secondary to postural abnormalities. The wide range of chronic impairments in forelimb use following contusion injuries are discussed in relation to the anatomical and behavioral origins of the impairments and the potential use of forelimb tests in the assessment of therapy for traumatic brain injury to the frontal cortex.
Primary angiitis of the central nervous system is a rare idiopathic vasculitis predominantly affecting the central nervous system. The literature includes 10 histologically confirmed cases in childhood. We identify two additional cases, one presenting with both uveitis and cerebrospinal fluid neutrophilic pleocytosis, which has not been reported previously, and demonstrate the importance of biopsy in suspected cases.
It has been proposed that nicotine-stimulated locomotor activity (LMA) and nicotine-induced dopamine (DA) release in the mesocorticolimbic DA system is partly regulated by glutamate receptors, particularly N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. The functional characteristics of NMDA receptors depend on their subunit composition (NR1 in combination with NR2A-D). In the present study, we investigated the effect of the NR2B-selective NMDA receptor antagonist Ro 25-6981 [(+/-)-(R*,S*)-alpha-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-beta-methyl-4-(phenylmethyl)-1-piperidine propanol] on nicotine-stimulated LMA and nicotine-induced DA release in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) in rats. Ro 25-6981 (3 and 10 mg/kg i.p.) given 10 min prior to a high dose (0.6 mg/kg s.c.) or a subthreshold dose (0.1 mg/kg s.c.) of nicotine potentiated nicotine-stimulated LMA with no effect when administered alone. Similarly, administration of a low dose (0.05 mg/kg i.p.) of the noncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine maleate) had no effect on LMA by itself but potentiated nicotine-induced (0.1 mg/kg) LMA. However, pretreatment with the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGP39551 [(E)-(+/-)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid ethyl ester] (10 mg/kg i.p.) did not potentiate the LMA effect of 0.1 mg/kg nicotine as seen with Ro 25-6981. In vivo microdialysis revealed a significant increase of DA release in the NAcc in response to nicotine (0.1 mg/kg s.c.). In analogy to our LMA data, Ro 25-6981 (10 mg/kg i.p.) significantly potentiated the nicotine-induced DA release, although it had no effect on DA release when given alone. The data suggest that, compared with other subunits of the NMDA receptor, the NR2B subunit might play a different role in the reinforcing effects of nicotine.
Indiplon (NBI 34060; N-methyl-N-[3-[3-(2-thienylcarbonyl)-pyrazolo[1,5-alpha]pyrimidin-7-yl]phenyl]acetamide), a novel pyrazolopyrimidine and high-affinity allosteric potentiator of GABA(A) receptor function, was profiled for its effects in rodents after oral administration. In mice, indiplon inhibited locomotor activity (ED(50) = 2.7 mg/kg p.o.) at doses lower than the nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics zolpidem (ED(50) = 6.1 mg/kg p.o.) and zaleplon (ED(50) = 24.6 mg/kg p.o.), a sedative effect that was reversed by the benzodiazepine site antagonist flumazenil. Indiplon inhibited retention in the mouse passive avoidance paradigm over a dose range and with a temporal profile that coincided with its sedative activity. Indiplon, zolpidem, and zaleplon were equally effective in inhibiting locomotor activity in the rat and produced dose-related deficits on the rotarod. In a rat vigilance paradigm, indiplon, zolpidem, and zaleplon produced performance deficits over a dose range consistent with their sedative effects, although indiplon alone showed no significant increase in response latency. Indiplon produced a small deficit in the delayed nonmatch to sample paradigm at a dose where sedative effects became apparent. Indiplon was active in the rat Vogel test of anxiety, but it showed only a sedative profile in the mouse open field test. The pharmacokinetic profile of indiplon in both rat and mouse was consistent with its pharmacodynamic properties and indicated a rapid T(max), short t(1/2), and excellent blood-brain barrier penetration. Therefore, indiplon has the in vivo profile of an efficacious sedative-hypnotic, in agreement with its in vitro receptor pharmacology as a high-affinity allosteric potentiator of GABA(A) receptor function, with selectivity for alpha1 subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors.
Inhibitory GABA(A) receptor modulators are widely used therapeutic agents for a variety of central nervous system disorders. Ltk(-) cells stably expressing human recombinant GABA(A) subunits (alpha1beta1-3gamma2s) were seeded into 96-well plates, loaded with chlorocoumarin-2-dimyristoyl phosphatidylethanolamine and bis(1,3-diethyl-2-thiobarbiturate)trimethineoxonol, and rapid fluorescence resonance energy transfer technique (FRET) measurements were made of GABA-evoked depolarizations in low-Cl(-) buffer using a voltage/ion probe reader. The influence of different betasubunits on the ability of agents to modulate and directly activate the ion channel was examined. GABA evoked concentration-dependent decreases in FRET, increasing fluorescence emission ratio (460/580 nm) at alpha1beta1gamma2, alpha1beta2gamma2, and alpha1beta3gamma2 receptors with similar maximal amplitude (P &gt; 0.05, n = 17) and EC(50) values of 2.4 +/- 0.2, 2.5 +/- 0.2, and 1.3 +/- 0.1 microM, respectively. Piperidine-4-sulfonic acid and 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol were less potent, with EC(50) values of 8.7 +/- 0.9, 9.2 +/- 0.5, and 11.7 +/- 1.2, and 43.7 +/- 6.4, 24.8 +/- 1.6, and 26.1 +/- 2.4 microM, respectively. Potency and maximal efficacy of propofol, methyl 6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate, pentobarbital, and steroids, 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one and 5beta-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one, were unaffected by the beta isoform present in the receptor complex. However, several compounds displayed beta2/3 subunit selectivity, notably loreclezole, R(-)-etomidate, and a group of anti-inflammatory agents including mefenamic acid, flufenamic acid, meclofenamic acid, tolfenamic acid, niflumic acid, and diflunisal. The anti-inflammatories exhibited varying levels of efficacy at beta2/3 subunits, with micromolar potency, while having antagonist or weak inverse agonist profiles at alpha1beta1gamma2. Diflunisal was the most efficacious compound, eliciting greater potentiation than loreclezole (90 +/- 14% and 109 +/- 14% at beta3 and beta2, respectively, compared with 62 +/- 6% and 56 +/- 3%), whereas niflumic acid exhibited the lowest efficacy. An additional agent, olsalazine, weakly potentiated responses at all three receptors without any selectivity. This study identifies and characterizes a variety of allosteric modulators for which betasubunits are an important determinant of efficacy and potency.
Memantine, a low- to moderate-affinity uncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, has been shown to improve learning and memory in several pharmacological models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the present study, the effect of memantine on locomotor activity, social behavior, and spatial learning was assessed in a transgenic mouse model of AD. Eight-month-old male C57BL/6J mice carrying mutated human APP and PS1 genes (APP/PS1) and their nontransgenic (NT) litter mates were administered a therapeutic dose of memantine (30 mg/kg/day p.o.) for 2 to 3 weeks. At this age, APP/PS1 mice show elevated levels of beta-amyloid peptides in several brain regions. APP/PS1 mice exhibited less exploratory rearing and increased aggressive behavior compared with NT mice. In the water maze test for spatial learning, APP/PS1 mice had longer escape latencies to both hidden and visible platforms, but they did not differ from NT mice in their swimming speed. Memantine significantly improved the acquisition of the water maze in APP/PS1 mice without affecting swimming speed. Memantine did not affect either locomotor activity or aggressive behavior in either genotype. These data indicate that memantine improves hippocampus-based spatial learning in a transgenic mouse model of AD without producing nonspecific effects on locomotion/exploratory activity.
Muscle, cutaneous and joint afferents continuously signal information about the position and movement of individual joints. How does the nervous system extract more global information, for example about the position of the foot in space? To study this question we used microelectrode arrays to record impulses simultaneously from up to 100 discriminable nerve cells in the L6 and L7 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of the anaesthetized cat. When the hindlimb was displaced passively with a random trajectory, the firing rate of the neurones could be predicted from a linear sum of positions and velocities in Cartesian (x, y), polar or joint angular coordinates. The process could also be reversed to predict the kinematics of the limb from the firing rates of the neurones with an accuracy of 1-2 cm. Predictions of position and velocity could be combined to give an improved fit to limb position. Decoders trained using random movements successfully predicted cyclic movements and movements in which the limb was displaced from a central point to various positions in the periphery. A small number of highly informative neurones (6-8) could account for over 80% of the variance in position and a similar result was obtained in a realistic limb model. In conclusion, this work illustrates how populations of sensory receptors may encode a sense of limb position and how the firing of even a small number of neurones can be used to decode the position of the limb in space.
Because the hyperpolarization-activated cation-selective current I(h) makes important contributions to neural excitability, we examined its long-term regulation by vitronectin, an extracellular matrix component commonly elevated at injury sites and detected immunochemically in activated microglia. Focusing on mouse hippocampal pyramidal neurones in organotypic slice cultures established at postnatal day 0 or 1 and examined after 3-4 days in vitro, we observed differences in the amplitude and activation rate of I(h) between neurones in naive and vitronectin-exposed slices (10 microg ml(-1) added to serum-free medium), and between neurones in slices derived from wild-type and vitronectin-deficient mice. The potassium inward rectifier I(K(ir)), activated at similar voltages to I(h), was not affected by vitronectin. In CA1, differences in I(h) amplitude primarily reflected changes in maximum conductance (G(max)): a 23.3% increase to 3.18 +/- 0.64 nS from 2.58 +/- 0.96 nS (P &lt; 0.05) in vitronectin-exposed neurones, and a 17.9% decrease to 2.24 +/- 0.26 nS from 2.73 +/- 0.64 nS (P &lt; 0.05) in neurones from vitronectin-deficient slices. The voltage of one-half maximum activation (V(1/2)) was not significantly affected by vitronectin exposure (-78.1 +/- 2.3 mV versus -80.0 +/- 4.9 mV in naive neurones; P &gt; 0.05) or vitronectin deficiency (-83.8 +/- 3.1 mV versus -82.0 +/- 2.9 mV in wild-type neurones; P &gt; 0.05). In CA3 neurones, changes in I(h) reflected differences in both G(max) and V(1/2): in vitronectin-exposed neurones there was a 35.4% increase in G(max) to 1.30 +/- 0.49 nS from 0.96 +/- 0.26 nS (P &lt; 0.01), and a +3.0 mV shift in V(1/2) to -89.8 mV from -92.8 mV (P &lt; 0.05). The time course of I(h) activation could be fitted by the sum of two exponential functions, fast and slow. In both CA1 and CA3 neurones the fast component amplitude was preferentially sensitive to vitronectin, with its relatively larger contribution to total current in vitronectin-exposed cells contributing to the acceleration of I(h) activation. Further, HCN1 immunoreactivity appeared elevated in vitronectin-exposed slices, while HCN2 levels appeared unaltered. We suggest that vitronectin-stimulated increases in I(h) may potentially affect excitability under pathological conditions.
The purpose of our study was to assess by threshold tracking internodal and nodal membrane excitability during the maturation process after tibial nerve crush in cat. Various excitability indices (EI) were computed non-invasively by comparing the threshold of a submaximal compound motor potential at different stimulation durations (strength-duration relationship), after a conditioning nerve impulse (recovery of excitability), or during the application of a polarizing current (threshold electrotonus). Four months after the lesion, regenerated nerves showed a higher rheobase, shorter chronaxie, shorter refractory period and higher than normal threshold variations during threshold electrotonus (TE). A partial recovery was observed during the first 2 years of maturation. The recovery to depolarizing TE seemed complete but all other EI remained abnormal even after 5 years of regeneration, the most pronounced being the 157 +/- 8% (mean +/- S.E.M.) increase in threshold during hyperpolarizing TE compared with 94 +/- 4% in controls. These EI abnormalities are consistent with increased input impedance. Nevertheless, the time course of maturation and incomplete recovery of EI could only be partially explained by changes in fibre morphology. The highly abnormal response to hyperpolarizing but not to depolarizing TE suggests that voltage-dependent membrane function also remained abnormal, possibly due to membrane hyperpolarization.
We found persistent abnormalities in the recovery of membrane excitability in long-term regenerated motor nerve fibres in the cat as indicated in the companion paper. These abnormalities could partly be explained by membrane hyperpolarization. To further investigate this possibility, we compared the changes in excitability in control nerves and long-term regenerated cat nerves (3-5 years after tibial nerve crush) during manoeuvres known to alter axonal membrane Na(+)-K(+) pump function: polarization, cooling to 20 degrees C, reperfusion after 10 min ischaemia, and up to 60 s of repetitive stimulation at 200 Hz. The abnormalities in excitability of regenerated nerves were reduced by depolarization and cooling and increased by hyperpolarization and during postischaemia. Moreover, the time course of recovery of excitability from repetitive stimulation and ischaemia was prolonged in regenerated nerves. Our data are consistent with an increased demand for electrogenic Na(+)-K(+) pumping in regenerated nerves leading to membrane hyperpolarization. Such persistent hyperpolarization may influence the ability of the axon to compensate for changes in membrane potential following normal repetitive activity.
Converging lines of research suggest that the hippocampal complex (HC) may have a role in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder (MDD). Although postmortem studies show little cellular death in the HC of depressed patients, animal studies suggest that elevated glucocorticoid levels associated with MDD may negatively affect neurogenesis, cause excitotoxic damage or be associated with reduced levels of key neurotrophins in the HC. Antidepressant medications may counter these effects, having been shown to increase HC neurogenesis and levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in animal studies. Neuropsychological studies have identified deficits in hippocampus-dependent recollection memory that may not abate with euthymia, and such memory impairment has been the most reliably documented cognitive abnormality in patients with MDD. Finally, data from imaging studies suggest both structural changes in the volume of the HC and functional alterations in frontotemporal and limbic circuits that may be critical for mood regulation. The extent to which such functional and structural changes determine clinical outcome in MDD remains unknown; a related, but also currently unanswered, question is whether the changes in HC function and structure observed in MDD are preventable or modifiable with effective treatment for the depressive illness.

We report a 53-year-old man suffering from a right thalamic hemorrhage with intraventricular rupture. He initially underwent a ventriculostomy for acute hydrocephalus. Computed tomography scans on the first postoperative day demonstrated a new hematoma in the right frontal lobe that surrounded the drainage catheter. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed lacunar infarcts in the right frontal lobe. Unusual bleeding resulted from a lacunar infarct in the right frontal lobe, which was accidentally damaged by the ventriculostomy. This case suggests that intracerebral hemorrhage may occur in patients with cerebral infarcts near the site of catheter insertion for ventriculostomy.
The presence of the human polyomaviruses JCV and BKV in immunocompromised patients can lead to lethal diseases and conditions including progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), interstitial nephritis, hemorrhagic cystitis, and kidney allograft rejection. Typically, detection of JCV and BKV in clinical samples has employed standard PCR amplification for viral nucleotide sequences, with subsequent confirmation for viral genome specificity of PCR products by southern blot hybridization. Here, we directly tested a validated PCR-southern protocol with a TaqMan real-time PCR protocol (Applied Biosystems) to assay clinical samples of urine and cerebrospinal fluid. We found equal specificity and sensitivity with both methods. However, real-time allowed for absolute viral-genome quantitation without the use of radionucleotides and was performed more rapidly, in as little as 24 h. Such advantages are important to consider in the effort to establish international standardization of controls for the detection of JCV and BKV, which would aid in screening confidence and the reliable assessment of anti-viral therapies.
To investigate cardiac involvement in the non-human primate (NHP) model of Lyme disease, we inoculated 39 adult Macaca mulatta with Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto strains N40 (BbN40) by needle (N=22, 14 immunocompetent (IC), seven permanently immunosuppressed (IS), and four transiently immunosuppressed (TISP)) or by tick-bite (N=4, all TISP) or strain 297 (Bb297) by needle (N=2 IS), or with B. garinii strains Pbi (N=4, 2 TISP and 2 IS), 793 (N=2, TISP) or Pli (N=2, TISP). Five uninfected NHPs were used as controls. Infection and inflammation was studied in the hearts and the aorta removed at necropsy 2-32 months after inoculation by (1) H&amp;E and trichrome-staining; (2) immunohistochemistry and digital image analysis; (3) Western blot densitometry; and (4) TaqMan RT-PCR. All NHPs inoculated with BbN40 became infected and showed carditis at necropsy. The predominant cells were T cells, plasma cells, and macrophages. There was increased IgG and IgM in the heart independent of immunosuppression. The B-cell chemokine BLC was significantly increased in IS-NHPs. There was increased deposition of the complement membrane attack complex (MAC) in TISP and IS-NHPs. The spirochetal load was very high in all BbN40-inoculated IS-NHPs but minimal if any in IC or TISP NHPs. Double-immunostaining revealed that many spirochetes in the heart of BbN40-IS NHPs had MAC on their membranes. We conclude that carditis in NHPs infected with B. burgdorferi is frequent and can persist for years but is mild unless they are immunosupressed.
We provide a pragmatic guide for clinicians, and detail the recent developments in the genetics of Parkinson's disease that have shaped our current understanding and management of this disease and other parkinsonian disorders. These developments have been rapid, and in total over 20 genes have been identified, three of which were discovered in the past year. Although there are undoubtedly more genes to be found, the major challenge for the future is to determine how they function and whether they interact. These genes help us to understand the heterogeneity of parkinsonism, and also inform on the molecular and clinical features of individual parkinsonisms. However, their discovery also requires us to raise issues about genetic testing and genetic counselling.

Do our memories remain static during sleep, or do they change? We argue here that memory change is not only a natural result of sleep cognition, but further, that such change constitutes a fundamental characteristic of declarative memories. In general, declarative memories change due to retrieval events at various times after initial learning and due to the formation and elaboration of associations with other memories, including memories formed after the initial learning episode. We propose that declarative memories change both during waking and during sleep, and that such change contributes to enhancing binding of the distinct representational components of some memories, and thus to a gradual process of cross-cortical consolidation. As a result of this special form of consolidation, declarative memories can become more cohesive and also more thoroughly integrated with other stored information. Further benefits of this memory reprocessing can include developing complex networks of interrelated memories, aligning memories with long-term strategies and goals, and generating insights based on novel combinations of memory fragments. A variety of research findings are consistent with the hypothesis that cross-cortical consolidation can progress during sleep, although further support is needed, and we suggest some potentially fruitful research directions. Determining how processing during sleep can facilitate memory storage will be an exciting focus of research in the coming years.
Recent evidence indicates that certain forms of memory, upon recall, may return to a labile state requiring the synthesis of new proteins in order to preserve or reconsolidate the original memory trace. While the initial consolidation of &quot;instrumental memories&quot; has been shown to require de novo protein synthesis in the nucleus accumbens, it is not known whether memories of this type undergo protein synthesis-dependent reconsolidation. Here we show that low doses of the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin (ANI; 5 or 20 mg/kg) administered systemically in rats immediately after recall of a lever-pressing task potently impaired performance on the following daily test sessions. We determined that the nature of this impairment was attributable to conditioned taste aversion (CTA) to the sugar reinforcer used in the task rather than to mnemonic or motoric impairments. However, by substituting a novel flavored reinforcer (chocolate pellets) prior to the administration of doses of ANI (150 or 210 mg/kg) previously shown to cause amnesia, a strong CTA to chocolate was induced sparing any aversion to sugar. Importantly, when sugar was reintroduced on the following session, we found that memory for the task was not significantly affected by ANI. Thus, these data suggest that memory for a well-learned instrumental response does not require protein synthesis-dependent reconsolidation as a means of long-term maintenance.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has been implicated as a molecular mediator of learning and memory. The BDNF gene contains four differentially regulated promoters that generate four distinct mRNA transcripts, each containing a unique noncoding 5'-exon and a common 3'-coding exon. This study describes novel evidence for the differential usage of alternative BDNF promoters and 5'-exons during the consolidation of learning. We found a selective increase in BDNF transcripts containing exons I and III in the amygdala 2 h following fear conditioning, while mRNA levels of BDNF exons II and IV remained unchanged. These results provide the first evidence of differential splicing and/or differential BDNF promoter usage in response to a behaviorally relevant learning paradigm.
Learning to associate a conditioned (CS) and unconditioned stimulus (US) results in changes in the processing of CS information. Here, we address directly the question whether chemical appetitive conditioning of Lymnaea feeding behavior involves changes in the peripheral and/or central processing of the CS by using extracellular recording techniques to monitor neuronal activity at two stages of the sensory processing pathway. Our data show that appetitive conditioning does not affect significantly the overall CS response of afferent nerves connecting chemosensory structures in the lips and tentacles to the central nervous system (CNS). In contrast, neuronal output from the cerebral ganglia, which represent the first central processing stage for chemosensory information, is enhanced significantly in response to the CS after appetitive conditioning. This demonstrates that chemical appetitive conditioning in Lymnaea affects the central, but not the peripheral processing of chemosensory information. It also identifies the cerebral ganglia of Lymnaea as an important site for neuronal plasticity and forms the basis for detailed cellular studies of neuronal plasticity.
Susac syndrome (SS) is a clinical triad of hearing loss, retinal artery occlusion and encephalopathy. The typical MR imaging findings of multiple focal lesions in the corpus callosum and subcortical white matter can be easily misdiagnosed as multiple sclerosis. On diffusion-weighted (DW) MR imaging, new lesions were hyperintense, with reduced apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC). These lesions later became less prominent or hypointense on subsequent DW MR imaging. Serial DW imaging and ADC maps may be useful in differentiating SS from demyelinating diseases.
On the computational basis of a neurodynamical cortical model, we investigate a specific top-down visual cognitive impairment in brain-damaged patients known as visual spatial neglect. The computational cortical model accounts the neurodynamics underlying selective visual attention, is based on the &quot;biased competition hypothesis&quot; and structured in several network modules which can be related with the different areas of the dorsal and ventral path of the visual cortex. Spatial and object attention are accomplished by a multiplicative gain control that emerges dynamically through intercortical mutual biased coupling. By damaging the model in different ways, a variety of dysfunctions associated with visual neglect can be simulated and explained as disruption of specific subsystems. Essentially, the damage destabilizes the underlying intra- and intermodular mutually biased neurodynamical competition that macroscopically yields the functional deficits observed in visual neglect patients. In particular, we are able to explain the asymmetrical effect of spatial cueing on neglect, and the phenomenon of extinction in the framework of visual search.
Determining the neuronal architecture underlying certain visual functions is of fundamental importance for understanding how sensory processing is implemented in the brain. The wealth of anatomical, physiological and biophysical data that is being currently acquired on the neocortex could be used to constrain its functional architecture. However, given the intrinsic complexity and diversity of the data, it is difficult to provide a comprehensive framework to use these data in order to characterize structure-function relationships. Here, we discuss the use of biophysically plausible models of dynamics of neuronal networks, constructed to reflect the known properties of neocortical connectivity and modularity, as a tool to bring together anatomy and physiology. We illustrate the utility and rationale of the neuro-dynamics modelling approach by considering recent studies on the relationship between functional structure of the visual cortex and its response timing, and on the cellular and network origin of neuronal oscillations in the gamma frequency range. We also critically discuss how an interaction between theory and experiments could help this approach to become directly relevant for clinical applications.
The uniqueness of Psychiatry as a medical speciality lies in the fact that aside from tackling what it considers as illnesses, it has perchance to comment on and tackle many issues of social relevance as well. Whether this is advisable or not is another matter; but such a process is inevitable due to the inherent nature of the branch and the problems it deals with. Moreover this is at the root of the polarization of psychiatry into opposing psychosocial and biological schools. This gets reflected in their visualization of scope, in definitions and in methodology as well. Whilst healthy criticism of one against the other school is necessary, there should be caution against hasty application of one's frame of reference to an approach that does not intend to follow, or conform to, one's methodology. This should be done within the referential framework of the school critically evaluated, with due consideration for its methods and concepts. Similarly, as at present, there is no evidence to prove one or the other of these approaches as better, aside from personal choice. We can say so even if there is a strong paradigm shift towards the biological at present. A renaissance of scientific psychoanalysis coupled with a perceptive neurobiology which can translate those insights into testable hypotheses holds the greatest promise for psychiatry in the future. This suggests the need for unification of diverse appearing approaches to get a more comprehensive and enlightened worldview. It requires a highly integrative capacity. Just as a physicist thinks simultaneously in terms of particles and waves, a psychiatrist must think of motives, emotions and desires in the same breath as neurobiology, genetics and psychopharmacology. However, the integration must be attempted without destroying the internal cohesiveness of the individual schools. This will give a fair chance for polarization in which a single proper approach in psychiatry could emerge, which may be a conglomerate of diverse appearing approaches of today, or one which supersedes the rest. A synthesis of cognitive psychology and neuroscience offers the greatest promise at present.


